BOSTON
PUBLIC
LIBRARY

AL,

ie
van hi

hs) am dig
irene

ae

Be ETAT

2 oto ee ae 3
hp 5 | Lie ay! ae hs

VY oe
ch i, y . . :
: PA if Aah iu

on iM i

F
,
—-

NS a cet ihaca

irre vie

cat i
aay,
hd th
itl en
iP

eae st

Smithsonian Year

VY iz

ANNUAL REPORT OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1972

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
City of Washington

P72
SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 4768

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 67-7980.

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402 - Price $2 (paper cover)
Stock Number: 4700—002 35
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846 in
accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of England, who
in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America “‘to
found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an
establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” In
receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress determined that
the federal government was without authority to administer the trust
directly, and therefore, constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory
members are “the President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the executive departments.”

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States
Spiro T. Agnew, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
William P. Rogers, Secretary of State
George P. Shultz, Secretary of the Treasury
Melvin R. Laird, Secretary of Defense
Richard G. Kleindienst, Attorney General
Elmer T. Klassen, Postmaster General
Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary of Interior
Earl L. Butz, Secretary of Agriculture
Peter G. Peterson, Secretary of Commerce
James D. Hodgson, Secretary of Labor
Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
George W. Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
John A. Volpe, Secretary of Transportation

iii
Board of Regents and Secretary

30 June 1972

Presiding Officer ex officio

Regents of the Institution

Executive Committee (Permanent
Committee)

The Secretary
Under Secretary
Assistant Secretaries

Treasurer
*Retired effective 30 June 1972.

Richard M. Nixon, President of the
United States, Chancellor

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor

Spiro T. Agnew, Vice President of the
United States

Clinton P. Anderson, Member of the
Senate

J. William Fulbright, Member of the
Senate

Hugh Scott, Member of the Senate

Frank T. Bow, Member of the House of
Representatives

George H. Mahon, Member of the House
of Representatives

John J. Rooney, Member of the House
of Representatives

John Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode
Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New
York

Robert F. Goheen, citizen of New Jersey

Crawford H. Greenewalt, citizen of '
Delaware |

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, |
DiC. |

A. Leon Higginbotham Jr., citizen of
Pennsylvania

Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of
Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of Washington,
DIG.

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor (Board of
Regents)

Clinton P. Anderson

William A. M. Burden

Thomas J. Watson

Caryl P. Haskins

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

James Bradley *

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for
Science

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for
History and Art

William W. Warner, Assistant Secretary
for Public Service

T. Ames Wheeler

Contents

Page

MeeEiaISOnIan INSEMUTION 2. 12.5 2 «. < qolohe as penne 4 = boys eeu che peice Bropnt stimeahs iii
Board of RePventstanad- Secretar sia) ois, © sacha chen aewoucucy pee eects cee ee iv
MEUCINC MED VRC SCCTCLAIVS | ecacus sacuiy io Cichci ie ences ea ct coucbomet a kee recat etemerd > 1
SrMTCEMIRETIONTS 0-02 = 3 Spit doo bystinas Gnd coe diene) 31S Bio pene earn 25
RE PE I sD cet aa wy ea sists 3 op eqoptobnsl ao idewabie ge 51
| NatonalMuseunmvot NaturalVMistony, 2.5.6 45.52.64. « »cueeeie cleneeel- Sp)
NatonaleAugand: SpacesMuseum. 2 ois. «6..= «5 olepod- aspect 61
SmithsoniansAstraphy sical Observatory. poe sy-q2y-) hon a1) ows eee eel 62
Suuthsonian Lropicall Research) Institute, rye isc <b e =e ale ae oe = 67
RUC AHONEBIOLOP Valea DOratOLY, 2 2te.5)= iele,+ 6 wr osteo) are: Geen oleic 71
Nanton leHoOolovicalebarkss uz %, 4 © s Gh aise 0a 4 oi ele ),sis eve eens, soy aueule lous 22
Mimccoimetivinonmenttale SCIENCES. sie)... ces cheno.) <) Sieitielcas) cues enue as 76
MentemOmtherStudy; Ol Man 9s 230 5 aie an See ee a SS oles wok aoe Ge 719
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange’ .....:..:.--:.-.s.:-- 80
HO mLiGlhCCEBULCALMRE Rrra foi cuca tre aces sts cee eahla. 2 ost scotch eas sade 80
BMSLORVAATIOUAT CE lets Gs ue wc Se eee be oe ees ee 0 Sue mle eee shave cher ae 82
The National Museum of History and Technology ................ 84
PRTOMIVESTONPATHEHICANUATt: s:ic/ess 6 Gee) 6 6 cue ate 2 etene on Gye er ie sie we 92
RCO Gra LeTVAOIPAT tim ate fis cersra cy eycUare src rauets (2 fctietcyee Graianere Miele 93
Natonalucolechonolrine Arts, 5. a5 2526-008 5+ sve eae we re 95

MA OnalpLonenatia GallelVjise as aie GRR icc onesie 8 te mime creer cue re ore 99
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden ............... 100
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design ............. 102
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board ................. 103
MaSeD Pen GVaLANETSisos oe esc. aie Cie Lsuetads jor Gy caste! Suara a ro etl @ ehcp 104
IOI CCIOIOATIICRICATMSTUGICS 2 yaks 0,58 onc nes cers os ies Sioa Oe so eed 105
WilitcoomANGademic, Studies: "2 5s son 5 ke tee = eek uses SoS ie coche ys ete 105
SrthsomamninstitUtOnvATChiVES: = 552) 2 22. cue) esene sles Seno ee ere, eye 106

MO Hee O MO OMMMANSINE ep ancs tists es oh cpsy ekettonew at ewan: uid & koe eld eed ere eeteas 107
SEDC CIAMVMUSCUINURTOPTAMIS, | Hears ey ccs aa lemoher ts) aus alee ste cewue ee 2S eieten oe oil 109
Office of Smithsonian and National Museum Programs ............. 110
Ofhiceotbsxhibits/Proerams: 2. 32.52.22 els cs Sele sw oe a Se one se at
Ganservation-Analytical Laboratory 2... ies os eure ee eee ales hile
Miicerotmheseristrane a vrs ere iais..s) ey clisye etees @ see ei when vs ope wae ee clgion e Li
Smiithsomaninstivution WibnanieS; a0s) 4s.) c= sl» aisle cae Se eet oe 113
BID IECRSCLVACC Mr hier te eae ete eA I 2 ae seen 8 ere er ule abana teats 114
PINIAISOMIANIUA SSO CIATCS) Sere foc ythisy 0s ay eure xa) So e0tes Geo) Bh tow ace wise o) Sue op Moles 115
Hie ClOis RU DIC HATEAITS uo wsck, raters cayiey eye el ara) eas er eelel One toe eioiner & Susan 116
Giince otnternationalvACtivities| Ss «20s eve ets eo) =o ees. ©. wile) cucteulene Scie! eine a7)
DIVISION COLE CrOLMINE ATES! ha rere. aes es costes yn va) each eile oobi lays tan elke se ily)
Belmonti@onterencer Center se eves ee oie Sack oe evGeiousce: = chee auus len iter ote 118
AMACOS tia NEI npOrmoOod: MUSEUM Gs a,c aioe) el ole S eucbno uel see 2s 119

SS ALUESOPIIONIA MAD AZATIC meget ye eA ite) oh cheweMeb ue A 21 SW si'eleos ty anc toNe sions 119
SHMUPASOMIMNMENSHIEULIONUETESS. Loci) wn Mies. css een ove eho. ee whe Que ter Suerisiiene 120
Page

Reading Is. Fundamental’ -...,:4k.42-a2 3 SSS eG 3. 2 Se eee 1214
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education .................-. 121 J
Administrative Management)... = ..0 acdaci users Uo see eee 1234
National Gallery Ob Art’ 522 24. Si ghee aM cit es eee 131]
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts .................--. 134 |
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars .................. 138 }
Appendixes
le) Smithsonian koreiem Currency, Programlsryss-) ere ieneenenenene 139 |
DeMembers ofthe Smithsonian Councils a einen nee near 142 |

Bee SinithsonianvAssociatess Memberships serene ere oer eee eee none nanan 144
4, Siaftof the Smithsonian Institution 0.22. 0) sok eee 148 |
5. Publications of the’Smithsonian Institution) Press == =>. ose eee 177 |
6. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Staff .............. 184 |
ie AcademicvAppointments! .h42 cine sesteaey eave eich e-aci enon een aee ere 243 |
SesPublictAffams) pati sper kts ees ce tome ste ceca cben eh i te eet een 25
PASmithsonian Exhibits’ x. s s.N. ae ee eee 262 |

10. Progress on Building Construction, Restoration, and Renovation .... 265
11. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution ..................... 266 |

Statement of the Secretary

S. DILLON RIPLEY
The Pleasure of Your Company

Of all places in the world, Washington seems to have the largest tourist
attendance if the Smithsonian’s annual visitor count is any indication. Last
year the Smithsonian buildings, including the National Zoological Park in
nearby Rock Creek, were visited by more than twenty million people. A
year ago the Zoo made a survey showing that approximately 50 percent of
its visitors are persons from a radius of more than 50 miles away from
Washington, that is to say not from the immediate suburbs. Thus the

_ National Zoo is indeed a nationally visited zoo. Extrapolating the figures

for the total Smithsonian visitation on this basis would produce an
extraordinary result. Something over five percent of the total population
of the United States has visited the Mall buildings and the Zoo during the
past year. This is the largest number of visitors that has been recorded for
any institution. Other buildings in Washington also have a large number of
recorded visitors, many of whom must be the same visitors of course. The
United States Capitol has an annual estimate of seven to ten million people
visiting the building but, as is also our case, there is no way of
differentiating between members of the staff, Members of Congress, the
press, people on business calls, and others. It does appear that on
particularly heavy days the Capitol entertains as many as thirty thousand
visitors on tours. In New York, the Metropolitan Museum has approxi-
mately 2.25 million visitors a year and the American Museum of Natural
History, 3.2 million annually. In Disneyland, California, there were about
9.5 million visitors last year and the visitor count for Walt Disney World in
Florida was approximately 7 million.

Compared to these figures the total 20 million for the Smithsonian
makes it by all odds the largest single center for visitors in the Nation, if
not in the world. The National Park Service estimates that all over the
nation as many as 200 million people have visited public installations
under their care in the last year. This includes, of course, everything from
battlefields, national parks, the Statue of Liberty, The White House
(1,391,300), to historic homes, forests, and open space camping sites.
These figures seem to indicate that Americans are as peripatetic as ever and
as restless as Mark Twain and other authors have described.
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972. |

What special impact do the Smithsonian buildings have on twenty
million visitors? This question represents a continuing enigma to us at the |
Institution, one that we shall probably never really solve. Certainly, as the
years go on, my own impression is that the American tourists consider the
Smithsonian’s public exhibits as part of their birthright, and maintain a
residual sense for many years afterwards of a kind of pilgrimage to this
center in Washington, a visit to the place where the truths of their origins
will be revealed. Of all the buildings visited on the Mall, the one with the
largest tourist count is the National Museum of History and Technology,
and as one might suspect, here is felt the pulse of American history. Here
are the visible evidences of America, the desk on which Thomas Jefferson
wrote the Declaration of Independence, the flag that flew over Fort
McHenry and inspired, apocryphally or not, our Nation’s anthem, the
uniform of General George Washington, his field campaign tent, memo-
rabilia of famous men and women and examples of our culture and crafts
from earliest times. The National Museum of History and Technology is a
veritable archive of objects. It makes patent American history and speaks
of the struggles and triumphs of American men and women. Surely this
will be one of the most important shrines for American visitors during
the Bicentennial Year of 1976.

Another center for historical interest, which we hope to complete by
1976, will be the National Air and Space Museum Building. Time, strikes,
weather, and material shortages notwithstanding, our target is to open this
new museum during the Bicentennial year. The National Air and Space
Museum will have within it not only the documents of the history of
man’s conquest of the air and space, the machines, the objects involved in
the bewildering triumphs of air and space technology, but also archives
and records of those who have made the discoveries and the flights
possible. We shall also have a fascinating auditorium, a space which we
have christened the “‘spacearium,” in which it should be possible not only
to achieve the impressions gained in a planetarium but also seemingly to
project the visitor out into space looking back on Mother Earth.

This coming winter we shall be experimenting with a model of the
spacearium in the form of a smaller-domed projection auditorium in the
old Air and Space Building in the hope of refining our techniques and
making the exhibit technologically perfect. It is estimated that the visitor
count during the first year to the National Air and Space Museum will be
in excess of six million, presumably taking care of the anticipated 30
million visitors on the Mall during the Bicentennial Year of 1976. The
contemplation of such a vast aggregation of tourists is staggering almost
beyond comprehension. In his 4th of July speech the President cited
“Festival USA” as part of the Nation’s plan for the Bicentennial and
mentioned also the “Nation of Nation’s” slogan which the National

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 5

Museum of History and Technology had adopted for its major exhibit
during the Bicentennial Year.

The record of this country’s performance in such areas as politics,
economics, and science is clear, but the attitude of Americans towards the
arts—ranging as it sometimes has, from apathy to antagonism—has left us
with little understanding of their history. One of the purposes of the
Smithsonian’s program for the American Revolution Bicentennial Celebra-
tion is to develop a Bicentennial Survey of American Art. This will
embrace the National Collection of Fine Arts’ Bicentennial Inventory of
American Painting, the National Portrait Gallery’s catalog of portraits of
the revolutionary era, the Archives of American Arts’ Bibliography of
American Art, and the Division of Performing Arts’ Survey of American
Folk Culture. Most of these were begun two years ago with the first
Congressionally approved appropriation to the Smithsonian for the
Bicentennial. In addition, the National Gallery has important plans for
exhibitions. During those two years plans have been formulated for the
various parts of the Survey; hundreds of local, state, and regional
organizations and institutions have been invited to cooperate in it;
computer programs and retrieval systems have been developed and forms
have been prepared for the gathering of information. To date some 1,226
museums and historical societies all over the country and in Canada have
undertaken to gather information for the National Collection of Fine Arts
Inventory, which already lists more than 18,000 paintings. About 5,000
items have been entered in the National Portrait Gallery’s Catalogue of
American Revolutionary Portraits. This Survey is one that promises to
produce one of the most enduring products for students and scholars of
our Nation’s cultural achievements.

In the realm of exhibits, the Smithsonian has developed a Bicentennial
Exhibition Program, designed to produce special exhibits in all of our
major museums, as well as traveling Bicentennial exhibits for use
throughout the country. During this year some four million persons
viewed our traveling exhibits throughout the United States and Canada.
One can only surmise how many more will wish to see the Bicentennial
displays planned especially for them. We also plan to have additional
exhibits, catalogs, the possible acquisition of special objects and the
production of traveling versions of these exhibits. The Anacostia Neighbor-
hood Museum is planning to create a new center for the design and
production of imaginative and inexpensive exhibits on themes of special
interest to minority groups, to the disadvantaged, and to all those
throughout the country who do not normally visit museums. This center
will serve also as a training place for young people drawn from all parts of
the country who wish to learn the special skills involved in communication
through objects and exhibits. In addition we plan to contribute to
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

intergovernmental agencies, Bicentennial projects, such as the exhibit in

the Great Hall of the Department of Commerce Building. Altogether the
Smithsonian’s contributions to the Bicentennial Year should be epoch
making in the Mall area itself; and if, in addition we can create an outdoor

museum in one of the neighboring park areas along the Potomac for the |

history of the Armed Forces revolutionary period, we will have played a
still more significant role in the welcome to Washington for the thirty
millions of visitors expected at that time.

If the fifty percent increase in visitors, expected by 1976, is to be
accommodated without an increase in available parking facilities, the
saturation point will have been exceeded. By then, the Air and Space
Museum Building, the addition to the National Gallery of Art, and the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden will have joined the other
buildings on the Mall, and added over 50 percent to the present 760,514
square feet of public exhibit space, to make a total of 1,154,964 square
feet. This tremendous increase in exhibition area, and one which will have
unusual architectural distinction, will, we believe, accommodate a forecast
attendance of thirty million persons a year. But there is no doubt that
things will be crowded, and particularly in the heat of summer, with the
rush from one activity to the other, the temper of our visitors may wear
thin. Hence, it is even more important that the activities planned for 1976
be festive and that Washington, as a whole, prepare itself for the challenge
of “Festival USA.” The Smithsonian, with appropriate help from the
National Park Service and kindred organizations, and with the blessing of
Congress and of the administration, will do its part, and every member of
our staff will be taxed to the limit..To this challenge, there are no
alternatives: 1976 is a year of promise for all Americans and it is a year in
which many foreigners will want to share. Restless as Americans are, they
will come. Patient as they are they will withstand the tiredness, the aching
feet, the shrill cries of little children who cannot be left behind. The year
will come and go with a resounding crashing of many feet on the Mall,
millions hungry for these sights will not be denied.

What impression will the visitors have in that year? What semblence of
the past, what hope for the future will they take away when they leave the
Nation’s Capital? The Smithsonian is more than simply concerned with the
past. Our objects are “documents,” carefully conserved and lovingly
curated, representing more than merely a panorama of past history. They
indicate the scope of man’s inventiveness, his ability to create, and the
technical skill and craft innovation which have placed America in the
forefront of the nations of the world.

In a recent commencement address Nathan Glazer, the sociologist,
spoke of the question of productivity and the fact that in the present
youth culture in the United States there seems to be a rejection of

{
{
4
|
|
|
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 7

ambition and competition. As he put it, the position of the United States
in world trade and technology is dependent on its youth. It is dependent
on a continuity of such skills and such creativeness. Without that our
standing could be significantly diminished in time. He contemplated a
possible future in which Japanese youth “take pride in turning out ever
more efficient and complex transportation and electronic devices, while
American youth take satisfaction in fashioning leather belts and making
organic bread.”

A recent article in The New York Times cited a foreign correspondent’s
impression of the difficulties of education in a country abroad. Describing
the present trends in that country the writer noted the government’s
concern for educational techniques and training which have failed to
preserve traditional labor in agriculture and crafts, noting that the youth,
especially of more affluent families, desired to go to college today,
whereas 30 years ago a high school diploma was considered a mark of
prestige. The writer commented on the government’s increasing concern
over vanishing agricultural labor on farms and the distaste expressed by the
young for craft or machine work in factories. As it happened the country
was the Soviet Union although the resemblance to the United States seems
startling.

Why is it that young people today find education itself a pleasurable
occupation, to be prolonged as long as possible, in a kind of extended
playpen, and why is it that no one really seems interested in getting down
to a job?

These are some of the questions which continually bewilder all of us
concerned with education. They are not necessarily questions confined to
educators. It often seems to me that the Smithsonian should concern itself
with these problems based on our reservoir of information about the
history of the growth of American culture. If American culture is
changing, then there should be some way of assessing and measuring this
even within the records of the recent past. I have often stated that a
museum should be like a kind of planetarium, almost like the spacearium
which the National Air and Space Museum contemplates building. It
should be possible to set in motion a chain of events within a museum
which would lead up through an exposition of the past into the present
and then, bearing these points of reference in mind, preparing a projection
for the future. If we could think of a museum as a kind of “social
spacearium’”’ then it should be possible to determine why it is that at this
present stage in American culture, there is such a sense of alienation from
traditional values and such a sense of apathy about traditional skills and
cultural refinements. From art to technology, there seems to be a peculiar
lack of industry, creativeness, and desire to follow in any mould today.

In many ways art today is sick, suffering from a surfeit of invention,
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

which has produced a sense of negativism. Artists today dwell in a half |
world, bored on the one hand with derivative skills and the techniques of |
realism, on the other hand virtually barren of inspiration. The result is a |
kind of nihilism, a sense of frustration out of which a feeling of self |

destruction and sadism seems to emerge. At the Venice Biennale a group
of revolutionary young artists voted to applaud the act of the mentally
disturbed Hungarian engineer who defaced Michelangelo’s Pieta, as a
heroic act of anti art (= presumably art?). This sort of gesture is beyond
Dada, beyond surrealism, perhaps part of an odyssey into a new psychic
realm—the “‘freak-out.”

In technology the labor unions, on the one hand, and industrial
planners, on the other, are concerned that the young of the most highly
skilled, inventive, and technologically developed country in the world are
no longer interested in the refinements and skills on which our society
depends. Here again is a kind of nihilism which one must deplore, for it is
so naive. If we are to succeed in making the envelope of earth viable for
future generations, we must continue to develop the skills on which our
very culture depends.

Only with greater skills and a greater understanding of the lessons of
applied science can we achieve an ultimate adaptation between human life
and the supporting forces of earth, which will allow human life to
continue. This dilemma is heightened today by the tension between the
universities, on the one hand, and the students and their parents, on the
other. The universities have been plagued by negativism and self-doubt.
The students, many of whom really are not qualified for university life in
principle, are led astray by the play syndrome, or by feelings of frustration
or rancor at the failure of their expectations. The parents are frustrated
because of their own expectations for their children inherent in the
American dream. And so all elements in the mixed salad that is American
education today are at odds. The institutions, afflicted with self-doubt and
a nagging loss of purpose, are about as popular to the taxpayer as other
municipal or state supported institutions, such as sanitariums and prisons.
We know we need them or something like them, but we hate to have to
pay for them. In this atmosphere leadership is difficult if not impossible,
and mere training and the transfer of information becomes the rule.

What is, of course, needed is some development of training institutes
for the many youths who need such training in skills. But how to make
that dignified? How to make it more glamorous? How to invest such
potential career-training with an aura of excitement? Without it, the
urgent needs of education will not be solved. One can only applaud US.
Commissioner of Education, Sidney Marland’s concept of “career educa-
tion” at different levels from primary to continuing adult. What we need is
a return to the concept of a tradition and pride in crafts and skills through

|

4
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9

curriculum reform.

The problems of the Smithsonian for the next few years are going to
evolve largely around “the pleasure of your company” and how best to let
some of what we have to tell about America rub off on the increasing
millions of visitors. It is all very well for us to spend time, money, and
great intellectual effort planning and designing new buildings as part of the
Smithsonian complex of public enterprises on the Mall, but it is going to
be physically impossible to entertain the very crowds we welcome unless
some accommodation can be reached among the city of Washington, the
legislators who rule us, and the federal government. Signs and portents are
all around. Cassandra-like voices have been calling for the development (via
the Pennsylvania Avenue Commission of a number of years ago) of new
centers for visitors, of outlying satellite parking, of bus services and other
means of transporting people. It will be most difficult to handle the very
masses of people whom the President wishes to welcome for “Festival
USA” for 1976 even with the present schemes of busing and the
development of the Metro. Visitor surveys seem to be largely unheeded. It

__ is difficult to assess the eventual costs of building a transportation network

that will get tourists to the central attractions of the Capital city. No one
seems really to want to pay for it all, and yet so much of the economic life
of Washington depends on its tourist traffic. If twenty million people a
year are coming to the Smithsonian buildings today, how many more will
have been here by 1976 to increase the glut and congestion?

Recently I had a letter from South Dakota.

Dear Mr. Ripley,

I bought a $12 Smithsonian membership [I think he meant an Associate mem-
bership which is $10] because I thought it would help when we visited. We probably
will never know!

Yesterday we were able finally to get on to the street your front door is on—the
heat was terrific—the people thicker than hair on a dog’s back—and by the good Lord
himself you could not find a place to park your car—Sooo - we decided, in a word,
-tohellwithit—we have had a lovely day here in Dayton at the Air Force Museum.

My 13 year old son and I also spent three days at the Museum of Science and
Industry in Chicago. When we finish here we are going to St. Louis and see the
Arch—so we will see our share—in spite of your lousy parking situation.

We honestly do suggest that better parking and more of it be provided for us
country bumkins from the sticks and further—so somehow we can see what we keep
hearing about when we come to town.

And no wonder. One Associate member who receives Smithsonian
magazine wrote in to tell us that he lives in Arlington, Virginia, and that
the only way that he sees the Smithsonian is through our magazine.
Whenever he sees the buildings it is usually to drop off visitors to town,
leave them at the front door, drive around, and pick them up two hours
later. This means that many of the less persistent residents of Washington
10 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

buildings.

It becomes not worth-while. It is too much of a struggle. We certainly
cannot blame them. The tourists will come despite any amount of traffic
jams and problems. It is really going to be difficult in the coming years for
Washington to become so relatively unpopular that the tourist traffic will
fall off. Rather, people remain persistent, they remain hopeful, and, one
hopes, they remain enthusiastic.

Recently, when planning for the National Air and Space Museum (plans
approved by the Congress now many years ago), voices were heard on
Capitol Hill that we should not go ahead with the plans for the Air and
Space Museum because of the present congestion of visitors. But if we are
not to go ahead with plans for a new building already long approved, |
which will enhance the popular understanding of science and technology ©
among the American people, then how are we to proceed? Should we
simply shut up shop and go away? The Institution is already here, the
plans for the new building are already in existence. Everything that we can
do to mobilize public opinion and to engage the interests of the young in
American history, the history of our technological achievements, and the
hopes for the future, must somehow be done. If it is not to be done by the
Smithsonian in Washington then how is it to be done? Some Members of
Congress may find it more appealing to have the Air Force Museum in
Dayton or a museum of science and industry in Chicago assume the task,
but this is begging the question. The National Collections must be
exhibited in Washington. The city itself continues to be an enormous
tourist attraction for Americans from every part of the country. Surely the
Congressmen themselves on reflection will realize that these are their own
constituents and that there will be growing concern over the years if
somehow these constituents are not shown the heritage of America and its
hopes for the future. In any case, a traffic survey made for us around the
site of the new Air and Space Museum showed that having the building
there rather than a parking lot and cross streets as at present, will actually
decrease traffic congestion at peak periods by cutting off diversionary
cross traffic, improving the parking situation, and providing some five
hundred new spaces for tourists in a basement parking garage.

t
|
city, itself, and the immediate suburbs simply have no time to get to the
|

And so we proceed with our plans, confident that over the years the
city government, the Congress, and the Executive branch will somehow
mobilize a coherent program to solve the parking situation and to handle
the flow of visitors whom we all surely wish to see come to Washington.
We will have to learn how to live with ourselves as well as visitors in some
kind of harmony as far as transportation is concerned.

In a way, Washington symbolizes the kind of general transportation
problems of all urban areas, and yet it is a specialized one in so far as
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 11

tourist traffic is concerned. Too much attention is being paid today to
other areas, too little attention is being paid to inner city transportation
problems. Concomitant with these transportation problems are the
problems of the residents themselves. Somehow a new effort will have to
be made to understand the interrelationships of people living in urban
areas and people moving through and being part of these urban areas in
transit. A whole aspect of human nature is involved. People do not like to
be crowded beyond a certain point and the points vary, the degrees of
toleration are endless. Anthropologists have mused on the fact that certain
types of people accept life in aggregations more than others. The study of
proxemics reveals that some people are more adapted to being closely
crowded, almost as it were herded together, and that other kinds of people
resent herding and wish to break out and be more solitary. And so it goes.
People will continue to be motivated by different urges, will continue to
differ in their reactions as well as in their appearance, and this will go on
endlessly in spite of all attempts by planners, architects, engineers, and
social philosophers to equate one person to another.

Our very diversity and our ethnic variety are strong assets only now
beginning to be realized. It is one more reason why the Smithsonian hopes
over the next few years to think more deeply about the problems of
representing man in his environment, perhaps to be encompassed in a
Museum of Man?

The problems of man and the representation and discussion of man in
his environment are not simply the prerogatives of anthropologists. The
sadness of museums of anthropology is that for most of the practitioners
of ethnology these museums are merely legacies of extinction. Museums of
anthropology in themselves have only existed for the past hundred years
since the collections of the explorers began to be displayed. The Musée de
Homme in Paris, perhaps the greatest of the existing museums of
anthropology, is a place where one can find preserved exquisite records of
extinct cultures, collections brought back by explorers themselves long
dead. On the other hand, certain of the newer museums such as the
National Museum of Anthropology in Mexico City have done an excellent
job in exhibiting the continuity of culture. More recently we have “urgent
anthropology” as it is sometimes called, the last residues of that program
of the explorers, initiated in this country by Major John Wesley Powell
(who founded our own Bureau of American Ethnology in the Smithsonian
a hundred years ago), to record the languages and artifacts of the
American Indian before they became extinct. I have been told that there
are still more than two dozen Indian dialects or subdialects which have
eluded Powell and his followers and have not yet been fully described. In
some cases they are spoken by only a handful of persons over 70 years of
age, and, thus, as dialects or languages, will go to the grave with them. If
12 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

this is so we cannot avoid an ultimate responsibility as curators, not |
merely in the failure to record an aspect of the creativity of the human |
spirit, but also that we ourselves have created the very extinctions which
we now mourn.

All over the world today, especially the tropical world, a sadness
descends upon us, as we think of the ease with which cultures vanish
before the onslaught of ourselves and our material artifacts. Tribes with
whom I lived in New Guinea a dozen years ago have now already in the |
intervening time forgotten how to fashion stone axes and know only the
steel ones. In fifty years I suppose they will have forgotten how to use
axes at all and be dependent on power saws and gasoline-powered brush
cutters. Thus these legacies of vanishing ways of life, collected by
ethnologists and anthropologists are really the sole meaning of anthropo-
logical museums. They are simply evidences of the evolution of groups and
types of the varied material cultures of mankind.

A modern Museum of Man, however, should be far more than a
museum of collections and a museum of extinctions. A Museum of Man
should be a museum of social and technological history and as such a
matter of great moment and concern to us all whether we are American
Indians, Caucasians, or members of any other ethnic subdivision. All
citizens of the United States should be concerned, for within all of us
there continues to reside heritable characters which, transmuted by
whatever external pressures about us still persist, tend to evade change,
and still produce our bewildering diversities. Anthropology as such does
not seem any more a subject. It has become to many minority peoples a
figment of the imagination of peoples of European stock.

Nowhere could there be potentially better proof of the ability,
phoenix-like, of a museum to show its true colors, not to be dead, but to
be reborn, than in the case of anthropology. Ethnologists should cease to
exist solely in the realms of connoisseurship and bring their functions and
their collections up to date. They should do this by studying the peoples
as they are today, how they survive, how their culture has molded them to
adapt to this onrushing century and its international hucksterism. For they
will not die out, all these different people, all these ethnic subcultures,
these minorities of every kind. “Their cultural structure may become
dilapidated”’ as Kubler describes the descendants of the Maya, but they
will survive, and in so doing surely represent a cultural evolutionary
response to hard knocks, which students of the welfare state might do well
to recall. I have always felt that there were quantities of relevant data in
the reactions of tribal people to the inroads of civilization. Psychologists
and sociologists would do well to remember the vast resources that
ethnographers and their museums of anthropology have at their disposal.

So it seems to me that the subject of a Museum of Man is a vital

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 13

forward looking one, which could help to place the capstone on the realm
of public instruction which we can offer along the Mall. Somehow or other
the Smithsonian should play a role in interpreting man to himself through
all his endless varieties and diversity.

The past year has seen the 125th anniversary of the legislation that
established the Smithsonian Institution. In September 1971 we celebrated
this milestone. A letter from President Nixon described the contributions
of the Smithsonian and paid tribute to the English scientist “whose
generosity and vision first made its founding possible, and to the dedicated
_ generations of scientists and scholars who carried forward its mission. This
anniversary is a brilliant reminder of the public benefits that can result
from enlightened private endowment.”

The 125th anniversary was celebrated with a delightful program of
lectures and capped by a dinner at which birthday cakes in blue and gold
colors were provided and messages from around the world were read. One
of the interested participants in the 125th anniversary was former
Secretary C.G. Abbot of the Smithsonian, who in May, 1972, celebrated
his 100th birthday. Eighty percent of the history of the Smithsonian has
' been encompassed in his lifetime and one half of the history of our
Republic. Dr. Abbot’s 100th birthday, coinciding so closely with the
125th anniversary of the Smithsonian itself, reminded us once again of the
transitory nature of recent history, the fact that in a flash, as it were—the
lifetime of one man—fully half of the lifetime of our Nation has occurred.
All of us concerned rejoiced both in the anniversary of the Institution and
in the birthday anniversary of the fifth Secretary. We were delighted that
all of his successors were able to be present as well, for it is in such a sense
of continuity that we can overcome the feeling of speed and haste which
somehow so easily overcome us today.

It is significant that the largest of our two new enterprises, the
Hirshhorn gallery, on the one hand, and the National Air and Space
Museum, on the other, should be concerned with objects and ideas and
ways of thought which did not exist when former Secretary Abbot was
already an adult. The Smithsonian itself as it now exists could hardly have
been imagined at the turn of the century when Abbot had been working
for this Institution for four years. The very idea of air and space
technology was a dream, encompassed then only in the minds of
visionaries. The emphasis of the museum community itself, the concern
with social problems, and the attempts to understand our natural
environment, are programs that similarly did not then exist. At the turn of
the century, Darwin was barely accepted and his theories of evolution
were still revolutionary. Now we realize that an understanding of the
principles of Darwinian evolution is vital to our understanding of
continued life on earth.
14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Having a 125th anniversary reminds us of the continuing efforts that
must be made to develop the most effective ways of administering so
extraordinary an institution, preserving the richness of its variety and the
liveliness of its parts, while retaining a general identity and a sense of
purpose and direction. A new element in the administration of the
Institution has been introduced this year with the retirement of James
Bradley as Under Secretary and his replacement by Mr. Robert A. Brooks
as The Assistant Secretary. Mr. Bradley, a veteran of 37 years of
government service, came to the Smithsonian in 1959 as Assistant to the
Secretary and was named Assistant Secretary in 1960 and Under Secretary
in 1971. He had served as the principal technical and administrative
assistant to the Assistant Secretary in the Department of the Interior since
1950. Earlier, from 1945 to 1950, he served as a budgetary and legislative
analyst in the Bureau of the Budget, Executive Office of the President. His
ability to handle the various threads of administration and to support the
Secretary’s Office in all its aspects has been outstanding and one of my
personal pleasures is the fact that he will continue to work for the
Institution on a part-time basis in the future. Meanwhile, we welcome
Mr. Brooks in his capacity as a replacement to Mr. Bradley and feel
convinced that his unique background of training in classical scholarship
and administrative achievement in the Department of Defense and in
private industry in management will succeed in serving the Institution’s
purposes most successfully.

At the beginning of the fiscal year David Challinor was appointed
Assistant Secretary for Science. Mr. Challinor came to the Smithsonian in
1966 with a background in forest ecology and museum administration.
Subsequently he performed an excellent job as Director of the Office of
International Activities and had been Acting Assistant Secretary for
Science since the departure of Dr. Sidney Galler.

Other activities in some of the outlying parts of the Institution have
been of great interest in 1972. During this year recognition of the pioneer
work of the team of Messrs. E. A. Link and J.Seward Johnson in
developing the unique submersible vessel, the Johnson-Sea-Link and
creating a marine center about five miles north of Fort Pierce, Florida, on
the inland waterway, resulted in the creation of the Fort Pierce Bureau.
The Bureau will be a center for research and development in the
Smithsonian’s continuing work in the sea. The five-man submersible
Johnson-Sea-Link is a fascinating vessel in which I have had the good
fortune to make a dive. It attains high visibility through a transparent
acrylic forward compartment as well as a diver lockout capability from the
aluminum afterchamber. It is possible to descend as deep as 1,000 feet or
more for study of the structure and biology of the sea floor. The research
vessel Johnson, now being completed, will service and act as a mother ship

|
|
|
f

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 15

to the submarine. This bureau is under the direction of Dr. I. E. Wallen,
who pioneered the marine sorting center facilities at the Smithsonian
itself, and has been so active in our oceanographic program.

Activities at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies have
resulted in the Smithsonian Institution joining the Chesapeake Bay
Research Consortium, Inc., for long term research of the area. This
Consortium includes support from the National Science Foundation for
scientists from the Smithsonian, Johns Hopkins, The University of
Maryland and the Virginia Institute of Marine Sciences. In addition, close
cooperation with the U.S. Geological Survey will be maintained. The
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies continues to develop
successfully through the mixture of private land acquisition and govern-
ment agency support. During the past year, the Stevens farm of 150 acres
was added to the acreage of the Center, which now consists of a total of
2,261.26 acres, acquisition of which resulted from donations from private
individuals and foundations. These included two major gifts in the past
year: $200,000 from the Richard K. Mellon Foundation and $120,000
from the Scaife Family Charitable Trusts. In addition a donation of one
half of Jefferson Island gives the Smithsonian full title to two of the three
islands in the Poplar Island group. This donation adds to the debt of
gratitude which the Smithsonian owes to Dr. William L. Elkins of
Philadelphia, whose generosity has been notable in the past.

In October the Smithsonian Institution joined with the University of
Tel Aviv in the dedication of a new sixty inch telescope at Mitzpeh
Ramon. This is the largest telescope in Israel and further strengthens the
SAO’s connections in astronomy abroad.

An additional bureau of the Smithsonian is the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
in New York, which will become the eventual National Museum of Design.
During the past year strong support has been given to the development of
this museum in the Carnegie Mansion, a National Historic Landmark,
through the gift of that mansion to the Smithsonian from the Carnegie
Corporation, as well as an important contribution of $500,000 towards
the renovation of the house by the Andrew F. Mellon Foundation. Further
contributions have been notable including the gift of $100,000 by Mrs.
Enid Haupt towards the conversion of one of the period rooms of the
Carnegie Mansion, the beautiful old conservatory. It is planned that partial
reconstruction of the Carnegie house will begin in the coming year.

In Washington, a striking development of the past year has been the
final opening of the Renwick Gallery on the corner of Pennsylvania
Avenue and 17th Street. As readers of past annual reports will recall, the
Renwick Gallery was the original W. W. Corcoran Gallery of Art, designed
by our own architect of the Smithsonian Building, James Renwick of
church and cathedral fame. Rechristened the Renwick Gallery, the
16 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

building for many years had been the home of the Court of Claims, and in
more recent times had lain uninhabited when the Court moved out to its |
new home on Jackson Place. The Renwick Gallery is next to the Blair |

House and across from the Executive Office Building and the White House.

It is one of the city’s loveliest and most historic buildings. Constructed just |

before the Civil War, it was the first building in this country designed

specifically as a gallery for art, and finally given to the Smithsonian |
through the intervention of President Lyndon B. Johnson. When the |

building opened in January 1972, visitors could view the enormous north
gallery on the second floor carefully restored to convey the impression of
its appearance in its opening days in the 1870s. We are most grateful to the
Corcoran Gallery of Art for the loan to the Smithsonian of a number of

the paintings which appeared in this original gallery. The smaller octagonal —

room on the south side of the building has been carefully restored as a
result of the generosity of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation.
In addition contemporary furniture, industrial design and James Renwick’s
own historical architectural achievements, the Index of American Design,
and Frederick Carder’s glass craftsmanship were all parts of the current,
contemporary exhibits for the opening. The building will serve continually
as a showcase for American design, crafts, and the decorative arts, as well
as serving as host for important cultural events from time to time.

Another important milestone for Smithsonian installations in the
Capital has been the preliminary approval of the master plan for the
National Zoological Park, coupled with the arrival in this country and the
donation to the National Zoo of the two giant pandas from the People’s
Republic of China. Mrs. Nixon presented the pandas to the Zoo in a
ceremony on April 20th. Installed in the former Delicate Hoofstock
Building, which is to be extensively renovated for these purposes, the
pandas already have attracted an attendance fifty percent higher for the
Zoo than in comparable periods of previous years. Ffforts are being made
to have the pandas fed at times of the day that will give visitors maximum
viewing possibilities. We are already learning far more about giant pandas
than most of the previous records of their care in captivity had prepared us
for. Hsing Hsing and Ling Ling were reported to be about the same age,
approximately 18 months old, when they arrived in this country in
mid-April, and are notable for the fact that they are very different in
weight. The female, Ling Ling, weighed 136 pounds on arrival, but had
been in captivity since June of 1971. The smaller male weighed only 74
pounds on arrival, and may be slightly younger, but has been in captivity
only since December 1971. It is thought by the Chinese keepers who
accompanied the pandas to this country, that these animals grow more
rapidly and increase their weight at a faster rate in captivity than they do
in the wild state.

|
|

u

{
}

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY iL7/

Somewhat nocturnal or at least crepuscular, the two animals have been

| adjusting well to their new home. They now sleep a bit less in the daytime

than they did at the beginning of their stay, spend more time at play and

_ in curious inspection of the visitors. They are fed a gruel of boiled rice and

powdered milk along with fresh fruits and vegetables and freshly cut
bamboo, and enjoy eating plants of bamboo planted in large tubs in their

_ air conditioned enclosures. Although separated for the time being, it is

planned eventually to bring them together in a common garden area to the
south of the house in which they are confined. Under the imaginative
guidance of Lester Collins, the landscape architect associated with our
architects for the master plan, Faulkner, Fryer and Vanderpool, we hope
to produce a panda haven in the form of a garden of bamboo as part of
their enclosure.

It would be inappropriate today to receive such extraordinarily rare and

valuable animals as giant pandas without making every effort to insure that

they eventually should mate and reproduce. Pandas have been reared in
captivity in the Peking Zoo, and it is the hope of the National Zoological
Park, as it would be of any responsible zoo today, that the stewardship of
these animals will include sensible and pragmatic efforts to have them
breed. More and more, the major zoos of the world today are becoming
bound together in a common concern and new fraternity as stocks of

endangered species of animals continue to decline. One of the ambitions of

the National Zoological Park is to create its own breeding area somewhere
outside of Washington, so that certain stocks of rare species may be
entrusted to the Zoo for safe-keeping and breeding in captivity. With the
constant destruction of habitat, more and more species of animals will
tend to become rare, vulnerable, and endangered. Many of these species
will not be susceptible to captive rearing, but on the other hand, many of
the larger animals, mammals, and birds particularly can be reared in
captivity. Through international cooperative efforts, breeding stocks of
such animals may be maintained for the day, some time in the future,
when international public sentiment will have evolved sufficiently to
restore some balance between human habitation and animal occupation of
former range. As nation after nation becomes more sophisticated and
understanding of the interplay between man and his animal relatives and
neighbors increases, there is hope that natural areas may be preserved and
kept around the world to serve as resources for the future. In such areas,
many of the presently endangered species can be reintroduced successfully
in time. The example of the San Diego Zoological Society, in creating their
big natural park for breeding stocks of certain animals such as the white or
wide-lipped rhinoceros of Africa, is inspiring.

It is incumbent upon the National Zoological Park to join this
movement and to develop its own breeding area outside of the city. Such a
i
18 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1073

breeding area can serve as a Satellite zoo, in effect combining both
visitation possibilities for tourists and regional visitors, as well as secure
breeding sanctuaries. The original example of the Whipsnade division of
the London Zoological Society at Regents Park and the additional work |
being done by American zoos are all part and parcel of our hopes and}
ambitions for the National Zoo of the future.

On 17 May 1972, the Institution opened a major exhibit on drugs. Over |
two years in preparation, the purpose of the exhibit was to see how the |
Smithsonian, looking at the historical roots and evolution of the use of |
hallucinogens, could develop an exhibit that would educate the public in
understanding drugs in our culture. Since the earliest times, drugs have
played a significant role in religion and, later on, in medicine. Today
without the constant refinement and use of drugs, medical practice would
be at a standstill. In the conviction that our culture has evolved in close
company with the rational and disciplined use of drugs, first in religion
among the priestly castes and secondly among alchemists and doctors, we
felt that it would be possible to arrange an exhibit which would rationalize
in people’s minds the traditional uses of these extraordinary substances.
The exhibit has been supported with help from several foundations and
drug companies and has pointed towards a new dimension in our ability to
tell a story through an exhibition. The use of “talking heads,” as
developed by our Department of Exhibits has been noteworthy. The text
material for the exhibit, prepared with the aid of the National Institute of
Mental Health, the President’s Committee on Drug Abuse, and a number
of national and international authorities, has given us, I hope, the source
material for a book which can be used as a textbook on the current status
and knowledge about the use of drugs both beneficially and harmfully in
our lives.

It is hoped that the exhibit will travel and will be widely viewed around
the country. Shortly after the opening of the exhibit the Institution was
honored by being given the Pacesetter Award from the National Coordinat-
ing Council on Drug Education, in recognition of our innovative educational
exhibit. It is our hope that this exhibit will contribute to developing a ra-
tional approach towards the understanding and prevention of drug abuse.

In connection with our museum programs, we have been happy to
obtain the addition of Mr. Paul N. Perrot to our staff. Mr. Perrot has been
for twelve years Director of the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, New
York. He will assume office on 1 August 1972 as the Assistant Secretary
for Museum Programs of the Institution, succeeding Mr. Frank A. Taylor
who had been our pioneer head as Director General of Museum Programs.
Like Mr. Taylor, Mr. Perrot has had long experience with museums in this
country, as well as contacts abroad, and should be a most valuable
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 19

associate in connection with the Institution’s National Museum Act, our
Exhibits Program for museums both here and abroad, our libraries, our
Conservation-Analytic Laboratory, and for museum affairs in general. It
has been unexpectedly sad that he comes to us just after the tragedy of
Hurricane ‘“‘Agnes”’ had destroyed so much of the important collection and
library of the Corning Museum of Glass, and we greet him with mixed
emotions of happiness at his arrival and commiseration with him, his
colleagues and associates at Corning, New York.

Of outstanding importance in this year has been the official commit-
ment by Mr.Hirshhorn of an additional gift of 326 paintings and
sculptures valued at more than $7 million for the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden. The paintings and sculptures involved are of the finest
quality and include an important portrait by John Singer Sargent of 1884,
a vitally important painting by Piet Mondrian of 1935, a Picasso sculpture
of 1950, and an additional important David Smith, to round out the large
Smith group in the Collection. The Board of Trustees of the Hirshhorn
Museum have held three meetings, in Washington, New York, and
Greenwich, and noted with approval the planning for the catalog of the
inaugural exhibition which will be published by Harry N. Abrams,
Incorporated. Mr. Lerner, Director of the Hirshhorn Museum, has an-
nounced that Douglas MacAgy, former Director of National Exhibitions,
National Endowment for the Arts, has been named Curator for the
Opening Show. The public opening of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden is scheduled for late autumn, 1973. At that time the
collection of sculpture, complemented by a strong selection of modern
American paintings and significant European works, will add greatly to the
range and depth of artistic achievement on public view under the aegis of
the Smithsonian Institution.

Progress continues to be the watchword for the Anacostia Neighbor-
hood Museum, which has been extremely active during 1972. The Museum
has expanded its effort to involve more people in the community in every
aspect of the museum experience, and plans this coming year to establish
an exhibits, design, and production laboratory, which will offer training in
all phases of exhibition work. A small building has been planned for this
laboratory and an important proposal has been submitted to a private
foundation for funding.

In the National Museum of History and Technology a major opening of
the past year has been that of a 19th-century Post Office Country Store.
The U.S. Postal Service cooperated in the development of this exhibit and
has provided a staff of three clerks to handle philatelic sales and regular
mail for visitors to the Museum on a daily basis. The furnishings and
objects in this store, a former Headsville, West Virginia, Post Office,
originally constructed in the early 1860s, recreate the 1890-1910 period.
20 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

It is a living historical exhibit, dramatizing the importance of postal
communications and the role of the post office as a social institution in
the American community. A special postmark incorporates a pictorial
representation of the Headsville Post Office and has been applied to all the
mail deposited at our new “Smithsonian Station.”

The Division of Postal History at the Museum has been fortunate this
year in acquiring an outstanding envelope carried by the pony express in
1861 and a pair of rare stamps issued for mail carried by the balloon,
Buffalo, in 1877.

Many additional acquisitions in photographs, daguerrotypes and associ-
ated items have also been received by the Division of Photographic
History. This spring a Hall of News Reporting is being opened, made
possible by generous donations from Time-Life, Inc., and The Salt Lake
Herald Tribune among others. This summer has also included the re-
opening of the Hall of Graphic Arts and the Hall of Numismatics. These
halls have been redesigned since the unfortunate fire in the Museum of
History and Technology a little over a year ago.

The Friends of Music at the Smithsonian had a memorable program in
April 1972, including an entire festival weekend under the direction of
Mrs. Constance Louden Mellen as Chairman of the Friends, and of our
Concert Director, James Weaver. Fifty guests from many parts of the
country attended and were taken on tours of the Division of Music’s
handsomely installed exhibits and study collections, and in addition given
dinners and receptions provided by local resident Friends of Music,
culminating in a superb performance of Rameau, Couperin, Bach, and
Handel in the Hall of Musical Instruments. The weekend was a delight, and
grateful thanks are indeed owed to the organization of Friends of Music at
the Smithsonian.

Plans have been inaugurated for the opening of a new gallery on the
American Merchant Marine. A brochure has been published outlining the
projected hall’s theme which will expand the present collection beyond
the limits of ships and types of ship models. Under the direction of Dr.
Melvin H. Jackson, Curator of the Maritime Collections, it is hoped to
convey a greater scope to the exhibits which will capture some of the
glamor of the seatrader’s life and the romance of ocean commerce. The
scheme is an ambitious one and holds great promise to enliven and
broaden the appeal of exhibits in the history of technology. An effort is
being made to secure private support for the installation of the new hall.

Behind all this, performing less spectacular but nonetheless vital jobs,
are the many administrative and support activities which enable the people
engaged in the more glamorous history, art, science, and scholarly pursuits
of the Smithsonian to carry on their work.

During the past year the Woodrow Wilson Center for International
if
|

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY P|

Studies has been extremely busy and active. A number of important
seminars have been held including informal visits to the Smithsonian
Building by Prime Minister Willy Brandt of West Germany and Prime
Minister Indira Gandhi of India. In addition the Club of Rome, in
conjunction with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Woodrow
Wilson Center, and the Smithsonian, held a one-day seminar on the subject
of the Limits of Growth, the stimulating book developed as a result of
studies by computer scientists and economists at M.I.T. This seminar
attracted considerable attention, although the subject matter has come
under spirited debate and the question of the validity of the projections
will continue to be argued for a number of years. An airing of such a
subject at this time, however, can always be assumed to be of the greatest
value.

Additionally, in December 1971, the Institution played host for several
days to the Group of Ten Finance Ministers at the request of then
Secretary of the Treasury, John B. Connally. This momentous meeting,
the first of the Finance Ministers to be held in Washington, was a landmark
meeting for the Smithsonian itself, and we hope that the benign influence
of the Castle Building was useful in promoting a community of financial
interests among the nations concerned. Even though the dollar proceeded
to float thereafter to the dismay of a good many of us, the merits of the
case were well thrashed out and the immediate results seem to have been
propitious.

In February 1972, as a result of the offer of air transportation by
Mr. Watson, four of the Regents and their wives, accompanied by
Smithsonian officials made a flying weekend visit to the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute in the Panama Canal Zone and the Republic of
Panama. The trip was an enormous success and a veritable eye-opener for
the Regents involved, Senator Fulbright, Congressman Bow, Mr. Watson
and Dr. Greenewalt; all of them found the occasion a memorable one,
especially in understanding the complex ecological studies being under-
taken in the tropics. During the visit the Regents had an opportunity of
seeing the headquarters of STRI at Ancon in the Canal Zone in a building
made available to the Smithsonian by the Canal Zone government next to
the Gorgas Memorial Hospital. In addition they were able to see the Naos
Island laboratories on the Pacific side of the canal and the work being
done there on the biology of intertidal animals, marine environmental
monitoring, and such fascinating subjects as the competition of coral
species, and the reaction of unsuspecting Atlantic fish species to the
poisonous Pacific sea snakes, a subject of great interest in connection with
their possible introduction to the Caribbean Sea via a sea-level canal. The
party also had an opportunity to visit the Galeta Island marine station on
the Caribbean side of the canal, where studies are being undertaken on the
1
4

$0) SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

long term consequences of oil spills, as well as a wide variety of basic |

research. |
A visit to Barro Colorado Island in freshwater Gatun Lake was a high |

point of our stay, for this island, formed when the Chagres River was
dammed for the canal in 1914, has been held intact as a laboratory reserve |
since the 1920s. Its nearly 4,000 acres under the quarter-century
administration of the Smithsonian serve as one of the most valuable
tropical research laboratories in the world. Research records have been
maintained of the flora and the fauna of the island since it was first set |
aside as a research center, and records of such continuous duration are rare
indeed for tropical areas of the world. The reception that the Regents and
their party received from the officials of the Republic of Panama as well as
the Canal Zone was outstanding, and it was a joy to all of us to meet with
so much hospitality as well as comprehension of the Institution’s programs |
by the local residents and officials. It is hoped in the future to plan
additional field trips for members of the Board of Regents as well as
members of the National Associates Board. The success of this first trip |
was so marked that it seems important to give Board members additional
opportunities for such personal experiences.

Three meetings of the Board of Regents were held during the past year.
The autumn meeting was convened on 27 September 1971 in the
Director’s Conference Room of the National Museum of History and
Technology. The principal discussion centered around the 1976 commem-
oration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolution which, as I have
said, offers the Smithsonian Institution a rare opportunity to help to
delineate our National achievements. Presentation of the proposed
Smithsonian program was made by a number of bureau directors: Michael
Collins for the National Air and Space Museum, Daniel J. Boorstin for the
National Museum of History and Technology, John H. Magruder for the
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board, and Theodore H. Reed
for the National Zoological Park. Others presented a brief report on the
proposed “Year of the Centennial” exhibit in the Arts and Industries
Building, and the Festival of American Folklife.

The winter meeting was held at Hillwood, the estate of Mrs. Marjorie
Merriweather Post, on 27 January 1972. The appointment of Thomas J.
Watson, Jr., as a member of the Executive Committee (Permanent
Committee) was confirmed by the Board of Regents. Senator Clinton P.
Anderson resigned from the Executive Committee and the Board ex-
pressed its highest regard for his effectiveness in the deliberations of that
Committee for the last eight years.

Following the meeting, the members of the Board of Regents attended
the opening of the Smithsonian’s Renwick Gallery, located at 17th and
Pennsylvania Avenue.

3
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 23

The spring meeting of the Board was held in the Regents’ Room of the
Smithsonian Institution Building on 10 May 1972. Mr. James E. Webb was

named Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Regents,

and Dr. William A.M. Burden was appointed a member of the Executive

- Committee.

The Board of Regents approved the adoption of new principles

_ designed to make possible improved performance in the management of its
_ endowment funds. These principles include the establishment of maximum

total return as the investment objective for the funds without assuming an

inappropriate degree of risk, and the determination of amounts to be

distributed from endowment funds each year as a prudent portion of the
average total return expected on these funds over an extended period.

On 11 May 1972, the President signed into law the appointments of
three new citizen Regents. The appointments of John Paul Austin,
A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., and Robert F. Goheen, are for the statutory
term of six years.

The Regents received a number of status reports including construction

' progress on the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, which has been
» delayed by difficulties in the construction itself, as well as industry-wide

strikes and slowdowns.
The design concept of the National Air and Space Museum was

| approved by the Commission of Fine Arts. The House of Representatives

included in the appropriation bill for the fiscal year 1973 an appropriation

of $13 million and express contract authority for an additional $27

million for the construction of this project.

The National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board was the subject of
legislation introduced during the year to establish a Bicentennial Outdoor
Museum, to designate the authorized study center as the Dwight D.
Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research, and to authorize the transfer
of federal lands at Fort Foote, Maryland, to the administrative jurisdiction
of the Smithsonian. Negotiations with the Prince George’s County
Planning Board and with the local communities continued through the
year.

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc., received a

| supplemental appropriation of $300,000 to provide for normal operation

through the fiscal year.

The National Zoological Park master plan received preliminary approval
from the Commission of Fine Arts and the National Capital Planning
Commission. The plan emphasizes the landscape and animals, and
subordinates the visual impact of building construction. Particular atten-
tion was given to the critical matter of automobile parking and traffic. At
this meeting the Secretary reported that Robert A. Brooks will succeed
Under Secretary James Bradley with the title of The Assistant Secretary
24 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

on 1 July 1972. The members of the Board recorded their appreciation of |
the extraordinary service that James Bradley has rendered to the
Smithsonian. |

At the conclusion of the meeting, the Board of Regents honored Dr.
Charles G. Abbot, former Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, on the
occasion of his 100th birthday.

If one lesson has been learned this year it is that we must alert ourselves
and all the powers that be in Washington that time will not stand still, and
that the tidal wave of “company” will descend upon us inexorably in the
next four years. We can paraphrase the poet and declare that “‘the World is
too much with us late and soon, getting and begetting,” but we know that
the souls so created will crowd in upon us ever more closely—full of the
stuff of life, endlessly consuming to ashes the remains of time and
purpose, of objects carefully wrought, of past history. We cannot halt the
tide but only make our preparations while we may and pray for affection
and comprehension. If Americans have begun to indulge in self-doubt, let
us rejoice, for this should be an encouragement. Self-doubt and a certain
hesitancy can be the beginning of the road to self-knowledge and thus to
comprehension and to wisdom. Can we not prepare for that?
Financial Report

It is a rare experience for educational and research institutions to have
adequate funds to take care of all their pressing needs and promising
opportunities for improvements and imaginative new projects. In this
respect, the Smithsonian Institution is no different from its counterparts.
Nevertheless, fiscal year 1972 was one from which the Institution may
derive a degree of satisfaction from improvements on a number of
budgetary fronts—many of these resulting from programs initiated in
previous years.

Increased FY 1972 federal appropriations, which account for over
three-quarters of our total financial support, moved toward easing
accumulated research support shortages and also made possible additional
services to our visitors and the start of certain important new research
projects. Private unrestricted fund accounts, vital to the unique character
of this Institution, showed a favorable balance between income and
expenditures for the first time in five years. This welcome result followed
introduction of improved accounting and budgeting methods, tighter
control of expenditures, a gradual extension of fund-raising efforts, and
modest improvement in a number of revenue-producing areas. In addition,
increased donations for specific purposes and larger grant and contract
awards also benefited the many projects covered by these restricted-
purpose funds. New policies adopted this year with respect to the handling
of investment funds of the Institution are expected to bring important
benefits in future years.

Overall Sources and Application of Financial Support

Total support of the Institution from all sources for operating purposes
approximated $62,700,000 in fiscal year 1972, compared with
$52,800,000 in the previous year. In addition, $6,347,000 was received
for construction projects, somewhat less than the $7,125,000 in FY 1971.
Sources of support for the last four fiscal years 1969-1972 are shown
below (in thousands):

25
26

OPERATING FUNDS

Federal appropriation
Salariesiandjexpensesm. sai -ieit-ieiae
Special Foreign Currency Program. . .

Subtotaleira se eo ec eae

Research grants and contracts ........

Nonfederal funds:

Gifts (excluding gifts to endowments)
Restricted |purpose= 4.4...
Wnrestricted purpose see oe

Income from endowment and current

funds investment
INestricte di punpose arsine
Winrestrictedipurpose she sec

Miscellaneous eee oe ein ern ate

CONSTRUCTION FUNDS (Federal)

National Zoological Park.............
_National Air and Space Museum.......
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum.........
Restoration and renovation of buildings .

It may be noted that in FY 1972 approximately 79 percent of the
Institution’s operating funds were supplied by federal appropriations, with
an additional 13 percent coming in the form of research grants and
contracts and only 8 percent being represented by private donations,

FY 1969 FY 1970 FY 1971 FY 1972

$29,150

2,316

$31,466
11,624

1,806
181

924
441
476

$46,918

$300
0-
2,000
400

$2,700

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

$32,679

2,316

$34,995
10,825

$36,895

2,500

$39,395
93312

investment income, and other miscellaneous nonfederal sources.

The application of these funds (with the exception of Special Foreign
Currency Program funds and construction funds) in FY 1972 is indicated
in Table 1, similar to the one provided for the first time in last year’s

annual report. Further detail on all of these funds follows.

$46,301

3,500

$49,801
8,088

2,618
is

1,178
334
548

$62,738

$200
1,900
3,697

550

$6,347

|
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY ria |

TABLE 1.—Source of applications of funds (in thousands) year ended

30 June 1972
Non-federal funds
Unrestricted Grants
and
Federal Revenue con-
Funds funds Total General producing Restricted tracts
FUND BALANCES—
APTN ATO TD eee 3) » $ -0- $ 3,773 $1,720 $_ -0- SUS762 eS) 291
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations $46,301
Investment Income .. $ 1,512 $ 334 $ - $1,178 $ -
Grants and Contracts. . 7,847 - - $7,847
nine Gado dio miGomonic 2,789 26 145 2,618 -
Sales and Revenue... SUS) 831 6,196 130 -
Less: Cost of Sales .. (4,838) (813) (3,999) (26) -
OUTS 65 aidigie Soc 565 219 104 242 -
Total Provided. 46,301 15,032 597 2,446 4,142 7,847

Total Available 46,301 18,805 2,317, 2,446 5,904 8,138

FUNDS APPLIED

Science:
Environmental Science 1,110 975 62 - 204 709
Nat’l Museum of
Nats SIS Sis coool 5,679 1,205 20 - 250 935
_ National Zoological
pat Komeetetevercich creraveo 3,827 46 1 - 6 39
Fort Pierce Bureau... - 788 - - 788 -
Science Information
PSX CHANLZE eiciciei«)e'c «0 1,600 - - - - -
Smithsonian Astro.
Observatory =... «.. 2,653 4,880 1 - 124 4,755
Other Science ..... “ 3,496 1,243 25 - PIS\P) 966
MOtalicce rs: sts verte 18,365 9137 109 - 1,624 7,404
History and Art:
_ Nat’l Portrait Gallery . 924 42 4 - 38 -
Nat’! Collec. of Fine
PNG TS erates! 6'elis.e 0 Byerete 15227 45 15 - 28 2
Freer Gallery ....... 78 861 - - 861 -
Nat’l Museum of Hist.
 gucliicteibeAcoapadoc 2,457 140 44 - 73 23
_ Other History and Art 1,605 740 3 - 633 104
TOtalveyaeielsccke 6,285 1,828 66 - 1,633 129

Public Service:
Revenue Producing

Activities
Smithsonian Press 816 135 - 135 - -
Performing Arts .. 265 593 - 179 28 386
Other = sores selere - pola 3) - 2243 - -
Anacostia Museum .. 206 141 29 - 97 15
Other giscieicrs cle sls 806 387 90 - 297 -

Total)... 330 2,093 S574) 119 2,587 422 401
28 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

TABLE 1.—Source of applications of funds (in thousands) year ended
30 June 1972—Continued

Non-federal funds
Unrestricted Grants
: a es 7 and
Federal Revenue con-

Funds funds Total General producing Restricted tracts

Museum Programs

WaibrarieSsy-ietoretetsicic a 864 51 50 - 1 -
EXNDIES erat evelelaieronene 3,105 76 - = 76 2
Other Programs ..... 1,912 9 9 - - -
Motaliersreieietalene 5,881 136 59 - wy) -

Buildings Management

IDE DEW ixoveveteters’e sie 6s $10,442
Administration: ...... 3,235 $2,643 $2,643 ¢$ eS 5 & =
Overhead Recovered .. (2,639) (2,639) - - -
Transfers for Desig-

nated Purposes ..... (717) 179 (141) (909) 154
TOTAL FUNDS AP- eS ae

ICUED veretepeteloyehever ects $46,301 $13,917 $ 536 $2,446 $2,847 $8,088

SO UNS NOW Googe $ -O0- $ 4,888 $1,781 $  -0- $3,057 $ 50

Federal Appropriated Funds

Operations (Salaries and Expenses).~As shown above in the tabulation
of sources of support, Congress increased the Smithsonian’s appropriation
for regular operations by over $9,400,000 in FY 1972. Of this amount,
however, $1,600,000 represented an appropriation for the Smithsonian
Science Information Exchange (Table 1) which had been funded since
1964 by grants from the National Science Foundation. Nearly $2,000,000
of the increase in appropriations, furthermore, was necessary merely to
meet legislated increases in federal salaries. Continued inflationary cost
increases for supplies and other services absorbed additional monies.
Nevertheless, the remaining increase of more than $5,000,000 included
provision for an important start on correcting the serious imbalance
between professional research and curatorial efforts, on the one hand, and
the level of technical support for these efforts, on the other. Such
technical support had been eroded in previous years as the limited funds
available had to be increasingly devoted to salaries of the professional
} STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 29

staff, leaving progressively lesser amounts for technicians, assistants,
equipment, and supplies. Accessions of new or expanded collections
meanwhile accentuated such needs. Increases in appropriations provided in
FY 1972 were the first step toward elimination over a three-year period of
these shortages in the National Museum of Natural History.
| Similarly, a $500,000 increase for the National Zoological Park made
possible improved veterinary treatment and research. An allowance of
$600, 000 was received to implement the program of the National Museum
Act, authorized in 1970; of this amount, $200,000 was transferred by
legislative requirement to the National Endowments for the Arts and
-Humanities. Other major benefits from increased Congressional support
were directed toward the visiting public: funding of a major new exhibit,
“The World of Living Things,” provision for longer visitor hours for our
Mall museums, the opening of the Renwick Gallery, and stepped-up
preparations for the opening of the Hirshhorn Museum. Finally, $500,000
was provided for Smithsonian’s share of a group effort to establish a new,
large, low-cost, multi-mirror telescope which should represent a break-
through in instrumentation of this type and lead to important new
discoveries in astrophysics.
The division of the Institution’s federal appropriations for operating
purposes (excluding special Foreign Currency Program) in recent years,
among its broad areas of services, has been as follows (in thousands):

FY 1969 FYI 7O FY 1971 EY I972

SEC obser ENG $10,467 $11,761 $13,495 $18,365*
History and Art. ..::.... 4,287 5,081 5,878 6,285
PUbIIG SELVICe =. 2... .- 1,159 1,445 1,442 2,093
Museum Programs....... 3,260 3592 3,744 5,881
Administration ......... 2,526 MMS) 3,051 3,235
Building Maintenance .... 7,451 8,067 9,285 10,442
otal ert. ons 25 $29,150 $32,679 $36,895 $46,301

*Includes $1,600,000 for the Science Information Exchange which had been
funded since 1964 by grants from the National Science Foundation.

After allowance for the change in form of funding of the Science
Information Exchange in FY 1972, the percentage share of each of the
service areas has remained fairly constant in this four-year period, except
that the combined share of Administration and Building Maintenance has
fallen from 34 to 31 percent, with slight percentage increases in Science
and Public Service.
30 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972°

Special Foreign Currency Program.—Since 1966 the Smithsonian has}
been administering a program of grants benefiting more than 200 museums)
and universities in the United States in order that they may carry on}
research in certain foreign countries where blocked currency credits,)
usable only in those countries, are available to the United States in return)
for services previously provided. Annual appropriations to the Smithsonian!
from available blocked currency to fund such grants increased in FY 1972
from $2,500,000 to $3,500,000. Use of such grant monies in FY 1972 was)
as follows (in thousands):

Systematic
and environ- Astrophysics Grant
mental and earth Museum adminis-
Archeology _ biology sciences programs tration Total
India... 3 %< $ 374.8 $ 144.9 $ 22.8 $ 8.4 $ 4.6 $ 555.5
Israel 320 373.7 21.9 108.2 1.0 1.8 506.6
Morocco .. 6.2 63.0 - ile3} - 70.5 |
Pakistan. . . 5.0 8.5 - - - 13.5 |
Poland.... 51.4 8.0 3.2 4.6 - 672 '
Tunisia ... 135.1 355.7 9.1 6 Pa | 502.6
UAR-Egypt S112 31.0 111.9 Sie 1.6 659.4
Yugoslavia . 227.8 774.4 - 49 1.8 1008.9
Burma.... all sil - . . 2
Total .. $1685.3 $1407.5 $255.2 $24.5 $11.9 $3384.4*

*Unobligated balance of FY 1972 appropriation carried forward for use in
FY “1973.

Construction.—From the tabulation of sources of support, it can be
seen that Congress appropriated to the Smithsonian Institution in FY
1972, a total of $6,347,000 for construction purposes. Of this,
$3,697,000 represented the final balance of the $15 million authorized by
Congress for the Hirshhom Museum construction, which is to be
completed in FY 1973. In addition, $1,900,000 was granted to cover the
planning and redesign of the new National Air and Space Museum on the
Mall, construction of which was authorized in 1966. Another $750,000
was appropriated for completion of the Renwick Gallery renovation plus
various relatively minor improvements elsewhere.

Research Grants and Contracts

An important part of the Institution’s research work is funded by
grants and contracts received from federal agencies. Following is a
f
| STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 31

tabulation (in thousands) of such grants and contracts in recent years, the
data being expressed in terms of expenditures as being the most
‘meaningful indicator of research activity funded by this means since the

| :
awards themselves are spread over varying and extended periods of time.

|
|
}
| PY UGS OFYI970 FY 1971 FY 972
|

Department of Health,

Education, and Welfare . Sea. $ 326 $ 297 Sals2
Department of Defense... . 1,667 1,086 843 916
National Aeronautics and

Space Administration. . . 2265 6,561 4,930 4,605
National Science Foundation 2,099 2,246 2,028 560
Gy ee Se eee 321 606 1,214 1,875

Motalvere eee ae $11,624 $10,825 $9,312 $8,088

The decline in the total for FY 1972 compared with FY 1971 was
caused entirely by the elimination in this past year of the National Science
Foundation grant for the Science Information Exchange. In FY 72
Smithsonian took over the responsibility for the funding, as well as the
management of, the Exchange with its $1,600,000 becoming a new
separate Smithsonian federal appropriation rather than being received in
the form of a contract. With this exception, there has been an increase in
federal grants and contracts received during the past year.

It may be noted from Table 1, that the major recipient of grants and
contracts is the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, with a total of
$4,755,000 for FY 1972. Grants to the Observatory covered, among other
things, work done on tracking of satellites, monitoring of stellar
observations from the celescope satellite and experiments concerning
continental drift. A large share of the remaining research grants and
contracts went to the scientists of our National Museum of Natural
History and the Office of Environmental Sciences covering a variety of
studies from sources of endemic Asian diseases to analysis of the contents
of areas of the oceans. Grants and contracts also extended beneficially the
work of our Oceanographic Sorting Center, Tropical Research Center, and
Division of Performing Arts. A major contract, received near the close of
the fiscal year, will fund worldwide population studies by our Interdis-
ciplinary Communications Program.

Private Trust Funds

As mentioned earlier, the largest part of the funding of the Institution
comes from federal appropriations, augmented further by substantial
a2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 —

amounts of grants and contracts from federal agencies. Equally important
in many ways, however, is the “private side” of the Institution, since, the

Smithsonian derives its unique character in large part from this combina- —

tion of Governmental and private support, permitting operating flexibility,
nonpolitical objectivity, and greater attraction to its many private donors.

The resources for the Smithsonian private side are in the form of
income from endowment funds, donations from foundations, corporations
or individuals, and to a lesser extent, receipts from concessions and
miscellaneous sources. In appraising these resources an important distinc-
tion must be made between income received for unrestricted as compared
with restricted purposes. The largest share of both the investment and gift

income is for specific (restricted) purposes, with only a regretably small —

unrestricted portion which can be directed to support Institutionally
determined priority needs or promising program opportunities.

In fiscal year 1972 the private fund income, excluding gifts to—
endowment funds, for both restricted and unrestricted purposes totaled —

$4,849,000 as follows (in thousands):

Unrestricted Restricted

purposes purposes Total

INVESEMENTS <0.0 ee sepa emeocere ce ercene $334 $1,178 $1,512
Gifts eee serccee cue inne ote ees 171 2,618 2,789
Concessions and Miscellaneous ........ 306 242 548
Lotalsc.s398 ee eee: $811 $4,038 $4,849

Not included in the above figures are the results of our revenue-
producing activities, such as, the Smithsonian Magazine and museum
shops, since on balance these activities do not yet produce net income
although they are expected to do so in the future.

Unrestricted Private Funds.—The most significant fact about this
important segment of the Smithsonian’s financial affairs is that in FY
1972 a favorable balance was reestablished between income and expendi-
tures. The gain of $61,000 was, of course, small, but it was achieved at a
time when many educational institutions and museums are reporting
serious financial losses. It was also achieved despite the continued rise in
costs and pressing needs for greater services—factors that contributed

———

heavily to the Smithsonian’s own losses of private unrestricted funds in the —

previous four years.

As may be seen from these figures, the improvement in FY 1972 |

resulted principally from (1) control of administrative expenses and their
recovery through proper charges to grants and contracts, revenue-
producing activities, and other privately funded programs of the Institu-
tion, and (2) the nearly $400,000 reduction in the loss of our revenue-
| STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

33

FY 1969 FY 1970 FY 1971 FY 1972
INCOME:
Menivestment 2)... esc e ss $ 379* $ 323 $ 334 $ 334
ee 181 18 304 26
Concession & Misc. ...... 244 540 215 197
| Total Income ...... 804 881 853 5p)//
|
EXPENDITURE:
md mMInNevEX PENSE! .. ...<..82\ ss 2 2,983 3,256 D123 2,994
Less Admin. Recovery .... 2,390 2,435 2,254 2,639
Net Admin. Expense ... 593 821 469 355
Revenue Producing Activities
Macazine®na trv ces oe (70) (472) (209) 2
SHOD Sere itiscs ai tienes) oe (25) (28) (80) 19
LEGGS, okt SiS See (127) (200) (159) (ahd)
PASSOGIACCS oe saciesi ce a 57 (41) 10 74
Performing Arts ...... (60) (167) (78) (50)
Other Activities....... (231) (133) (18) (75)
Total Activities .... (456) (1,041) (534) (141)
Total Expenditures . - 1,049 1,862 1,003 496
Net Gain (Loss) .... (245) (981) (150) 61
Ending Balance .... $2,851 $1,870 $1,720 $1,781

*In thousands.

producing activities. Together these two factors more than offset the
absence in FY 1972 of a special one-time $300,000 gift for unrestricted
purposes, which was so beneficial in FY 1971.
The gain of $61,000 in FY 1972 reversed the down-trend in the balance
-of our unrestricted funds and increased it slightly to $1,781,000 at
30 June 1972. This figure, however, is still well below a comfortable level
for current working funds of the Institution. Intensive steps must be
continued to rebuild this working capital by more than $1 million to at
least the $2,851,000 figure existing at the end of 1969. More than $1
million of such working capital is required to support grant and contract
work performed before payment is received, another $700,000 for
investment in inventories, and at least $1 million more must be maintained
‘for payrolls, accounts receivable, and cash fluctuations of a seasonal
nature.
There is, however, reason to believe that improvement in this direction
lies ahead. Our Development Office, together with the National Associates
34 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972.

Organization, is now working on a program which will hopefully produce
an annual flow of donations and bequests from an increasingly large

number of interested parties. Approximately $171,000 of gifts for:
unrestricted purposes were received in FY 1972 in addition to much larger

grants, principally from foundations, for specifically designated purposes
(see “Restricted Private Funds” below).
At the same time our revenue-producing enterprises show promise of

producing significant income in the next several years to bolster our

private resources. Additional data on the finances of these revenue-
producing activities in FY 1972 are as follows (in thousands):

Per-
Museum Maga- Asso- forming
Total shops Press* zine  ciates arts Other**

OS

\

Sales and Revenues .. $6,196 $1,374 $127 $3,307 $872 $130 $386
Less Cost of Sales... 3,999 812 103 2,483 489 2 110
GrossIncome.. 2,197 562 24 824 383 128 276
Gifts estes eehiens 145 - - - 145 - -
OtherIncome ..... 104 - - 104 ee = -
Total Income. . 2,446 $62 24 928 528 128 276
IDG kes Goeoadoo 2,207 424 115 776 412 162 318

Income (loss) before
charge for adminis-

trative costs .... 239 138 (91) 152 ENG (34) (42)
Less Administrative

(COStSi ose cr aaen: 380 119 20 150) 342) iG: 33
Net Income (loss) .. $ (141)$ 19 $(111)$ 2$ 74 2350) $ (75)

*The privately funded activities of the Press as opposed to the federally
supported publication of research papers.
**Includes Traveling Exhibitions, Belmont Conference Center, Photo Sales, and
the ““Commons” Restaurant.

In FY 1972 the Smithsonian Magazine again made excellent progress.
Circulation increased from 275,000 at 30 June 1971 to 330,000 National
Associate Members by 30 June 1972. Despite the unusual expenses related
to the circulation-building efforts, financial results were greatly improved,
registering $2,500 net income for the year compared with a loss of
$209,000 in the previous year.

The Museum Shops showed a sharp 35 percent increase in volume this
year. Financial results moved from previous losses to a gain of $19,000
and should show increasing gains in the future. Shop areas were expanded
i STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 35

iad a new shop will open at the Renwick Gallery in mid-1972. Two sales
‘exhibitions and increasing emphasis on offering educational items reflect-
ing the various museum exhibits contributed to the progress of these
auxiliary operations.
__ The closely related program of product development is now underway.
If successful it should become an important element in improving the
balance between private and federal resources of the Institution. Equally
important, this program is directed toward spreading nationally the
Smithsonian’s educational efforts through the distribution by independent
manufacturers of authenticated items related to our collections. Great care
will be taken with this program to maintain strict standards of quality,
authenticity, and good taste.

As may be noted from the preceding tabulation, two other activities,
the Smithsonian Press and the Division of Performing Arts, have required
subsidies from our private funds in recent years. These programs provide

both educational and entertainment value, but strenuous efforts are being
directed toward elimination of their financial losses while preserving their
cultural values.
Restricted Private Funds.— Additions to “restricted” funds dedicated to
specific purposes (exclusive of gifts to endowment funds) totaled
$5,151,000 in FY 1972, but this included a special transfer of $612,000
from the principal of Endowment Fund No. 3, in part to allow completion
of the renovation of the research vessel Johnson at Fort Pierce, and in part
as an advance against FY 1973 operating funds for this bureau. Including
this special transfer, $2,082,000 came from endowment funds, $2,618,000
from donations, and $451,000 from miscellaneous sources. The major
bureaus and programs supported by these funds, together with their total
related income and expenditures in FY 1972 were as follows (in
thousands):

Additions to funds
Net Ending
Invest- Deduc- increase fund
Bureau ment Gifts Misc. Total tions (decrease) balances
BreerGallerye so. $5679) TOS: BF giGd 10 ac$. B6l! sSa/Gl)e$ 9120
Ort PierCe: <.. << « HO12= - 5 1,017 788 229 484
CBCES Land Pro-
RTT eee - 360 58 418 392 26 158
Cooper Hewitt-—
Operating. ... 32 1289S 175 234 (59) 243
Cooper Hewitt—
Renovation. . . 792 792 20 iz 806

Reading is Funda-
MMC H Cale err 296 296 293 3 65
36 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Anacostia Museum 63 63 97 (34) 26
Archives of Ameri-
cantArtee cans 4 40, 399 143 126 17 86
Subtotal . . 1,727. 1686 261. ~3;674 2,811 863 1,988
Other Restricted
Funds see. 355 932) 1901) Ae4TT 1,045 432 1,068
liotalbee. $2,082 $2,618 $451 $5,151 $3,856 $1,295 $3,056

*Including $612 special transfer from principal of Endowment Fund No. 3.

The Freer Gallery is largely supported by income from endowment
funds originally provided for this purpose by Charles Freer at the time of
the construction of the Gallery; it also receives some federal support.
Inflationary cost increases of recent years have made it increasingly
difficult to operate within available income.

The Fort Pierce, Florida, oceanographic facility is supported entirely by
income from Endowment Fund No. 3, donated to the Smithsonian for this
purpose during the past two years. The Center’s expenditures have been
principally for research operations of the Center’s oceanographic submersi-
ble, the Johnson-Sea-Link, and for renovation of the tender ship, R/V
Johnson. These renovations, to be completed in September 1972, caused
FY 1972 expenditures to exceed available endowment fund income,
necessitating a one-time withdrawal of funds in FY 1972 for this purpose
from the principal of the endowment fund itself.

Two important new gifts in support of the Chesapeake Bay Center’s
land acquisition program were received during this year—$200,000 from
the Richard King Mellon Foundation and $120,000 from The Scaife
Family of Pittsburgh. These gifts made possible the repayment of a
$175,000 loan previously incurred for land purchases, as well as the
purchase of an additional parcel of land, and brought to $1,669,000 the
total thus far received for this project. Most of the major plots of land
have now been obtained and negotiations are in progress for the remaining
areas. Substantial additional sums will still be required to complete
payments for these acquisitions.

The planned renovation of the Carnegie Mansion in New York City to
house the Cooper-Hewitt Museum was launched in a most encouraging
way in December 1971 by a grant of $500,000 from the A. W. Mellon
Foundation. Nearly $300,000 more of renovation funds has also been
received from other sources. In addition, gifts totaling $128,000 were
received during the year toward the operating programs of the Museum.
This Museum will need greater financial support for both purposes in
future years.

The Reading Is Fundamental Program, initiated by Mrs. Robert S.
McNamara and now operated in association with the Smithsonian, has
} STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 37,
{

been generously supported by the Ford Foundation, and the program has
now been awarded a new grant from the Edna McConnell Clark
Foundation totaling $1,130,000 over a three-year period. This should
enable R.I.F. to become self-sustaining thereafter.

A complete list of donors for FY 1972 is included at the end of this
financial report.

Endowment Funds.—The Smithsonian endowment funds are handled in
three separate investment accounts, namely, the Freer Fund, dedicated
entirely to the operation of the Freer Gallery of Art; Endowment Fund

No. 3, devoted entirely to oceanographic research; and the Consolidated
Fund in which all other endowment and similar funds of the Institution
are pooled for common investment although maintained separately for
accounting and administrative purposes. A listing of individual funds
included in our Consolidated Fund and their related book values, market
values, net income and unexpended income balances are set forth in
Table 2.
The growth of these endowment funds in recent years is shown in the
following comparison of their market values at intervals since 1960 (in
thousands):

30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June

1960 1965 1970 1971 1972
Breen Fund ......... $13,389 $17,276 $14,987 $18,805 $21,973
Endowment Fund No. 3 - - 5,433 133i 14,641
Consolidated Fund. .. . 4,498 E853 8,998 11,470 13,287
Mo tallies ch: $17,887 $25,129 $29,418 $42,606 $49 901

Of the $32,014,000 total increase from 30 June 1960 to 30 June 1972,
$7,354,000 of Endowment Fund No. 3 and $6,277,000 of Consolidated
Fund was the result of additions from donations and reinvestment of
income and the remaining $18,383,000 represented an increase in the
market values of securities. During the year ended 30 June 1972, net
additions of new funds to the Consolidated Fund equaled $131,000, while
a net amount of $891,000 was transferred from Endowment Fund No. 3
to current operating accounts; market appreciation of total funds in this
year amount to $8,055,000.

Effective 1 July 1971, management of these funds were distributed
among three different investment managers with performance being
monitored closely by the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer.
The results achieved thus far have substantially exceeded the average rise
in stock values in the 12-month period to 30 June 1972. A breakdown of

(Continued on page 39)
38

TABLE 2.—Consolidated fund, 30 June 1972

Principal

Funds participating in pool

UNRESTRICTED FUNDS... $4,320,791
RESTRICTED FUNDS:

Abbott; William. >.<... . 196,791
Archives of American Art.... 22,107
Armstrong, Edwin James.... 3,561
ATthun JAMES: wero sve erere 12.4.6 63,649
Bacon, Virginia Purdy....... 173,040
Baird, Spencer Fullerton .... 58,394
Barney, Alice Pike ........ 45,647
Barstow, Frederic D........ 1,887
Batchelor, Emma E....... es 63,205
Becker; George Bevic<7e ciel eere.e 297,170
Brown, Roland Wa... =... 52,090
Canfield, Frederick A....... 60,592
Casey, Thomas Lincoln ..... 23,661
Chamberlain, Frances Lea... 44,817
Cooper, G. Arthur, Curator’s

IO Oo aoomiog os aiewe 2,067
Cooper-Hewitt Museum..... 156,010
Division of Mammals Curator

Bund ys cries oie pee ely 3,419
Division of Reptiles Curator

EUUTA lcs voy etaneie tele <tonsvavaye S52
Drake, iCarl Jos cro sissies cache 275,890
Dykess(Charles’ 25°. 5)0'5 6 2 81,283
Eickemeyer, Florence

BrevVOOnt. cjereisokerereic ete 36 17,299
Guggenheim, David and

Plorence a3 aces «os 191,619
Hanson, Martin Gustav &

Caroline Runice........ 16,784
Hilly er; Virgil sche. 6 se 5 6 sie 12,409
Hitchcock, Albert S......... 2,510
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie..... 97,214
Hughes iBruceia.t sciccc oe ele 30,462
Johnson, E. R. Fenimore.... 15,404
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial 23,697
Lindsey, Jessie Fis. o's ois iets ere 595
Loeb, Morris ...... slick tuateyene 164,803
Long, Annette E. and Edith C. 864
Lyons, Marcus Ward........ 8,261
Maxwell, Mary E........... 31,215
Myer, Catherine Walden..... 38,147
Nelson, Edward William..... 37,955
Noyes) ErankeBooe ce < ater 1,828
Pell, Cornelia Livingston .... 14,007
Petrocelli, Joseph Memorial. . 11,796
Rathbun, Richard Memorial. . 20,094
Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs.

Dewitt Clinton <<... <6 «<< 516,264
Reid Addison lc). ects e sie 33,581
Roebling Collection........ 192,112

Book value Market value

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Income

Net income Unexpended

1972 balance
$5,020,577 $196,411 $ =
248,895 9,029 2,261
26,365 1,245 —
3,849 134 —
96,774 4,571 8,409
194,248 7,046 13,643
86,506 4,086 1,342
69,349 3,276 3,025
2,383 86 1,601
69,231 2a 117
336,207 12,196 23,987
66,140 3,124 3,334
106,623 5,037 1,742
29,985 1,088 51
68,092 32207) 7,283
2p XO G/B =
165,160 7,178 40,596
3,955 183 1,194
668 32 719
303,741 13,830 14,690
102,933 3,734 3,707
26,273 1,241 8,836
191,971 8,178 _
21,255 Ta 11,045
15,724 570 6,461
3,877 183 651
120,480 5,691 4,081
46,337 2,189 21,092
i sy7 (5 17/ 571 3,380
24,661 750 393
681 32 210
210,802 7,647 361
1,349 64 358
8,497 308 =
47,477 2,243 20,830
48,313 i753) 5,243
53,764 2,540 798
2,435 88 1,028
17,836 647 7,766
18,009 851 Wigeieyl
25,505 927 9,220
§ 37,382 19,414 61,730
42,523 1,543 248
290,428 13,719 2,546
f
i

|
7
;

I
|
|
}

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 39

TABLE 2.—Consolidated fund, 30 June 1972—Continued

Principal Income

Net income Unexpended

Funds participating in pool Book value Market value 1972 balance
Roebling Solar Research..... $46,823 $54,944 $1,993 $ =
Rollins, Miriam and William. . 288,488 390,434 18,016 9,472
Smithsonian Agency Account 135,939 136,876 3,805 -
Sprague, Joseph White...... 2,118,369 2,349,087 108,398 27,1162
Springer, Frank, ......ee00¢8 28,541 43,338 2,047 18,866
Stevenson, John A. ........ 9,665 11,774 556 211

Wmptrong, Julia D.......ccccee 18,888 24,014 871 2,495
T.F.H. Publications, Inc. .... 8,349 aS 280 10,847
Walcott, Charles D.......... 184,921 244,216 11,270 1,838
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary

WWAUIUKE re cists cPate sa sia. aieieve oe 732,340 IVAN S'S 52,526 14,141
Walcott Botanical Publications 92,223 134,887 6,372 —
Zerbee, Francis Brinckle..... 1,510 2,279 108 1,544

Total Restricted Funds $6,770,814 $8,266,208 $359,838 $387,267

Total Consolidated
Bund). ..0<..--=- $11,091,605 $13,286,785 $556,249 $387,267

the three endowment funds as of 30June 1972, showing types of
investments held, with related book and market values, is given in Table 3.
A listing of the individual investments held in the various endowment
funds may be obtained upon request to the Treasurer of the Institution.
Much attention has been given to the management of the Institution’s
endowment funds during the past three years. In addition to the steps
taken by the Board of Regents in FY 1971 to establish the Investment
Policy Committee and, upon its recommendation, to appoint new
investment managers with full discretion for the investment of the funds
(subject to broad policies established by the Board and to prompt
reporting of transactions), we have been investigating for some time the
desirability of adopting ‘““Total Return” as the investment goal of all of our
endowment funds. Briefly, this concept of investment management is in
two parts: first, it establishes maximum total return (interest and dividend
income plus appreciation in market values), without assuming an inappro-
priate degree of risk, as the investment management goal; second, it
provides that the income to be derived from the endowment funds, in lieu
of interest and dividends received by the fund in that year, shall be a
prudent amount determined in relation to the value of the funds, taking
into account both present and future needs of the Institution. The purpose
40 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

TABLE 3.—Endowment and similar funds summary of investments
and other assets as of 30 June 1972

Funds Book value Market value
INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS
Freer Fund:
Cashier. ames OR eats oe ere eters Mion eeeer acto! aan 198,100 198,100
BONG SWS es See Fee OE Clee eee besiehs 4,220,980 4,317,963
GonvyertibleibondStan. son oo ee cies A eS sk sis 3,656,150 4,004,940
Gonvyertibleipreferredsstock. 1. jets sees ee S/W S7/7/ 783,305
GCOMMONStOCKS arctan ne eee als ceenseieen seus 6,700,314 12,668,632
TOCA 1M Pee ek ee re. ce a ene es ne 15,447,121 21,972,940
Consolidated Funds:
CASH Ie See tes lain set ey ee eo ee ete aes 657,754 657,754
BOnd Spanier oe ta ene ee ere es ee 3,500,791 3,499 813
Gonvertibleibonds#i2 20s eee cee oe coe 396,092 502,125
Convertiblespreterredistockr, ere ere ee 247,581 164,000
Commonistockset rio koe oe eee es 6,289 387 8,463,093
AG taille, Scena vss cisco seas: Seem ceker aii ote OR RRESIE 11,091,605 13,286,785
Endowment Fund No, 3:
COAG) Vai a hel re A er Srna erp, Sas LY Re Ree 443,234 443 234
BONG Sahrasyege Ce SRO eC ea ene 11635123 Ia Se9/ 1/33
Commonstockse sae cients ee ee ae oe 6,414,077 14,021,797
DCO IRR ter ees Eo rae eC Screen aN 7,020,434 14,640,804
Miscellaneous:
Bonds see cs CaS ais ee aoe Coe ae 10,064 9.875
COMMONISCOCK Siecks. es server st ayo toe ete Petee Cees ce 3),32 1 18,402
otal ween oe ee ee ee ee 13,385 28277
imhotalunvestnentaccountsS! | 4 oe eae eee 33,572,545 49,928,806
Other Accounts: veils, gk)
INotesjreceivables sae. scy cis aos ee ee eee 95,316 95,316
Loankto Wiss ireasuny, in) perpetuityser aaa ocean 1,000,000 1,000,000
otallophenaccounts seni neat nee 1,095 ,316 1,095 316
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances ....... 34,667,861 51,024,122

of the policy is to allow investment in the most attractive securities from
the point of view of expected total investment return without the need to
restrict them to those providing higher current yields.

With the agreement of the Board of Regents, this policy has been
followed during the past year for “quasi-endowment” funds (namely those
in which the principal, as well as interest and dividend, yields may be used
for the purposes specified), a course of action now followed by many

|
|
| STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 41

leading universities since adoption of the policy was first recommended by
a study financed by the Ford Foundation. More recently, the Institution
has received from the Washington firm of Covington & Burling a strong
| legal opinion supporting its use of the Total Return policy for true
endowment funds as well as quasi-endowment funds. Based upon this
opinion and upon the recommendation of our Investment Policy Com-
mittee, the Board of Regents, in May 1972, authorized adoption of the
Maximum Total Return policy as the goal for all of our endowment funds.
It is believed that this policy, which also has the full support of our three
investment managers, will enable our endowment funds to show an
improved record in future years.

The Board of Regents also approved the recommendation of the
Investment Policy Committee that the prudent amount of income to be
derived from the endowment funds should be 4% percent annually based
upon the moving five-year average market values of each of the funds.
Insofar as income is concerned, there will be little immediate effect on any
of the funds except the Freer Fund; endowment income to the Freer
Gallery will increase immediately by over $100,000 per year and bring
beneficial relief to that gallery in keeping abreast of its expenditure
requirements.

Accounting and Auditing.— As mentioned earlier the improved financial
results in FY 1972 were aided in no small measure by beneficial changes in
accounting and budgeting procedures and reports instituted by our
Accounting, Budgeting and Grant Administration offices over the past two
or three years. The control budgets, reporting of monthly operations, and
regular monthly financial review meetings, combined with increased
participation in the planning and budgeting process at bureau and
administrative levels have all served to clarify the Institution’s basically
complex financial affairs. Increasing use of computer program aids is a part
of these efforts. Appreciation is expressed herewith to the staffs of these
offices for their initiative shown in this important work.

Private side finances of the Institution are annually audited in full by
independent public accountants; their report for FY 1972 on following
pages includes comparative balance sheets and a statement of changes in
balances in all the various funds. Grant and contract monies received from
federal agencies are audited annually by the Defense Contract Audit
Agency. Audits of federally appropriated funds, as well as portions of the
Institution’s non-federal funds, are conducted regularly by our own
internal audit staff, and from time to time by the General Accounting
Office. Special Foreign Currency grants are also audited by the internal
auditing staff aided by foreign independent accountants, and in some cases
by the audit staff of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
42 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Donors to the Smithsonian

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and bequests

|
|
|
received during fiscal year 1972 from the following: |

$100,000 or more:
The Ford Foundation The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt Richard King Mellon Foundation
International Business Machines Scaife Family Charitable Trusts
Corporation
$10,000 or more:
American Federation of Information Ittleson Family Foundation
Processing Society The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.
American Law Institute Mrs. Remington Kellogg
Anonymous Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Archives of American Art Trustees Miles Laboratories
Barra Foundation, Inc. Mobil Foundation, Inc.
Battelle Memorial Institute National Geographic Society
Mrs. W. Vincent Astor The Nature Conservatory
The Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz New York State Council on the Arts
Foundation Edward John Noble Foundation
Carnegie Corporation of New York Phillip Morris Incorporated
Celanese Corporation Radio Corporation of America
The Charron Foundation Laurance S. Rockefeller
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, Inc. Sears, Roebuck and Company |
The Commonwealth Fund The Stans Foundation
Doubleday Communication Corporation Hattie M. Strong Foundation
Mrs. Lionel C. Epstein Mr. & Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III]
Estate of Susan Dwight Bliss Tupper Foundation
Ford Motor Company van Ameringen Foundation, Inc.
The Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Washington Planetarium and Space
Foundation Center
Mr. & Mrs. H. E. Hawkes Xerox Corporation
Interdisciplinary Communications
Program
$1,000 or more:
Alcoa Foundation The Beal Foundation
American Conservation Association Mr. David P. Becker
American Society of Civil Engineers Borg Warner Co.
Anonymous Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Co.
Antiquariaat Junk Mrs. George R. Brewer
Arkville E. R. P. F. The Brown Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Hester M. Ayers Mr. John Nicholas Brown
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett Mr. David Bruce
Mrs. Leon Barzin Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

The Bass Foundation The Bunker Foundation, Inc.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

43

$1,000 or more—Cont.

Mr. Wiley N. Caldwell

Caterpillar Tractor Co.

The Chesapeake Bay Foundation

Coca-Cola U.S.A.

Dr. Harold J. Coolidge

Cooper-Hewitt Museum Building Games

Mr. Julien Cornell

Mr. John A. Corron

Dr. William H. Crocker

Dart Industries, Inc.

John Deere Foundation

Dodge Foundation

Dow Chemical Co.

Dr. William L. Elkins

Mr. & Mrs. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.

Entomological Society of America

Dr. Clifford Evans

Mr. Joseph I. Ferguson

Mr. S. S. Forrest, Jr.

Fort Worth Zoo Association

Mrs. Edith Hebold Freidberg

Mr. Charles H. Frey

General Telephone & Electronics
Foundation

George Washington University

Dr. Gordon D. Gibson

The Lillian Gish Foundation, Inc.

William Glackens Exhibition

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Dr. Crawford H. Greenewalt

Mrs. Lloyd P. Griscom

Mr. & Mrs. Walter Haas, Jr.

Marian Hagu Estate

Hamilton Standard & United Aircraft
Corp.

Dr. J. Hasinger

Mr. & Mrs. Samuel Hill, Jr.

Susan Morse Hilles Agency

Humble Oil Company

Imperial Embassy of Iran

Industrial Designers Society of America

Institute for Psychiatry & Foreign
Affairs

International Telephone & Telegraph Co.

The Iran Foundation, Inc.
Johns Hopkins University

The Kiplinger Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Harold F. Linder

Mr. Charles A. Lindbergh

The Link Foundation

George Little Memorial Foundation, Inc.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Mr. Devereaux F. McCatchey

Mr. Robert L. McNeil

Mrs. Louden Mellen

Melville Shoe Co.

Merck & Company

Miss Ethel Merman

Ingram Merrill Foundation Trust
University of Michigan

Mrs. Irene Morden

Eugene & Agnes E. Meyer Foundation
National Capital Parks

National Council on Arts

National Endowment for the Humanities
National Park Service

State of New York

New York Zoological Society

Richard Nixon Foundation

The Tai Ping Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post
William Randolph Hearst Foundation
Reader’s Digest

Rockefeller Brothers Fund

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller 1V

Mrs. Dorothy F. Rodgers

Clara Louise Safford Estate

Mr. Bert Sager

Salt Lake City Tribune

Dr. Seuss Foundation

Mrs. Arthur L. Shipman, Sr.

Sidney Printing & Publishing Co.

Mr. Robert Hilton Smith

The Stanley Works

Summerhill Foundation

The Allie L. Sylvester Foundation

E. V. Thaw & Co.

Mr. Joseph A. Thomas

Mr. & Mrs. Edgar J. Thompson

Mrs. John Tishman

Marcia Brady Tucker Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Hildegarde G. van Roijen

Mr. Dewitt Wallace

Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Wildenstein & Co., Inc.

Youth Friends Association, Inc.

Mr. Harry W. Zichtermann
44

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

$500 or more:

Mr. & Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
The Lily Auchincloss Foundation
Miss Isabell Allen

Allied Chemical Foundation
American Geophysical Union

Mr. & Mrs. B. V. Ayers

Mr. & Mrs. George Bashlow

Mr. & Mrs. Lewis Baskin

Mr. & Mrs. Roger K. Becker

Bell & Howell Foundation

Ms. Barbara Berry

Mr. & Mrs. Arthur Bissell

Mr. Edwin Caplin

Mr. & Mrs. Robert G. Cleveland
Mr. & Mrs. E. H. Clocker

Mr. & Mrs. Leonard H. Cohan

R. G. Conley

t. Richmond A. Day

Mr. & Mrs. Bern Dibner

Mr. L. Gordon Fiske

Mr. Blanton Fortson, Jr.

Mr. Herb Glass
Mr
Mr
Mr
Mr

& &

. & Mrs. Harry Griffin

. Frederick Haupt III

. John Jago

. & Mrs. B. G. Lainson

Mrs. Cazenove Lee

Mr. & Mrs. Steward W. Livermore
James A. MacDonald Foundation
The Magnavox Foundation, Incorporated
University of Maine

Mr. Morton D. May

Dr. & Mrs. George Morrice

Mr. & Mrs. James Duncan Munro
Newark Museum Association

We also gratefully acknowledge other contributions in the amount of

Nickerson Charitable Fund

Mr. & Mrs. Nottin

Mr. & Mrs. Nelson R. Nottingham

Louise L. Ottinger Foundation

Paccar Foundation

Mr. Vito A. Passeno

Dr. & Mrs. E. Lee Porter

Mr. M. P. Potamkin

Mrs. Augustus Riggs IV

Mrs. Nedenia H. Robertson

Mr. D. H. Robinson

Mr. & Mrs. Howard F. Ross

Helena Rubinstein Foundation, Inc.

Dr. Peter S. Scott

Mr. Robert W. Shackleton

Mr. Arthur L. Shipman, Sr.

Shure Brothers, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Montgomery M. Smith

E. R. Squibb & Sons, Inc.

Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright

Mr. & Mrs. Harry N. Stevens

Stroheim & Romann

Tote-Em-Zoo

Tucson Gem & Mineral Society

UNESCO

Colonel & Mrs. Julius Wadsworth

Mr. Robert W. Wallick

Mr. Jay N. Whipple, Jr.

Mrs. Ben White

Mr. Sargent White

Whitney Museum of American Art

Mr. Alanson Willcox

Womens Committee of the Smithsonian
Institution

Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

$141,749.00 received from 1,196 persons during 1972.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 45

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
1025 CONNECTICUT AVENUE, N.W.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036

The Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution:

We have examined the balance sheet of private funds of Smithsonian
Institution as of 30 June 1972 and the related statement of changes in
fund balances for the year then ended. Such statements do not include the
account of the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts, nor other departments, bureaus and operations
administered by the Institution under federal appropriations. Our exami-
nation was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such
other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

As explained in note 1 of the notes to financial statements, the
Institution has consistently followed the practice of reflecting in its
financial statements as fixed assets only museum shops and computer
equipment and other fixed assets acquired through gift or through use of
gift funds. Generally accepted accounting principles for non-profit
organizations require the recording of all fixed assets in the financial
statements.

In our opinion, except for the method as discussed in the preceding
paragraph, the accompanying balance sheet and statement of changes in
fund balance of private funds present fairly the financial position of
Smithsonian Institution at 30 June 1972, and the results of its operations
for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.

29 August 1972
46 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE
FUNDS 30 JUNE 1972

(With comparative figures for 1971) (Note 1)

Assets
1972 1971
CURRENT FUNDS:
Cash:
FrinWESt ire asiinyiaen. oy ctw ersa tis alah amal cer: $ 172,821 $ 413,857
liabanksancdionshancdsei renee ~ 290,917 155,997
MotaliCashes, 4 aby te Meter, moar 463,738 569,854
Investments - at cost (market value $49,530;
$2575 5-99 6 ine OTD eae ne ck on ae 4,186,224 2,868,032
Receivables:
ACCOUNTS apsrteaensercsaietet os abet nic GorePa esate ae 774,332 774,722
Advances)-traveliand other -...-.. 4440. 160,106 194,835
Reimbursements - grants and contracts ..... 986,797 1,369,306
1,921,235 2,338,863
Inventories at lower of cost or net realizable value $67,210 522,908
Prepaldiexpensemtec, cratering ered cloacae 114,047 116,988
Deferred magazine expenses (note 2)......... 749 226 404,472
Equipment (less accumulated depreciation of
$189,804; $71,636 in 1971) (note 1 and 3). . 408,211 S252 5
TotaliCurrentibunds ~.4 4404006 4oe: $ 8,409,891 $ 7,342,442
ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:
CEG) TPR RETR CMESRS ae tteyltaern Set eRe TD ports Ones 2u Sh $ 1,299,088 $ 165,033
Notes: recelvableecr yak cee ei cen 95,316 96,663
Investments - at cost: (market value
$48 629,718; $42,467,439 in 1971) ....... 32,273,457 31,288,633
Loan to U.S. Treasury in perpetuity .......... 1,000,000 1,000,000

Total Endowment and Similar Funds . $34,667,861 $32,550,329

REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION FUNDS:
Real estate at cost or appraised value at date of

PihC(MO tel) nae ee avs ece se ae ee $ 2,326,956 $ 2,176,219
Total Real Estate Acquisition Funds. . $ 2,326,956 $ 2,176,219

See accompanying notes to financial statements.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

47

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE
FUNDS 30 JUNE 1972

(With comparative figures for 1971) (Note 1)

Liabilities and Fund Balances

CURRENT FUNDS:
INoves payable (note’S)) .a.0 0.66 4 cele ere
/NCCOUTS [CRA BG Siplgiaio cao ouooec0 OCOOdOC
PXCGRUCC Mia DilitLeStmncenerchenencye cite smote) ol) «lle (o\(ole elle
Deferred income:
MacazineiSUDSCHIPTIONS) 1. o). elers)elelciecicr «1
CO) Ge tomerene reckon are ccke etctatsy.s: s\oxeNsl iol eilosteereice/eratence

Fund balances:
MU TATESTMICEOO! ewer fc¥eos'c( o efeitos of atelteeris| to) ey atic. i's
Restricted:
Unexpended income from endowments .
Grantsiands Contracts) .. cre © oe ese «a
(CURES Mews terete tere ase orcxS. a0 sieve rece) orei'si ce Goloue se

ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:

Fund balances:
AGO WANE MEAHUNGSrepe ree cielo al eielial eee) eel eet
Funds functioning asendowments........

Total Endowment and Similar Funds

REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION FUNDS:

Mortgage notes payable (note 4) ............

FUNG ALAN Ce rere) atateteletelieiel aieteleiel el olevelenels) e) clei
Total Real Estate Acquisition Funds .

1972

$ 383,691
421,213
669,065

19310301

LL7OL9

3:5:22,299

1,781,105

550,580
50,001

2,505,906

4,887,592

$ 8,409,891

$29,320,809

5,347,052

$34,667,861

$ 353,138
1,973,818

$ 2,326,956

|

$ 654,613
814,581
570,068

1,400,926

130,249

3,570,437

1719657

651,889
290,741

1,109,718
3,772,005

$ 7,342,442

$27,391,201

31595128

$32,5505329

$ 293,641
1,882,578

§ 25176,219
48 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE PUNDS

Statement of Changes in Fund Balances
Year ended 30 June 1972

Current Funds

Unrestricted funds Restricted funds
Income from
Total General Activities endowments Gifts
Balancezat SO June 1971 Se 72,005) Sea 9°6Si70 1S - $ 651,889 $1,109,718
Additions:
INetisales'7.-i.) cciaterere 540000 7,157,260 831,190 6,195,741 111,474 18,855
Less: cost of goods sold .... 4,837,761 812,401 3,998,872 26,488 -
Grossiprotitue eee 2,319,499 18,789 2,196,869 84,986 18,855
Grants and contracts- Net... 7,847,612 - - - -
Investment income ........ 1,512,396 334,055 - 1,145,245 33,096
Gifts, bequests and
foundation grants ...... 2,789,036 25,591 145,357 11,094 2,606,994
Rental and commission ..... 170,562 170,562 - - -
OMiivooosogdcooecaouue 395,377 49,178 — 103,981 2,640 239,578
Total additions ...... $15,034,482 598,175 2,446,207 1,243,965 2,898,523
Deductions:
Salary and benefits ....... 8,952,275 2,413,352 1,505,521 $14,005 960,308
Purchases for collection.... 209,465 523 - 154,037 54,287
Travel and transportation... 834,418 76,114 52,384 31,838 151,229
Equipment and facilities .. . 638,087 138,154 45,981 30,508 96,049
Supplies and materials ..... 730,206 81,171 93,267 30,076 181,937
Rent and utilities......... 103,806 44,954 6,315 = 15,966
Communications ......... 139,593 67,361 14,698 558 13,759
Contractual services....... 3,063,447 142,116 399,983 285,809 925,288
Computer rentalse eens 41,038 32,729 - - 8,309
Promotion and advertising. . 67,429 67,429 - -
Depreciation’. 4. 4s ano. 22,244 - 22,244 2 -
Administrative expenditures
applicdixkyvemcinimesocicts (167,090) (2,638,646) 379,737 87,083 214,399
Total deductions. ... $14,634,918 S57n828) TQESS71550)) Welssto4) 2r6rniessil
MUransfersiaces. as Mitre eee 716,023 (178,899) 141,352 (211,360) 1,119,196
Net increase (decrease) in fund
balancesi., occ cans ei 1,115,587 61,448 - (101,309) 1,396,188

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 49

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Statement of Changes in Fund Balances
Year ended 30 June 1972

Endowment and Similar Funds

Funds
Endowment funds functioning
as endow-
Total Total Freer Other ments
Fund balances at 30 June 1971
as previously reported ..... $32,550,329 $27,495,256 $13,328,493 $14,166,763 $5,055,073
To correct error in classification
of Smithsonian Agency Acct. = (104,055) - (104,055) 104,055
HundubalancesatisOuunes1971 op >gnG 4). Gs. = 2 Lenin aa
aASta Giustedizn sus, 6 aces as) scene 32,550,329 27,391,201 13,328,493 14,062,708 5,159,128
Additions:
Gifts and Bequests........ 43,830 38,069 - 38,069 5,761
Net Gain (Loss) on Sale of
ILVESEIMCMES cee cus seatele ic 2,880,965 AUP PALE) 2,118,628 604,665 LS Ome
Income added to principal. . 95,178 91,740 - 91,740 3,438
Transfer from Current Funds—
Smithsonian Agency Acct... 21,053 - - - 21,053
Total Additions..... 3,041,026 2,853,102 2,118,628 734,474 187,924
Deductions:

Transfer to Current Funds. . 923,494 923,494 - 923,494 -

Fund balances at 30 June 1972. $34,667,861 $29,320,809 $15,447,121 $13,873,688 $5,347,052

Real Estate Acquisition Fund
Boncabalancerates.Oniune: 19,7 lece tare noue sche oe aoe 6 ol elonsealeyie sie e oh hates atte arene: alere armors $1,882,578
Additions:
Band Acquisition -Chesapeake Bay Center Property. ...2......-..-.--------- 280,503
Deductions:
Land sales
Bit RACK CO MEA ie sean cre lene: Sofie faye Bie leuelle Ahotied sususucutersiteutsnepSushe wel sisacyie eye $181,011
Chesapeake Bay Centen-wutsrie ence eit rei cneteici aan ei-weleneneleuercnel oie 8,252 189,263

Ben dubalance at: SOWUMe OTD: 55 scveranovede wove tenia aiepeke te, Spabeie eaenas ci ha lee abot orene ieiedees $1,973,818
50 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Notes to Financial Statements
30 June 1972

1. Accounting Principles.—The institution follows the accrual method of account-
ing except that accrued vacation pay has not been reflected on the accompanying
financial statements.

Fixed assets are recorded as follows:

Museum shops and computer equipment: Those purchased from private funds are
capitalized in the current fund.

Land and buildings: Those acquired by gift or by use of gift funds are recorded in
the real estate acquisition fund at cost or appraised value at date of gift, except for
gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion which have
been recorded at nominal values.

All other land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art, living or other
specimens are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Museum Shops and computer equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis
over an estimated useful life of five years. In accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles for non-profit organizations, depreciation is not provided on
non-income producing assets.

2. Deferred Magazine Expenses.—This amount represents promotional expenses
incurred in connection with the Smithsonian magazine. These expenses are to be
amortized over a period of twelve months.

3. Note Payable.—The note payable in the principal amount of $383,691 is
secured by computer equipment and is payable in monthly installments of $7,993 to
30 June 1976.

4. Mortgage Notes Payable.-The mortgage notes payable are secured by first
deeds of trust on property acquired in connection with the Chesapeake Bay Center.
Funds for the curtailment of these notes will be transferred from restricted
funds—gifts, designated for the development of the Chesapeake Bay Center. The
details of the mortgage notes payable are as follows:

a. A $226,100 note on property acquired for $376,000. The note is payable in
nineteen consecutive semi-annual installments of $13,300, plus interest at the
prevailing prime rate on the due date of payment but not less than 8% with the
final payment due 1 July 1980.

b. A $37,038 note on property acquired for $118,533. The note is payable in
monthly installments of $451, including interest at the rate of 6%, with the final
payment due on 1 November 1989.

c. A $90,000 note on property acquired for $120,000. The note is payable in three
consecutive annual installments of $30,000, plus interest at the rate of 7 percent
on the unpaid balance, with the final payment due 1 November 1974.

5. Real Estate Acquisition Funds.—The real estate acquisition funds include
certain land and buildings acquired by gift or purchased from restricted funds. This
property is currently being used for museums, the Chesapeake Bay Center and a
conference center. Previously this property was included as part of the endowment
and similar funds. The prior year’s financial statements have been reclassified to
reflect this change.
SCIENCE

Science at the Smithsonian has been free of many of the constraints to
which large government agencies are subject. The benefit accruing from
this freedom has resulted in the innovative and often unconventional
research that follows in the reports of the bureaus.

It is worth noting that when the Astronomy Survey Committee of the
National Academy of Sciences and the National Research Council
published its independently formulated standard entitled Astronomy and
Astrophysics in the 1970’s the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
could already show substantial progress on its own towards every one of
the Committee’s recommendations. One of the most dramatic innovations
by SAO during the year has been the start of construction of a
multiple-mirror telescope (MMT) in cooperation with the University of
Arizona. Although not a new concept, this is the first time the
multiple-mirror technique has been attempted on a telescope of this size.
When finished it will be the third largest optical telescope in the world.
The MMT, when completed, will be capable of performance hitherto only
equaled by conventional instruments of larger size and costing several
million dollars more.

Exhibit plans are moving rapidly ahead for the new Air and Space
Museum, which, pending Congressional approval, is scheduled to open in
1976. Construction of Washington’s first planetarium is well advanced, and
the prototype of a highly imaginative spacearium is being constructed,
which will allow the audience to “travel” into space and look back at the
earth and our solar system. With cooperation from the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory the proposed exhibits will afford the lay
visitor new perspectives of our universe and a greater knowledge of some
of the exciting discoveries and theories of astrophysics.

Substantial progress has been made in the interbureau research of the
Environmental Science Program. The first research results of this long-term
project will soon be published on the Zoo’s study of two species of sloth
at Barro Colorado Island. The results of monitoring biological and physical
fluctuations on this island are now being submitted to computer analysis
and parallel monitoring is underway at the Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies.

An important step in multidisciplinary and multi-institutional research
on the Chesapeake Bay was achieved in December by the formation of the
Chesapeake Research Consortium, Inc. As a Consortium member, the
Smithsonian received a grant from the National Science Foundation’s
RANN (Research Applied to National Needs) Program for work at the

x1

Sy SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies. Scientists from the
University of Maryland, the Johns Hopkins University, and the United
States Geological Survey are using our facilities there in a highly integrated
fashion. The Rhode River estuary is particularly valuable in this bay-wide
study because it is one of the very few relatively unstressed areas less than
an hour from Washington and Baltimore.

This year also marks the inauguration of the Fort Pierce Bureau of the
Smithsonian, in Florida, where a broad research plan in marine science is
getting underway.

Finally , recognition should be given to the continuous and positive role
which the science bureaus of the Smithsonian have assumed throughout
the past year in matters of national and international concern.
Smithsonian scientists have provided representatives and advisory services
to the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), to the U.S. delegation to
the International Whaling Commission, to the U.S. delegation to the
Stockholm Conference on the Environment, and to the federal agencies
interested in the environmental effects of sea-level canal construction in
Panama. Smithsonian scientists have also collaborated with foreign
governments on every continent on environmental projects for which they
needed technical assistance, and a joint Smithsonian Institution-Peace
Corps recruitment effort has also made scientific technicians available to
many developing countries.

Details of these and other science bureau accomplishments in fiscal year
1972 follow.

National Museum of Natural History

This was a year marked by encouraging progress in a number of areas,
progress made possible by substantial new fiscal support from the
Congress.

In addition to several new scientists, the Museum was able to employ a
considerable number of support personnel—clerks and typists, museum
aides, and technicians. As a consequence, an excellent start was made
toward the Museum’s long-sought goal of providing an average of two such
support people for each researcher. Results are evident in a greater number
of publications of the interpretive type, as well as greater involvement in
leadership activities that contribute to the advancement of the natural
sciences nationally and internationally. New multidisciplinary field studies
were initiated which, when added to ongoing projects and broad floristic
and faunistic survey programs, have provided significantly increased
opportunities for the staff to work in the field with living organisms in
their natural habitats.
SCIENCE 53

Major accomplishments also have been made in the application of elec-
tronic data-processing (EDP) and information retrieval to the management
of collections. It is becoming increasingly evident that the care of such data
is, in its own way, as important as care for the specimens themselves. The
objectives are to capture, store, and retrieve collection-based information
more efficiently than by conventional means and to produce ultimately a
versatile, easily searchable data base that will be more responsive to
scientific inquiry than are current records in most of the departments. Top
priority is given to projects designed to capture data from all incoming
collections. The capture of data on specimens already in the collections
occupies the second priority, and about 25 such projects are underway.
Application of computer technology to research projects of the staff of
the Museum, a third priority, began this year and will be expanded in the
future. In close cooperation with the Museum’s EDP program, a research
team consisting of USDA and Smithsonian entomologists is collecting and
collating all the available data on entomological systematics in machine-
readable form. The primary purpose of the project is to use the resulting
magnetic-taped data base to publish a current catalog and simultaneously
to provide the means by which it can be continuously updated. In
addition, such a data bank can be queried by agriculturists, entomologists,
and even by the public indirectly without demands on the time of our
Museum staff.

RESEARCH

Early man and animals of the New World were intimately related
ecologically in an environment characterized by climatological extremes.
While there have been many attempts to interpret one or another sector of
this vast area, a new, multidisciplinary program was initiated this year
aimed at a clearer understanding of man’s early history as a hunter of
Pleistocene fauna from Alaska to Patagonia. An archeologist specializing in
Paleoindian studies was employed and projects were inaugurated in the
Brooks Range of Alaska, Nebraska, the Texas Panhandle, east-central New
Mexico, eastern Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, and in four geographical zones
of Coastal Chile. It is anticipated that the program will involve-in addition
to anthropologists—geomorphologists, palynologists, and paleontologists.

The National Herbarium has long been recognized as one of the most
important centers for studies of neotropical plants. The truth of that
observation was again emphasized by the volume of monographic,
revisionary, and floristic research published or largely completed this year.
Now palynology in the Museum has been initiated by the employment of a
specialist whose first responsibility was to plan the new laboratory and
begin to obtain the necessary equipment.

54 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Lichens have long held a place of special interest to botanists because of
the algae-fungus symbiosis involved. The use of phytochemistry is well
established as a means of classifying lichens but the Scanning Electron
Microscope (SEM) has now opened the way for new understandings of

SEM photograph of a cross-section of the cortical layer of a foliose lichen(Parmelia
croceopustulata Kurok.) showing the thin polysaccharide epicortical layer and a pore
that provides for gas exchange to the algal layer below. Magnified X 3000.
SCIENCE 5)5)

their microstructure. Working with members of a major family of foliose
lichens, the SEM has been used -to reveal for the first time the complexities
of the structure of the cortical layer, most importantly in three
dimensions. It is particularly interesting that pores below the resolution of
light microscopy were found. These function in much the same manner as
the stomates of flowering plants, except they do not open and close, to
permit gaseous exchange between the inner (algal) cells and the external
physical environment. Not only do these findings provide new charac-
teristics for systematic investigations but they may stimulate research on
ecological physiology of lichens.

Bees were also the subject of an economically important study that is
continuing. Those bees responsible for pollination of squashes, gourds, and
pumpkins are being introduced under carefully controlled experimental
conditions into areas where these plants are cultivated but where their
natural pollinators are absent. Releases of bees were made in Hawaii and
observations are underway to determine whether or not they become
established and, if so, whether the yields of these crop plants are increased
as anticipated. Positive results could be of major importance to some of
the developing nations where these crops are being introduced to improve
the local food supply.

Similarly, the study of burrowing sponges, which form large cavities in
coral heads and contribute to the destruction of coral reefs is of primary
importance. Through use of the Scanning Electron Microscope and
through stimulation of burrowing activity in pieces of Iceland Spar
(calcite), it was possible to study burrowing activity in hard substrates.
Continuing investigations are aimed at determining the mechanisms by
which sponges dissolve hard substrates. This and other studies will be
greatly facilitated by an electron microscope, obtained and installed in
cooperation with the Registry of Tumors in Lower Animals, which is
housed in the Museum.

Under laboratory conditions, it was determined that an ostracod species
of Cypretta is an effective predator of Biomphalaria glabrata, a vector snail
of the blood fluke that causes the serious tropical disease schistosomiasis.
Such ostracods may prove to be useful in biological control of schistoso-
miasis in areas such as Vietnam and tropical Africa.

Lunar studies in recent years have often been directed to exploration of
the chemical and structural nature of moon rocks and dust. However,
investigations of lunar “‘geomorphology” have also stimulated re-
evaluations of some earth structures similar in appearance to those on the
moon. Staff members spent several weeks in South and Southwest Africa,
Lonar Lake in India, and Henbury and Gosse’s Bluff in Central Australia
examining enigmatic geological structures in each location for evidence of
meteorite impact. In addition, extensive investigations were carried out of

56 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Squash bees have been introduced in Hawaii experimentally in an attempt to
establish populations of these natural pollinators of cultivated cucurbits.
SCIENCE 7:

Topographic mapping and gravity survey across Rotor Kamm, a possible meteorite
impact crater: 8,000 feet in diameter and 400 feet deep located in the restricted
diamond area along the west coast of South West Africa.

the active volcanoes Arenal in Costa Rica, Soufriere on the Carribean
island of St. Vincent, and Fernandina in the Galapagos Islands.

In recent years, the interrelated subjects of sea-floor spreading, plate
tectonics, and continental drift have received attention primarily by the
petrologists in the Museum. Important paleobiological data can now also

58 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

be reported that complement and support the physical data. A pilot study
has been conducted of the evolutionary responses to the constant
movements of the earth’s crustal plates. This consisted of an investigation
of the history of biological relationships among mollusks across the
Temperate and Tropical Atlantic Ocean throughout the 200-million-year
history of its formation and subsequent opening to its present configura-
tion. Initial results clearly show increasing endemism of molluscan faunas
during the Mesozoic and Early Cenozoic on either side of the Atlantic as it
opened, as well as a close correlation of major evolutionary and
sedimentary events with periods of active plate movement. Periods of
active crustal movement appear to be correlated with continental flooding,
while draining of continents accompanied inactive periods of crustal
movement. Rates of molluscan evolution, documented by studying
numerous lineages within a framework of absolute geological time
constructed from radiometric dating, appear to be closely related to
tectonic-sedimentary events.

A long-term functional anatomical study of a hundred species of shore
birds was completed, dealing primarily with kinesis of the upper jaw, as
well as the proportion and angular relationships of the skull. Skull
features not previously studied were compared, using X-rays, with the
conclusion that general adaptive patterns in these respects corresponded
well with accepted taxonomic groupings.

As is usually the case, studies of fishes of many groups using the full
panoply of taxonomic characteristics, was an important contribution to
the total research of the Museum. A paper on nearly 200 interspecific and
intergeneric hybrids of chubs concluded that such hybridization results
from temporal, spatial, or ethological isolation during the breeding season.
Also completed was a comprehensive summary and analysis of host
relationships in the sharksuckers that demonstrated host specificity in
some species, including one that attaches only to certain species of marine
mammals. In addition, the Ocean Acre project, an intensive study of the
ecology of the midwater fauna of a selected water column near Bermuda,
produced reports on the vertical distribution and ecology of the
lanternfishes and the bristlemouth fishes.

COLLECTIONS

Two ultimate truths concerning natural history collections were
repeatedly emphasized by events of the year: Samples of the natural
world, already viewed as indispensable documentation of the components
of the global ecosystem, are increasingly seen as a national resource in the
study of environmental and pollution problems, as well as for more
conventional uses. However, there is no single, more serious, all-pervading
| SCIENCE 59
problem for the National Museum of Natural History than the production
of a long-range solution to the problem of adequate space for the National
Collections.

Conservation of collections, always important, was advanced in this
year by several activities. A major collection of Samurai Arms and Armor
for the first time was cleaned and stored in proper cases and on special
racks. An expert Japanese sword polisher from Tokyo spent six months in
the Anthropology Processing Laboratory examining, evaluating, and

_conserving the 180 Japanese Samurai swords in the collection. It was

Terutoyo Fujimoto, expert Japanese sword polisher, conserving one of the
historically important Samurai swords from anthropological collections to preserve
the finish and to expose temper lines.
60 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

discovered that some were extremely significant pieces and certification
papers will be issued by the Japanese authorities.

Growth in holdings of vertebrate animal specimens, as well as the care
of those already in hand, continued to pose space-use problems, as well as
research opportunities. Whale, porpoise, and other marine mammal
materials, presently in warehouse storage, were prepared for return to the
Museum where they will occupy an entire exhibit hall made available for
this purpose because of great national interest in these animals. This marks
the initiation of a research/curatorial program on marine mammals in
collaboration with the International Biological Program studies of marine
productivity, involving the Departments of Vertebrate Zoology and
Paleobiology, which house the fossil marine materials.

In addition to collections management, EDP applications have other
very real values. For example, associated data on mammals and their
ectoparasites in the system will permit the generation of a variety of
summaries, correlations, and analyses of great potential value in
epidemiological and ecological programs underway in many institutions. A
quite different objective motivates the capture of data about and from the
gem and mineral collections. In this instance, not only are the needs of
research projects served, but an accurate inventory of these precious
materials permits much improved security to be maintained.

During the fiscal year a National Synthetic Crystals Collection has been
initiated which promises to be a significant adjunct to the present
collections. In the first six months of its establishment almost a thousand
specimens had been received, many of rare or unique materials.

EXHIBITS

There has been a succession of outstanding temporary exhibits in the
foyer area. An exhibit of the tools and implements of everyday life in a
Korean village, another on life in Greenland, one on the history of U.S.
Fisheries, and another on Japanese Swords and Armor are examples of
these short-term highly popular presentations.

Perhaps the single effort most appreciated by the public was the Insect
Zoo which opened for its second summer season in June, thanks to fiscal
support from Alfred Elser, the Smithsonian Associates Ladies’ Committee,
and the Entomological Society of America. New features this year were an
ant farm, butterfly flight cage, and television monitor closeups of a
procession of insects too small to be seen easily without magnification.
Although funds were available for much of the apparatus, a great deal of
the time required for answering questions and giving brief explanations
was contributed by a large number of young volunteers recruited and
trained by the Museum staff.

:
|
|
|
|
|
SCIENCE 61

Visitors watching a tarantula in the Natural History Museum’s Insect Zoo, an
experimental exhibit designed to teach biological principles using the behavior of live
insects.

National Air and Space Museum

Fiscal year 1972 marked the first year that the National Air and Space
Museum operated under the leadership of its new Director, Michael Collins.
Major emphasis has been placed on detailed preparation for a new museum
to be opened in the Bicentennial year. The architectural firm of Hellmuth,
Obata, & Kassabaum, Inc., designed the new National Air and Space
Museum Building. The building design has been approved by the Fine Arts
Commission and the National Capital Planning Commission.

Two major exhibits were opened during the year. The first, Ballooning,
combined a variety of audiovisual techniques new to the Air and Space
Museum. The exhibit contains such things as an automated puppet show,
which describes the first balloon crossing of the English Channel; a hot air
balloon that rises to the ceiling and returns to the floor when the air cools;
continuous playing of balloon music; and hundreds of artifacts ranging
from the first air mail letter to furniture designed with a balloon motif.

The second exhibit, World War I Fighters, carries the audiovisual
techniques to even greater dimensions. In this exhibit not only is there
extensive use of sound, but in addition, a live mechanic works on the
restoration of a Nieuport Fighter. This exhibit area has proved to be very
popular for it allows the visitor to ask questions and receive immediate and
accurate information about the aircraft of the World War I era.

A planetarium chamber on the Mall is fast becoming a reality. A
30-foot domed chamber, which will be housed in the Air and Space
Building, is under construction. The dome is in place, the equipment is on
62 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

order, and a planetarium program is being prepared for opening in late
December 1972. This planetarium will serve two purposes. First, it will be
an entertainment and educational center. Not only will shows be given to
the general public on a regularly scheduled basis, but in addition,
educational programs ‘will be developed for classes at primary and
secondary educational levels. Schools in the Washington area will have the
opportunity to send full classes to the planetarium for astronomy lectures
and shows. Secondly, the planetarium will serve as a laboratory for the
experimentation and design of programs and equipment which will be used
in the Spacearium to be built in the new NASM Building.

Not only is the Museum adding to the collections, approximately
120,000 pounds of material was added during the fiscal year, but, more
significantly, a program was initiated to purge items which have little or no
historical significance. Pursuant to this program, over 35,000 pounds of
material were removed from the NASM collections.

Restoration work continued during the year on the Douglas World
Cruiser, the Nieuport Type 83E-2, and the Curtiss XFC9-2. It is planned to
exhibit these aircraft in the new NASM Building.

Miss Catherine Scott was assigned as branch librarian by the Smith-
sonian Library and has begun the task of reorganizing the NASM library.
Interlibrary loan cooperation procedures have been established with other
libraries in the Washington, D.C., area. Work has begun on weeding out
insignificant and duplicate material. Circulation records are being re-
organized and an appraisal is being made of the catalog file in line with the

Union catalog holdings in the main library. All of this is being:

accomplished to bring the NASM library up to the standards of the other
Institution libraries.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Publication of Astronomy and Astrophysics in the 1970's (Astronomy
Survey Committee of the National Academy of Sciences and the National
Research Council, April 1972) gave an independently formulated standard
against which to measure progress and plans of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory (SAO). A comprehensive assessment, begun this
year, of the implications for SAO of the Committee recommendations will
be completed during fiscal year 1973. Meanwhile, however, the concord-
ance between these recommendations and SAO activities is so striking in
most areas that this situation is already reflected in the Observatory’s
report for this year.

The Survey Committee defines, in order of importance, four national
programs of highest priority. The first concerns radio astronomy; it
SCIENCE 63

recommends construction of a very large array (VLA) radio-telescope
facility and increased support of smaller radio programs. While SAO
scientists have no intimate role in present plans for the VLA, they would
surely be among the users of such a facility.

The second part of the recommendation is another recognition of the
same compelling scientific facts that led SAO to initiate a joint
radio-astronomy program with Harvard University some years ago and
diligently to build that program in the intervening years. During the past
year, joint research by a Smithsonian-Harvard team continued on several
excited states of methyl alcohol, and, for the first time, interstellar
acetaldehyde was detected. Parallel laboratory studies gave precise rest
frequencies for the formamide molecule, recently detected by this group
in the interstellar medium, and further spectroscopic data on isotopic
hydroxyl molecules. Measurements were made of the far-infrared spectra
and chemical properties of an unidentified oxygen-hydrogen radical
produced in the reaction of oxygen atoms with unsaturated hydrocarbons.

The most recent addition to this program—very long-baseline inter-
ferometry (VLBI)—is specified in the recommendations as one of the areas
deserving increased support. Four VLBI experiments were undertaken
between July 1971 and June 1972 in cooperation with Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Naval Research Laboratory, and California
Institute of Technology. All the experiments involved observations of
galactic spectral line sources, including the 273/2, J=3/2 and 2171/2, J=5/2
transition of OH and the 6; ¢> 53 transition of H50.

As its second highest priority, the Committee recommends an optical
program that will greatly increase the efficiency of existing telescopes by
means of modern electronic auxiliaries and at the same time design and
construct the new large telescopes necessary for research to the limits of
the known universe.

SAO has, for some time, been pushing the development of modern
electronic auxiliaries for use primarily on its 60-inch telescope, but also on
other telescopes such as those at Boyden Observatory in South Africa and
the new Wise Observatory in Israel. Examples of such instrumentation
employed by SAO scientists include the PEPSIOS spectrometer, the
Fourier-transform spectrometer, and a Kron electronographic image tube.
With such instrumentation, the SAO 60-inch telescope on Mt. Hopkins has
in fact been making observations that earlier could have been done only on
a much larger telescope.

For example, high-resolution spectroscopic measurements of planetary
absorption lines have been made with a three-etalon Fabry-Perot inter-
ferometer at Mt. Hopkins. The investigators detected, for the first time,
the presence of molecular oxygen in the atmosphere of Mars and also
established the existence of a layered cloud structure in the atmosphere of
64 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Venus. They made some measurements of interstellar absorption lines that
gave the rotational temperature of interstellar CN molecules, which may
show remaining effects of a “big bang” origin of our present universe.

The Smithsonian participated in several ways in the founding of the
new Florence and George C. Wise Observatory in Israel. This observatory
was dedicated on 26 October, 1971. The Institution provided exchange
currency for acquisition and operation of some peripheral equipment, and
an SAO scientist is coordinating joint research activities of American and
Israeli astronomers. The major instrument at the new observatory on the
Negev High Plateau is a 40-inch reflector-type telescope.

The Multiple-Mirror Telescope (MMT) project of SAO and the
University of Arizona is a principal element in the activity that the
Committee envisions as leading to new large telescopes. Design of the
MMT progressed as scheduled during the year, and SAO gave a contract to
an industtial firm for fabrication of the mount. Mt. Hopkins was chosen as
the MMT site. Measurement of light pollution and radio noise established
that the sky there is significantly better for astronomical observations than
is the sky over Mt. Lemmon north of Tucson, the other site considered.

The third recommendation of the Survey Committee asks for a
significant increase in support of infrared astronomy, including construc-
tion of a large ground-based infrared telescope, a high-altitude balloon
survey, and design studies for a very large stratospheric telescope.

Some few years ago, SAO placed particular emphasis on strengthening
its infrared astronomy program. Activities have included the fabrication of
refined infrared detectors, adaptation of the Boyden 60-inch telescope for
infrared observations, and initiation of a project to put on the peak of Mt.
Hopkins a 48-inch telescope for infrared observations. Of course, SAO’s
greatest activity in this area is the MMT, which will be the world’s largest
telescope optimized for infrared.

Furthermore, a joint project is underway among SAO, Harvard College
Observatory, and the University of Arizona to design and build a 40-inch
telescope for infrared observations from a balloon gondola. The first
flights of the telescope will take place during calendar 1972. This infrared
balloon project is a substantial first step toward the large stratospheric
telescope recommended in the Committee report.

A program for X-ray and gamma-ray astronomy from a series of large
orbiting High-Energy Astrophysical Observatories (HEAO), supported by
construction of ground-based optical and infrared telescopes, is the fourth
Survey Committee recommendation.

SAO scientists are not involved in the development of the HEAO now
authorized, but they have had experience with satellite-borne gamma-ray
astronomy. SAO also has been very active during the last few years in
balloon flights for gamma-ray astronomy. Early this year, two successful
SCIENCE 65

balloon flights of SAO’s 10-Mev gas-Cerenkov detector were made from
Parana, Argentina. Both gave indications that the suspected 10-Mev
gamma-ray source at the galactic center was indeed there. Another
gamma-ray source, Sgr y-1, reported at higher energies, also yielded an
excess flux of gamma rays, although at a lower level of confidence.

The first observations of extremely high-energy gamma rays from the
pulsar in the Crab Nebula have been made by SAO scientists using two
different techniques. In the first, pulsed gamma rays were detected by
means of paired searchlight reflectors at Mt. Hopkins. These observations
confirm an earlier SAO experiment when a suspected pulsed flux of
gamma rays was detected. A second set of results was based on
observations with the 10-meter optical reflector, also at Mt. Hopkins.
Scientists detected a continuous flux from the Crab Nebula; the flux
varied slowly with time, the largest emissions occurring 60 to 120 days
after a major frequency change of the pulsar.

The Survey Committee identifies several additional programs of
“highest scientific importance,” but agrees that funding of them, although
urgent, should not be allowed to delay the funding of the first four
recommendations. SAO is engaged in activities relating to these additional
programs.

The Committee proposed construction of a large millimeter-wavelength
antenna to study quasars and complex interstellar molecules. SAO has
already initiated a program in millimeter-wave astronomy. One phase of it
is a joint project with Harvard College Observatory, the University of
Texas, and Bell Laboratories that has fielded in Texas an extraordinarily
precise telescope equipped with recently developed millimeter-wave
detectors.

Continuation of the program of Orbiting Solar Observatories (OSO) is
urged by the Committee. SAO scientists will participate in the currently
authorized OSO-I of the University of Colorado and OSO-J of Harvard
College Observatory. Meanwhile, from data taken by OSO 4 and 6, SAO
scientists have produced a new model of the solar chromosphere and made
basic contributions to understanding of the high-temperature structure of
solar flares, active regions, and prominences.

Another recommendation is a sizable increase in support of theoretical
investigations, including numerical computations. SAO is a recognized
world leader in the use of computers to generate theoretical models of
stellar atmospheres. This year, it cosponsored with NASA an international
symposium on such models. Also, Observatory scientists continue to
improve and refine PANDORA, the largest and most powerful computer
program yet designed for model stellar atmospheres and radiative line
transfer. Already the program is being used by a number of research
groups outside the Smithsonian.

66 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

The Committee proposes an expanded program of ultraviolet
astronomy from space, culminating in the launch of a large space telescope
by the end of this decade.

SAO’s Project Celescope to record stars in the ultraviolet was, of
course, one of the two experiments onboard NASA’s Orbiting Astro-
nomical Observatory (OAO 2). This year, as a major achievement of that
project, SAO issued the first catalog of stars as they appear in the
ultraviolet. It is based on more than 6000 television pictures taken by
Celescope. The initial version in the form of magnetic tape has been
deposited in the National Space Sciences Data Center at NASA’s Goddard
Space Flight Center. An extended tape and printed version based on all
Celescope data is now being prepared.

The catalog lists the magnitudes of the stars observed in Celescope’s
four ultraviolet bands, as well as the standard deviations of the
magnitudes, and the positions and identifications of the stars. It also gives
the magnitudes, colors, and spectral types of these same stars as observed
by ground-based telescopes. The data will be of particular value to
theoreticians constructing models of hot rapidly evolving stars, which seem
to emit most of their light in the ultraviolet.

The large, steerable radio telescope recommended by the Committee is,
in most respects, identical to the radio instrument described in the design
study funded by NSF. This study, in which SAO participated, is the most
detailed plan in existence for such an instrument.

As a contribution to the Committee’s final recommendation that
improved astrometric measurements be undertaken, the Observatory
coordinated a 14-month Earth-Physics Satellite Observation Campaign
(EPSOC) to measure the Chandler Wobble, a major component in the
geophysical phenomenon known as “polar motion.” Meanwhile, the
earth-physics group at SAO is generating a new Standard Earth, the third
the Observatory has produced as a major result of its satellite-tracking
program.

The Observatory, of course, pursues other important research outside
the scope of the Astronomical Survey Committee. This year, three groups
of scientists continued to analyze lunar samples; a new and definitive guide
to cometary orbits was issued at SAO; analysis of the orbit of the asteroid
Pallas led to the concept that the asteroid belt is a cosmic museum of
unused building blocks for Mars and Earth, of uncompleted planets, and of
senile comets; first returns from a retroreflector on the moon were
obtained by the SAO laser at Agassiz Station; precise geodetic measure-
ments across the great African rift valley in Ethiopia surprisingly suggested
longitudinal extension rather than widening of the rift; and a program of
environmental monitoring was initiated at Mt. Hopkins.

SCIENCE 67

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Fiscal year 1972 was a period of quiet consolidation and transition for
STRI. Programs planned or begun earlier were pursued with encouraging
success. Preparations were made for anticipated developments in the
future.

As always, considerable emphasis was placed on basic research. The
scientific staff was enlarged by several recruits and supplemented by new
pre- and postdoctoral fellows and research associates. This has made it
possible to investigate the ecology and/or behavior of a really substantial
variety of organisms. The “in house” research of the bureau (work
receiving direct financial support) included studies of primates, bats,
edentates, passerine birds, cuckoos, lizards, sea-snakes, frogs, both fresh-
water and marine fishes, spiders, several kinds of insects (Hymenoptera,
Orthoptera, Lepidoptera), squid, shrimp, corals, gorgonians, zooanthids,
echinoids, crinoids, other less conspicuous marine invertebrates, orchids,

. forest trees, and marine algae.

Most of this work was done in the neotropics, in and around the
Isthmus of Panama, the northern part of South America, and the West

_ Indies; but new comparative studies were also launched in the Old World

(including such countries as Liberia, Gabon, and Kenya where the bureau

_ has not been active before).

The gradual increase of personnel has permitted extension of research
to whole communities, as well as to individual groups and areas. Special
attention is being paid to the measurement and prediction of fluctuations
in humid tropical forest (part of the general Smithsonian Environmental
Sciences Program) and in coral reef and inshore marine habitats (with
support from both the Environmental Sciences Program and the Environ-
mental Protection Agency). Preliminary work on tropical grassland biomes
has begun. Further studies will be developed in collaboration with experts
of the Institute of Ecology of the Polish National Academy of Sciences.

The following examples illustrate the sorts of problems that have been

_ judged to be accessible and relevant, and the level of refinement attained

in STRI’s research.

Research on corals has been a major focus of effort. J. Lang of the
staff, who is working in Jamaica, has for the first time measured
interspecific aggressive behavior and the establishment of dominance

' hierarchies in competition for space (and presumably ultimately food)

among major species of scleractinian hermatypes in the Caribbean. She is
also studying such subjects as deep reef communities, intraspecific
polymorphism and speciation in reef corals, the effects of depth upon
skeletogenesis, and budding forms of asexual reproduction in

- scleractinians.
68 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

J. Porter, one of the predoctoral fellows, has been experimenting with
coral feeding and zooplankton energy flow over the reefs of the San Blas
Islands, and has completed surveys of coral diversity and biomass
abundance as well as the physical oceanography and sedimentation regimes
of several reef sites.

P. Glynn of the staff, with his colleagues, has documented the
occurrence of true structural reefs on eastern Pacific shores—another first
record. Evidence from C'* dating and the growth of the principal
frame-building corals indicates that these reefs are among the fastest-
growing known. They are increasing at the rate of M/250 yrs, despite
attrition by predators of about one-third of the annual production.

Analysis of reefs and environments around the Pearl Islands reveals that
the low temperature conditions accompanying seasonal upwelling are
deleterious to corals along the exposed western coasts. Thermal stress
slows or impedes growth by rendering the corals more susceptible to
invasions by other benthic organisms.

Sections of coral heads cut along the growth axis and viewed under UV
light show chlorophyll rings which appear to represent annual growth
increments. An attempt is being made to determine the relationship
between size of rings and intensity of upwelling. Hopefully, this should
provide information on past marine climatic fluctuations.

C. Birkeland and D. Meyer, research associates, obtained transect data
on the depth distribution of reef corals at the isolated island of Malpelo
off the northwestern coast of South America. They found that hermatypic
corals were a dominant benthic element as far down as 37 meters below
the surface of the waters.

Further work on the Caribbean shore of Panama has disclosed drowned
reefs on the shelf off Nombre de Dios, an actively accreting algal ridge
structure on the Holandés reef, and an emergent fossil coral assemblage,
possibly of Sangamon age, on the same reef.

STRI’s participation in the Environmental Sciences Program, primarily
concerned with problems of unpredictability and instability (which may be
larger in the tropics than has usually been supposed), has both terrestrial
and marine components. The monitoring of biological and physical
fluctuations in the forest on Barro Colorado, which was begun last year, is
proceeding at full speed. The data are now being submitted to computer
analysis. The parallel studies of inshore organisms and habitats started
later, and only became fully operational in the first half of fiscal year
1972, with the installation of continuously recording instruments on the
reef flat adjacent to the marine laboratory at Galeta. The parameters being
measured include salinity, water temperature, water depth, exposure, 05
concentration, light penetration, rainfall, air temperature, wind speed,
wind direction, and the growth rates, reproductive cycles, abundance,
SCIENCE 69

The algal ridge off Morotupo, Islas San Blas on the Atlantic side of Panama.

mortality, and productivity of selected species of animals that seem to be
particularly dominant or important to the system. It has already become
clear that periods of stress in the intertidal area are totally unpredictable
on the basis of conventional tide tables and information derived from
offshore waters.

In addition to the “in house” research, STRI has continued to provide
facilities for, and help to, visiting scientists and students from universities
and other institutions all over the world. The number of visitors and their
use of the bureau’s laboratories, equipment and reserves in fiscal year 1972
remained at much the same level as in the two preceding years, especially
noteworthy in view of the general and widely publicized reduction of
effective research funds in so many of the countries from which visitors
come. The demand for bureau help to outsiders in this sphere would
appear to have reached temporary equilibrium. The rate of demand may
be less than would be desirable, but it is still appreciable. It is bound to go
up in the future, although the timing remains uncertain.

The most promising new educational activity was a cooperative
program with the University of Panama. The students and staff of the
university are now using the STRI research vessel Tethys on a regular basis
for studies along the Pacific coast and adjacent islands.

The various changes, additions, and improvements in fiscal year 1972
were not spectacular in themselves, but they should all contribute to the
70 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Installation of Weather Station for Environmental Science Project at Galeta Island,
Atlantic coast Panama.

New laboratory building on Naos Island, Ft. Amador.

ultimate goal of developing a multicultural international institute with
competence in all the important aspects of field biology and related
disciplines.
SCIENCE 71

Radiation Biology Laboratory
REGULATORY BIOLOGY

Light signals in the environment regulate the growth and development
of plants. These light signals are absorbed by pigments which in turn
change the metabolism and life functions of cells. One of the pigments
known to be involved in this process is phytochrome, a plant pigment
which strongly absorbs red or far red light. Phytochrome, a water soluble
protein with a molecular weight of more than 50,000, has been isolated
for several years in the Radiation Biology Laboratory and its properties
studied extensively at the molecular level. Recently, evidence has
accumulated that sulfhydryl reagents which were present in the extraction
solutions may have altered its properties. This year a method has been
developed for isolating and purifying phytochrome without sulfhydryl
reagents. This phytochrome is more stable in the presence of proteolytic
enzymes and at low pH. It has an isoelectric pH of 7.5 to 8 and we believe
_ has properties which approximate more closely the properties of “native”
phytochrome in vivo than previously isolated phytochrome.

In addition, two significant findings have been made in the study of the
mechanism of phytochrome-mediated growth responses of oat and wheat
coleoptile cells to red light: (1) The light-induced effects are independent
of growth responses to exogenous auxins or gibberellins, as though there
are two separate growth mechanisms in the cell. (2) The light-induced
effects appear to be related to microtubule formation, since they can be
specifically prevented by substances such as colchicine, urea, and cupric
ions, which are known to interfere with aggregation of microtubule
subunits.

The control of the molecular processes required for the synthesis of
chloroplast proteins is not understood. Regulation may be under either
cytoplasmic, nuclear, or chloroplast control or some complex interaction
between all three. Attempts to map precisely this control system have
continued using the alga, Chlamydomonas reinhardii, in which the
synthesis of proteins of chloroplast ribosomes and their properties have
been measured.

Two lines of evidence suggest that most of the proteins of chloroplast
ribosomes (70S) are made in the cytoplasm on 80S ribosomes. Chloram-
phenicol, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, fails to inhibit the synthesis of
the protein component of chloroplast ribosomes. In addition, when cells
are labeled for short times (15 seconds) with radioactive amino acids, a
product-precursor relationship can be demonstrated between radioactivity
in newly formed “nascent” protein on 80S cytoplasmic ribosomes and
radioactivity in protein of 70S chloroplast ribosomes. From independent
tests it has been discovered that chloramphenicol specifically inhibits
q2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

protein synthesis on chloroplast 70S ribosomes of C. reinhardii. Am-
monium ions also control the synthesis of ribosomes in wild type C.
reinhardii, but not in the arginine requiring mutant, arg-1.

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

A program for the study of phosphorus cycling has been initiated in the
Rhode River-Muddy Creek system at the Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies. Baseline data of 18 parameters such as tempera-
ture, pH, salinity, and inorganic and organic phosphorus levels were
accumulated for 13 stations. In addition, experiments on phosphate
cycling and energy flow were initiated in phytoplankton, periphyton and
salt marsh communities.

National Zoological Park

Without question, the most important event at the National Zoo during
the fiscal year 1972 was the arrival of two giant pandas for the people of
the United States from the people of the People’s Republic of China. This
generous gift was formally accepted by Mrs. Richard Nixon on 20 April.
The pandas, female named Ling-Ling and male named Hsing-Hsing, have
nearly doubled the Zoo’s attendance.

Twin orangutans (a rare event) were born in December and a male
gorilla in May. As a result of captive breeding at the Zoo, Kanitia, the
older of the two female bongos, gave birth to a female calf. The hatching
of four brush turkeys, Alectura lathami, was a significant event. The male
brush turkey began scratching a mound together in the spring of 1971 and
worked the entire summer on the peat moss, shredded bark and grass
clippings which were supplied to him. The female was allowed near the
nest only on the occasion of egg-laying. The rare Rothschild’s mynahs
continued to be prolific, producing 18 young during the year, bringing the
total offspring from a single pair to 29 during an 18-month period.

Other important births have been scimitar-horned oryx, sable antelope,
Burmese brow-antlered deer, pygmy hippopotamus, and a greater kudu.
The scientific program has a notable achievement in the second generation
breeding of the tenrecoid insectivore, Microgale talazaci. For the second
time, the rare and endangered species of caviomorph rodent, Plagiodontia
aedum, was bred.

The golden eagles and bald eagles were given enclosures of their own
and almost immediately nesting attempts were made. The female golden
eagle laid ten eggs which proved to be infertile.

Bill and Lucy, the pair of the northern race of square-lipped
thinoceroses, were shipped to San Diego’s Wild Animal Park in San
Pasqual. The pair had been at the Zoo for 16 years without reproduction.

SCIENCE TAS:

Ling-Ling, the female giant panda, eating bamboo.

Shortly after their arrival at San Pasqual, breeding between the two was
reported.

An extremely popular new exhibit is the jungle scene in the Reptile
House. The cage is decorated with a variety of living plants, tree trunks,
and vines. Six adult iguanas, four basilisk lizards and ten giant toads were
placed in the cage and breeding and territorial behavior is displayed.
| Another exhibit that is attracting interest is in the grouping of wildebeest,
Cape buffalo, and zebra in one large corral.

74 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Twin orangutans, Mawar and Melati, born to Jennie and Archie in December.
(Photo by Donna K. Grosvenor)

The field study of the three-toed sloth entered its second year in
Panama. By radiotracking it has been determined that young sloths learn
the location of feeding trees while accompanying their mother during their
SCIENCE f[s)

Golden marmoset father carrying baby on his back.

6 to 7 month association prior to weaning. At weaning the mother leaves
the original home range thus donating it to the juvenile which then
continues the cyclic tree-use patterns it has learned from its mother.

Some major equipment was purchased by the Division of Animal
Health in order to update the surgery and radiology capabilities which
includes a portable X-ray machine capable of taking diagnostic radiographs
of animals ranging in size from a marmoset to a zebra; a portable gas
anesthetic machine; and a portable electrocardiograph machine. The
continuing clinical research covers the accumulation and documentation of
base line data of various blood values on exotic animals; monitoring the
clinical progress of the rheumatoid-like arthritis of the male gorilla,
Tomoka; studying the effectiveness of panleucopenis vaccination in exotic
cats by monitoring the antibody titers; the lead poisoning studies; and the
supplementation of vitamin E and selenium in the diets.
76 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

In February the Zoo co-sponsored a conference of Brazilian and
American specialists concerned with saving the golden marmoset from
possible extinction. Construction was begun on a Golden Marmoset
Breeding and Research Facility as an official gesture of concern for this
vanishing primate. During the year the Zoo’s golden marmosets produced
three sets of twins.

Office of Environmental Sciences

The increasing general awareness of the importance of environmental
problems has caused an increase in the activities of this office during fiscal
year 1972. Federal and private agencies and organizations have requested
assistance in studying and solving national and international environmental
problems and have provided financial support. The Office has assisted
other Smithsonian organizations in utilizing their expertise and collections
to greater advantage in the environmental field.

The staff is quite active on national and international committees and
organizations involved in environmental and ecological impact studies,
biological monitoring, plant and animal protection, study and preservation
of natural areas, review of environmental and ecological research programs,
biological control, marine and limnological research, and related areas.

Studies are being made in various parts of the world on the
environmental and ecological impacts of technology in developing
countries for the Agency for International Development. These include
study of impacts by the Volta Reservoir in Ghana, a game park in Kenya,
rapid urban growth in Seoul, Korea, offshore oil pollution in Indonesia,
and other studies.

ECOLOGY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Center for Natural Areas is making detailed surveys of
the Atlantic Coastal Plain and particularly the Chesapeake Bay region for
the Department of Interior and Nature Conservancy. Surveys are being
made of all protected natural and wilderness areas and ecologically
important areas which should be procured and protected. Ecological
advisory service is being furnished to requesting federal agencies, and a
registry and computerization has been started for all United States natural
areas.

A global biological monitoring program was prepared for the Inter-
national Union of Biological Sciences, Commission on Monitoring.
Detailed studies were made of the importance of museum specimens for
studying the history of levels of toxic metals.
SCIENCE Th

A study was made of wildlife, including endangered species, and their
habitats, as indicators and indices of the status of environmental quality
for the Council on Environmental Quality. Trends in populations, acreage
of habitats and other factors were used in developing environmental
indices and a proposed national biological monitoring program.

Remote sensing of vegetation and hydrology of the Rhode River
watershed was studied with emphasis on identification of deciduous
forests and salt marsh plants using different films and altitudes under a
NASA contract. A symposium was held on uses of remote sensing in
developing countries for AID.

The Peace Corps Environmental Program has resulted in over 650
applications and 220 volunteers with Masters and Doctors degrees in the
biological and environmental fields, and 85 scientists have been sent to 24
requesting countries to carry out research programs.

OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center processed over 3.5
million marine organisms in fiscal year 1972, and sent about 10 percent to
scientists for taxonomic, distribution, and population studies. The Center
assisted various national and international programs on environmental
analysis, particularly the National Science Foundation’s U.S. Antarctic
Research Program (USARP), and the Marine Resource Monitoring and
Assessment Program (MARMAP) of the National Marine Fisheries Service.
The Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center in Tunisia contributed to the
UNESCO-FAO sponsored Cooperative Investigations of the Mediterranean,
and made available 2.5 million marine organisms to scientists who depend
on research services of taxonomic sorting, community analysis, specimen
and sample data management, and field logistics. During the past 10 years,
over 40 million specimens have been processed by the Smithsonian’s two
centers which provide international leadership in this field. In cooperation
with UNESCO, an international conference of directors of the eight
sorting centers of the world was held in Tunisia to meet rapidly increasing
demands in environmental biology research.

Studies of Skadar Lake, the largest of the Balkan Lakes, were initiated
in cooperation with the Institute for Biological Research at Belgrade,
Yugoslavia. The objectives of this 5-year project are to describe the
physical, chemical, biological, and geological nature of this lake, to
develop a capability for management of the lake and its drainage basin as
the regional impact of man increases. A report was prepared on the
“Existing Conditions of the Biota of the Chesapeake Bay” for the Corps of
Engineers to be used in developing a broad-based program on environ-
mental management.
78 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

The Center initiated an interdisciplinary ecosystem study of the Rhode
River and watershed under a grant from the National Science Foundation.
The project is a microcosm study of a relatively undisturbed subestuary of
Chesapeake Bay. Results will be compared with research projects on more
heavily stressed areas of the bay being studied by the Chesapeake Research
Consortium which includes the Johns Hopkins University, University of
Maryland, Virginia Institute of Marine Science, and the Smithsonian
Institution. The Rhode River study includes investigators from the above
listed institutions, Catholic University, the U.S. Geological Survey, and
NASA.

Other continuing research projects at the Center include ground-truth
evaluation of remote sensing and other aerial photographic techniques;
historical land-use patterns and their environmental impact; solid-waste
disposal and erosion control; and basic studies in ecology. New studies
include an evaluation of spray irrigation as a waste disposal technique;
investigations into environmental decision-making by local units of
government; an examination of the role of citizen participation in land-use
planning; and research on the attitudes of urban and suburban youths
towards their respective physical and social environments.

Educational activities include regular tours and lectures for elementary
and secondary schools, colleges, and adult groups on the ecosystem
research program of the Center. Facilities of the Center were expanded
with the addition of 155 acres of land and completion of laboratories in
the Old Dominion Building. A dormitory building for students is planned
for construction by the end of the year.

CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA

The Center’s reporting network includes over 2700 scientists, scientific
institutions, and field stations located in 143 countries on every continent
and ocean of the world.

The Center continues to communicate data and information of
significant changes to biological and ecological systems, including rare or
unusual animal migrations, population explosions, and major mortalities of
flora and fauna, as well as volcanic eruptions, the birth of new islands,
major fireball events and meteorite falls, and environmental pollution
events such as major oil spills, and pesticide and herbicide contaminations.

During fiscal year 1972, the Center reported 99 short-lived events that
occurred in 50 countries. Scientific teams investigated at least 80 of the
events. Forty-six earth science events were described, as well as 40
biological and 11 astrophysical events. The Center also reported unusual
geological events, including fumarole activity in the Galapagos Islands, an
SCIENCE 719

avalanche in Peru, seismic activity in Colombia, a landslip in Canada,
fracturing in Ethiopia, a severe hailstorm in Milan, Italy, and floods in
Brazil and West Malaysia.

The Center has worked on international programs concerned with
global environmental monitoring including a world-wide survey for
UNESCO on “National and International Environmental Monitoring
Activities” and a paper on “The Establishment of an International
Environmental Monitoring Program” invited by the Secretary-General of
the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment.

Center for the Study of Man

The Center brought together over fifty scholars from five continents to
meet in Cairo, Egypt, and complete plans for focusing anthropological
knowledge on problems of worldwide concern. The conference, held 8-12
May 1972, under joint auspices with the American University in Cairo and
the University of Alexandria, agreed that one or more books on major
world problems should be prepared as quickly as possible by individuals or
teams of authors selected from all over the world.

Topics with which the books would deal include: (1) education in the
modernizing world; (2) social integration in the new nations; (3) social
dislocation of people accompanying urbanization, industrialization and
population growth; (4) physical and mental health and social well-being in
a variety of different cultures.

The Center will coordinate the interaction between anthropologists and
teams of authors, in most cases behavioral scientists, who are chosen to
prepare the books. The effect of this program will be to elicit data in the
heads and notebooks of anthropologists which could then be put to use by
the best of social scientists in seeking solutions to problems besetting the
world.

During the past fiscal year ten final reports were received from
recipients of Urgent Anthropology Small Grants. One of these reports was
an analysis by Keith H. Basso and Ned Anderson of a unique, original
American Indian writing system. Data on this Western Apache writing
system was obtained from its 89-year-old creator, Silas John Edwards.
Forthcoming publication of the results of this work will constitute a very
significant contribution to the field of American Indian language writing.

Work on the Handbook of North American Indians over the past year
has resulted in the receipt of over one-hundred manuscripts at the editor’s
office. More arrive each day and the editorial process is now underway.
Our schedule calls for final publication of all 18 volumes by 1976.
Another activity of the Center’s American Indian Program has resulted in
the publication of a list of 217 current periodicals by, for, and about
American Indians.

80 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange

This fiscal year marked completion of the Smithsonian Science
Information Exchange’s (SSIE) first year as a nonprofit corporation. It
also marked the completion of the Smithsonian Institution’s first full year
of responsibilities for both policy and management responsibilities for the
Exchange.

Of primary importance during the year was the increasing demand for
user services which was reflected by an increase in user income of some 75
percent over the 1971 level. Much of this increase was attributable to an
increase in the preparation of catalogs of ongoing research in many new
areas of interest such as dental and health services research. Regular annual
catalogs continue in such areas as outdoor recreation, water resources, and
population research. The demand for services of the Exchange continues
to be dominated by federal users, although industrial and foreign use is
increasing. Brochures describing SSIE services have now been‘prepared in
French and Japanese and requests from these two areas are increasing.
Negotiations are underway to secure the services of a Spanish-speaking
representative.

Among the new and innovative services offered by SSIE, the use of
pre-run questions which can be made available at reasonable cost and
maximum distribution has been the most well received. This service has
been greatly expanded through the development of an SSIE Newsletter
published ten times a year and sold on a subscription basis. The Newsletter
has been instrumental in making SSIE better known throughout the
scientific community. In addition, several volumes of ongoing research
have been prepared for publication by a nationally known publishing firm
with the intention of making information in the SSIE data bank more
readily available to users throughout the country.

Fort Pierce Bureau

The generous support of Edwin A. Link and J. Seward Johnson has
enabled the Smithsonian to establish, on 16 October 1971, the Fort Pierce
Bureau as an operating unit on the landward shore of the inland waterway,
about 5 miles north of Fort Pierce, Florida. Directed by I. Eugene Wallen,
who formerly headed the Smithsonian Office of Environmental Sciences,
the new Bureau has a mission of marine biological and geological research,
using the Johnson-Sea-Link and other submersibles as well as the
oceanographic research vessels Johnson and Sea Diver.

During the year a fine new laboratory building was constructed at the
site by the Harbor Branch Foundation for use in research in association
with the Smithsonian. Five Smithsonian scientists are stationed at the
SCIENCE 81

laboratory studying (1) marine ecology, (2) the biology of organisms
under pressure, (3) the biology of sipunculid worms, (4) contaminant gases
in enclosed spaces such as the submersible, (5) the recycling of nutrients
through sewage and oysters, and (6) the biology of alligators and green
turtles.

Principally an engineering activity in support of biologists, the Bureau
also has about 35 employees in machine shops and carpenter shops,
remodeling oceangoing vessels and developing research support equipment
for use from the submersible. Such items as manipulators, communications
systems, special diving equipment, special lighting, submersible collecting
equipment, photographic facilities are being conceptualized, designed, and
produced for use in research in marine biology.

Seagoing operations of the ship-submersible system will support
Smithsonian scientific activities and extend the ability of the Smithsonian
to cope with environmental problems, such as marine pollution and beach
erosion.

HISLORY AND ART

During the month of April 1972, nearly a million visitors—978,728, to
be exact—came to the Smithsonian’s National Museum of History and
Technology. This single month’s attendance far exceeds the annual
attendance of many respectable and important museums, including several
of our own. The visitors were drawn not by any special, dazzling
temporary exhibition in the museum, but rather by what are somewhat
inaccurately called its “permanent” exhibits—the halls and galleries that
draw upon the museum’s great collections, and upon the knowledge and
skills of its curatorial and exhibits staffs to illuminate our nation’s history
and the history of technology.

Numbers of visitors are, of course, only one way to measure a
museum’s achievement. While no other museum in the Smithsonian, and
we believe, in the world, can match the Museum of History and
Technology on this score, it is satisfying to note that during the year under
review the attendance at each of our history and art museums increased. In
the case of the National Collection of Fine Arts the increase was due in
large part to the opening in January of its new branch, the Renwick
Gallery, which is now settling into its magnificently restored building on
Pennsylvania Avenue. In the case of the National Portrait Gallery,
unusually large numbers of visitors were drawn especially by two
handsomely installed special exhibitions, one on the history of the
performing arts in America, and one on unsuccessful candidates for the
presidency. For its part, the Freer Gallery of Art benefited from the
growing public interest in China that followed Mr. Kissinger’s and the
President’s trips.

Pleased as we are by this evidence of popularity, we do not intend to
lose sight of the other responsibilities that are so deeply rooted in the
traditions of the Smithsonian, and that indeed insure that the experience
of our growing number of visitors will be enlightening as well as delightful.
We shall continue to stress the importance of collecting, of conserving, of
studying, and of publishing the results of our studies. Catalogs published
by the National Portrait Gallery in conjunction with its major shows are
important works of historiography; exhibitions in the National Collection
of Fine Arts have quite literally rescued significant artists from oblivion;
the nineteenth-century post office in the Museum of History and
Technology is meticulously accurate in every detail—these are simply
outstanding examples of the way in which the increase of knowledge can,
and in our view must, go hand in hand with its diffusion to the public. The
role of the Archives of American Art, not only in providing a great resource

82

HISTORY AND ART 83

Country-store Post Office, ca. 1860, from Headsville, West Virginia, was reassembled
and restored to full postal service in the National Museum of History and
Technology.

for research, but also in supplying fascinating material for use in exhibitions
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, is another example, as is the role of
the Joseph Henry Papers and the Smithsonian Archives, in keeping always
before us the example of our predecessors and the evidence of their
determination, under differing circumstances, to maintain a due balance
between the scholarly and the public functions of the Institution.

The Bicentennial of the American Revolution offers us challenges on
both frorts. We must, as the American Revolution Bicentennial Commis-
sion suggests, take this event as the occasion for deepening our understand-
ing of the entire history of our nation. On the other hand, we must also
prepare ourselves for the descent upon Washington and our museums of an
awe-inspiring number of visitors in the years around 1976. We are
confident that the Smithsonian’s response will be worthy of a great
institution and a great occasion.

Finally, it would be unthinkable to conclude even these brief
observations without grateful mention of the continuing generosity of
Joseph H. Hirshhorn, which will make the opening of the Hirshhorn
84 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Museum and Sculpture Garden even more brilliant than we had expected,
and the munificence of the Carnegie Corporation of New York and the
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which have provided a fitting home for
the Cooper Hewitt Museum. As always in such cases, our pleasure in these
great gifts is enormously increased because they are evidence of the
donors’ confidence in us.

SS eee

The National Museum of History and Technology

Remarkable progress was made during the past year in the National
Museum of History and Technology. Five major exhibition halls and a |
special exhibits gallery in the central segment of the Museum’s third floor |
were being reconstructed into the Halls of Communication. A newly
designed Hall of Money and Medals and a Hall of Printing and Graphic
Arts were completed by the end of the fiscal year and opened to the
public shortly thereafter, and the remaining three halls are well in progress.
One of these depicts the history of news media, the installation of which
has been made possible by the support of Time-Life, Inc. It will open in
the spring of 1973, in time to commemorate the firm’s 50th anniversary,
as the Henry R. Luce Hall of News Reporting.

The Museum was fortunate in enlisting the interest of outside industries
and trade organizations in contributing to the Museum’s programs to fulfill
its mission in new dimensions. Sears, Roebuck and Co. donated to the Mu-
seum an important collection of 3200 cast iron and tinplate toys and pro-
vided funds for installing a special exhibit on the second floor entitled, “A
Children’s World,” and developing a series of satellite exhibits which are be-
ing presented by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

To mark its 75th year in book publishing, Doubleday & Company, Inc.
has agreed to sponsor a series of Frank Nelson Doubleday Lectures on the
general subject of “‘Frontiers of Knowledge,” which will be held during the
next fiscal year. The Gulbenkian Foundation has provided a grant for a
period of three years to enable the Museum to undertake a program of
studies in the history of Portuguese navigation with major scholars in the
field. The Museum has developed plans for a new and greatly expanded
Hall of Maritime Enterprise with the cooperation of the Department of
Commerce. The construction and installation of this hall will be made
possible by the participation of the related maritime industries.

The Museum’s first floor was enhanced by the addition of The Smithso-
nian Bookstore, which opened on 17 June. It was installed and is operated
by McGraw-Hill Book Company in cooperation with the Institution. Ac-
cording to Publishers Weekly the bookstore contains “the world’s largest
collection of retail books on American civilization . . . arranged topically
HISTORY AND ART 85

as opposed to the traditional categories of fiction, nonfiction and poetry
.... Not only is this the largest collection of books of Americana on sale,
it is also the largest museum bookstore in the world... .’’ Because the
Bookstore spotlights a variety of specimens from the Museum’s collections,
it is literally ‘ta bookstore in a museum and a museum in a bookstore.”
Featured is a reproduction of the facade of Shakespeare & Co., which
Sylvia Beach operated during the early decades of the century in Paris and
which formed a center for American writers abroad.

The Museum was particularly fortunate also in acquiring a number of
significant items, ranging in size from an elegant little document box used
for keeping legal papers during the enforcement of the Stamp Act in 1765
to a full size nineteenth-century country store post office. The post office

“east ‘Ons

H & ans t |: = - i a " eo
et ty Pele, ae
. rv

aig >

Country-store Post Office in the National Museum of History and Technology, where
visitors can have cards and letters stamped with the ““Smithsonian Station” postmark.
86 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

has been officially designated the Smithsonian Station of the U.S. Postal |
Service and is operated daily during public hours by clerks of the Postal |

Service. This new facility has added a new dimension to the Museum’s
exposition of history and has proven to be a total success.

A considerable amount of the scholarly resources of the Museum have
been used for the Bicentennial exhibitions, particularly the “‘Nation of
Nations,” in addition to the planning for a new major Hall of Political
History, and for developing long-range plans for research centers which
will enlist the support of institutions outside the Museum towards a fuller
understanding of American civilization.

DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED ARTS

Plans were initiated and installation work was well advanced on the
reconstruction of exhibition halls for Monetary History and Medallic Art,
Graphic Arts, News Reporting, Photographic History, and Philately and
Postal History. These major exhibits, which will emphasize the theme of
communications in history, will restore the gallery areas that were
damaged by the fire on the third floor.

The opening of the nineteenth-century post office and general store on
27 September 1971 culminated a two-year research and exhibition project
undertaken jointly by the Division of Postal History and the U.S. Postal
Service. Mr. Charles Rowell, restoration specialist, dismantled the building
which had stood at Headsville, West Virginia, since about 1861 and
reassembled it at the Constitution Avenue entrance to the Museum. The
U.S. Postal Service assigned a staff of three clerks, in appropriate costume
of the period, to provide philatelic and regular mail services to museum
visitors.

The special exhibits program was significantly carried forward when
Mrs. Elvira Clajin-Stefanelli organized a special exhibit illustrating recent
developments of medallic art in the United States for the F.I.D.E.M.
Congress in Cologne, Germany, in September 1971. Dr. V. Clain-Stefanelli
was an initial organizer and the Chairman of the Exhibits Committee for
the 1971 National Convention of the American Numismatic Association
which was held in Washington. The special exhibit, “Mexican Stamps
Designed by America’s Lance Wyman,” held in the Museum, was
supplemented by special philatelic exhibits in New York City, Anaheim,
and San Francisco.

At the close of the special exhibit “Dorothy Liebes Retrospective Show
of Textiles,’ forty-three fabric examples were chosen for the permanent
collections of the Division of Textiles. Another outstanding collection
received was of ninety hand-embroidered and lace handkerchiefs of the
nineteenth century presented by Mr. Leon Orlowski.

HISTORY AND ART 87

DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL HISTORY

A special exhibition, ““A Children’s World,” was the result of an
extraordinary gift of more then 2800 cast iron and tin-plate toys from
Sears, Roebuck and Co., which also sponsored the exhibit. The 350th
anniversary of the Pilgrims’ first Thanksgiving occasioned a Mall entrance
holiday exhibit, which opened with a reception in honor of the Honorable
Dorothy F.W. Innes, The Lord Mayor Alderman of Plymouth, England.

Several other major acquisitions have enhanced the Department of
Cultural History’s collections. The rural general store as an American
institution was given recognition in the gift of The George C. Seyboldt
Collection of Marketing Artifacts, numbering several hundred objects. The
Robert Young Brown American Stoneware Pottery Collection came as a

“The City” with its revolving platform is a popular attraction in the special
exhibit, ““A Children’s World” in the National Museum of History and Technology.
88 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

A few of the many cast-iron and metal toys on display in “A Children’s World,” a
special exhibit in the National Museum of History and Technology.

significant supplement of 135 items to the Museum’s holding of American
ceramics. A joint acquisition of the Divisions of Ceramics and Glass and
Preindustrial Cultural History, this is an important element in a new
American Ceramics Study Center developed by both divisions. The gift by
Lemuel Pope of colonial and federal period furniture is important for its
HISTORY AND ART 89

history of continuous use by the Pope family of Iiassachusetts. A rare
violin by Jacobus Stainer, several eighteenth-century items of clothing, and
a large number of examples of late nineteenth-century Japanese porcelains
made for the California market are other significant acquisitions.

The Division of Musical Instruments again distinguished itself in a series
of evening concerts. In support of such concerts, the recently formed
Friends of Music at the Smithsonian collaborated with the division to
sponsor a musical weekend in April. Designed to communicate to musical
friends of the Smithsonian the visual and aural richness of the musical
instrument collections, this elegant occurrence included demonstrations,
tours, social events, and a concert of baroque music superbly performed.

Four projects currently supported by the Smithsonian Research
Foundation include the compilation of on-site information about
eighteenth-century Mexican organs, field research on the remarkable
material culture of Blacks in coastal South Carolina, investigations
concerning a German-American cabinetmaker of Wisconsin, and research

on American pottery.

DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIES

Fiscal year 1972 witnessed the publication of three books by staff
members of this Department. They included the elegant and exhaustive
study of Frederick Carder, founder of the Steuben Glass Works, by Paul V.
Gardner. John Schlebecker authored two valuable reference works for
agricultural historians and museologists which will be published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Five full-size additions to the vehicle collection include a 1912 Knox
tractor, the predecessor of the modern day tractor trailer. The railroad

Knox three-wheel tractor, 1912, predecessor of the modern tractor trailer.
90 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

collection was enriched by the acquisition of the John Bull (1831)
locomotive’s original whistle which was obtained by private funds at the

Penn Central auction in Philadelphia. The Section of Mining acquired a |

Draeger portable breathing lung of 1904. This was the first style of mine
rescue breathing apparatus used in the United States.

Significant additions to the collections of the Division of Ceramics and
Glass are a Vienna porcelain candlestick (ca. 1730) and a Longton Hall
figure of ““Hercules and the Nemean Lion.”

DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL AND MILITARY HISTORY

The most important addition to the arms collections in the past 50
years was a group of 181 firearms from the Estate of William Goodwin
Renwick of Tucson, Arizona. Mr. Renwick was one of the foremost
collectors of this era. A number of the pieces are masterpieces of design
and armament reflecting the skill of fine artisans. Included also are many
with historical associations from Maximilian I in the 15th century to
General J.E.B. Stuart, Confederate States Army, in 1863.

A full-rigged model of the Continental Gondola Philadelphia, finely
detailed to represent that surviving naval relic of the War for Independence
as originally commissioned on Lake Champlain in 1775, was completed by
Museum Specialist Howard P. Hoffman. The Division of Naval History also
secured a model of the Continental Frigate Confederacy (1778), con-
structed on British Admiralty plans. Another notable acquisition was a rare
white summer service uniform worn by Ordinary Seaman Charlton H. Wing,
USN, during the Civil War, donated by his grandson, Bradford L. Cleveland.

A very significant specimen received in the Division of Political History
is a unique tooled leather document box that was used to hold the
pre-stamped papers required for legal documents during the enforcement
of the Stamp Act in the American Colonies in 1765. Another valuable
addition is the chair President Abraham Lincoln used in the Cabinet room
at the White House during his administration. This chair was the gift of Mr.
Elwood Middleton.

A silver coffee service owned by Mary Todd Lincoln and some pieces of
china from a dessert service used in the White House was a bequest from
Lincoln Isham, great grandson of President and Mrs. Lincoln. The National
Collections received as a gift from Mr. August Belmont the inlaid lacquer
Japanese ladies’ desk brought back from Japan by his ancestor, Com-
modore Matthew Perry, when he returned from his expedition in 1854.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

A second section of the Hall of Electricity was opened, covering the
development of the science of electricity in the second half of the
HISTORY AND ART 91

nineteenth century. There is also a special reference area where the visitor
can leaf through collections of photographs and look at books related to
the subject. Special exhibits on the laser and on electrical appliances also
opened in this hall. Among the series of monthly exhibits, special mention
might be made of one featuring the work of the department’s technical
laboratory, giving the visitors an idea of the special talents necessary in a
museum.

Some major collections were obtained by the department, including
automatic control devices from Taylor Instrument Co., some unique early
plastic materials from the Celanese Plastics Co., experimental psy chology

Admiralty-style model of the Continental Frigate Confederacy.

92 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

{
equipment from Cornell University, a twelfth-century rare Persian drug jar |
from the E. R. Squibb Fund, a major coilection of instruments from the |
Maryland Medical and Chirugical Faculty, materials related to the work of !
John William Draper from his descendents, and the contents of the
Western Union Museum. Hundreds of individuals and companies |
responded to a plea publicized in the spring of 1972 asking for early |
electrical appliances. As a result a fine collection ranging from toasters and
egg beaters to stoves and washing machines has been added to the National
Collections. On display in the Hall of Nuclear Energy is a model of a
boiling-water reactor presented by Babcock & Wilcox and a demonstration
of the thermonuclear pinch effect from Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory.

Increasing emphasis has been placed in recent years on the collection of |
documentary material to complement our artifacts. Two collections
mentioned already—Draper and Western Union—contain some very
important archival material that will be of great use for research being
done at the museum. Two formal archival collecting programs have been
started, one by the Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering in
cooperation with the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the
American Society of Civil Engineers, the other by the Division of
Electricity in cooperation with the Institute of Electrical and Electronic
Engineers. A continuing special project of Robert Vogel has been the
development of industrial archeology. A number of sites have been
inspected—some with the help of the National Park Service—and a society
has been founded to promote wider interest in the subject in the Western
Hemisphere.

eS ee eee

Archives of American Art

The Archives of American Art enjoyed an unusually successful year in
its work of acquiring, organizing, and giving access to documentation on
the visual arts in America. More than a hundred collections of personal
papers and institutional records came to the Archives during the year,
either as gifts or as loans for microfilming. Among the more important of
these were the correspondence and photographs of the influential
Philadelphia painter and teacher Thomas Anshutz; papers of the New York
painter Philip Evergood; correspondence of the nineteenth-century painter
Lily Martin Spencer; sketchbooks of the contemporary painter Karl
Knaths; correspondence and unpublished manuscripts of the architectural
historian Sybil Moholy-Nagy; and records of the Alan Gallery in New
York, of the Allied Artists of America, of the Corcoran Gallery, and of the
Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum and the Institute of Contemporary Arts,
both in Boston.
HISTORY AND ART 93

The year saw a marked increase in use of the Archives by researchers in
the various regional offices. The 790 letters of inquiry were answered and
research was conducted on the premises by more than 700 historians,
curators, graduate students, and other scholars. Both figures represent
twice the volume of research during the previous year.

Two books published in 1972 based entirely on material in the Archives
are Ben Shahn, by John Morse, and Terminal Iron Works: The Sculpture
of David Smith, by Rosalind Krauss. Of the many other publications
dependent on Archives resources a few are Francis V. O’Connor’s The New
Deal Art Projects: An Anthology of Memoirs, Barbara Rose’s Franken-
thaler, Nathalia Wright’s Letters of Horatio Greenough, Whitney Museum

of American Art’s Eastman Johnson, and William Truettner’s

_ “William T. Evans: Collector of American Paintings” in The American Art
_ Journal.

Two projects initiated in 1972 under grants from the New York
Foundation and the Andrew Wyeth Foundation were the organization and

indexing of the Archives photograph collection and the editing for
_ eventual publication of a richly detailed late nineteenth-century diary kept

by the New York painter Jervis McEntee. Other projects continued during

_the year were the microfilming of the Black Mountain College Art

| Department records and the Archives Oral History Program, which

resulted in 90 tape recorded interviews, of which 65 have been transcribed.

A major activity was the preparation of a Guide to Archives resources,
to be published in the fall by R.R. Bowker Company. This volume, to be
offered to college, museum, and public libraries throughout the country,

_ will list and describe 550 collections of papers available to scholars at the

Archives of American Art.

Freer Gallery of Art

The Freer Gallery of Art continued to carry on research, curatorial, and
exhibition activities as in the past. The third Director of the Gallery, John
A. Pope, retired on 13 August 1972, after 28 years of distinguished
service. He was succeeded by Harold P. Stern, and Thomas Lawton was
appointed Assistant Director. In his retirement Dr. Pope will continue to
work for the Gallery with the goal of producing a comprehensive catalog
of the Freer’s Japanese ceramic holdings.

During this year, there were several special exhibitions in the Gallery.
To commemorate the superb objects bequeathed by the late Eugene and
Agnes E. Meyer, a Memorial Exhibition was opened in September. Many
of the Chinese and Japanese objects included in the exhibition had not
been shown previously, and all are regarded as significant additions to the

_ collection. To complement the Inaugural Exhibition of Japan House in
94 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Japanese Standing Buddha. Wood covered with cloth, lacquer, and gilt, 82 inches
high. Heian period, A.D. 11th century.
HISTORY AND ART 95

New York in September, the Gallery opened a special exhibition of
Japanese paintings of the Rimpa School. During the Christmas season, a
special showing of biblical manuscripts was organized, and in February an
exhibition of Persian art was opened as part of the Gallery’s program of

_ honoring the 2500th anniversary of the founding of the Persian Empire.

The Freer Gallery of Art partook of and assisted the current national

_ interest and awareness of the People’s Republic of China by holding public
_ showings of a film made by Peking television on “‘Recent Archaeological
_ Discoveries in the People’s Republic of China.”” Arrangements for this film
_ were made with the knowledge of that government and the Gallery is

grateful for the opportunity of being able to offer the film to the public.
At the same time, the Director of the National Palace Museum in Taipei,
Taiwan, visited the Freer, and it is the Gallery’s intent to have close ties

_ with all scholars interested in the areas encompassed by the collections.

The Visiting Committee, composed of eight distinguished members,

| held its first meeting on 13 October 1971. Deliberations of the Committee
have been of great assistance to the Gallery, and their initial report was
| submitted to the Secretary for transmittal to the Board of Regents; a

second meeting was held on 31 May 1972.
The Freer Gallery of Art will commence the celebration of the 50th
anniversary of its opening on 2 May 1973. During that year, the Gallery

_ plans to hold three special exhibitions: (1) Japanese Ukiyoe painting, (2)

Chinese figure painting, and (3) Islamic art of the Book; to present three
Freer medals; and to conduct those symposia related to the special
exhibitions. As part of the anniversary year, a 50th Anniversary Fund

| Raising Program has been initiated.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Doubtless the most impressive event of the year was the opening late
in January of the Renwick Gallery. The staff has worked for several years
on plans for restoring the building at 17th and Pennsylvania that served as
the first Corcoran Gallery of Art, which now, bearing the name of its
architect, has been opened as a curatorial branch of NCFA for the
presentation of American craft and design. The central stairway, the large
salon and the octagon room have been restored in the style of the period.

_ The rest of the museum has been converted into modern gallery space,

always respecting the original lines of the building. In addition to the
permanent displays in the period rooms, the gallery opened with seven
exhibitions, the major being ‘““Woodenworks,” an exhibition of the works
of five designers in wood, and “‘Design is....” One of the galleries has
been set aside primarily for exhibitions from abroad sponsored through
embassies. The Renwick has very quickly become a favorite meeting place,
The installation of the Bombay Chandelier was one of the many technical problem
faced in completing the Renwick Gallery for its January 1972 opening.

HISTORY AND ART 97

and a very active program of lectures, demonstrations, and other public
events has been inaugurated.

In the Fine Arts and Portrait Gallery Building, there were 6 large and
17 smaller exhibitions presented during the year, all but 4 produced by the
staff of the NCFA and all designed and mounted by the museum. Seven
were accompanied by substantial publications, the largest being a
monograph on W.H. Johnson, the first serious study of the man. Others
were Boris Anisfeldt, Lee Gatch, Drawings of William Glackens, Two
American Painters, The Prints of J. Alden Weir, and National Parks and the
American Landscape. The exhibition of works by Johnson, a black painter
active chiefly in the 1930s, required several months of intensified work by
the conservation laboratory before these largely forgotten works could be
returned to public attention. This exhibition, as well as “Two American
Painters: Fritz Scholder and T.C. Cannon,” is circulating abroad. Also as
part of its program of exhibitions abroad, the NCFA sponsored an
exhibition of contemporary works, prepared by Mr. Walter Hopps, for

- showing at the Venice Biennale and elsewhere.

Six new galleries were opened in the museum, chiefly for the
presentation of the permanent collection. These include two galleries
devoted to nineteenth-century American landscape. As a result of work in
preparation for the Washington subway, which will pass the museum on G
Street, a crack developed in the Lincoln Gallery which weakened the
cornice and made it necessary to evacuate the large collection of works of
art from this beautiful and historic space and place them in storage. When
the Lincoln Gallery is reopened, the entire gallery will be reorganized and
relit in the manner of the already completed twentieth-century section.

Recording of the collection on the computer reached the first stage of
completion, marking further progress in the restudy and total inventory of
works. During the year, 1590 new works were accessioned; among the
notable acquisitions were October (1867) by John W. Ehninger, Mary
Elizabeth Francis, the Artist’s Daughter (c. 1840) by John F. Francis, a

_ large painting by Esteban Vicente, two drawings by Edward Hopper, and

25 drawings by Alfred Maurer.

Two postdoctoral Fellows and four student Fellows spent the year at
the Collection, and an internship in museum education was provided a
student preparing for the degree of Master of Arts in Teaching. A new
intern program in museum training leading to a Master’s degree in the

_ History of Art with concentration in museum practice was instituted in

association with George Washington University, and plans were made for
year-long internships in museum training for advanced students to begin in
the autumn of 1972.

The Department of Education inaugurated a stimulating program,

_ Discover Graphics, which brought groups of high school students and their
98 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

Provided with prefabricated cardboard walls, children play in the courtyard of the |

NCFA/NPG building during Children’s Day, an annual event at the National
Collection of Fine Arts.

teachers into active participation with a resident graphic artist in the new
Graphics Workshop established at the museum. Study was divided between
the workshop and the print-and-drawing study room. Associated in the
program was a group of young artists from Federal City College. The
active corps of docents, trained by the NCFA education staff, conducted
283 gallery sessions for schoolchildren, and 234 sessions for the general
public. This dedicated group has also taken charge of all exhibition
openings at the NCFA.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service , administered
by NCFA, provided exhibitions on art, history, and science for 550
installations throughout the country to an estimated audience of four
million. To aid in the mounting and packing of exhibitions, NCFA’s newly
established carpenter shop was turned over entirely to the SITES
operation.

This has been an expanding year for the Bicentennial Inventory of
American Paintings before 1914 since the well-laid plans of last year have
been providing astonishing results from around the country. The staff has
been increased to record the many works reported. Plans have been made

|
|
|
|
|

5
HISTORY AND ART 99

also for a series of exhibitions in all areas of the museum to commemorate
the Bicentennial of the American Revolution.

National Portrait Gallery

Two major exhibitions on widely differing themes were mounted by
the Gallery during the course of the year. The first of these, which opened
in the fall, was entitled “Portraits of the American Stage 1771-1971.”
Organized by Monroe Fabian, associate curator of the Gallery, who also
wrote the accompanying catalog, the exhibition contained nearly 100
likenesses of significant theatrical personalities, as well as a large number
of associated objects. The Gallery’s spring exhibition, “ ‘If Elected...’
Unsuccessful Candidates for Presidency 1796-1968” was conceived by
Beverly Cox, assistant historian of the NPG, and organized by her in
collaboration with Harold Francis Pfister, curatorial assistant at the
Gallery. It was accompanied by a 512-page catalog written by the
Gallery’s historian, Lillian B. Miller, and other members of her staff, as
well as a 48-page student-oriented synopsis of the catalog, which is being
distributed nationally in an edition of 60,000 copies by Education
Ventures, Inc., of Middletown, Connecticut, together with teaching guides
and color-slide sets. Portraits of 80 losing candidates for the presidency,
including major third party contenders, were included in the exhibition,
which also contained more than 500 political campaign items of all kinds,
many drawn from the great Ralph E. Becker Collection in The Museum of
History and Technology. Installed in a fashion suggesting the panoply of
political campaigning by James J. Shelton, chief, and Michael Carrigan,
assistant chief, of Exhibits Design, the portraits and associative objects
were accompanied by a 45-minute continuously playing tape of campaign
songs and speeches, as well as a film showing such candidates as Norman
Thomas, Al Smith, and Wendell Willkie. ‘““‘A Glimmer of Their Own
Beauty; Black Sounds of the Twenties,’ an exhibition organized by the
Gallery’s Education Department was held during the summer months. A
two-part exhibition of Black history in the District of Columbia.
“Washington from Banneker to Douglass, 1791-1870” and “‘Washington in
the New Era, 1870-1970” was held in the fall and spring of the year,
respectively.

Ninety-nine portraits were acquired during the course of the year.
Important purchases included a striking oil of General William Clark (of
the Lewis and Clark Expedition) by famed Indian painter George Catlin; a
William Jewett portrait of John C. Fremont, the western explorer known
as the “Pathfinder,” who was also the first Republican candidate for the
presidency; a likeness of the aged Andrew Jackson painted in 1840 by
Trevor Fowler; the group portrait of Zachary Taylor and his military aides
100 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

painted in Mexico in 1848 at the behest of a Richmond, Virginia,
newspaper editor, who believed (correctly as it turned out) that Taylor

would be the next president; a small oil of Confederate General Joseph E. ©

Johnston by Benjamin F. Reinhardt; a rare and moving portrait of
Charlotte Cushman by William Page; a magnificent likeness of the Black

actor Ira Aldridge by Henry Perronet Briggs, purchased from the Player’s |

Club in London; and a pastel of the great dancer Ruth St. Denis by Max
Wieczorek.

Among the important portraits which came to the Gallery by gift were
a self-portrait of Alexander Calder, presented by the artist; a self-portrait
of William Glackens, the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Ira Glackens; a marble bust
of Josiah Quincy by Horatio Greenough, given by Edmund Quincy; an
exceptional folk art sculpture of Senator Stephen A. Douglas, presented
by Richard Guggenheim; an Eastman Johnson portrait of President Grover
Cleveland, given by the subject’s son Francis; and a Norman Rockwell
portrait of President Nixon, funds for which were provided by the Nixon
Foundation.

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

During fiscal year 1972 construction continued on the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden. The scheduled completion date is May
1973:

In addition to preparing the Museum’s collections for the move to
Washington, building the professional staff and projecting future Museum
activities, plans for the inaugural exhibition were advanced, and the
selection of paintings and sculpture to be displayed was completed. The
selected works, currently being researched and prepared, will be installed
to greatest advantage in the Museum’s galleries and garden. Mr. Douglas
MacAgy, formerly director of national exhibitions, National Endowment
for the Arts, was named curator for the opening exhibition.

The catalog of the inaugural exhibition is being prepared for publica-
tion. One thousand paintings and sculpture will be documented and
reproduced—more than two hundred in color—in this volume, which will
serve as an introduction to the scope and variety of the Museum’s
collections.

An event of outstanding importance in fiscal year 1972 was the formal
commitment of 326 outstanding paintings and sculpture by Mr. Hirshhorn
to the Museum. This gift, valued at more than seven million dollars, adds a
group of significant works of art to the collections and goes far beyond the
agreement entered upon by the donor and the Smithsonian Institution.

The Board of Trustees of the Hirshhorn Museum held its first meeting
on 25 September 1971 at the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.

f

HISTORY AND ART 101

La Serpentine, 1909, by Henri Matisse.

102 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Presidentially appointed members of the Board are: Dr. Daniel P.
Moynihan, Chairman, Dr. George Heard Hamilton, Vice-Chairman, Mr. H.
Harvard Arnason, Mr. Leigh B. Block, Mr. Theodore E. Cummings, Miss
Elizabeth Houghton, Mr. Taft B. Schreiber, and Mr. Hal B. Wallis.

During this period of organization and acceleration of overall activities,
the Museum has continued its policy ofproviding replies to public requests
for research information as well as of lending outstanding works of art to
national and international exhibitions. More than 295 requests for research
information and photographs were answered. Eighty-three paintings and
sculpture were loaned to 50 museums, galleries, and institutions. More
than 115 scholars, artists, and officials visited the Hirshhorn Museum
office and warehouse in New York. Approximately 2300 people attended
33 tours of the Hirshhorn Sculpture Garden, Greenwich, Connecticut, for
the benefit of educational, cultural, and philanthrophic organizations.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

The plan for establishing a national museum of design is close to
becoming a reality. The Carnegie Corporation has given the Andrew
Carnegie property (consisting of the mansion, an adjoining townhouse and
gardens) to the Smithsonian as a new home for the Museum. A gift of
$500,000 from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and a comparable
amount in smaller donations will make it possible to proceed with the
renovation. The firm of Hardy, Holzman, Pfeiffer Associates has been
commissioned to do the architectural work.

With an exciting future ahead, the Museum has been able to attract
many gifts. The collection was enriched by 3036 works of art from 78
donors. The most significant gifts were: a collection of over 200 examples
of late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century French wallpapers, a
collection of 187 marionettes, two eighteenth-century chinoiserie terra
cotta figures, a seventeenth-century Spanish bird cage, an early seventeenth-
century altar frontal, two Louis XV lacquer commodes, a large sample of
eighteenth-century Chinese wallpaper, eleven stage designs by Stewart
Chaney, and a glass and metal chandelier from a room designed in 1929 by
the firm of Alavoine. Objects cataloged numbered 1362.

A designer’s Pictorial Reference Library containing over 300,000 items
has been promised to the Museum; the first installment of 12 vertical file
drawers has been received. The library has been expanded to include a
Color Archive containing publications, manuscripts, swatches, standards,
instruments, and other materials related to the study of color. Eight
hundred volumes were added to the library, including 46 scrapbooks, 173
rare architectural books, and 310 rare textile books ranging from the
sixteenth to nineteenth centuries.

|

HISTORY AND ART 103

The Museum’s long-term loan program has been extended throughout
the renovation period. An additional 568 objects were included in
exhibitions at the Metropolitan Museum, National Collection of Fine Arts,
Museum of American Folk Art, Birmingham Museum, Brooklyn Museum,
Corcoran Gallery, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Philadelphia Museum,
Dayton Art Institute, Parrish Art Museum, John and Mable Ringling
Museum, Colorado State University, Mary Washington College, Plattsburgh
State College, Hofstra, and the University of Michigan.

Five exhibitions made up entirely of objects from the collection were
shown elsewhere: “Salute to the Cooper-Hewitt” at the Winter Antiques
Show in New York; Albrecht Durer prints at the Detroit Institute of Art;
“New York As It Was and Might Have Been” at the Century Club;
ceramics from the James Hazen Hyde Collection of the “Four Continents”
at the opening of the Smithsonian’s new Renwick Gallery in Washington;
and a benefit exhibition of Winslow Homer paintings, drawings, and prints
at the Wildenstein Gallery for which the Smithsonian Institution Press
published a catalog.

The Museum was given a grant by the National Endowment for the Arts
to install a permanent outdoor display featuring changing film programs
on urban design. The Carnegie facilities were made available to numerous
outside organizations for educational purposes. Members of the com-
munity were offered a program of 24 events, including curatorial lectures,
children’s workshops, tours, and social activities. The study collections
were used by over 200 scholars from this country and abroad. Ten student
interns and fifty-seven volunteers received training at the Museum.

The staff was honored in a variety of ways. Catherine Lynn
Frangiamore was awarded a fellowship to pursue independent research
next year; Regina Solinger and Eliane Zuesse were given stipends to
participate in a summer workship at Cooperstown; Elaine Dee and
Christian Rohlfing received travel grants to attend international
conferences; and Milton Sonday published an article in the December issue
of the Textile Museum Journal.

Four new members were added to the Advisory Board: The Honorable
Robert Weaver, former Secretary of HUD and now professor of urban
affairs at Hunter College; Mr. Cass Canfield, Jr., the publisher; Mr. Sydney
Gruson, Vice President of the New York Times Company; and Mr. Thomas
E. Murray II, a Member of the New York Stock Exchange.

Planning for the future has been in progress over the past year. A major
grant from the New York State Council on the Arts has enabled the
Museum to conduct studies and conferences leading to a redefinition and
expansion of its role. As the need for a museum of design process becomes
more evident, the staff looks forward to the Museum’s reopening with
great anticipation.
104 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

During fiscal year 1972 the major endeavor of the National Armed
Forces Museum Advisory Board, assisted by its staff, was toward the
establishment of Bicentennial Outdoor Museum. To that end, and also to
designate the study center authorized under Section 2(a) of Public Law
87-186 as the Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research, S.
2153 and H.R. 10311—identical bills—were introduced into the 92nd
Congress.

The proposed legislation was approved by the National Capital Planning
Commission, the Department of the Army (on behalf of the Department
of Defense), and the Department of the Interior. At the request of the
National Park Service the proposed legislation was changed to designate
the prospective facility Bicentennial Outdoor Museum, rather than
Bicentennial Park. The Department of the Interior further recommended
the outright transfer of Fort Foote Park and Jones Point Park to the
administrative custody of the Smithsonian Institution upon appropriation
of funds for the museum’s development, rather than joint use by the two
agencies.

The proposed legislation received the strong support of the Adminis-
tration. President Nixon, in a special Bicentennial message to the Congress
on 4 February 1972, endorsed Bicentennial Outdoor Museum as an
“important undertaking to give the bicentennial activities metropolitan
scope,” and asked “prompt Congressional action to approve the Bi-
centennial Outdoor Museum and to authorize appropriations for planning
it.” At the same time the Office of Management and Budget, Executive
Office of the President, included funds for planning the museum in the
Administration’s budget for fiscal year 1973.

Joseph Henry Papers

Volume one of The Papers of Joseph Henry, documenting his early
years in Albany, New York, is scheduled for formal release on 26
December 1972 at ceremonies to be held in the Great Hall of the
Smithsonian Building. Accompanying the ceremonies will be an exhibit
displaying a selection of Henry manuscripts, items from his personal
library, as well as research materials and techniques used in various stages
of the editorial process. A number of items to appear in future volumes
will also be exhibited.

Work is presently underway on volume two, which documents Henry’s
first years at Princeton University as Professor of Natural Philosophy
(from the end of 1832 through 1835). While family connections and old
scientific friends still tied Henry to Albany, his arrival at Princeton marks a

- HISTORY AND ART 105

new stage in his career. Building up the facilities for scientific teaching and
research at Princeton, Henry enters the national and international
scientific scene. An extensive run of laboratory notes shows the
intensification of his pioneering work in electromagnetism begun in
Albany. Aside from documenting other aspects of Henry’s widening
scientific interests, correspondence and personal journals illuminate the
developing environment for science not only at Princeton but at national
centers like Philadelphia and New York.

The Nineteenth-Century Seminar continued its successful run under the
direction of Nathan Reingold, who also organized a series of three
Saturday Conferences in spring 1972 on the history of science and its
social and cultural context.

Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies conducts a formal graduate program in
material culture of the United States which is directed to the original
Smithsonian purpose: “the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”
Graduate students from area universities participated in the program,
gaining academic credit toward advanced degrees at those universities. All
entering graduate students take the seminar in “Material Aspects of
American Civilization,’ which was taught by Dr. Harold K. Skramstad,
Chief of Special Projects, National Museum of History and Technology,
and which dealt this year with the theme of ethnicity. Dr. Cary Carson,
Coordinator of Research of the St. Mary’s City Commission and Adjunct
Scholar of the Smithsonian Institution, again gave his seminar in
“Historical Uses of Vernacular Architecture” during the spring semester.
Dr. Paul Kleppner, Visiting Postdoctoral Research Associate attached to
the American Studies Program, gave a year-long seminar on American
voting behavior in the nineteenth century. A Work-Study Program in
Historical Archaeology, offered by the St. Mary’s City Commission in
cooperation with the American Studies Program of the Smithsonian,
George Washington University, and St. Mary’s College of Maryland, was
held from 19 June to 25 August 1972, with participation by graduate
students and Smithsonian staff members. In addition to these formal
seminars, supervision of individual reading and research projects, thesis
direction, and preparation of comprehensive examinations were under-
taken by the director and cooperating Smithsonian staff members.

Office of Academic Studies

The Office of Academic Studies, under the direction of the Board of
Academic Studies, administers Institution programs in higher education,
106 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

including fellowship and administrative support for pre- and postdoctoral
Fellows engaged in independent research, for graduate and undergraduate
students in directed research and study assignments, for short-term visitors
studying in the Smithsonian’s collections, and for departmental seminars.

For academic year 1972-1973, 26 predoctoral and 30 postdoctoral
fellowships were awarded. Three of these postdoctoral fellowships were
supported by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities
for research in American Indian studies. For several years the Smithsonian
has cooperated with universities in jointly funding fellowships for graduate
students pursuing course work partly at their home universities and partly
at the Institution. This year two such fellowships were awarded in
American Civilization at Georgetown University. In addition one doctoral
candidate in the History of Science and Technology is being jointly
supported with the University of Maryland. With the continued develop-
ment of the conservation training program of the Cooperstown Graduate
Programs, the Smithsonian anticipates extensive cooperation in offering
laboratory experience to Cooperstown graduate students.

Appointments for directed research and study were awarded to 80
graduate and undergraduate students during the year, of which 22 were
supported under grants from the National Science Foundation. Many of
these students have received academic credit from their home institutions
for studies conducted at the Smithsonian.

Two departmental seminars were supported. The number of short-term
visitors to the Institution increased during this year, 26 individuals
receiving partial or full support.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

During 1972, the Smithsonian Archives assumed its responsibilities for
archival resources throughout the Institution. The Preliminary Guide to
the Smithsonian Archives, which appeared in September in conjunction
with the Smithsonian’s 125th anniversary served as an example of how
Smithsonian archives should be made known and available for research.
The Archivist discussed archival needs with members of numerous bureaus
and set priorities.

The Archives’ first priority is care of archives in the National Museum
of Natural History, which contains a wealth of resources for research in
the history of science. Working with curators, the Archives’ goal is to
publish a full guide to archival and manuscript resources of the National
Museum of Natural History. The Archives receives and cares for inactive
records, and processes on location those records open to scholars which
remain in the Museum for use with the National Collections.
HISTORY AND ART 107

An archives committee was formed in the National Museum of Natural
History and the National Museum of History and Technology. Archives
staff continued to develop computerized finding aids with the Smithsonian
Information Systems Division. In summer 1972 the Archives supervised
two deaf students from Gallaudet College in study of archival administra-
tion.

Other projects during 1972 included a survey of administrative office
records; supervision of arrangement and microfilming of the Registrar’s
accession records; appraisal of records at the Astrophysical Observatory;
processing 125 cubic feet of National Zoological Park records; and
submission of the Smithsonian’s first report to the National Union Catalog
of Manuscript Collections.

Office of Seminars

Improved public understanding of the international and research bases
of modern science was the aim of two major efforts of the Office of
Seminars in 1972. One was the establishment of an advisory committee to
serve the Secretary in his capacity as chairman of the December 1972
meetings in Washington of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science. The other was working out arrangements for co-sponsorship,
by the Smithsonian and the National Academy of Sciences of an
international symposium, “The Nature of Scientific Discovery.” The
symposium is scheduled for 25-27 April 1973 in commemoration of the
500th anniversary of the birth of Copernicus. A joint program-planning
committee under the chairmanship of Professor John Wheeler, the
Princeton physicist, was appointed to consider recommendations of a
larger Smithsonian consultative panel. United States observance of the
Copernican Quinquecentennial was being coordinated with UNESCO, and
financed by contributions sought from foundations and corporations.
Professor Owen Gingerich of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
and Harvard University was named editor of the symposium volume—one
of several multimedia educational materials to be produced by the
symposium. (The 1969 symposium volume, Man and Beast: Comparative
Social Behavior, continued to prompt book reviews and sales to colleges.)

“The Educational Uses of Museums” was the theme of lectures given by
the Director of Seminars in five Asian countries in October-November
1971 under auspices of the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of
the Department of State. He spoke to museum officials and professional
societies in South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, and
Indonesia, returning via the University of the South Pacific in Fiji and the
East-West Center, Honolulu. Films, from the Smithsonian’s Festival of Folk
Life on the Mall and the Anacostia Museum illustrated the lectures.
108 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

The Office of Seminars was responsible for organizing and coordinating
the celebration of the 125th anniversary of the Smithsonian 26 September
1971. The occasion is described in a booklet featuring the anniversary
address by Secretary S. Dillon Ripley, “Museum Objects, Truth, and
Education,” to be published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The
introduction was prepared by Wilton S. Dillon, who served as general
chairman.

An eight month seminar series, “Man’s Internal Environment,” sup-
ported by a grant from Dr. William D. Davidson, M.D., President, Institute
for Psychiatry and Foreign Affairs, explored research in the medical and
behavioral sciences relevant to understanding human capacities to control
problems of population, pollution, and violence.

Throughout the year distinguished scholars addressed the Smithsonian
staff and the general public. Governor Rolf Edberg, Swedish statesman and
author (On the Shred of a Cloud and At the Root of a Tree) spoke on
“Man and His Shrinking World,” the text of which appeared in the
Congressional Record. Dr. Avraham Biran, director of antiquities in Israel,
described recent archeological excavations in the Near East, and Dr. Caleb
Olaniyan, Nigerian biologist, spoke on the ecology of brackish water in
West Africa.

The Office also served as a resource for helping to plan or participate in
seminars, conferences, and symposia in other institutions. The director
opened a faculty seminar series at the University of Alabama with an
address on “Man and His Institutions.’ He spoke on “Anthropological
Perspectives on Violence” before the American College of Psychiatrists,
the Psychiatric Society of Washington, and the Department of Psychiatry,
Harvard Medical School. As president of the Anthropological Society of
Washington, he presided over a series of programs on “Ethnicity and
Ethnic Categories” held at American University and Catholic University.
The Office has been used also by the Department of State for discussions
with university officials about the future of area studies in the United
States and to cooperate with the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
in planning the 1972 Oxford Pugwash conference on science and world
affairs.

In 1972 the directer became president of the board of directors,
Institute of Intercultural Studies, American Museum of Natural History,
New York; secretary, boara of trustees, Phelps-Stokes Fund of New York;
and adjunct professor, University of Alabama.
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

The Smithsonian has maintained its continuing concern for achieving
the objectives envisioned by all museums. Through funding of the National
Museum Act programs, for the first time in fiscal year 1972, the
Smithsonian was able to provide increased technical aid and assistance to
museums throughout the United States and abroad. The Advisory Council
on National Museum Act programs developed guidelines and procedures
for applying for and receiving grants of funds to advance the museum
profession through research, publication, and training. Sixteen such grants
were awarded in fiscal year 1972.

Through United States membership in the International Centre for the
Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (Rome Centre), which
was authorized by the Congress, strides are being made on an international
basis to develop new techniques for the conservation of monuments and
works of art and for the training of conservators and preservations.

The Smithsonian also continued to support the common objectives of
the American Association of Museums and of the United States National
Committee of the International Council of Museums.

The Office of Exhibits Programs contributed substantially to the
educational aspects of all our exhibitions through imaginative techniques
in presenting information. An excellent example in fiscal year 1972 dealt
with the highly controversial subject of drug use and misuse; the exhibit
was titled “Drugs: A Special Exhibition,” and has evoked much interest
and many questions.

The Conservation-Analytical Laboratory continued to develop various
techniques for conserving and analyzing historic objects, advising
numerous inquirers on methods to assist them in identifying problems
concerned with artifact preservation.

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries, in addition to their normal serv-
ices, again served a clinical function in formal library education, cooperat-
ing in a predoctoral fellowship, a course on research methodology, and joint
cooperation in library studies with library schools of nearby universities.

The Office of the Registrar reported on the continuing public awareness
as evidenced by the multitude of inquiries received on a variety of
subjects.

The distribution of United States publications through the International
Exchange Service served to exchange information with organizations in
more than 100 countries. Exchange bureaus similar to the Smithsonian
International Exchange Service directed more than 100,000 publications
for distribution in the United States.

109
110 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Through these and other related activities, the Smithsonian is providing
needed services that have become increasingly appreciated by the museum
profession.

Office of Smithsonian and National Museum Programs

During the fiscal year, the Office of Museum Programs changed its
name to reflect a broad program of assistance, research, and information in
museum problems and in operations cf museums throughout the United
States and abroad. As an innovative program, all projects developed by
this Office endeavor to upgrade and advance professional practices.

The National Museum Act, authorized in 1966 received its first
appropriation of $600,000 in fiscal year 1972. In accordance with the
appropriation legislation, the National Endowment for the Arts and the
National Endowment for the Humanities each received $100,000 from the
above sum. Through the National Museum Act the Smithsonian Institution
is able to provide technical aid and assistance to museums throughout the
United States and abroad. Funds may be granted for specific proposals
that will advance the museum profession either through research,
publication, or training. An Advisory Council met for the first time on 10
November 1971 to recommend guidelines and procedures for granting
these funds. Science, history, and art museums, as well as museum-related
organizations, are eligible to apply for grants.

Sixteen applications were funded including, for example, support for
the six regional Museum Conferences, the development of a curriculum in
museum studies, three in-service seminars in museum administration, a
consultation service for small history museums, five in-service seminars on
history museums and historic house operations, internships in conservation
techniques, a publication: The /nterpretation of Historic House Museums,
an international exchange program for museum professionals, an ap-
prentice program for museum technicians and a publication: Guide to
Historic Preservation Historical Agencies, and Museum Practices: A
Selective Bibliography.

The office continues to receive innumerable requests from museums for
technical assistance. Such questions as (1) how to raise funds, (2) how to
create an exhibition program, (3) how to organize an education program,
(4) how to train museum personnel, and (5) how to care for collections are
most frequently asked.

Continuing a tradition of exchange of ideas, this office has supported
directly a number of other important programs, such as, (1) a Conserva-
tion Information Project which will produce approximately 100 video- and
audiotapes on conservation techniques, practices, and problems; (2)
a Systematic Biology Conference for the Development of a National
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 111

Program on Resources and Resource Management; (3) a special three day
symposium on psychological and sociological studies of the museum
environment and the publication of the proceedings of this meeting; and
(4) the Museum Data Bank Coordinating Committee, which studies the
interphase and cooperation between various museum computer programs.

As a special project this year, the Smithsonian Institution opened its
Drug Exhibit. This office sponsored an adjunct activities area in which
panel discussions, lectures, live theatrical performances, film shows, and
other presentations on drugs were held. This added dimension to the
exhibition provided an excellent opportunity for the museum visitor to
receive more information on drugs and enrich his museum visit.

Office of Exhibits Programs

The Office of Exhibits Programs—restructured and more efficient—
produced more than 200 separate exhibits and exhibits-related projects in
fiscal year 1972. The professional resources of the OEP assisted virtually
every Smithsonian area from the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum to
National Zoological Park.

A special exhibition in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Building
heralded the Institution’s 125th anniversary, while ‘““Drugs—A Special
Exhibition” created nationwide interest for its unique multifaceted
commentary on a current sociai crisis. Our Restless Planet, a permanent
hall of physical geology, opened in the National Museum of Natural
History; and development progressed on “It All Depends,” a major
exhibition on environmental responsibility that will open in 1973. The
popular Insect Zoo was among the special exhibitions at Natural History.

The new, permanent Monetary History and the Graphic Arts halls were
completed in fire-damaged areas of the National Museum of History and
Technology; the remaining galleries—Philately, News Reporting, and
Photography—will open in fiscal year 1973.

The first new-concept National Air and Space Museum exhibitions,
“Ballooning” and “World War I Fighters,” opened in the Arts and
Industries Building.

The Office of Exhibits Programs contributed substantially to the new
Renwick Gallery and to several major SITES presentations, including
“Greenland.”

The death of John E. Anglim (23 May 1972) was a grievous loss to the
entire museum world. In large measure, he had been personally responsible
_ for the development of exhibits at the Smithsonian, and had trained or
_ advised many of today’s exhibits specialists.
112 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Conservation effort within our confining walls has reduced the backlog
of unstarted requests to about 70. Upon request we have advised twelve
bureaus, other museums, and about five hundred enquirers on safe
environments for many different kinds of objects and on methods of
mounting and cleaning them. Documents, graphics, and objects of fibers,
leather, metal, stone, and wood, ranging in date from prehistoric to the
present and in culture from Ancient Chinese to Cosmonaut, have been
collected or excavated, cleaned, repaired, and chemically stabilized. Causes
of damage have included accident, corrosion, unchecked decay and insects.

Members of the staff have attended courses in paper conservation and
in use of the polarizing microscope for fiber and pigment identification;
shared in an encounter between paper conservators and scientists;
organized a conference section on spectrographic techniques in the
Museum Laboratory; and lectured regularly on conservation to fifty
interested persons and irregularly to numerous special-interest groups, as
well as maintaining active relationships with national and international
organizations concerned with artifact preservation.

Analytical facilities have been supplied for curators to about 270
samples, resulting in 5600 elernental and other analyses, 1150 of them on
medieval glass by neutron-activation techniques, 4000 on materials of all
kinds by UV spectrography, 500 by X-ray fluorescence analysis. Pigments,
minerals, corresion products have been identified by X-ray diffraction and
infrared spectrophotometry—used also to identify commercial materials
proposed for long-term contact with artifacts. The structures of metals and
layering of paints on religious objects, decorated gourds, and transport
vehicles have been studied in cross-section at various magnifications.

Office of the Registrar

This year the Office of the Registrar’s activities encompassed again its
traditional roles as record keeper for the museums and as service office for
the Institution providing assistance to the staff and public in such matters
as mail distribution, shipping, customs procedures, official travel, and
public inquiries.

A long overdue project expected to take several years for completion
was begun in cooperation with the Smithsonian Archives to microfilm the
Office of the Registrar’s holdings of accession records. These irreplaceable
original records are the basic documentation of the National Collections,
dating from the establishment of the National Museum. They are not
duplicated elsewhere, and their safety has been of increasing concern.

|

SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 113

Twenty-nine hundred and twenty-seven accession memoranda covering
the acquisition of a much larger number of individual items for the
collections were recorded:during the year. Some two million pieces of mail
were handled in serving Smithsonian personnel in the four buildings on the
Mall and in various offices in other parts of the city. Shipments processed
by the office numbered 24,433 pieces totaling 1289 tons, and involved
over a hundred customs entries. Passports, visas, and other diplomatic
travel documents were obtained for approximately three hundred official
travelers. Public awareness of the Institution continues to be evidenced by
the lively pace of inquiry mail on a variety of subjects and in response to
Smithsonian programs.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

All recorded use of the Libraries increased in fiscal year 1972. User
contacts were up 17 percent to more than 47,000, and circulation
increased 34 percent. About one-quarter of the material used was
borrowed from other libraries. The cataloged collections grew by nearly
15,000 volumes.

The General Library was administratively reorganized, with services to
the bureaus featured separately from the general services. A Technical
Processing Center was established to combine the acquisitions and
cataloging work under one supervisor. An outstanding special librarian was
recruited to fill the newly created position of head of the National Air and
Space Museum Branch Library, and three positions were added to the
service staffs for branches in the National Museum of Natural History and
the National Museum of History and Technology.

Space modification for better collection management and flow of
materials was begun in three locations: a rare book room in the A&l
Building, a stack area in the S.J. Libraries Center at Lamont Street, and a
decking over of the cataloging area in the Natural History Building.

The Libraries again served a clinical function in formal library
education, cooperating in a predoctoral fellowship, a course on research
methodology, and a field work project. Five students were involved from
the library schools of the University of Maryland and the University of
Washington.

Automation proceded slowly. All serials titles were stored in the
computer and output was obtained on microfilm. At year’s end the
Director established an ad hoc study group for a Federal Library Service
Center to develop cooperative automation projects among federal libraries.
PUBLT GrSERMIICE

The Office of Public Service has the distinction of beginning each of its
fiscal years with a lively event—the Festival of American Folklife
sponsored by the Division of Performing Arts. The fifth annual festival
featured the state of Ohio, and for the first time had a major contribution
on the American laborer from the AFL-CIO. Thousands thronged the Mall
to watch bakers, iron workers, meatcutters and other union workers
perform their skills. Indian tribes from the Northwest presented their
traditional arts and discussed contemporary problems in workshops and
seminars. The division is conducting its fieldwork for future years’ festivals
with an eye toward the Bicentennial where there may be a festival lasting
several months, and featuring several states.

Two new publications were begun this past year to keep the public
aware of the Smithsonian’s many diverse activities. The Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education began publishing on a bimonthly
schedule the Smithsonian Institution Bulletin for Schools. It is sent to all
teachers in the metropolitan area to keep them informed of and involved
with exhibits and programs of special interest to their students. OESE has
also designed several’ new tours in the museums where students are
encouraged to study a few selected exhibits in depth.

The Smithsonian magazine continued into its third successful year with
a National Associates membership of well over 300,000. During the past
year there were more than 34 articles either about Smithsonian exhibitions
or written by staff members. Our National Assocfates program provides
special services to its members as announced through the magazine, such as
domestic and foreign study tours, and a book service, whereby Associates
can buy curator-selected books at a discount. The Smithsonian ‘magazine
thus serves to educate and entertain its readers, and provides information
about tangible benefits available only to Smithsonian Associates.

The Smithsonian Institution Press designed and published several new
publications relating to exhibits this past year. The Press has found that in
order to sell adaptations of exhibit-related material to schools, they must
be part of an audiovisual package, so the Press is exploring with other
divisions of the Institution the fields of cassettes, recordings, and films for
future projects. Three editors won Federal Editors Association Awards for
outstanding government publications, and Stephen Kraft won both first
and second awards of the Art Directors Club for his design work. The Press
shipped a total of 266,000 publications during the year.

“The Evolution of a Community” at the Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum was another of its successful exhibits suggested and planned by

114
PUBLIC SERVICE 115

the Neighborhood Advisory Committee. The History of the community
was conveyed to the visitor through old photographs, films, and taped
interviews with older residents of Anacostia. The Neighborhood Museum
has prepared a major proposal for Bicentennial funds to construct an
Exhibits Design and Production Laboratory. The laboratory will be used
to train minority people in the planning, design, and production of
exhibits and related educational materials. It will, in addition, strengthen
Secretary Ripley’s vision of the Museum as a center that answers
person-to-person needs and involves itself at all levels of the community.

Smithsonian Associates

The year was a period of review and consolidation of Associates
activities. National and resident programs were brought together under the
management of an executive director, and a Corporate and Individual
Membership program was formed.

In October the recently established National Board of the Smithsonian
Associates met under its chairman, Regent Thomas J. Watson, Jr. This
group of industrial and citizen leaders is committed to assisting the
Institution extend its appeal to business organizations for private financial
support. In return, the Institution is preparing to render counsel and
appropriate assistance to corporations in employee education and support
of local museums and similar institutions. By June the Board’s member-
ship of 27 persons had begun a corporate member solicitation. Pilot
projects were being investigated in Peoria, Illinois, and San Francisco,
California. In the fiscal year, ten Corporate Members contributed $56,740
to the Institution’s general funds in addition to gifts of objects and project
support.

The individual membership (persons making larger annual contribu-
tions) brought the Institution $15,500 in donations. Members in the
Washington, D.C., area enjoyed participation in several important oc-
casions during the year.

Study of the relations between national and resident members led to an
extensive review of the Resident program and survey of the local
membership. As a result, plans were made to extend the scope of resident
programs to serve a larger part of the National Capital area population, and
to experiment with off-Mall programs. Smithsonian magazine, formerly an
optional benefit of resident members, would become the journal of all
Associates at no increase in cost.

The Members’ Reception Center was staffed and furnished in a room
adjoining the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution Building to provide
increased information services to members and museum visitors. A devoted
group of 100 volunteers operated information desks in Smithsonian
116 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

museums and carried out 193 service projects. Another 65 volunteers were
placed in special projects by the Center.

In its sixth year the Resident Program served more than 15,000
members. It continued to provide opportunities for people to explore the
collections, learn about the museums’ research, and study with both
Smithsonian and visiting scholars and craftsmen. During the year, more
than 2000 adults and young people took 82 courses in a variety of subjects
ranging from Near Eastern archaeology and Peruvian art to American
political history, oceanography, and bird behavior. Adults participated in
new studies of Washington, D.C., and an innovative course in city-building
for young people was developed. In addition, more than 1200 members
created their own works of art in 38 craft workshops.

Over 140 special events were offered including openings, luncheon
talks, lectures, films, museum tours, field trips, day tours, fashion shows,
concerts and other performing arts attended by more than 25,000 persons.
Members had fun making stone-age tools, learning of the Mall’s history,
and sharing some new facts about Nefertiti revealed by a major
computer-research project. Some 2000 young people also participated
in six children’s programs, and Associates families undertook 39 field trips
led by Smithsonian scholars.

The Women’s Committee pursued nearly two dozen projects to aid the
Institution and managed two benefits; a fashion show of Sikkimese
clothing and an old-fashioned Christmas dance. Proceeds from these events
provided scholarships for 208 young people in Associates classes,
supported the Insect Zoo, and helped a visual education program at the
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.

Office of Public Affairs

A significant event for the Office of Public Affairs during the year was
the launching of a new quarterly Smithsonian Institution Research
Reports. First published in May for distribution to news media, libraries,
and other academic institutions, the quarterly will be a means of focusing
attention on the diverse interesting and important work done behind the
scenes by scientists and curators throughout the Institution. In the past
twelve months, the OPA News Bureau wrote and distributed a record total
of almost 300 news releases and more than 100 radio announcements. The
bureau also played major roles in publicizing the opening of the Renwick
Gallery and the openings of a number of major exhibitions. “Radio
Smithsonian” began its third year in September 1971, and is now heard
over 84 stations in 33 states. Work proceeded in the past year on a new
film, Dilemma of the Museums, in which various challenges and oppor-
tunities before Smithsonian museums are explored. Work has begun on a

|
{
i}
|

|
|

|
| PUBLIC SERVICE ny

second version of Around the Clock at the Smithsonian. This film will be

used for visitor orientation in the museums. Smithsonian exhibits also have
been the subject of a number of films made by various groups for
educational and other uses. In recent months, OPA has undertaken a
general review of the Institution’s aims and goals in the television field.

| Other OPA activities include publication of the Smithsonian Torch and
monthly Calendar of Events, and revised guides to Smithsonian museums
_of which more than three million copies were printed. A total of 41,358

callers dialed the Dial-A-Museum answering service, and 100,138 dialed the
Dial-A-Phenomenon service. In addition, thousands of inquiries from
visitors, media, and citizens throughout the world were handled by the
staff of the Office of Public Affairs.

Office of International Activities

The Office of International Activities fosters new dimensions to

' Smithsonian programs abroad. In the past year, the Institution’s scientific

and cultural exchanges with the People’s Republic of China, its inter-
national art programs, as well as cooperative programs in environmental
research and conservation, have received special attention. Specifically, a
revised agreement between the Smithsonian and the United States
Information Agency was signed supplying that Agency exhibits in the arts.
Moreover, the Office is now working actively with foreign embassies in
Washington and other foreign organizations to bring exhibitions from
abroad to the international exhibition rooms of the new Renwick Gallery.

The Office of International Activities administers the Smithsonian
Foreign Currency Program which received an appropriation of $3.5 million
in “excess” foreign currencies for fiscal year 1972 for the support of
grants to United States institutions of higher learning for “museum
programs and related research in the natural sciences and cultural history.”
The program has awarded more than $15 million in foreign currency
grants to more than 65 United States institutions of higher learning over
the past seven years. Major environmental research programs initiated this
year with Program support include two major limnology studies in
Yugoslavia, one in India, and one Desert Biome study in Tunisia, the
latter, part of the United States contribution to the International
Biological Program.

Division of Performing Arts

The Division of Performing Arts continued to present ex4mples of the
American esthetic experience with particular emphasis on illuminating the
Smithsonian collections.
118 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

The fifth annual Festival of American Folklife featured the state of |

Ohio and Indian tribes from the Northwest. A notable new feature was a
new exhibit which dealt with American workers and was presented with
the sponsorship of the AFL-CIO. The skills and crafts of iron workers,
bakers, glass bottle blowers, and meatcutters were demonstrated, and
workshops explored the relationship of the worker to his union and
society.

Noted Jazz scholar, Martin Williams, joined the staff of the Division of
Performing Arts to plan and implement scholarly activities, live concerts
and a series of recordings dealing with the history of Jazz.

The Perceptions series continued to offer performances by contempo-
rary creative figures, including composer Steve Reich and_ the
improvisational theater group, The Proposition.

The Division of Performing Arts again joined with the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts and the American Theater Association in
the production of the American College Theater Festival, which was
housed in the new Eisenhower Theater in the Kennedy Center. The twenty
productions ranged from Oedipus Rex presented by Southern Methodist
University, to the contemporary 365 Days presented by the University of
Minnesota.

The Smithsonian Touring Performance Service continued to provide
performances not available through commercial management to museums,
colleges, universities and cultural centers throughout the country. The
Smithsonian Puppet Theatre completed a full year of operation offering
performances of original scripts dealing with museum related themes. A
notable success was achieved in the production of Eureka relating the
adventures of a small boy and his friend as they travel through time and
ideas.

Belmont Conference Center

The Belmont Conference Center has now entered its sixth year of
operation, with the goal of providing a secluded, gracious setting for
small groups needing an exclusive and relaxed working atmosphere.
Through word-of-mouth recommendations by previous guests (Belmont
does no advertising of any kind), the Center finds itself host to more
groups each year: forty-five in fiscal year 1969, fifty-eight in 1970,
sixty-nine in 1971, and seventy-nine in 1972; over 1650 participants have
been welcomed in the last twelve months.

Belmont accepts conferences from all types of groups and this year has
received guests from 35 government agencies, 53 colleges and universities,
5 foundations, 2 Presidential commissions, and 15 private groups. An
astounding 40 percent of these groups has been holding conferences at
Belmont for at least three of the past five years.

PUBLIC SERVICE 119

Twenty-four residents can be accommodated at Belmont, with facilities
for meetings and meals for thirty people. The 240-year-old manor house is
now air conditioned, and ever-continuing improvements make the
residence and 365 surrounding acres of lawns, fields, and forests more
enjoyable each year. The availability of such a beautiful location, together
with the advantage of easy access to Washington’s National and
Baltimore’s Friendship airports, has proven most convenient for Belmont’s
guests.

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Black scientists and their achievements from early days to the present
time were honored in the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s exhibit
“Science: Man’s Greatest Adventure.” The life stories of seven of the
contemporary scientists were compiled into a booklet entitled They Were
Determined and distributed to junior and senior high school tour groups,

‘libraries, and science supervisors in the District of Columbia public

schools.

Old photographs, films, and tape recordings traced the history of
Anacostia in the exhibit “The Evolution of a Community.” Visitors
walked through replicas of the Old Douglass Hall, Birney School, a section

of a neighborhood church, and a family parlor of the early twenties.

Douglass Hall served Black residents of Anacostia as a meeting place and
social center in the early 1900s. Interviews with oldtime residents were
recorded on tape by the staff of the Museum’s Center for Anacostia
Studies. The exhibit was conceived by the Neighborhood Advisory
Committee of the Museum.

The Mobile Division has been able to increase its services to the
community with the acquisition of video-tape equipment that will be used
to give an increased dimension to the Museum’s exhibits and create a
video-record of its programs.

A children’s room now occupies a section of the exhibit area.
Demonstrations of how soap, butter, ice cream, taffy, and candles are
made together with multimedia presentations on Black history are among
the various programs offered to children by the Museum’s education
department.

Smithsonian

Smithsonian, the Institution’s national magazine, began its third year of
publication with the April 1972 issue. At the close of the fiscal year, net
paid subscriptions had climbed well past 300,000. Subscribers are National
120 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Members of the Smithsonian Associates, and thus form a reservoir of
interest and support for the Institution.

Although the magazine is not a Smithsonian “house organ,” it is
appropriate that much of the editorial content is generated by the
activities or interests of the Institution. During the last year there were 34
major articles either directly related to Smithsonian exhibitions and
research projects or written by Smithsonian staff members. Subjects
ranged from the paintings of the neglected Black artist William H.
Johnson, given his first major exhibition by the National Collection of
Fine Arts last fall, to Dr. Dale W. Jenkins’ sobering study of toxic metals
in the environment (not to mention the first color photographs of the
National Zoological Park’s most celebrated acquisitions, the giant pandas).

Non-Smithsonian authors who contributed important articles during
the year include Isaac Asimov, Lionel Casson, Emmet John Hughes,
Margaret Mead, John Bakeless, and Jacques-Yves Cousteau. Among the
photographers represented were such well-known names as Dmitri Kessel,
Loomis Dean, and Farrell Grehan, and there were special commissioned
drawings such as Robert Osborn’s.

Smithsonian has become a means of communication between the
Institution and its constituency, and is a major item in the benefits to the
National Members of the Associates. Other benefits are foreign and
domestic study tours and discounts on items sold in Museum Shops and on
the publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press. These privileges will
extend to more and more people as the magazine continues to acquire new
readers.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Progress continued this year in the development of our museum-related
publications program. Two attractive booklets were produced for new
exhibits in the National Museum of Natural History and were to be made
available at the exhibit sites. Unfortunately, our experiment with an honor
system dispenser for a ten-cent pamphlet was an unqualified failure. Until
we can devise foolproof vending devices, we shall have to be content with
pamphlets located only in the Museum Shops, often far away from the
exhibit and the moment of highest visitor-interest.

Several attempts were made during the year to make arrangements with
commercial publishers for the adaptation of our museum-related
pamphlets (Our Restless Planet, All About Pandas, If Elected) to the public
school market. Educational publishers prefer “packages,” including audio-
visual programs, with the book or pamphlet as one component. The Press
recommends a coordinating panel for the various Smithsonian offices

i
0
PUBLIC SERVICE 121

_ which are already, or soon will be, producing recordings, cassettes, films,
and other items that could make up a marketable educational package.

Three Press editors won Federal Editors Association Awards for
Outstanding Government Publications in 1972: Louise Heskett for Apes
and Angels: The Irishman in Victorian Caricature, Joan Horn for History
of Letter Post Communication Between the United States and Europe, and
Ernest Biebighauser for Hold the Fort! The Story of a Song from the
Sawdust Trail to the Picket Line. Stephen Kraft won both the First and
Second Awards of the Art Directors Club of Metropolitan Washington for
The Hand of Man on America and Music Machines—American Style.

Production costs of 112 publications were funded by federal ap-
propriations in the amount of $412,569.39; 16 were supported wholly by
Smithsonian Institution private funds in the amount of $73,379.16. The
total publications list for 1972 is given in Appendix 5. The Press
warehouse, the Superintendent of Documents, and George Braziller, Inc.
(The Press’ sales and distribution agent) shipped, on order and subscrip-
tion, a total of 265,903 publications during the year. In addition, 293
recordings were distributed by the Press.

Reading Is Fundamental

The National Reading Is Fundamental program is now in its fifth year as

_an independent unit under Smithsonian sponsorship. RIF’s purpose is to
_ motivate disadvantaged children and adults to want to read, by making
_ available a wide variety of interesting and inexpensive paperbacks. The two

motivational forces built into the RIF program have proven to be sound
educational practice—freedom of choice and pride of ownership.

The number of local RIF projects has grown from 18 in 1971 to 55 in
1972, with many more in the developing stage. Seven hundred and fifty

_ thousand children have received 2.75 million RIF books.

A national advertising council campaign, started in September 1971, has
elicited a gratifying response from professional educators and the public.

National RIF acts as liaison with the publishing industry, federal and
local governments, schools, and libraries about book programs and
provides technical assistance and information to those interested in
developing a local project. The sponsoring groups throughout the country
are responsible for local funding, selection of book titles, and distribution.

The Edna McConnell Clark Foundation has committed up to
$1,150,000 to RIF over a three-year period. The grant covers administra-
tive support for National RIF as a Smithsonian activity. Policy guidance is
provided by the National Advisory Board composed of 44 distinguished
Americans. The founder of RIF is Mrs. Robert S. McNamara; Secretary
Ripley serves ex-officio as a member of the RIF Board.
122 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

A variety of new learning opportunities for students has been
introduced this year under the administration of this Office for the
museums on the Mall, pertaining both to the scheduled visits by school
groups and to new services being extended to the schools.

New techniques have been developed in the presentation of several
additional lesson tours in the museums of Natural History, and History
and Technology. Students are encouraged to study in depth a few selected
exhibits and artifacts to draw inferences from their observations of these
items, and to develop some general concepts concerning them. In this way
students are guided through an experience of discovery, using not only the
objects on exhibit but touchable objects as well. The fourth season of
utilizing volunteer high school students as guides in the Mall museums
during the summer months was successfully implemented by the
“Info-71” program.

First efforts to extend the resources of the Smithsonian by directly
reaching out to the classroom have been undertaken. Materials in kit form
have been assembled and released on loan to the schools. A demonstrations
workshop on American folk musical instruments has been provided in
many classrooms of the metropolitan area under the direction of a staff
associate with trained volunteers. Publication of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Bulletin for Schools was inaugurated this year on a bimonthly
schedule to provide a full range of timely information on activities at the
Smithsonian with particular interest to teachers and students.

Representatives of the volunteer corps and members of OESE met in
workshop sessions with elementary-level curriculum specialists from the
six school districts of the Washington area during the months of April and
May.

4
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

In July, a Deputy Under Secretary, Robert A. Brooks, joined the staff.
During the year, in addition to participating in the full range of activities of
this Office, he undertook independently special assignments from the Sec-
retary and the Under Secretary. At the Secretary’s request, the Smithsonian
Institution began a major effort to identify, define, and resolve significant
operating issues which are of concern to all Smithsonian program and
support organizations. These relate to current operations and to future
growth and development. A small working group was established for this
effort under the supervision of the Deputy Under Secretary. This activity
represents a major new step in the decision-making process. The active in-
volvement of all bureaus and offices is required to help bring into clearer

focus the Institution’s resource management priorities and alternatives.

In February, the Director of Support Activities was designated by the
Secretary to serve as liaison for the new Fort Pierce Bureau in Florida. In
addition to this interesting assignment, the Director continued to supervise

and provide management leadership to the support groups that report

directly to him. The International Exchange Service was added to this
group during the year. The Smithsonian Institution Libraries also was
included, pending the appointment of the Assistant Secretary for Museum
Programs. The Libraries’ report appears under “Special Museum Pro-
grams.” Brief descriptions of the major activities of the other units in this
group are given below.

Buildings Management Department carried out its basic responsibilities
to operate, restore, renovate, maintain, and protect Smithsonian buildings.
To cope with increased workloads without attendant expansion of
personnel resources, a variety of management improvements were made.
These included the development and implementation of standards for
housekeeping and maintenance functions; installation of new equipment
and systems for telephone and telegraph communications; introduction of
a cargo shuttle to move small shipments among Smithsonian buildings in
the Washington area; re-emphasis on the need for regular and complete
coordination of activities; implementation of more effective procedures

_and operational methods, and clarification of the scope of authority and

responsibilities at all levels in the Department.

Major projects underway during the year included supervising the
construction contract for the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden; planning for the new National Air and Space Museum Building;
restoring and opening the Renwick Gallery; altering interior of the Arts
and Industries Building; renovating library space in the Natural History

123
124 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Building; installing a planetarium exhibit in the Air and Space Building;
and developing plans and specifications for construction of the new
Ramsey Building at Silver Hill. Small projects undertaken included
constructing and renovating office and laboratory spaces; modifying
heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning equipment; supporting exhibits
construction and installation; and providing extensive design work for
other proposed projects.

Measures taken by the Protection Division to achieve maximum
security in face of increased incidents of crimes, harassments, thefts,
vandalism, and bomb threats included: expansion of the Guard training
program; adjustment of post assignments; and employment of more
electronic security and fire prevention systems.

Support of other Smithsonian programs remained at a high level, with
approximately 20 percent of the Department’s productive manpower
devoted to these activities. The special events portion of this effort
required over 6000 manhours.

The Safety Management Office reported that the 12 percent reduction

in lost-time injuries may be attributed to the excellent support given by |
Smithsonian managers and employees to the “ZERO IN on Federal

Safety’ program.

In the area of personnel management, a new union contract was
negotiated, the awards program was used to greater advantage, and training
was intensified throughout the Department.

Information Systems Division develops and coordinates the use of |

automatic data processing support throughout the Institution. Advances
continued to be made through computer utilization in the areas of
administration, management of national collections, and _ scientific

research, and most bureaus increased their use of this support. Research ©

was conducted to enhance the ways of entering data into the computer |

and the ways of obtaining better output products, such as optical —

character recognition for entering data directly from a printed page; ©

terminal devices to enable telephone communication with the computer;
and computer output to microfilm and microfiche; as well as plotted maps
and other graphical presentations.

Individual research assistance to curators and scientists expanded and
broadened in scope as the Division made available additional mathematical
techniques and software packages.

New developments and refinements enhanced support for the manage-
ment of the national collections in history, art, and science. A recently
developed, but not yet completed, generalized information management
package called SELGEM has aroused much attention within and outside
the Institution because of its potential as a standard for the computerized
management of collections.
‘ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 125

{Honeywell Information Systems and Smithsonian representatives at the ribbon-
cutting ceremony after the installation of the Honeywell-2015 computer system
‘in the Information Systems Division.

As a service to the museum and university community at large, the
Division published information about the SELGEM system in its technical
: bulletin, Smithsonian Institution Information Systems Innovations. The
| “Innovations” series acquaints the reader with automated systems and
I procedures specifically designed to solve collection and research problems
| in museums and herbaria.

Though no totally new systems evolved during the year, many

specialized systems for administration, curation, and analysis were
| expanded to meet changing requirements.

The new Honeywell-2015 computer system, purchased by the
) Smithsonian Institution, was operational in November.

Management Analysis Office, formerly the Administrative Systems
Division, continued to work with members of the Executive Committee
and heads of organization units on management improvement projects. In

| June, two of the analysts were assigned to assist the Deputy Under
_ Secretary in helping to resolve a variety of specific management issues.

During the year, 182 management issuances and one handbook were

_ researched, coordinated, and published, and 5 handbooks and 17 major
issuances were in various stages of completion at year’s end. In addition to
| the management surveys and studies required to accomplish this, the staff
participated in 25 additional studies which resulted in improved manage-

/ ment and operations.

One internal directory and 13 external publications were updated and
16 external special management reports were completed.

. In June, a contract was awarded for the preparation of a manuscript
_ copy of a Smithsonian Correspondence Handbook.
126 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

The Forms Management Unit provided four million copies of 690 forms
to 85 separate Smithsonian units. A feasibility study for an ADP program
to support forms management and control also was completed.

Office of Equal Employment Opportunity. Under the personal leader-|
ship of the Secretary, the Smithsonian’s Equal Employment Plan of
Action was revised. The expanded plan provides for improved recruiting
practices and programs for career advancement, including methods for |
acquiring specific educational and experience requirements, and for
gaining information about educational opportunities available in the
Washington Metropolitan area. The realistic program is designed to assure
equality of opportunity in all official actions of the Institution.

Additionally, a Smithsonian Women’s Council was established to
provide women employees of the Institution a forum for the expression of |
mutual interests. This channel facilitates communication and encourages |
action by the exchange of information and ideas and lends cooperative |
strength to individuals and groups seeking to promote the good of all -
Smithsonian employees.

During the year, 64 consultations were conducted with individual
supervisory staff members on matters relating to their selections of
candidates for promotion under the Merit Promotion Program. Some 34 |
informal complaints were discussed and reviewed and, as factual informa-
tion was developed, the necessary adjustments were accomplished. One
formal complaint was settled to the satisfaction of the complainant, and
one hearing decision is pending.

Three special training sessions were conducted for supervisory
employees. The discussions stressed the necessity for eliminating personal
prejudices, indifference to the needs of employees, and favoritism in
supervisory practices.

Office of Personnel Administration, following its consultative role in
advising and assisting all Smithsonian staff in creating an environment for
individual growth, has as its major thrust to give responsive and positive
assistance to program directors and managers. The principal emphasis
during the year was to bring managers and employees closer together to
develop a more viable relationship. The Office also concentrated on
personnel program development and analysis as a beginning toward
assuring that our personnel management effort serves the needs of the
Institution while fully recognizing that our most precious resource is our
employees.

Labor-Management Relations continued to represent a significant
effort. New contracts were negotiated with the National Zoological Park
and with the Buildings Management Department. An election for union
representation resulted in the Office of Exhibits Programs’ employees
voting for union recognition. Informal and formal meetings between labor
| ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 027

‘and management were encouraged, and both groups are getting closer
together in recognizing legitimate needs of employees while becoming
more aware of the needs of the Institution.

An Executive Manpower Resources Board was established to assist in
identifying and developing high potential employees so they will be able to
assume greater responsibilities.

A Learning Laboratory was established to provide employees an
opportunity to gain basic skills to assist in their self-development. Over
150 employees have enrolled in individual instruction which allows them
to develop at their own pace.

Additional improvements included the beginning of an alcoholism
program to assist employees and managers in coping with this complex
illness and a revised merit promotion program. A complete survey was
made of the Institution’s Health Services used by employees and visitors.
The awards program was emphasized and managers were encouraged to be
»more aware of employee contributions.

Improved visible recognition with support of top management has

contributed to a more productive, better motivated workforce. These
accomplishments were especially significant in a year when employment
‘cutbacks and average grade controls imposed difficult burdens on
-management. The Office of Personnel Administration in conjunction with
the Office of Programming and Budget and the excellent cooperation of
“managers withstood these restrictions without seriously affecting
employee relations.

Photographic Services Division was reorganized in 1972. All like-type
-work was consolidated into one physical area and maximum production
‘techniques were applied. A backlog of 700 jobs was reduced to
approximately 120, production units increased by 68 percent, and job
time was reduced from two to three months to one to two weeks.

The Sales Section provides students, educators, scientists, and the
general public with photographs of the Smithsonian collections. Its
mission is to insure maximum “diffusion of knowledge” through the visual
media. During the first six months, the pay order backlog was eliminated
and the average processing time was reduced from two months to
approximately two weeks. Sales increased 81 percent over the same period
in 1971.

The Library Section centralized 200,000 negatives into temperature-
and humidity-controlled space in the History and Technology Building.
Sixty-five thousand negatives were pulled from the files to fill customer
orders. Fifteen thousand negatives and 1000 transparencies were
numbered, captioned, and filed; plans were formulated for captioning,
indexing, restoring, filing, retrieving, and cataloging all negatives. A
comprehensive study was made by the Management Analysis Office to

128 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

determine resources necessary to accomplish the above plans. Planning was
initiated to put all information into the Smithsonian computer. To the
2000 color slides transferred from the Office of Public Affairs, the Section
added 1500 new ones.

The Laboratory Section overcame a tremendous backlog of work.
Consolidation of all wet processes in one location resulted in a 68 percent
increase in production; the new black and white film processor resulted in
a 75 percent savings in film-processing time; print production increased
from 120,000 last year to over 200,000 this year; and copy negatives
increased from 10,000 to 28,000. The Laboratory produced 28,000 8 X 10
inch glossy prints for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the
Interior, on a contract through the Department of Anthropology. It
contributed photographs for the Balloon exhibit; World War I exhibit;
Korean Village exhibit; the Arabia Felix show; a Japanese exhibit for
SITES: the toy exhibit; the new Numismatics Hall; and the Graphic Arts
exhibit.

The Assignment Section also benefitted from the new processing
equipment as more time of the photographers was released for studio
work. Assignments of interest were The Queen of Sikkim fashion show, —
visits of Mrs. Tito and Mayor Willie Brandt, unveiling of President Nixon’s |
portrait at the National Portrait Gallery, the Renwick Gallery Opening, the
Folklife Festival, the 125th anniversary of the Smithsonian Institution,
and Mrs. Richard M. Nixon receiving the giant pandas.

Supply Division processed over 33 percent more procurement actions
this year than in fiscal year 1971. The successful accomplishment of this
workload, with no increases in personnel, is recognized as a major
contribution to the achievement of the program goals of all Smithsonian |
organizations. As in past years, the Division overlooked no opportunity to —
acquire useful excess government property.

Travel Services Office continued to experience growth in its major —
services, i.e., air and rail reservations booked were up 10 percent; travel _
itineraries issued up 12 percent; transportation requests prepared up 15—
percent; and the dollar value of all transportation purchased was some |
$108,000 higher than last year. !

Planning data, advisory services, and travel arrangements were provided
for the annual Folklife Festival, and for national and international —
conferences, meetings, and expeditions; e.g., the three-week systematics
symposium in Washington, D.C.; archeological expeditions to Yugoslavia, |
Israel, and Greece; and the international meeting in geology in
Novosibirsk, Siberia. Special attention was given to travel arrangements for
the Foreign Currency Program of the Office of International Activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 129

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

The International Exchange Service is the one program bureau included
in the support group. During the year, the Service received publications
from approximately 400 United States organizations for exchange with
organizations in over 100 countries. Exchange publications weighing over
100,000 pounds were received from foreign exchange bureaus for
redistribution in the United States.

More than 450,000 pounds of official United States publications were
transmitted on exchange for official documents of other countries. There
were eight less recipients of full sets but the number of recipients of the
partial sets remained unchanged.

The daily issues of the Congressional Record and the Federal Register
were mailed to 137 foreign libraries in exchange for their parliamentary
journals.

Publications were forwarded by ocean freight to 38 exchange bureaus
in other countries for distribution to the addressees, and publications were
‘mailed to addressees in countries that do not have exchange bureaus.

Approximately 300 medical and dental organizations exchanged their
duplicate journals and books through the Service with libraries in other
countries.

A strike of the East Coast longshoremen in October and November
adversely affected operations.

The Service is again accepting packages of publications for transmission
to the mainland of China.

The Duplicating Section, administered by the Director of the Inter-
national Exchange Service, reproduces materials for all Washington-based
Smithsonian units and for several in the field. The Section’s objective is to
furnish quality material in a minimum amount of time. Management items
reproduced include forms, form letters, administrative directives, organiza-
tion charts, annual and special budget documents, and the Smithsonian
Institution Directory. Research support materials include scientific aad
technical reports, grant applications, information leaflets, preliminary
manuscripts, maps, graphs, charts and line drawings.

A serious loss was sustained with the resignation of the chief assistant in
October. Inability to fill the resulting vacancy for some six months caused
a six weeks backlog of work. This was reduced subsequently to a backlog
of some two weeks and further reduction is anticipated with the
acquisition this year of a new paper cutter and a new multilith machine.
These improvements together with an additional operator planned for the
forthcoming fiscal year should increase production and reduce the amount
of overtime required.
130 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

During the year, the Office of Audits, which reports directly to the
Under Secretary, issued six audit reports on audits conducted by its staff
members. Recommendations made in these reports have resulted in |
improved management procedures and controls, sometimes pointing to |
potential dollar savings.

The Office also reviewed and closed out 47 foreign currency grants |
which were awarded in the total amount of $3.5 million. The close out of |
these grants resulted in $430,000 of unused funds being made available for
current research projects.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art, although technically established as a

_ bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and separately
_ administered organization. It is governed by its own Board of Trustees, the
_ statutory members of which are the Chief Justice of the United States,
(chairman), the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, all ex officio; and five general
' trustees. Paul Mellon continued as president of the Gallery and John Hay
| Whitney as vice-president during fiscal year 1972. The other general
trustees continuing to serve were Franklin D. Murphy, Lessing J.

Rosenwald, and Stoddard M. Stevens. The Gallery had approximately

1,586,550 visitors during the year.
During the past year, the excavation for the East Building was in large

| part completed, and the beginning of the foundation mat was laid.

Excavation under the east end of the present building was carried out in

_ preparation for the underground connection between the existing and the

new structures. Structural and mechanical plans were completed and
released for bid on | May.

A number of important acquisitions were made. Among them were
twenty-two works from the W. Averell Harriman Foundation in memory
of Marie N. Harriman, including At the Water’s Edge by Paul Cézanne,

_ Words of the Devil by Paul Gaugin, and Lady with a Fan by Pablo

Picasso. Other paintings acquired included Lozenge in Red, Yellow and
Blue by Piet Mondrian and Trumpeters of Napoleon’s Imperial Guard by
Théodore Géricault. Major sculpture acquisitions include A Classical

| Allegory: Victory with the Attributes of Peace, attributed to Antonio

Lombardo; and Torso of a Young Man by Raymond Duchamp-Villon.

Major temporary exhibitions held at the Gallery were “La Scala: 400
Years of Stage Design from the Museo Teatralle alla Scala, Milan,” “John
Sloan,” “Rodin Drawings - True and False,” and “The Art of Wilhelm
Lehmbruck.”

With the increase in staff of the Graphics Department, an active
acquisition policy was established. During the year, 472 prints and 85
drawings were added to the collection. These will be the subject of a
special exhibition in early 1974. There were nine exhibitions installed
devoted entirely to the graphic arts, one of the most outstanding of which
was that devoted to “Rare Etchings of G.B. and G. D. Tiepolo,” held in

131
32 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

honor of Lessing J. Rosenwald. A total of 122 loans were made to

institutions in this country.

The Index of American Design circulated nineteen exhibitions in
fifty-six bookings and prepared four exhibitions for special showings. Also,
782 sets of color slides were booked by schools, institutions, and clubs.
Visitors to the Index numbered 329.

During the fiscal year 1972, the Photographic Archives received 33 ,680
photographs and negatives. Some special purchases included 345 old and
valuable glass negatives from Reali of Florence and 8573 photographs of
Mexican Colonial architecture from Judith Sandoval. Noteworthy gifts
included the Clarence Ward Archive of 6993 negatives of French Medieval,
European, and American architecture and 1198 photographs of paintings
from the Samuel H. Kress Foundation.

The Gallery’s new multimedia humanities program “Art and Man,”
published in cooperation with Scholastic Magazines, Inc., reached 6500
classes with more than 1.5 million magazines. As part of the program
128,000 slides, 10,000 recordings, 10,000 filmstrips, and 20,000 media
supplements were also distributed.

Films, color/sound slide lectures and traveling exhibitions were
distributed by the Gallery’s Extension Service to interested schools and
community groups in all fifty states and many foreign countries.

Through grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities and
the Xerox Corporation, the Extension Service continued this year to
distribute Kenneth Clark’s thirteen-part film series, Civilisation, to a
national audience of colleges with enrollments of under 2000.

In March 1972, another National Endowment for the Humanities grant
was made to the Gallery for the distribution of a new Kenneth Clark
six-part film series, Pioneers of Modern Painting, to colleges with
enrollments under 2000 and cosponsoring museums and cultural arts
groups. The total number of bookings of all materials circulated by the
Extension Service was approximately 22,750.

Talks given by the Gallery’s Education Department and programs
presented in the auditorium totaled 134,321 for 2915 separate events. The
Gallery’s regularly scheduled programs included Tour of the Week,
Painting of the Week, Introduction to the Collection, films, and Sunday
auditorium lectures. There were twenty-nine guest speakers who lectured
at the Gallery during the fiscal year. They included the distinguished
German art historian Ludwig H. Heydenreich, the 21st annual Andrew
W. Mellon Lecturer in the Fine Arts, who gave six talks on Leonardo
da Vinci.

Twelve new publications were placed on sale through the Publications
Service, six of which were catalogs of exhibitions held at the Gallery. Sales
posters were published for three of these exhibitions.

:
|
|

|
|
|
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 133

Under the supervision of Richard Bales, forty concerts were given in the
East Garden Court at 7 o’clock on Sunday evenings. Ten of these were
‘by the National Gallery Orchestra. The Gallery’s 20th American Music
Festival took place between 16 April and 4 June 1972. Eight world
premieres and twenty-four first Washington performances were heard
throughout the season. All the concerts were broadcast in their entirety by
-WGMS, AM-PM in Washington.

To advance the methods used to maintain and preserve its collections,
the National Gallery of Art has, for more than twenty years, sponsored a
scientific research program at Pittsburgh’s Carnegie-Mellon University.
Extensive investigations on the harmful effects of light have led to the
ability to detect potentially serious forms of deterioration and to the
development of adhesives and protective varnishes of improved stability.
Advanced methods have been applied in the past year to the study of
special sections of the sculpture collection as well as to the enhancement
of our ability to characterize the traditional artist’s pigments.
LOAN CF... HENNE DYEGE NGM R amor
EE Pe RO RNA EING™ Ay ees

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

The concept of a National Cultural Center, first developed in 1958,
became reality in 1971 with the opening of the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts. Thirteen years of assembling the complex mosaic
of planning, fund-raising, construction and expectation culminated on the
evening of 8 September 1971 when the Opera House opened with Leonard
Bernstein’s Mass. The Concert Hall officially opened the following night
with a special performance by the National Symphony Orchestra, under
the direction of Antal Dorati, and the Eisenhower Theater took its
inaugural bow on 18 October 1971 when the Center presented Ibsen’s A
Doll’s House.

With its opening, the Center acknowledged four American Presidents:
President Eisenhower, who encouraged and signed the enabling legislation;
President Kennedy, who gave ardent support to the planning; President
Johnson, who broke ground for the building and signed legislation making
the Center the sole official memorial in Washington to the martyred
President; and President Nixon, who gave full personal support and
much-needed tangible support when he signed legislation authorizing
additional federal funding. The Center also acknowledged the public and
private support it had received: $23 million in matching federal funds; $28
million in private and corporate donations; and $20.4 million in the form
of a United States Treasury loan for construction of parking facilities.

The first season received unprecedented artistic and popular acclaim.
At a time when theaters throughout the country faced severe difficulties
in terms of audience attendance and available productions, the Center’s
three halls were virtually in constant operation, entertaining a total of
nearly 1.6 million people.

The Center’s first season offered an almost overwhelming program: 18
weeks of dance with distinguished companies from the United States and
abroad; 120 orchestral concerts by 20 major world orchestras, including
94 by the resident National Symphony Orchestra; 27 performances of 9
different operas; 60 concerts of popular music, folk, jazz and rock; 26
recitals by world famous musicians; 22 choral concerts; and 45 weeks of
drama and musical comedy with works of Shakespeare, Shaw, Saroyan,
Odets, Pinter, Bernstein, and Weill.

134

-JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 135

The American College Theatre Festival, presented for the fourth
consecutive year by the Center and the Smithsonian, brought ten of the
nation’s finest college theater companies to perform for the first time in

the Center’s Eisenhower Theater. Produced by Frank Cassidy for the

American Theatre Association and the American National Theatre and

Academy, the Festival enjoyed the sponsorship of American Airlines and

the American Oil Company. Participating schools were selected during
twelve regional festivals held throughout the country and involving over

300 colleges and universities. Of special interest was the participation of
the first foreign theater group, the Aleksander Zelwerowicz State
Theatrical Higher School of Warsaw, Poland.

The third American College Jazz Festival, presented 28-29 May 1972,
under the sponsorship of American Airlines, included performances by
jazz ensembles from 15 colleges and universities.

The educational outreach of the Kennedy Center was very much in
evidence. Tens of thousands of school children from the greater

‘Washington area attended special concerts by the National Symphony

Orchestra at the Center which were arranged by the wives of Cabinet
members. Other performing arts organizations throughout the city also
sponsored a number of special programs. In cooperation with the National
Art Education Association, the Center offered an exhibit of paintings by
students from 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.

In addition, a commitment to making the Center accessible to all,
regardless of economic circumstances, resulted in the establishment of a
special ticket program subsidized by the Education Fund. Nearly 70,000
tickets to Center events were sold at half price to students, retired persons,
the handicapped, low income groups and military personnel in the lower
grades.

Throughout the year the Center continued to receive gifts of art objects
and furnishings from this country and abroad. By June 1972, twenty
nations had made contributions. Presented and dedicated since the
opening were gifts from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Germany, Great
Britain, India, Israel, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, and Yugoslavia.

The American artist, J. Anthony Wills, presented his portrait of
President Eisenhower, which now hangs over the Eisenhower Theater’s
Presidential Box, and the Texas State Society donated and dedicated a
bronze bust of President Eisenhower, the work of Felix W. de Weldon,
which is mounted over the Theater’s main entrance.

The development of private fund-raising program continued, and the
names of major donors were incised in the marble walls of the Hall of
States.

Probably the greatest success of the Center was found in the response
of the public to its working reality. In addition to those who attended
136 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

performances in the Center during its first season, well over two million
people came as visitors to enjoy and take pride in the long awaited, long
needed National Cultural Center.

So much success would imply calm seas and a prosperous voyage. This

is never the case with the creative arts and its institution. Growing pains.

are to be expected and provide measures for improvement. The Center has
unfinished areas, including the studio theater and public rooms on the
Roof Terrace level, and full landscaping of the 17 acre site is incomplete.

The enormous tourist response, which exceeded all expectations,
created an increase in maintenance and security costs. These demands
resulted in a severe financial strain, necessitating an appeal to Congress for
maintenance arrangements befitting a Presidential memorial. Consequent-
ly, the Congress responded by amending the John F. Kennedy Center Act
(72 Stat. 1698) to provide $1.5 million for fiscal year 1972. The
appropriation was designated for maintenance, security, and other services
necessary to the nonperforming arts functions of the Center. The
amendment also provided for the transfer of responsibility for these
functions to the Department of Interior as of 1 July 1972.

The Center is administered separately by a 45-member Board of
Trustees composed of 30 members appointed by the President to ten-year
terms and 15 members ex-officio from pertinent public agencies and from
the United States Senate and House of Representatives. Members of the
Board at the end of fiscal year 1972 are as follows:

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman Harry C. McPherson, Jr.

Richard Adler

Floyd D. Akers

Ralph E. Becker

K. LeMoyne Billings

Mrs. Donna S. Bradshaw

J. Carter Brown

Mrs. Edward F. Cox

Robert W. Dowling

Ralph W. Ellison

Mrs. J. Clifford Folger

Abe Fortas

Rep. Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen
Senator J. William Fulbright
Mrs. George A. Garrett
Leonard H. Goldenson

Mrs. Rebekah Harkness
H.R. Haldeman

Mrs. Paul H. Hatch

George B. Hartzog, Jr.
Frank Ikard

Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Thomas H. Kuchel

Mrs. Michael J. Mansfield
Sydney P. Marland, Jr.
Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
George Meany

Robert I. Millonzi

L. Quincy Mumford
Senator Charles R. Percy
Elliot L. Richardson
John Richardson, Jr.

S. Dillon Ripley

Rep. Teno Roncalio
Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.
Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Mrs. Stephen E, Smith
Henry Strong

William Hammond Thomas

Rep. Frank Thompson, Jr.
Senator John V. Tunney
Jack Valenti

Walter E. Washington

Lew R. Wasserman

a a re a ee
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 137
The staff listing (Appendix 4) reflects some of the many changes in this
year’s direction and administration.
The 121-member Advisory Committee on the Arts, appointed by the
President, continues as the chief consultative body of the Center. The
Executive Committee includes:

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott, Chairman
Robert S. Carter, Secretary
Vernon B. Stouffer, Chairman,

Mrs. Benjamin C. Evans, Vice Chairman,
Education and Program
Mrs. Arnold Schwartz, Direcror of

Finance Publicity

Mrs. Donna S. Bradshaw, Vice Chairman, Mrs. D. Eldridge Jackson, Northeast
Finance Regional Chairman

Mrs. Jack Wrather, Chairman, Public Harvey B. Cohen, Southern Regional
Relations Chairman

Harry L. Jackson, Vice Chairman, John H. Myers, Midwestern Regional
Public Relations Chairman

Mrs. William A. McKenzie, Western
Regional Chairman

Mrs. Paul A. Clayton, Chairman,
Education and Program

The Friends of the Kennedy Center, established as an auxiliary
organization in 1966, increased membership to 8100 members. Volunteers
of the Friends have given thousands of hours of time and effort to the
Center, managing and manning the public tours, the information-souvenir
stands, and providing hospitality and other services to Center operations
and functions. Officers at the end of fiscal year 1972 are as follows:

Mrs. Polk Guest, Chairman
Mrs. Norris Dodson, Jr., Vice
Chairman

Mrs. Eugene Carusi, Secretary
Henry Strong, Treasurer
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL
CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

Benjamin H. Read, Director

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars was founded by
the Congress in 1968 to be “a living institution expressing the ideals and
concerns of Woodrow Wilson ...symbolizing and strengthening the
fruitful relation between the world of learning and the world of public
affairs.” In keeping with this mandate, the Board of Trustees determined
that the Center would emphasize “studies designed to increase man’s
understanding of significant international, governmental and social
problems and to suggest alternative means of resolving them.”

Since doors opened in October 1970, a total of 87 men and women
from the United States and 20 other countries have been granted
fellowship and guest scholar appointments at the Center, and many scores
of other scholars have had occasion to use Center facilities. The
distribution between U.S. and non-U.S. fellows has been roughly 60/40.
Ages have ranged from the middle twenties to the early seventies.
Academic fellows have come from careers in the social sciences,
humanities, and natural sciences. Others have represented a broad range of
other occupations and professions. The projects of some two-thirds of the
fellows have related to one of the Center’s designated areas of emphasis—
international affairs, environment or oceans.

Center scholars have produced—or are in the process of producing for
publication—a substantial number of articles, monographs and book-length
manuscripts on a wide range of subjects, the majority related to one of the
Center’s three areas of emphasis.

138
Appendix I

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM
GRANTS AWARDED IN FISCAL YEAR 1972

Archeology and Related Disciplines

American Institute of Indian Studies, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Continued
support for Poona Center, Benares Center for South Asian Art and Archeology,
and American Institute of Indian Studies research fellowships.

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Continued support for
a program of research and excavation in Egypt, support for operation of Cairo
Center, expedition to Fustat, epigraphic survey and maintenance of Chicago
House at Luxor, maintenance of a stratified Pharonic site at Mendes, archeological
research at the site of Hierakonopolis (Nekhen), and a study of the reliefs and
paintings of the Third Intermediate period.

American Schools of Oriental Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Archeological
activities of the American Schools of Oriental Research.

Colgate University, Hamilton, New York. Raksha, A National Inventory and
Preservation Program for the Performing Arts of India.

Denison University, Granville, Ohio. | Excavation of the Roman imperial metropolis
at Sirmium.

Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, Washington, D.C. Excavations
leading to the publication of a corpus of ancient mosaics of Tunisia.

Hebrew Union College, Jerusalem School of Archeology, Cincinnati,
Ohio. Excavation of an archeological site at Gezer, Israel.

New York University, New York, New York. Modernization in rural Tunisia.

Rutgers University, Douglass College, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Archeological
excavations at Salona, Yugoslavia.

Smithsonian Institution, Department of Anthropology, Washington, D.C. Study of
disappearing traditional crafts, industries, and technologies in Pakistan.

Smithsonian Institution, Center for the Study of Man, Washington, D.C. Confer-
ence on Anthropology, Cross Cultural Data Retrieval and Pressing Social
Problems.

State University of New York, Buffalo, New York. Archeological investigations on
the Neolithic and Early Bronze Ages in southeastern Poland.

University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Excavations at the site of Tabun, Israel.

University of California, Los Angeles, California. Excavations at Obre, Yugoslavia,
publication of research.

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Excavations at the Palace of
Diocletian at Split, Yugoslavia.

University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri. Excavations at Tel Anafa (Shamir), Israel.

University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri. Investigations of ancient glass
manufacturing sites in Israel.

University of Pennsylvania, University Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The
Akhnaten Temple project, Egypt.

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Excavations within the
town and harbor site of Malkata, Western Thebes, Egypt.

139
140 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

University of Texas, Austin, Texas. Archeological investigations at Stobi,
Yugoslavia.

Systematic and Environmental Biology
(Including Paleobiology)

Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire. Limnological investigations of Lake
Ohrid, Yugoslavia.

National Academy of Sciences, Washington, D.C. Research, planning and training
for International Biological Program personnel in the “excess” currency countries.

Smithsonian Institution, Department of Botany, Washington, D.C. A flora of the
Hassan District , Mysore State, India.

Smithsonian Institution, Division of Birds, Washington, D.C. Migratory bird survey
in India.

Smithsonian Institution, Office of Environmental Sciences, Washington, D.C. Bird
banding and avifaunal survey in Israel.

Smithsonian Institution, Office of Environmental Sciences, Washington,
D.C. _Limnological Investigations of Lake Skadar, Yugoslavia.

Smithsonian Institution, Office of Environmental Sciences, Washington, D.C. Marine
Decapod Crustaceans of North Africa.

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. | Conference on African paleontology
and paleoecology.

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Development of Smithsonian scientific
programs in South Asia.

Smithsonian Institution, Office of Environmental Sciences, Washington, D.C. Study
in Israel of biological interchanges between the eastern Mediterranean and the
Red Sea through the Suez Canal.

University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. Studies of the cytotaxonomy of the
Yugoslavian flora.

University of Illinois, Chicago, Illinois, | Cretaceous teleostean fishes of Yugoslavia.

University of the State of New York, Stony Brook, New York. Study of the
ecology of an Eilat coral reef in Israel.

Utah State University, Logan, Utah. Systems analysis of the pre-Saharan ecosystem
of Southern Tunisia.

Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Habitat relationships and distribution of
wild ungulates in the Gir Forest, India.

Astrophysics and Earth Sciences

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Sedimentation in Bahiret El Bibane,
Tunisia.

Smithsonian Institution. Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Theories of planetary motion (Egypt).

Smithsonian Institution, Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Study of the collective behavior of self-gravitating systems (Israel).

Smithsonian Institution, Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. An
astronomical observing program in Israel.

Smithsonian Institution, Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. A
research program in remote sensing of the troposphere by radio troposcatter
technique.

APPENDIX 1. SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 141

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Field and laboratory studies
of Libyan desert silica glass.

Museum Programs

Smithsonian Institution, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washing-
ton, D.C. Research support in “excess” currency countries.

Smithsonian Institution, Division of Medical Sciences, Washington, D.C. Research
in the history of medicine, pharmacy and pharmacology (Egypt).
Appendix 2

MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 30 JUNE 1972

Dr. Roger Abrahams. Director, African and Afro-American Research Institute, The
University of Texas, Austin.

Mr. H. Harvard Arnason. Vice President for Art Administration, Solomon R.
Guggenheim Foundation, New York City.

Dr. Muriel M. Berman. Allentown, Pennsylvania. (Honorary member.)

Dr. Herman R. Branson. President, Lincoln University , Pennsylvania.

Professor Fred R. Eggan. Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago,
Illinois.

Professor Donald §. Farner. Chairman, Department of Zoology, University of
Washington, Seattle.

Professor Anthony N.B,. Garvan. Department of American Civilization, University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Dr. Murray Gell-Mann. Robert Andrews Millikan Professor of Theoretical Physics,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena.

Dr. Philip Handler. President, National Academy of Sciences, Washington, D.C.

Dr, David Hawkins. _ Director, Mountain View Center for Environmental Education,
University of Colorado, Boulder.

Professor G. Evelyn Hutchinson. Sterling Professor of Zoology, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut.

Professor Jan LaRue, Department of Music, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences,
New York University , New York City.

Dr. Clifford L. Lord. President, Hofstra University , Hempstead, New York.

Professor Charles D, Michener. Watkins Distinguished Professor of Entomology,
University of Kansas, Lawrence.

Dr. Peter M. Millman. National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario.
Meteoritic Specialist.

Mr. Elting E. Morison. Acting Master, Timothy Dwight College, Yale University,
New Haven, Connecticut.

Professor Norman Holmes Pearson. Department of English and American Studies,
Yale University , New Haven, Connecticut.

Mr. Gordon N. Ray. President, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation,
New York City.

Mr. Philip C. Ritterbush. | Chairman, Organization response, Washington, D.C.

Mr. André Schiffrin. | Managing Director, Pantheon Books, New York City.

Mr. George C, Seybolt. Watertown, Massachusetts. (Honorary member.)

Professor Cyril Stanley Smith. Institute Professor, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , Cambridge.

Professor John D, Spikes. Department of Biology, University of Utah, Salt Lake
City.

Professor Stephen E. Toulmin. Provost, Crown College, University of California,
Santa Cruz.

Dr. William Von Arx. Senior Scientist, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution,
Woods Hole, Massachusetts.

142
APPENDIX 2. MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 143

Professor Warren H. Wagner, Jr. Department of Botany, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor.

Dr. Rainer Zangerl. Chairman, Department of Geology, Field Museum of Natural
History , Chicago, Illinois.
Appendix 3

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 1971-1972

Contributing Membership

Our deepest gratitude is extended to our members for their interest and generous
support of the Smithsonian Associates this year, and especially to those listed below,

who have contributed amounts in excess of the membership dues.

FOUNDER MEMBERS

($1000 and up)

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
The Honorable Frank N. Ikard

Mr. Joseph A. Thomas

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS
($100 and up)

Mrs. Howard Ahmanson
Dr. and Mrs. Aerol Arnold (Bing
Fund, Inc.)
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein
Mr. and Mrs. J.B. Bogan
Mrs. Albert J. Bowley
Mr. Maxwell Brace
Mr. J. Bruce Bredin
The Honorable and
Mrs. William A.M. Burden
Mrs. Jackson Burke
Mr. Carter Cafritz
Mr. and Mrs. Conrad Cafritz
Miss Joan Collett
Miss Virginia M. Collins
Mr. Daniel W. Cook, III
Mr. Richard P. Cooley
Dr. and Mrs. William H. Crocker
Mr. Morgan J. Davis
General Jacob L. Devers
Captain and Mrs. Robert F. Doss
The Honorable Angier Biddle Duke
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eames
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz
Mr. Gerald S. Eilberg
Mr. and Mrs. Waldron Faulkner
Miss Judith R. Fetter
The Honorable and Mrs. Edward Foley

The Honorable and Mrs. Peter
Frelinghuysen

Mr. T. Jack Gary, Jr.

Mr. W.E. Gathright

General James M. Gavin

Mr. Philip M. Gignoux

Mr. and Mrs. T.K. Glennan

Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Glover III

Colonel and Mrs. Julius Goldstein

Mrs. Katharine Graham ~

Dr. Sheila H. Gray

Mr. W.J. Henderson

Mr. Lon Hocker

Mr. Charles Beecher Hogan

Mr. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr.

Miss Elisabeth Houghton

Mrs. Edward F. Hutton

Mrs. Randolph Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham

Mrs. Newbold Legenore

Mr. and Mrs. Harold F. Linder

Mrs. Demarest Lloyd

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Marcus

Mr. Stanley Marcus

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Marks

. and Mrs. John H. McLaren

.and Mrs. E. Kirkbride Miller
APPENDIX 3. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 145

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr.
Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Martha Frick, Symington Foundation,
Inc. (Mrs. Martha Frick Symington)

The Honorable and Mrs, Jefferson
Patterson

Mr. Edmund E. Pendleton, Jr.

Mr. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. Abe Pollin

Mrs. T. Randolph Potter

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey

Mr. James H. Ripley

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart

Mrs. Edward C. Sweeney

Ms. Sally Sweetland

Mr. and Mrs. David G. Townsend
Mr. and Mrs. Philip M. Tracy

Mr. and Mrs. J.S. Tressler

Mr. and Mrs. A. Buel Trowbridge
Mr. and Mrs. Julius Wadsworth
The Honorable James E. Webb
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Weedon
Mrs. Norma Christine Wertz

Mr. George Y. Wheeler III

Mr. and Mrs. Luke W. Wilson
Mrs. Mark Winkler

SUPPORTING MEMBERS

_ The Reverend and Mrs. F. Everett
Abbott

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley N. Allan

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Beck

The Honorable Frances P. Bolton

Mr. and Mrs, Philip Bonsal

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Boyd

Mrs. Eugenie Rowe Bradford

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant

Mrs. Linda C. Burgess

Mrs. Therese Burleson

Dr. and Mrs. Charles M. Cabaniss

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Chandler

Mr. and Mrs. David G. Chapman

Mr. and Mrs. David Sanders Clark

Mrs. Barbara Collier

Mr. Robert M. Comly

Mrs. Chester Dale

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Deevy

Mr. and Mrs. Ewen C. Dingwall

Mr. and Mrs. Allen T. Dittmann

Mr. James M. Duncan III

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H, Fribourg

Mr. John W. Galston

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Miss Anne H. Goldfinch

Miss Virginia H. Groomes

Miss Morella R. Hansen

Mr. Tom Hart

Dr. and Mrs. L.M. Hellman

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald O. Johnson

($50 and up)

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. Walter H. Kidd

Mr. J.A. King

Mrs. C, Edwin Kline

Mr. and Mrs. J.K. Knee

Miss S. Victoria Krusiewski

Mr. Paul LePage

Marianne E. and Maxwell B. Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Sol M. Linowitz

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Low

Miss Katherine Magraw

Major and Mrs. George S. Mansfield
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon J. Matzkin
Mrs. R.B. Menapace

Colonel and Mrs. Kenneth L. Moll
Mrs. E.P. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. J. Lloyd Niles

Mr. and Mrs. C. Norden and Family
Mrs. Carolyn C. Onufrak

Mr. Estrada Raul Oyuela

Mr. Donald H. Price

Dr. and Mrs. Jorold J. Principato
Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Reid

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Mr. R.D. Remley

Mrs. John Barry Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. Sanger, Jr.
Mr. Michael F. Sawyer

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer
Mr. and Mrs. Lamar A. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Snodgrass

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Sugarman
Miss Helen S. Thompson
146

Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. Van Dusan
General and Mrs. L.A. Walsh, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Watson

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Westreich

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Wheeler

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Miss Claudia P. Wilds

Mr. and Mrs. J.H. Wilkinson, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Wilson
Mrs. Leslie H. Wyman

Life Membership

The Institution gratefully acknowledges the generosity and enthusiasm of the
following individuals who became Life Members during the years 1965 through 1971,
when life memberships in the Smithsonian Associates were available.

FOUNDER MEMBERS

($1000 and up)

Mr. Irwin Belk

The Honorable and Mrs. David K.E.
Bruce

Mrs. Morris Cafritz

The Honorable Douglas Dillon

Mr. Charles E. Eckles

The Honorable and Mrs. John Clifford
Folger

Mr. Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt

Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

Mr. P.A:B. Widener

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

SUSTAINING MEMBERS
($500 and up)

Mrs. Anna Bing Arnold

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt

Mr. Joel Barlow

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Barnes

Mr. William R. Biggs

Mr. George A. Binney

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Blatt

Miss Fay Boyle

Mrs. L. Roosevelt Bramwell

Mr. A. Marvin Braverman

Mr. and Mrs. John Nicholas Brown

Mr. Bertram F. Brummer

Mrs. Leon Campbell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael

Dr. Rita Chow

Clarke and Rapuano Foundation
(Mr. Gilmore D. Clarke)

Mrs. Frances A. Davila

Mr. Newell W. Ellison

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Friedman

Mr. Richard E. Fuller

Mr. and Mrs. Hy Garfinkel

Mr. George A. Garret

Mr. Carl S. Gewirz

Mr. and Mrs. Crawford Greenewalt

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway

Mr. William H. Greer, Jr.

Mr. Melville B. Grosvenor

Mr. and Mrs. Homer Gudelsky

Mr. Gilbert Hahn

Mr. Laurence Harrison

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mr. and Mrs. Christian Hohenlohe

Mr. Philip Johnson

Miss Brenda Kuhn

Mr. Harold F, Linder

Colonel and Mrs. Leon Mandel

Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

The Honorable William McC.
Martin, Jr.

Lieutenant Commander and Mrs. P.J.
Maveety

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Miss Katherine A.A. Murphy

Neuberger Foundation Incorporated
(Roy R. and Marie S. Neuberger)

Duke of Northumberland

Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne

Miss Lucy M. Pollio

Mrs. Merriweather Post

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Powers
APPENDIX 3. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 147

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour J. Rubin
Mr. H.C. Seherr-Thoss

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Swan Shultz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. Robert T. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III
Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mrs. Carll Tucker

Mr. Alexander O. Vietor

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Warner

Dr. Alexander Wetmore

Mr. and Mrs. W. Bradley Willard
Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

Corporate Membership

We thank the following business organizations for their understanding and
generous support of the Institution’s research and education through Charter

Membership in the Smithsonian Associates.

International Business Machines, Inc.
(Four Year Pledge)
International Telephone & Telegraph

Dart Industries
Deere and Company
Melville Shoe Corporation

Corp. (Four Year Pledge)
Caterpillar Tractor Company
Celanese Corporation

PACCAR Inc.
Philip Morris, Inc.
J.K. Smit and Sons

National Board

This body was created in October 1971 to assist the Institution in the pursuit of
certain of its aims for the decade of the 1970s, particularly in the development of its
relations with industry. While the Institution hopes to advance its goals in public
education and environmental studies through increased private support, it seeks, in
turn, to serve the educational and community interests of its Corporate Members. We
are grateful for the energy and concern shown by the members of the Board.

Thomas J. Watson, Jr., Chairman
Harry Hood Bassett
William Blackie

John W. Brooks
Richard P. Cooley
Joseph F. Cullman III
Harry B. Cunningham
Paul L. Davies
Leonard K. Firestone
Charles T. Fisher III
G. Keith Funston
Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mrs. David L. Guyer
Ben W. Heineman

Henry J. Heinz II

William A. Hewitt

Lewis A. Lapham

Frank Y. Larkin

The Honorable George C. McGhee
Mrs. Robert S. McNamara
Ruben F. Mettler

Roger Milliken

Charles M. Pigott

Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Merritt K. Ruddock

Mrs. Henry P. Smith III
James O. Wright
Appendix 4

STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

30 JUNE 1972

Secretary’s Office and Related Activities

NESE CLE TALY Specs oacgth . aesh > gece, PRETO: S. Dillon Ripley
EXECULIVEsASSIStaNID has eke eee Christian C. Hohenlohe
WinderSecretanva wie. aero) een acee ances James Bradley
iiievAssistamtSecretanye see) scree eer ene Robert A. Brooks
Administrative Officer’ 22% ..5.. . Dorothy Rosenberg
Director of Support Activities ..... Richard L. Ault
Assistant to Under Secretary ...... Edward H. Kohn
Director, Ofticeof Audits Wy. e102... Chris S. Peratino
Assistant Secretary for Science ....... David Challinor
Assistant Secretary for History and Art .. Charles Blitzer
Assistant Secretary for Public Service
(Asting c=. 2 sch: ARR ee Julian Evel!

Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
(Director, United States National

MUSEUM) Beit occ gucnewn st enaee Paul N. Perrot?
fUTCASULE IA Mss eae ond elton vo. 6) Cuomouticnas sant T. Ames Wheeler
ANSSISTanipreaSUTeh, sosencucus eee eas Betty J. Morgan
Director, Office of Programming and
IBGE Steet So oat a usic icant cei ase John F. Jameson
Chici#Accountantis a loro ere eeee Allen S. Goff
Generali€ounsell 5 5 ae 4 eee Peter G. Powers
Assistant General Counsels ........ Alan D. Ullberg

George S. Robinson
L. Wardlaw Hamilton
Suzanne D. Murphy
Marie C. Malaro
Special Projects, Office of the Secretary
Special Assistant to the Secretary ... Richard H. Howland
Special Assistant to the Secretary ... Woodruff M. Price
Director, Office of Development .... Lynford E. Kautz

Editor, Joseph Henry Papers ...... Nathan Reingold
Director, Office of Equal Employment

OpportunitVey swe eee ee Archie D. Grimmett?
Speciale ventsiOnncenm sem eines ce ore Meredith Johnson
Curator, Smithsonian Institution Build-

IV) ) iets ARR GEL RGICaES Sn oe Se ME REY CREP cone © James M. Goode

! William W. Warner on sabbatical leave.
Effective 1 August 1972.
3 Replaced Joseph A. Kennedy, retired, on 4 June 1972.

148
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 149

Support Activities
Director, Buildings Management
DemanimMenttamre tae pskees eos els cas 6 Andrew F. Michaels
Contracting Officer, Contracts Office . Elbridge O. Hurlbut
Director, International Exchange Serv-

LCOe ny re he TE Ae Se, Jeremiah A. Collins
Director, Information Systems
Divs... OS wero, . Stanley A. Kovy

Director, Management Analysis Office . Ann §. Campbell

Director, Office of Personnel

Administration” <n Se ee ks 8 Vincent J. Doyle
Director, Photographic Services
DIVISION sec oon ee ne ae he ee as Arthur L. Gaush
Chiciasupply, Divisione’ st. Sse o-..- Fred G. Barwick
Chief, Travel Services Office ....... Betty V. Strickler
Honorary Research Associates ........ Charles G. Abbot,

Secretary Emeritus
Leonard Carmichael,

Secretary Emeritus
Paul H. Oehser
Alexander Wetmore,

Secretary Emeritus

Honorinvarclows 8... aet se se ses ses John A. Graf
SCIENCE

PASSISTANI SCCIELARY = oleh cocks che = ona, =, 6 os David Challinor

SPECIAIVASSISTANIES 5 oot .cuahc cs ced soca s « Helen L. Hayes

Michael R. Huxley
Harold J. Michaelson
Paula U. Duncan

National Museum of Natural History

DTC CLOT Foc ake ansen to Ae mais. Richard §. Cowan
Assistant DiTeetonn.t.e. tenet. SAMUS 5. Paul K. Knierim
Assistant to) Directomn (ADP) io... . .. James F. Mello
Assistant to Director (Exhibits) ....... Ronald S. Goor
Administrative Officers ............ Mabel A. Byrd>
John C. Townsend
Anthropology
Chairman CAbeesee Seas A. eters Clifford Evans
Senior Physical Anthropologist ..... T. Dale Stewart
SemiomArcheologistaii. 57.00 & As. Waldo R. Wedel
Senior Bihnolocisi’ Eisee ee es = John C. Ewers
Associate: Curator, (eye n ain, «<<: Dennis M. Stanford®

4Name of office changed from Administrative Systems Division, December 1971.
Retired 30 June 1972.
© Appointed 26 May 1972.
150 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Collections/Managen es eae George E. Phebus

AmchiviSte (0 snsscswe eo nee octore oeereeek Margaret C. Blaker’
Latin American Anthropology

Curator’: 68 s.r a9 rahaetet cen Clifford Evans

ASSOCIATELEIEALORS ene n eileen William H. Crocker

Robert M. Laughlin
Old World Anthropology
Curatons’. ss, Sasa Sete Gee oe Gordon D. Gibson
Saul H. Riesenberg
Gus W. Van Beek
ASSOciatelGuratonsiee reer ieee erence Eugene I. Knez
William B. Trousdale
North American Anthropology

Curator, Worcs. os sian) A eee ees William C. Sturtevant
Associate Curator saree ae east William W. Fitzhugh
Physical Anthropology
Curator” aoscss 2 he ae octets: J. Lawrence Angel
INGOCRIG (CUAIONS Gopocacooaocce Donald J. Ortner
Lucile E. St. Hoyme
INDIAN SSH 2 obscoagonoeoc Douglas H. Ubelaker
Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists ..... amuab ck ea Hans-Georg Bandi (Archeology)
W. Montague Cobb (Physical
Anthropology )
T. Aidan Cockburn (Physical
Anthropology)

Henry B. Collins (Archeology)

Wilson Duff (Ethnology)

Roger I. Eddy (Ethnology)

Don D. Fowler (Archeology)

Marcus S. Goldstein (Physical
Anthropology)

Sister Inez Hilger (Ethnology)

C. G. Holland (Archeology)

Neil M. Judd (Archeology)

Richard T. Koritzer (Phy sical
Anthropology)

Ralph K. Lewis (Archeology)

Olga Linares de Sapir (Archeology)

Betty J. Meggers (Archeology)

George S. Metcalf (Archeology)

Walter G. Putschar (Physical
Anthropology)

Victor A. Nunez Regueiro
(Archeology)

Wilhelm G. Solheim (Archeology)

T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Anthropology)

Matthew W. Stirling (Archeology)

Robert Stuckenrath (Archeology)

7Retired 30 June 1972.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PSt

Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)
Edwin F. Wilmsen (Archeology)

Botany
Chainmanteeer terme ee oe re ees Edward S. Ayensu
SEMOmBOtaniStsertees a + cian aes 6 ale Lyman B. Smith
Conrad V. Morton
Phanerogams
CCUTATONS MA cee eee cae © re aie ee John J. Wurdack

Velva Rudd

Wallace R. Ernst®

F. Raymond Fosberg
ASSOCIate CUTALOMS! se en ei cee ee 6 Dan H. Nicolson

Marie-Helene Sachet

Stanwyn G. Shetler

Beryl S. Vuilleumier?

ASsistanitCuratOr® = 5 tie ee es eee: 2 Dieter C. Wasshausen
Ferns
ASsociate(Curatorece sss st ee ee David B. Lellinger
Grasses
ASSOCIaue CUTALOLS fie hea fee ee = Thomas R. Soderstrom
Cry ptogams
Curators re a eee ee ee eee Harold E, Robinson
Mason E. Hale, Jr.
IASSOCIALCICUTALOL pene. sols eeoeee Arthur L. Dahl
Plant Anatomy
CUTALOTSM ee on nn ects 6s fee Richard H. Eyde
Edward S. Ayensu
ASSOCIALCLOUTATONY o's ret oe se tn oe Joan M. W. Nowicke!®
Research Associates, Collaborators and
Affiliated Scientists}! 2.1.2... W. Andrew Archer (Flowering
Plants)

Chester R. Benjamin (Fungi)

John A. Churchill (Flowering
Plants)

Paul S. Conger (Diatomaceae)

José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical
South America)

James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)

Emily W. Emmart (Plants of Mexico)

Marie L. Farr (Fungi)

Howard S. Gentry (Economic Plants
of Northwestern Mexico)

Aaron Goldberg (Phanerograms)

Charles R. Gunn (Fungi)

William H. Hathaway (Flora of
Central America)

8 Died 8 October 1971.
? Appointed 4 June 1972.
10 4 ppointed 4 June 1972.
11 National fungus collections are curated by Department of Agriculture staff.
152 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Frederick J. Hermann (North
American Flora)
Robert M. King (Compositae)
Paul L. Lentz (Fungi)
Elbert L. Little (Dendrology)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
Julian C. Patino (Flora of Colombia)
Robert W. Read (Palmae)
Clyde F. Reed (Ferns)
James L. Reveal (Ferns)
Marie L. Solt (Melastomataceae)
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerograms)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
John A. Stevenson (Fungi)
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerograms)
Francis A. Uecker (Fungi)
Egbert H. Walker (Myrsinaceae,
East Asian Flora)

Entomology
Gharrmanie lee... tee eee Paul D. Hurd, Jr.
SeniomeEntomologists. <2. a2.a0 © - Karl V. Krombein
J. F. Gates Clarke
Neuropteroids
Curat Ors sjendis cae eis er es eo Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Richard W. Baumann! =

Lepidoptera and Diptera

Curator 3 Fa ates tt Ys i eet @ Donald R. Davis
Associate’ Curator ==). 2- 2 2 ee oe W. Donald Duckworth
ASSiStantCurator ycesyck cieks bed: Cae. William D. Field
Coleoptera
CuratOt Pic ht > atecaoeee> eeukeota sc Terry L. Erwin
Associate Curaton $6 tou 9 > A cacle o Paul J. Spangler
Hemiptera and Hymenoptera
Associate @uraton see tse Gee Richard C. Froeschner
Myriapoda and Arachnida
Curator . 2. =.: Beanery A eee ce ss Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.
Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Affiliated)ScientistSa.4. 4 slew. : Charles P. Alexander (Diptera)

William H. Anderson (Coleoptera)

Doris H. Blake (Coleoptera)

Franklin §. Blanton (Diptera)

Frank L. Campbell (Insect

Physiology )

Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)

K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)

John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)

Frank M. Hull (Diptera)

William L. Jellison (Siphonaptera,
Anoplura)

12 4 ppointed 19 June 1972.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Invertebrate Zoology
Chairman

Crustacea

(CUTATONS a Sesto ASE des OO!

ASSOCIATE CUTACOL i. wiz ac ess 2 eo
Wisitine Curator. Site 2. Shs

Echinoderms
Curator

Wisitinpi@urator=! BM Ora foe |

Worms

CUPALOTSH eee ee. Pe ee ee cE PN Be

ASSoClate@uratOr s/he ee eee es

Mollusks
Curator

Research Associates, Collaborators, and

Affiliated Scientists

13 4 ppointed 5 September 1971.
14 4 ppointed 5 September 1971.
'S Terminated 15 May 1972.

1 © Terminated 6 February 1972.

Pete) lekioy ») el wes) © Webey) ose, 18> 6:

Harold F. Loomis (Myriapoda)
Carl F. W. Muesebeck

(Hy menoptera)

Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)
David L. Pawson! 3
Fenner A. Chace, Jr.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder

Raymond B. Manning!4
Thomas E. Bowman

J. Laurens Barnard
Louis S. Kornicker
Roger F. Cressey

Lipke Holthuis!*

David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler
Frederick M. Bayer!
Meredith L. Jones
Marian H. Pettibone
Mary E. Rice

W. Duane Hope

Joseph Rosewater
Joseph P. E. Morrison
Clyde F. E. Roper

S. Stillman Berry (Mollusks)

J. Bruce Bredin (Biology)

Isabel C. Canet (Crustacea)

May belle H. Chitwood (Worms)

Ailsa M. Clark (Marine
Invertebrates)

Elisabeth Deichmann (Echinoderms)

Mary Gardiner (Echinoderms)

Roman Kenk (Worms)

Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
(Crustacea)

Waldo L. Schmitt (Marine
(Invertebrates)

Frank R. Schwengel (Mollusks)

I. G. Sohn (Crustacea)

Donald F. Squires (Echinoderms)

Gilbert L. Voss (Mollusks)

153
154 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Mildred S. Wilson (Copepod

Crustacea)
Mineral Sciences
Chairmanteteaaeiciate tee? ae. - Brian H. Mason
Curaton as.) & zt lem eoe wert wee aennar ene George S. Switzer
Meteorites
Curator vac cata ok Ss Kurt Fredericksson
Associate! Guratom siemens cierto Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Geochemist: <5. = setteatk = eed -. Robert F. Fudali
@hemistse ares esas as eee Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen
Mineralogy
AGKOGHUIS COMER 5 os op ooo Oo DOE Paul E. Desautels
Grystalloprapher seer eee or Joel E. Arem
Petrology
INGXOGRNS (CHINO 555040050 00en aE William G,. Melson
Geolorists aa same Spe ee Thomas E. Simkin"
Research Associates, Collaborators, and
AtinhiatedsSciontiStSamesseieioieienenen: Howard J. Axon (Meteorites)
Vago F. Buchwald (Meteorites)
Tomas Feininger (Petrology)
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites)
John B. Jago (Mineralogy)
Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)
Rosser Reeves (Mineralogy)
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology)
Harry Winston (Mineralogy)
Paleobiology
Chairman's sey. ee 2 8. 2 ae Porter M. Kier
Seniombaleobiolopistss 4-1) -eieee G. Arthur Cooper! 8
C. Lewis Gazin
Collections Manaccinaniert-a ieee Frederick J. Collier
Invertebrate Paleontology
Curatorsies ere eee es Richard M. Benson
Richard S. Boardman
Martin A. Buzas
Alan H. Cheetham
Richard Cifelli
Richard E. Grant! ?
Erle G. Kauffman
ASSociate!| Curatole .1- arenes ie one Thomas R. Waller
Geologist, qimbacta Hee ak MESee. Kenneth M. Towe
Vertebrate Paleontology
Curatorsieete kh areas Ae acre Clayton E, Ray
Nicholas Hotton III
Associatei@urator) Si). eire a nee: Robert J. Emry
Paleobotany
Curator” hats, sie sp sae on oetacrelexecoieiee eee Walter H. Adey

17 4 ppointed 6 February 1972.
'8 Retired 29 February 1972.
19 4 ppointed 14 May 1972. Elected Chairman Spring 1972, effective 3 July 1972.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

INGTON (CUMAIONES Soe caedeoocobos
Sedimentology
Geological Oceanographer
Curator

CeO. ClO
ay eee eRe eee) im le) (s/s) (eel w fee) is) 6) "eco

Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists
Invertebrate Paleontology

Paleobotany

me wis) (age) pal ke: ee) ‘eel (el ve) jets ©

Sedimentology

Bie e) elles eigel icles erm «te «

Vertebrate Paleontology

Vertebrate Zoology
Chairman

Fishes
Curators

DIT ave hoe ).o Wooo ¥e"e) fol sie ls, © fo 6

20 appointed 26 December 1971.
21 Died 25 December 1971.

155

Leo J. Hickey
Francis M. Hueber

Daniel J. Stanley
Jack W. Pierce
Ian G. Macintyre? °?

Arthur J. Boucot
Anthony C. Coates
C. Wythe Cooke?!
G. Arthur Cooper
Raymond Douglass
J. Thomas Dutro
Robert M. Finks

C. Lewis Gazin
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Joseph E. Hazel
John W. Huddle
Ralph W. Imlay
Jeremy B. C. Jackson
Harry S. Ladd

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman
Venka V. Macintyre
Sergius H. Mamay
James F. Mello
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Axel A. Olsson

John Pojeta, Jr.
Norman F. Sohl
Steven M. Stanley
Margaret Ruth Todd
Wendell P. Woodring
Ellis L. Yochelson
Patricia J. Adey
David Child

Gilbert Kelling
Frederic R. Siegel
Douglas Emlong
Charles A. Reppening
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.

George E. Watson

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
Ernest A. Lachner
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman
> he

156

Associate: Curaton 2) oe seo ee
Reptiles and Amphibians
Curator Pe 2 e:5 eo ae ee

Birds
Curator: ss. kia ne eee eee

Mammals
GUTATOTS Ae. ee ee eee ee eee

Associate Guratones sre enter tee
Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Atiivated’Scientists’: se eae aes oe.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

William R. Taylor

James A. Peters
George R. Zug

Richard L. Zusi
Paul Slud

Charles O. Handley
Henry W. Setzer
Richard W. Thorington, Jr.

John W. Aldrich (Birds)
Richard C, Banks (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)
James E. Bohlke (Fishes)
Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals)
Leonard Carmichael (Psychology,
Animal Behavior)
Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)
George J. Divocky (Birds)
John F. Eisenberg (Mammals)
Robert K. Eenders (Mammals)
Herbert Friedmann (Birds)
Crawford H. Greenewalt (Birds)
Arthur M. Greenhall (Mammals)
Brian A. Harrington (Birds)
Philip S. Humphrey (Birds)
George J. Jacobs (Reptiles,
Amphibians)
David H. Johnson (Mammals)
Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)
E. V. Komarek (Mammals)
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)
Ronald Mackenzie (Mammals)
Richard H. Manville (Mammals)
J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)
Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)
Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)
John R. Napier (Mammals)
Storrs L. Olson (Birds)
Braulio Orejas-Miranda (Reptiles)
John Paradiso (Mammals)
Dioscoro §. Rabor (Birds)
G. Carleton Ray (Mammals)
S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)
Leonard P. Schultz (Fishes)
Alexander Wetmore (Birds)
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

15¢

National Air and Space Museum

MITC CTOM gia eis o's. 5. RE se aS
DEnUtVeDINeCtOnys., . Ais Sate e eAe bas
Administrative Officer
MID LATA Cowie Meg)! Biers PATE ON SS oon
Acting Assistant Director (Aeronautics)

Aircratteropulsion .... 22°. NOKee....
Assistant Director (Astronautics)
Advisory Board

mee ie, ia] 7) wie) \e! fet fe) ie

Honorary

Michael Collins
Melvin B. Zisfein
John Whitelaw
Catherine D. Scott

. Louis S. Casey

Robert B. Meyer, Jr., Curator

Frederick C. Durant III

S. Dillon Ripley, Chairman

(ex-officio)

Major General Nils O. Oman, USAF

Vice Admiral Maurice A. Weisner, USN

Brig. General James L. Collins, USA

Brig. General H. S. Hill, USMC

Rear Admiral Robert E. Hammond,
USCG

Willis H. Shapley, NASA

General Gustav Lundquist, FAA

Mrs. Olive Ann Beech

William E. Hall

Elwood R. Quesada

Astrophysical Observatory

DITECLOTM ER rn tse h et ere. cs
Assistant Director (Management)
Assistant Director (Science)
Scientific Staff

S55) OS el Ce ete fe eae eee

Fred L. Whipple
Robert V. Bartnik
Charles A. Lundquist
Kaare Aksnes

Arthur C. Allison
Eugene H. Avrett
Prabhu Bhatnagar
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederic Chaffee
Jerome R. Cherniack
Giuseppe Colombo
Allan F, Cook

Alex Dalgarno

Robert J. Davis

James C. DeFelice
William A. Deutschman
Dale F. Dickinson
Giovanni G. Fazio
Darrell Fernald
Edward L. Fireman
Fred A. Franklin
Edward M. Gaposchkin
Owen Gingerich
Antanas Girnius

Mario D. Grossi
Katherine Haramundanis
Gerald Hawkins
158 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Henry F. Helmken
Paul W. Hodge
Luigi G. Jacchia
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Douglas Kleinmann
Yoshihide Kozai
David Latham
Myron Lecar
Carlton G. Lehr
Martin Levine
Hiram Levy II
A. Edward Lilley
Marvin Litvak
Richard E. McCrosky
Brian G. Marsden
Ursula B. Marvin
George H. Megrue
Donald H. Menzel
Lawrence W. Mertz
Henri E. Mitler
Paul A. Mohr
James Moran
Robert W. Noyes
Costas Papaliolios
Cecelia H. Payne-Gaposhkin
Michael R. Pearlman
Douglas T. Pitman
Annette Posen
Harrison E. Radford
John B. Reid, Jr.
George B. Rybicki
Winfield W. Salisbury
Rudolph E. Schild
Zdenek Sekanina
Chen-Yuan Shao
I. Shapiro
Jack W. Slowey
Richard B. Southworth
Frank Steinbrunn
G. Jeffrey Taylor
Wesley A. Traub
Robert Vessot
George Victor
George Weiffenbach
Trevor C. Weekes
Charles A. Whitney
Marlene Williamson
John A. Wood
Consultants: = 4.52.8 eee aera Robert N. Anthony
John Danziger
Stanley Ross
Robert Stein
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Pol Swings

George Veis

Natarajan Visvanathan
Director, Central Bureau for Satellite

Geodesy? 5. .25 Beers 8 Oe. George Veis
Director, Central Bureau for Astronomical

helegrams *\) 205-5 4. SERA... ; Brian G. Marsden
ASHE CIOWS® 6h. acc cpu Seek... Eoghan O’Mongain

Steven Wofsy
Eric Chaisson

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

| DiWWeXCTROY ecceauts ts ieGiaruiy AUN E eee ee a Martin H. Moynihan
Special Assistant to Director ....... Adela Gomez
Assistant Director (Science) ......... Ira Rubinoff
AdiministrativeOfhicen —ss1..citeis) st iiet C. Neal McKinney
Manager, Barro Colorado Island .... Ernest Hayden
ManapersNaosisland) ss 52 0 o. 0s): Archibald Turner
OlhicesMunacene we weie tere ncrot onan Arilla Kourany
IBIGLOZISESIME Sete Ne Sono h 2 chkop tk Soa teats Robert L. Dressler

Peter W. Glynn

Jeffrey B. Graham

Judith Lang

Egbert Leigh

A. Stanley Rand

Michael H. Robinson

Roberta W. Rubinoff

Neal G. Smith

Hindrik Wolda
EIGNOLALVAME oops tes enc oc ea Charles F. Bennett, Jr.

John F. Eisenberg

Carmen Glynn

Carlos Lehmann

Robert H. MacArthur

Giles W. Mead

Ernst Mayr

Barbara Robinson

Patricio Sanchez

W. John Smith

CAG] Soper

Paulo Vanzolini

Martin Young

Radiation Biology Laboratory

DITE CLOT ESS ol atis Sactiieiteney «2. ios. = ey? = William H. Klein

ASSIS taniteDire CtOTewetere cece. eicue aden eae. Walter A. Shropshire, Jr.
PANtNTOPOlOPIStS pevera cesta e cui « euerousl Robert Stuckenrath
BIOCNEMIStS st. Seat etee eee oes David L. Correll

Maurice M. Margulies

159
160

ie) fai (ewe [e\ 6; @! (oo, (ee) si Wien ep ean ke) seamiler ©

Biologists

Chemist
Geneticist
Geochemist
Microbiologist
Oceanographer
Physicists

COCO) sn DCO Omer ey uch soy Ob) Ce Oho
mio) e) 6 0) 6 ‘s: 10: (¢) 0) (6) ey teme) e4cen selva. te. ‘e)

int}iep (my (6) (6, 6) ©) (el (oie jel wha sei 8) fe) ie) To) Hei a!
S) a © (6 wo gesehie! Wel) 0) le\pdite al iet is: %e: o
«© @ \w ovaries te atic tet at feria gol (a.m

2.6) la. geihe! © ©, lente. ele may le met ee) ial tem us! (=

Physiological Ecologist
Plant Physiologists

Fellows

SMITHSONIAN YEAR

Elisabeth Gantt
Rebecca Gettens
William O. Smith, Jr.
David Severn

Roy W. Harding, Jr.
James Mielke

Maria Faust

John Joyce

Bernard Goldberg
Richard Jeck

Bert Drake

John Edwards
Victor B. Elstad
Leonard Price
Robert L. Weintraub
Clarke Brooks
Edward DeFabo
Richard Honeycutt
Verna Lawson

National Zoological Park

Assistant Director, Department of
Zoological Programs ers fees ee -
Chief, Administrative Services
Captain, Police Division
Head, Planning and Design Office
Chief, Division of Interpretation
Curator, Division of Birds
Curator, Division of Small Mammals and
Primates
Curator, Division of Reptiles

Research! “sr.)., <1 «tobe nats tote eeas
Veterinarian, Division of Animal Health
Pathologist, Division of Pathology
Chief, Operations and Maintenance

Department, (cy. atenetetetcten-n ett
Head, Automotive Division
Heads Grounds) Division) ice ee eee
Head, Maintenance Division
Head, Mechanical Division
Head, Labor Division
Associates in Ecology

ore ee

(0) 6 te@ ‘eles: is
©) (6) wo: m) jee! ole! is
©) Sle! «i.e «0 supe. e wae

a) eh e. ©) 0.016 a. nye, ote 6

Research Associates

ee eee ee we ewes

re D

“eee eee eee eee eee

ee ee eee
Ce

she © © 6
6) ‘ee a (ae

Resident Scientist, Division of Scientific

Theodore H. Reed
John Perry

Floris M. Garner

Joseph J. McGarry
Anthony J. Kadlubowski
Norman C. Melun

Saul W. Schiffman
(Vacant)

Harold J. Egoscue
Jaren G. Horsley

John F. Eisenberg

. Clinton W. Gray

Robert M. Sauer

Emanuel Petrella
Jesse Batts

John Monday
Robert Ogilvie
Theodore Runyan
Carl F. Jackson

S. Dillon Ripley
Lee M. Talbot
Jean Delacour
Gerald G. Montgomery
George McKay
Devra G. Kleiman
Bernard C. Zook
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Nancy A. Muckenhirn
OADOTATONS (Neves o atamncperei es 08% wkd... Floris M. Garner
Leonard J. Goss
Carlton M. Herman
Paul Leyhausen
Charles R. Schroeder

Office of Environmental Sciences

TIRE (CLIO)? ow eet Rech aera lease ne rine na erg alae William L. Eilers
Program Director, AID Environmental
MpAactaStUGies ec sees eee Peter H. Freeman
Program Director, AID Waterborne
Bseases;StuGVre prate 215.4 6 sees (os Curt R. Schneider
Ecology Program
DIRGCUGT oS Gales eon a a eee Dale W. Jenkins
DeputyeDirectOrn! (eee cet ct. eke oie Lee M. Talbot?

Director, Center for Natural Areas ... Stephen L. Keiley
Director, Peace Corps Environmental

Studlestepecctare tc usteis se tee Robert K. Poole
Wasitine Ecologist. “"- 2.2 se ee ls Lloyd V. Knutson
Oceanography and Limnology Program
DIT ClOTemrentatsn a arotet aie einer os neta eos Robert P. Higgins
Deputy DiTector” <a. ccc ses ce «3s David K. Young??
Director, Mediterranean Marine Sorting
CCCHICK MEE CL Sice ete neers en, oe William P. Davis
Director, Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sout ouGentens ia. sm 6 caer es ous. H. Adair Fehlmann
Program Officer, CITRE Planning Pro-
(ANT wee SNe ne a ee ene Stephen V. Smith
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies
| DIRSYOUOYT -horesurcyhals asia ean baie oe RE a beater ek Francis S. L. Williamson
MEDUtYSDIKECtOn 4... een ke John Kevin Sullivan
Center for Short-Lived Phenomena
DE CLOTS Tes eos, ew ats: Sees eet Robert Citron

Center for the Study of Man

UTE EG dt REE, Ate Csss rst. Sol Tax
Erorram Coordinator ....<..s...s- Sam Stanley

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange

PTESIGENG ese ore ea dd eple eh pee ch EO! David F. Hersey

Wice President; User: Services .).)... 2% >’ Frank J. Kreysa
Director, User Education. 4.62... «=. Richard C. Reeser

Vice President, Professional Services .... Willis R. Foster

22 On leave in 1971 to Council on Environmental Quality.

23 appointed effective June 1972. Dail W. Brown resigned March 1972.

161
162

Vice President, Data Processing .......
Sécrétary’ 3.2.4 Sc eee ee
Treasurer. Ss hs be ae ee ee
Assistant Treasurer *°2 ~. 20.9. oo
Science Division
Director ...:2- See ee es ee ens
Deputy, Life Sciences ar. eres
Chief, Medical Sciences Branch
Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch .
Chief, Social Sciences Branch ...
Chief, Agriculture Sciences Branch
Chief, Biological Sciences Branch
Deputy, Physical Sciences ......
Chief, Chemistry, Material and
Engineering Branch ......
Chief, Physics, Mathematics and
Electronics Branch ......
Chief, Earth Science Branch .......
Data Processing Division
DHECION 5 28-05 sae eee
IDE DUTY, (os 28 sage eect ae acts
Chief, Input Services Branch
Chief, Systems Development
Branch” = 46... -yom 45 EliyaeoS -
Chief, Programming and Reports
Services Branchigags -@..o4ae) =)
Chief, Computer Operations Branch

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Martin Snyderman
V.P. Verfuerth
David W. Lakamp
Evelyn M. Roll

Willis R. Foster
Charlotte M. Damron

. Faith F. Stephan

Rhoda Stolper

. Barbara F. Lundquist

William T. Carlson

. James R. Wheatley, Jr.

Samuel Liebman
Samuel Liebman

Robert Summers
Joseph P. Riva, Jr.

Martin Snyderman
Bernard L. Hunt

. Jack DeVore

Bernard L. Hunt

Robert A. Kline
Paul Gallucci

Fort Pierce Bureau?*

DIFC CEOL Pa eet ee cues enone cect ans eG

I. Eugene Wallen

HISTORY AND ART

DC WEY) fata saan, Sect ap hs coroeeigauns faxee sie ie

Charles Blitzer
Richard Grove
Susan Hamilton

The National Museum of History
and Technology

DIE CTOR 1G sys ea RR ew owas 5 co hs 22g
Deputy. Director 4 oss eS Ie
Assistant Director for Administration ..
Administrative Otfieer ~.-..- fe ee ace
Historian; -a ssc lee eee eee
Applied Arts

Chainman” os kepsse cee eee ee

?4F stablished 16 October 1971.

Daniel J. Boorstin
Silvio A. Bedini

. Robert G. Tillotson

Virginia Beets
Harold K. Skramstad

Carl H. Scheele
|

APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Division of Graphic Arts
Associate Curators

Numismatics

Curators, 5... ; <=... oes . Fee

Photographic History
Curator

Postal History
Curator

Textiles

Curators... ee Se eee

Honorary

Cultural History
Chairman
Costume and Furnishings
Curator

Ethnic and Western Cultural History

GuratOrss se. cos. tee. 1 REO.

Musical Instruments
Curator

Preindustrial History
Curator

Industries
Chairman

Agriculture and Mining
Curator

Associate Guraton: Aes) eae

Ceramics and Glass

UTA OUS eee ede ee es Oe

Manufacturing
Curator

a Jw le,'s) o Veese st et ol a. a's, "e el ew

= sie) le (a, a @ 4 6.0 6: «, 6 © 2 6 « ©

otal je) ore" els) eo te) i= 6

ahiet (a) eo ia sw! se oa eh ee! ee; 18 ©

se (a Jone. eel eal et es eee Sw

oe. mi lw a; 18) 6) 1e1, ww) 6 le: wie) ere es.

AGSIStanii@uratOns > a5 6 = 4-6

eo) oo os (olay we ieee, 0 ishiesa re) a

Pe ee a ee ee Ps ee ee

ota) 0 ste ia vee a 2 He eras a) 6

Elizabeth M. Harris
Peter C. Marzio

Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Eugene Ostroff
David E. Haberstich

Carl H. Scheele
Franklin R. Bruns
Reidar Norby

Rita J. Adrosko

Grace R. Cooper

Cora Lee C. Gillilland
(Numismatics)

R. Henry Norweb (Numismatics)

C. Malcolm Watkins

Rodris Roth
Claudia B. Kidwell

Richard E. Ahlborn
C. Malcolm Watkins

John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover

C. Malcolm Watkins

Anne C. Golovin

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood

David W. Hinshaw

Ivor Noél Hume

Edward B. Jelks

Robert H. McNulty

Anne W. Murray (Curator
Emeritus, Costume)

Joan Pearson Watkins

John H. White, Jr.

John T. Schlebecker
John N. Hoffman

J. Jefferson Miller II
Paul V. Gardner

John H. White, Jr.

163
164

Transportation

Curators: ss sete ee

Honorary. )censsver ence nacre erie

National and Military History

Chairman ees ee on oe eee

Historic Archeology

Curatoreer- Bitsy eee

Military History

CULALORSY ctor ystems on

Naval History

@urators), 2h.55.5 Reka os

Political History

(GQuTAIL OTA coo al otic toe te he tastes

Science and Technology

Chairman yacronsa .cot eee
Senior Scientific Scholar .....
Principal Investigator (Computer

History Project) sc cast one

Electricity and Nuclear Energy

Curator, 2o.j2 555 See ae

Curator (Mathematics) ......
Mechanical and Civil Engineering

Curators: 2 5... 2 = See ee

Medical Sciences

Gurator - 3 sa eee ae
Associate Curaton yea ele

Physical Sciences

Curator) 2. oberon sche

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

John H. White, Jr.

Melvin H. Jackson

Peter B. Bell

Philip W. Bishop

Howard I. Chapelle (Historian
Emeritus)

Hans Syz (Ceramics)

Edgar M. Howell
Mendel L. Peterson

Edgar M. Howell
Craddock R. Goins, Jr.

Philip K. Lundeberg
Harold D. Langley

Margaret B. Klapthor

Herbert R. Collins

William Rea Furlong
(Flag History)

Bernard S. Finn
Robert P. Multhauf

Henry S. Tropp

Bernard S. Finn
Uta C. Merzbach

Robert M. Vogel
Edwin A. Battison
Otto Mayr

Sami K. Hamarneh
Audrey B. Davis

Walter F. Cannon

Deborah J. Warner

Jon B. Eklund

Anthony R. Michaelis
(Scientific Instruments)

Derek J. De Solla Price
(Scientific Instruments)

Archives of American Art

William E. Woolfenden
Garnett McCoy
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Administrative Assistant
Curator of Manuscripts

Assistant Curator of Manuscripts
Area Directors

pi he, eee Jee) ee: ee! ew) ee) ae

o abel eel esis =) a) etiapie Kee) fe

Oral History
Trustees

2) eo ©) m (0) (2) tel esiel vy elm Nebe te s/o

oe! ts, (eNie) (oes is 0) eo) ole) fe) oe fepie! (eet al el ss 7°

Advisory Committee

Howard McCall

Arthur J. Breton

Elsie F. Freivogel

Butler Coleman (New York)
Robert Brown (Northeast)

F. Ivor D. Avellino (New York)
Sylvia Loomis (Southwest)
Paul Cummings

Howard W. Lipman, President
Irving F. Burton, Vice President
James Humphry III, Vice President
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Vice President
Girard L. Spencer, Treasurer
Miss Milka Iconomoff, Secretary
Harry Baldwin

Edmond duPont

Joseph H. Hirshhorn

Harold O. Love

Russell Lynes

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Mrs. Alfred Negley

Abraham Melamed

Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson

Henry Pearlman

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond

Mrs. William L. Richards

E. P. Richardson

Chapin Riley

Edward M. M. Warburg

Willis F. Woods

S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio
Charles Blitzer, ex officio
Lawrence A. Fleischman, Honorary
Mrs. Edsel B. Ford, Honorary
James Humphry III, Chairman
Milton W. Brown

Lloyd Goodrich

Eugene C. Goossen

James J. Heslin

John Howat

Bernard Karpel

Edgar Kaufmann, Jr.

John A. Kouwenhoven

Karl Kup

Eric Larrabee

Abram Lerner

A. Hyatt Mayor

Jules Prown

J.T. Rankin

Daniel J. Reed

Charles van Ravenswaay
Marvin S. Sadik
166 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Joshua C. Taylor
William B. Walker
Richard P. Wunder

Freer Gallery of Art

DITECtOR by scisceneh i SE ee Harold P. Stern
AssistantsDirecton peer. ceo le Sc Thomas Lawton
Assistant Curator, Chinese Art ....... Hin-cheung Lovell
Assistant Curator, Near Eastern Art .... Esin Atil

Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory . W. Thomas Chase
@hemist, technical Vaboratory “2... . John Winter

Research Curator, Far Eastern Ceramics . John A. Pope
Research Consultant, Technical
Maboratory~....:4 See ere < Rutherford J. Gettens

Research Assistant, Far Eastern Ceramics Josephine H. Knapp

Research Assistant, Herzfeld Archive ... Joseph M. Upton

Meibrananh an Ao shane wis eRe eSeO ee thas Priscilla P. Smith

HonoranysAssociatesm amet rend eee Richard Edwards
Calvin French

National Collection of Fine Arts

DITE CIO iat eee ee eee eee Joshua C. Taylor
Administrative Ofticer 4 sae oe George W. Riggs
Curator, Exhibition and Design ....... Harry Lowe
Curator, Contemporary Painting and

NCUIPCURCUNS eee Mens ee cre rae Adelyn D. Breeskin
Associate Curator, 18th- and 19th-Century

Painting and Sculpture ........ William H. Truettner
Curator, Prints and Drawings ........ Janet A. Flint
Administrator, Renwick Gallery ...... Lloyd E. Herman
Assistant Curator, Renwick Gallery .... Arthur Feldman
Curatonot Education cee ee Darrel L. Sewell
Special Assistant for the Collections .... Robert Tyler Davis
CoordinatonofRescarchi se ener Lois M. Fink
Coordinator, Bicentennial Inventory

OmAMEeTICan) baintinSsie es eran cie Abigail Booth

Chief, Smithsonian Institution Traveling

JDoderloninvorl NIAMS —Gogoodenoce Dennis Gould
Chief, International Art Program ...... Lois A. Bingham
SaNGe COMENFIGI sade c65aun0ce soc Anton Konrad
Resistrats  seciecv-sueie ieronee/o. bee ene bor Elisabeth Strassmann
Editor Officeiof Publicationisene eo eeee Georgia M. Rhoades
Head Librarian, NCFA/NPG ......... William B. Walker
Coordinator of Special Projects ....... Donald R. McClelland
Pwo Zoi OMMC A 55455 46h 50666 Benjamin Ruhe
Photographer 2.5 sees elec ers chore eng oe Lowell A. Kenyon
National Collection of Fine Arts

Commission ee eee eee Thomas C. Howe, Chairman

H. Page Cross, Vice Chairman
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

HonoranvaMiembersins cos cc ese oe eee © Alexander Wetmore
Leonard Carmichael
Gilmore D. Clarke
Paul Mellon
Stow Wengenroth
Andrew Wyeth
National Portrait Gallery
ITE CLO Tee Lee eos 6 ch cus chien cients, aes. « Marvin S. Sadik
Assistant Director and Administrative
RGEC TMM ticle ics, Ss aitca x aie o, « Douglas E. Evelyn
liSLORATIPNI EP aE e7 oS cacao. 6. ash as ease Lillian B. Miller
ASSIStanEMStOMAaN cue) seis eso cliche) hous) «1 Beverly J. Cox
RescarchuHist@niamin sevens ccc, eseuer case eee Frederick S. Voss
(CuratOrepenrccs oes is aa seewen ran bey seeks Robert G. Stewart
ASSOGIATeICUTATON vena cess sess sehen © © Monroe Fabian
Ree pemoimtne:Cataloruem eis iano Wilford P. Cole
SemioOnminescarcheAssistanitue sere nee ele Mona Dearborn
Curatonomeducationy ys ss ieee cae eo James Vivian? °
Assistant Curator of Education ....... Robert Works? °
ChickyExhibits/Desion: 2 ces -) 5c css) sere © James J. Shelton
Assistant Chief, Exhibits Design ...... Michael Carrigan
ibraniani(NRG-N@BA) 52. ..6. see es William B. Walker
Senior ie onservatotal .nicters eis. ete labete ai Anton Konrad
KEGNSCHVALOK EIS hic oi ee aie es ene eine Felrath Hines
IRCGIS(Tan ccc, os jatems eine ee ee oe een Jon D. Freshour
INEGICommission ©. iee ets See tee oe John Nicholas Brown, Chairman

*S Resigned 16 June 1972.
© Resigned 16 June 1972.

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary

Leonard Baskin
Thomas S. Buechner
William A.M. Burden
David E. Finley
Martin Friedman
Lloyd Goodrich
Walker Hancock
Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr.
August Heckscher
Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume
Henry P. Mclilhenny
Ogden M. Pleissner
Charles H. Sawyer
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
George B. Tatum
Otto Wittmann

Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.
Lewis Deschler
David E. Finley

Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis

167
168 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Andrew Oliver
Jules D. Prown
E. P. Richardson
Robert Hilton Smith
Barbara Tuchman
EX-Off1CIO. ioc ds0a fn a Ae ee aes Shoes Chief Justice of the United States
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Director, National Gallery of Art

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

IDCOIN Sako o eo eee eto in Oo icicer. onc Abram Lerner
AGiministratives OUtlCeta cu-u-i-s ics nike Joseph Sefekar
Curatowot Exhibitions) 2c cys senses. Douglas MacAgy
ASSOCIate\GUTatOn Eelaiecssisees cice= i Cynthia Jaffee McCabe
ASSIStanit @ilEaCOT | cuencu siecle ican sual so) Inez Garson

LADLATIAM ess vs (a) sxc hayes cesmeneeaega re orek= Anna Brooke

REP ISUEAT eles csuemcls («Sus woukerolgs anaes BOR Sandra L. Pearson
Museums PEGialistSmn en -lucienaaeh acne James J. Elias

Frank B. Gettings
Gerald O’Connor

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

WINE CLOD sus tous cas cle heme kcas er caeeeka = © Lisa Suter Taylor
Administrator and Curator of Collections Christian Rohlfing
Associate Curator of Decorative Arts ... Janet Thorpe
Assistant Curator of Decorative Arts ... Catherine Frangiamore
Curator of Drawings and Prints ....... Elaine Evans Dee
Technician for Drawings and Prints .... Xenia Cage
Assistant Curatonon Textiles: siye sean <)s Milton Sonday
Consultant for Mextiles! 9. cussues-ue stone) oh Alice Baldwin Beer
REPIStrat sen hs fica cro caer rosacea ems aie Mary F. Blackwelder
iGbrarnae ee aie cree es Edith Adams? ”
Assistant Mibranian 1s spats jeter es Eliane Zuesse
BUlGInowManaeen oop-emeweere cuekencns Manuel Perez
MUSEUM SECLELALY, 0c ers tei cen = Rowena MacLeod
MUSEUIMERECEPUONISte ernie orn one Deirdre MacGuire

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

DITECIOR 6c GK, okteetemetio Weereae eS John H. Magruder III
ASSistantaDiteCton a=) p-sep ier dense = James S. Hutchins
Administrative Officer isi-11s clone = - Miriam H. Uretz
Gollectionse «2 sjondd eases ctea ds: John M. Elliott
Historian) vaya 5 Peis dcl sot gebyee a Seva» James J. Stokesberry
ReGisttar. cis. axswers t peslkl wees ei sgslele @ Lorene B. Mayo

27 Resigned 22 October 1971.
!

APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 169

PAGVASOTYABOATC Ay Sys che 8) = ene > tsi The Honorable John Nicholas Brown,
Chairman
The Honorable Earl Warren
Secretary of Army
Secretary of Navy
Secretary of Air Force
Lieutenant General Milton G. Baker,
Retired
Robert C. Baker
The Honorable Alexander P. Butterfield
William H. Perkins, Jr.
[ESR ONIN). ms nod cbc. 0 cee ea ene oe Secretary of Defense
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

Joseph Henry Papers

GOT, | Sogekesd set itiars © WS opis cra ekt. <0 Nathan Reingold
ASSIStaniwe GditOnnes: = 3. ashe. S Seer «. Arthur P. Molella
Statiahistoranweeres, «nyse yet decir eie «us James M. Hobbins
RESCaLChyASsistanity, Gc.~ <pcae eemereee ©, Kathleen Waldenfels
ACiministiative Orlicemen ach: ep yeace = Beverly Jo Lepley

Officer of American Studies

DINE CODE Le asta. odes. aus Sy Sasnsubor os Wilcomb E. Washburn

Office of Academic Studies

PXECULIVEIOMMICEn 21: apie thabaceaeabe es » Edward S. Davidson
PLOPTAMMOUM CCH eaeye Gseven ss oes .6hs ss, e Gretchen Gayle

Smithsonian Institution Archives

PRTG DIV Steet ie oto a cad oe yeu cc ltn Cusine Richard H. Lytle

ASSISTANT ATCHIVISES: = =) es. che oie mie Se. etaus Donald Danuloff?®
William A. Deiss”?
James Steed

Alan L. Bain?

Office of Seminars

DDITECUOTN Sees wea is. < 2. bia sil igsts Se ees Wilton S. Dillon
Administrative Assistant. ~~. ....-....-. Dorothy Richardson
(Comierence: Specialist, 298 at ieus oi eie eke Stephany Knight
PASSIS CAME basecieg deaaad ok, beer ets soe ewe Frances Miller

28 Retired 17 September 1971.
2° appointed 31 October 1971.
3° ppointed 30 April 1972.
170 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Assistant) Secretary, seni yore nee eee Paul N. Perrot?!

Office of Smithsonian and National Museum Programs

Assistant Ducctor™, “vey /omreuent |. Frederick Schmid?”
ResearchvAssistantss m0). een eee. Katherine Goldman? ?
Jean H. Eisenberg>*
ResearchvAssociates® sno erate aes tees Frank A. Taylor
Speciali€onsultantwyewers eee eer ene: Stephen Johnston?>

Office of Exhibits Programs

DATE CtOT ssc: seesisdauess ss ed SRPMS SPREE John E. Anglim?°
ACN eS DITE COT. eis seclona cies eiele ei James A. Mahoney
Depurtye Directors...) ses tome ete ene Benjamin W. Lawless
ChiefiofsDesign: ... ive c ts st he ots Richard S. Virgo
Assistant/Chief off Desient since ene William F. Haase
Chiecfior Productions =e oie eee Harry T. Hart
Assistant Chief of Production ........ Eugene F. Behlen
Led Monti ILA IECMIOR 5 o55656an00006 Constance Minkin
Program Management Officer ........ William M. Clark, Jr.

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Chieti a sit ouens, agers hee OE Robert M. Organ
Researchi@hemist) aa acsacaspeaee aes oo cue Jacqueline S. Olin
Senion Consenvatoteeees teen tee ee Eleanor McMillan

Office of the Registrar

A ClINGHREPIStrar ee caver cr clr an tices +. William P. Haynes

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Dire ctomolsabraniesy ease eae eee Russell Shank
Assistant tothe Director =. - 5. Dan O. Clemmer
Assistant Director of Libraries ........ Mary A. Huffer?’

Assistant to the Assistant Director ... Peter A. Geiger
Assistant Director of Libraries for Bureau
Services 5S... a ere are te Jean C. Smith

31 Effective 1 August 1972.

>? Appointed 15 July 1971. Peter C. Welsh, Director, resigned 1 December 1971.
33 Resigned 15 May 1972.

34 Resigned 18 June 1972.

35 Appointed 1 February 1972.

3©Died 23 May 1972.

37 Transferred to U.S. Department of the Interior 20 February 1972.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 7d

Deputy Assistant Director of Libraries for

IBNEC ALLS CEVICCSMEENE Cus teens ene L. Frances Jones
Administrative Wibranian’) 206. «56s < Thomas L. Wilding
Administrative Assistant ......... Mary C. Quinn

Access Services
DIC i petispc lata ss aue See Sie es % Jack F. Marquardt
Assistant Ghict» =~ Jeete0s . Geers « A. James Spohn

Library of Congress Liaison Librarian Ruth E. Blanchard>®
Bibliographer in the History of Science .. Jack S. Goodwin
Technical Services

(Chic itera wakes scenester 5 are seer als Vija L. Karklins
Acquisitions Division

Actine Chieh <..Mare ct see es Mildred D. Raitt

Senalsseibrantaniy psc eceke so oes Edna S. Suber

Gift and Exchange Librarian .... Mary Clare Cahill

Special Assistant assigned to

ACQUISIMONS snack eaeea Mary L. Horgan?”

Catalog Division

Actine:Chiel <>. cist ase « Bertha S. Sohn
Catalogers ..:.....whaie teem Angeline D. Ashford

Charles H. King
Helen S. Nordberg
Margaret A. Sealor

Carol L. Wohlford
Branch Librarians

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative

ArtsrandsDesigniieiecis: posers =. Edith Adams*°
Department ol. Botanyiaue. a sine = c Ruth F. Schallert
nrecmGallenyaotAntigis. ceeds eis - Pricilla B. Smith
Hirshorn Museum and_ Sculpture

(Garden ye os: 5) eRe TES 5s Anna M. Brooke

National Air and Space Museum .... Catherine D. Scott?!
National Collection of Fine Arts and

National Portrait Gallery ....... William B. Walker
National Museum of History and

ARECHIVOIOPR Vi ter eney crc perce tenere oe Frank A. Pietropaoli
National Museum of Natural History . Jean C. Smith (acting)
Smithsonian Astrophysical

ODSERVATONY-2. Hee Saree aes ee Joyce M. Rey
Smithsonian Tropical Research

MMS THEUICOR sen ronci cu ccusa oaeyente shies = Alcira Mejia
Woodrow Wilson International Center

MOTASCHOMATSO* Acne inte cee cherae tke. Mary Anglemyer

|

Branch Librarian Reference Staff
National Collection of Fine Arts and
National Portrait Gallery ....... Sara B. Hinnegan*?
38 Retired 31 December 1971.
3° Retired 14 January 1972.
4° Resigned 22 October 1972.
41 4 ppointed 15 May 1972.
42 4 ppointed 2 August 1971.
hye SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

National Museum of History and
Vechnolosys Vato: cagenoer ones Charles G. Berger

PUBLIC SERVICE

Actine Assistant Secretarya ean. «see © - Julian T. Euell*?
Deputy Assistant Secretary .......... Robert W. Mason
AdministrativerAssistant. 2a. aoe - Ruth Frazier

Smithsonian Associates

Executive:Diector jan. + se es ee eee Robert W. Mason
Director of Plans and Marketing ...... Robert H. Angle
National Program
Director, Receptioni@enterm.)....-'5 = = Mary Grace Potter
Manager, Domestic Study Tours .... Patricia N. Kilkenny
Resident Program
DINE CTO IS asapicy oleh gee ds. seus snegolensae Susan Hamilton
BUSINESS/Manacen mer. terewer.: o) -ce) cesta Marlin Johnson
SpecialiEventsvAssistant “. 2-50... - Carolyn Amundson
Subscription’ Assistant@er. 5 22 2... - Carolyn A. Hecker
Day Tours and Social Secretary .... Moya B. King

Office of Public Affairs

DIRECTOR? (828 ew arse, einis etecsusr neuer meus Carl W. Larsen
Special Assistant to the Director ...... Jewell S. Dulaney
Chief; News Bureaul.. #eeaice tena ot arene ore Mary M. Krug
Art Information Specialist ........ Benjamin P. Ruhe
Science Information Specialist ..... Thomas R. Harney
ChiefPublic-Atfairss Millis see eene se Irwin Goodwin
RadioiCorrespondent see. eer Cynthia Helms
Publications: @fticens aici aoe eee William O. Craig

Office of International Activities

ACUNSIDITECLOTY a sucts, me Ae oo eater Kennedy B. Schmertz
Foreign Currency Program
DiTe Chonan aio note oretais See Kennedy B. Schmertz
DEpubysDiTectOre vreyorucs cei aes Kenneth D. Whitehead
Proerami@ticer pus sco cache ce Richard T. Conroy
Grants Technical Assistants ....... Betty J. Wingfield
Judy E. Rodgers
Administrative Assistant ........... Jean A. C. Harrell

Division of Performing Arts

Dire ctOne es, 8 SIV. ey ba) 5 4) she, eens James R. Morris
Deputy’ Director “FAs feu < oe be Richard P. Lusher

43 effective 1 July 1972.

APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Director, Festival of American Folklife .. Ralph C. Rinzler
Assistant Director of Festival of American

Be OIKGHONN a eer aa oie je one se Gerald L. Davis
Director, Indian Awareness Program .... Clydia Nahwooksy
DiTCGlLOIndaZZ ETOSTAM Cec cs cpcuss 2s =e Martin Williams
PiARUMOOTICEE LS. es sc ws ww ye kw os Marian A. Hope
OperationSiOMICer ss: loses ee ss es es Manuel Melendez
Director, Touring Performances ....... Mark Mason
ManarereBOXMI@MICe -) 2. circ oe as - Harry Bagdasian
Administrative Ofhcer.2 =... 4... ..< Anne Anders

Smithsonian Museum Shops

ILC GLO tare On ey ie ssrs oy oae 18S aeye, Silas oY William W. Rowan III
Administrative Assistant, 9... 2.22... Barbara A. Brand
SLOLEIO PETAUIONS 2 os cunts auc. 5) ops Jcpe: yee Lillian R. Cutler
OO KBE UV ETI eae eae Re opel settee chicwens Florence R. Lloyd

Belmont Conference Center

DISC CLOTMEE getesis fetes 2 os. alc. st ey agou's.ve. ayiep tears Joanne S. Baker Kugel

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

PFE CTORM eee) olcse ete siels Ale ested: - John R. Kinard
PASSIStAMEIDITC CLOT «- pasdenes ws iets edb aoe Zora B. Martin
Research and Design Coordinator ..... Larry Erskine Thomas
Exhibiis Specialists ea: aynvace «8 daeiiae « James E. Mayo
Program Analyst, Center for Anacostia

SHUTS er 2 ro ca sivetsy siieiae ce toners us he Thomas J. Cantwell
Mobile Coordinator 22 on <6 te oe + ou Fletcher Smith
Assistant to the Director for Special

IPEOTE CIS wen atehercrcns «el ote anes hake Balcha Fellows

Smithsonian (magazine)

EMEOT Aes, evorcnans oer Aca =» 2 Edward K. Thompson

Members, Board of Editors .......... Ralph Backlund
Grayce P. Northcross
James K. Page, Jr.

Edwards Park
GeneraliManasen: ~oanpcs. ersuaekelae: Gils «6 = Joseph J. Bonsignore
AGVeTtisiMesDITeGLOL =<. -eeleroye eae - Thomas H. Black
Circulation-Promotion Director ....... Anne Keating

Smithsonian Institution Press

CRON as OPE ete bo SO ee tec os Gordon Hubel
ManaeinpiDbesipner snes: ac) oes Stephen Kraft
PromomonyManarer 82 2.5 <5 6 wns Maureen R. Jacoby

173
174 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Business Manacen er oe cyeineneienaeiaisne Eileen M. McCarthy
Series’ Managine dE ditones--1-)-aer-a-- ne Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.
Series Production Manager .......... Charles L. Shaffer
Beditorst Coxe F eee cre Mary Frances Bell

Ernest E. Biebighauser
Louise J. Heskett
Joan B. Hom

Mary M. Ingraham

John S. Lea

Nancy L. Powars
Wiriter-E Gitomer ciel sien iiel loan suenenen er Hope G. Pantell
DGSIPTICRS: Pappy sicie os © Sey ees se Crimilda Pontes

Elizabeth Sur

Reading Is Fundamental

Chairman of Advisory Board ......... Mrs. Robert S. McNamara
Presidente ac.cc8 32 nae ee se ewe William B. Mullins
ExecutivesDirectotee. 4. ats es «re oe Eleanor Smollar

Procramy Director mene eeae icine n-a- nnn ene Barbara B. Atkinson

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Acting Director java cairn ene eee enn John W. Bingham
StafiiwAssociatese qa smite ae cucuenconcmeici=nencr: Teresa E. Covacevich (Art History)
David W. Estabrook (History
and Technology)
Robert S. Harding (History)
Samuel C. Rizzetta (Biology)
Coordinator, Volunteer Programs ..... Joan C. Madden

National Gallery of Art

[oeinal CVEANRURK=s OG go ovolore 6 a.cle.c Sole The Chief Justice of the
United States, Warren E. Burger,
Chairman
The Secretary of State,
William P. Rogers
The Secretary of the Treasury,
John B. Connally
The Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, S. Dillon Ripley,
ex officio
General Trustees <==. Bite aacwetee ee | & Paul Mellon
Dr. Franklin D. Murphy
Lessing J. Rosenwald
Stoddard M. Stevens
John Hay Whitney
Presidentay nen hance) ceaaemeek tou ey Paul Mellon
WicesPresidentias = 00s s @ aieiene caciannec John Hay Whitney
Director 4.0 outer See Rea he ci eee J. Carter Brown
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Assistant to the Director, Music .... Richard Bales
Assistant to the Director, National
IBROSTAINS wrt eth 60=4e) = lay =e ooo W. Howard Adams
Assistant to the Director, Public
Intormatione 5-05 Gas ace aes Katherine Warwick
Construction Manager 3-2 5- o.. Robert C. Engle
Rlanmine; Consultant es 1. .e-1-haten David W. Scott
Secretary and General Counsel ....... E. James Adams
AGSMPMDINECIOIE Goats bio oS sooo oo Charles P. Parkhurst
Curator of American Painting ...... William P. Campbell
CURATOR Ol AAMT 55566 60 0 on ote H. Lester Cooke
Guratoriof GraphicsArts ©. S25 |. bi Christopher J. White
CuratoromMrawines) = 2 cues 5 Konrad Oberhuber
Curatonon DecorativeAtts: = 5. 2: Grose Evans
CuratonmotsSculphurcs.. )ceieees e C. Douglas Lewis, Jr.
Chief, Education and Public Programs Margaret Bouton
EE CItOtmee ee eo es ee aaa Theodore S. Amussen
Chief, Photographic Laboratory .... Henry B. Beville
Curator of Photographic Archives ... Alessandro Contini-Bonacossi
SITGASTILCIME tt Me i ro a eens Suess Lloyd D. Hayes
ANSSIStantaiteGASUlen mere Tame ae see ete James W. Woodard
ANGIITIRTENIOE tp ysis ayo a Ole 6. be onorbed alee Joseph G. English
Acting Deputy Administrator ...... Charles B. Walstrom
Assistant to the Administrator
(Scientific and Technical) ...... Sterling P. Eagleton
IRETSOMMe MOM CETs were ae es tt ee Jeremiah J. Barrett

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

HonoranyaGndinmen 9 = «0. .6..--6-+-- 6 Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower
CORAM AM ees ras a cooks, evs yeeiepeus yuciiey wise Roger L. Stevens
Wier @lrainmienesswasera cts sch ees acne) coke Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
Charles H. Percy
Henry Strong

(Generali€ounseluenniac Mere ees coe Ralph E. Becker
SECLELALV Ae aaa on ewe tales baie ee K. LeMoyne Billings
SIVRCASUTCTMMT. Gosucl.< 4 = scrote he eee ate Robert C. Baker
MUSICIDITC CLOT aa = nines ca a nee Julius Rudel
Executive Director of Performing Arts .. Martin Feinstein

GC OmiperOllete eres cies cucke Sata eee Aaron Spaulding
General Manager of Theaters ......... Alexander Morr
Director of Publicity and Promotion ... Wayne Shilkret
ASSIStalte ne ASUTCTS Hes Sr apse ae lane Kenneth Birgfeld

Paul J. Bisset

John L. Bryant

L. Parker Harrell, Jr.
Jarvis Moody

Henry Strong

175
16 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 _

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

DIRGCEOT ote oo erie nee sae eee Benjamin H. Read
Deputy wirector . = aa «eer Albert Meisel
Appendix 5

PUBLICATIONS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
IN FISCAL YEAR 1972

Research in Art, History, and Science
NON-SERIES PUBLICATIONS

Angel, J. Lawrence. The People of Lerna: Analysis of a Prehistoric Aegean Popula-
tion. 159 pages, 5 figures, 26 plates, 15 tables. 20 August 1971. Cloth. $17.50
List, Robert J., Preparer. Smithsonian Meteorological Tables. 6th revised edition, 5th
reprint. 527 pages. 10 September 1971 (originally published as Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, volume 114). Cloth. $15.00

Meester, J., and H.W. Setzer, editors. The Mammals of Africa: An Identification
Manual. 10 September 1971 (Parts 2, 7, 9, 12, 13) and 23 May 1972 (Parts, 4, 5
10, 15, 15.1). Loose leaf. $5.00 per fascicle.

O’Connor, Francis V., editor. The New Deal Art Projects: An Anthology of Memoirs.
ix + 339 pages, 53 illustrations. 27 April 1972. Cloth. $12.50.

Pantell, Hope. Our Restless Planet: A Geologist’s View of the Earth. 30 pages,
illustrated. 22 May 1972. Paper. $2.00

Phebus, George, Jr. Alaskan Eskimo Life in the 1890s as Sketched by Native Artists.
168 pages, 120 illustrations. 28 February 1972. Cloth. $15.00

Plowden, David. The Hand of Man on America. 134 pages, 75 illustrations. 20 August
1971. Cloth. $12.50.

>

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY BULLETIN
(Final volume of series)

200. “List of Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, with Index to
Authors and Titles.”’ 134 pages. 14 December 1971.

SMITHSONIAN ANNALS OF FLIGHT

5. Leonard S. Hobbs. “The Wright Brothers’ Engines and Their Design.” x + 71
pages, 17 figures. 27 October 1971.

7. Hugo T. Byttebier. “The Curtiss D-12 Aero Engine.” vii + 109 pages, 47 figures,
1 table. 10 May 1972.

8. Stanley R. Mohler and Bobby H. Johnson. ‘Wiley Post, His Winnie Mae, and the
World’s First Pressure Suit.” vii + 127 pages, 139 figures. 22 November 1971.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

14. Don D. Fowler and Catherine S. Fowler, editors. “Anthropology of the Numa:
John Wesley Poweil’s Manuscripts on the Numic Peoples of Western North

177
178 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

America, 1868-1880.” xiii + 307 pages, 36 figures, 9 maps, 1 table. 10
December 1971.

15.W. Raymond Wood. “Biesterfeldt: A Post-Contact Coalescent Site on the
Northeastern Plains.” xv + 108 pages, 16 figures, 20 plates, 6 text tables, 3
appendix tables. 17 August 1971.

16. William W. Fitzhugh. “Environmental Archeology and Cultural Systems in
Hamilton Inlet, Labrador: A Survey of the Central Labrador Coast from 3000
B.C. to the Present.” xix + 299 pages, 80 figures, 87 plates, 30 tables. 31 May
1972.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY

4. Mason E. Hale, Jr. ““Morden-Smithsonian Expedition to Dominica: The Lichens
(Parmeliaceae).”” 25 pages, 29 figures. 31 August 1971.

5. Barrett Nelson Rock. “The Woods and Flora of the Florida Keys: ‘Pinnatae’.”
35 pages, 35 figures, 4 tables. 4 February 1972.

7. F. R. Fosberg and M.-H. Sachet. “Thespesia populnea (L.) Solander ex Correa
and Thespesia populneoides (Roxburgh) Kosteletsky (Malvaceae). 13 pages, 6
figures. 17 April 1972.

8.F. R. Fosberg and M.-H. Sachet. “Three Indo-Pacific Thelypteris Species
Reinterpreted and a New African Species Described.” 10 pages, 3 figures. 5 May
NO eee

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES

7. William G. Melson. “Geology of the Lincoln Area, Lewis and Clark County,
Montana.” 29 pages, 13 figures, 8 tables. 15 October 1971.

8. Daniel J. Stanley, Donald J.P. Swift, Norman Silverberg, Noel P. James, and
Robert G. Sutton. “Late Quaternary Progradation and Sand Spillover on the
Outer Continental Margin off Nova Scotia, Southeast Canada.” 88 pages, 83
figures, 6 tables. 11 April 1972.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

6. Alan H. Cheetham. “Functional Morphology and Biofacies Distribution of
Cheilostome Bryozoa in the Danian Stage (Paleocene) of Southern
Scandinavia.” 87 pages, 29 figures, 17 plates, 10 tables. 27 September 1971.

7. Richard H. Benson. “A New Cenozoic Deep-Sea Genus Abyssocy there
(Crustacea: Ostracoda; Trachyleberididae), with Descriptions of Five New
Species.” 25 pages, 12 figures, 3 plates, 1 table. 11 August 1971.

8. Richard S. Boardman. ‘‘Mode of Growth and Functional Morphology of
Autozooids in Some Recent and Paleozoic Tubular Bryozoa.” 51 pages, 6
figures, 11 plates. 23 August 1971.

9. Frederick J. Collier, compiler. “Catalog of Type Specimens of Invertebrate
Fossils: Conodonta.”’ 256 pages, 1 figure. 23 September 1971.

10. Porter M. Kier. “Tertiary and Mesozoic Echinoids of Saudi Arabia.” 242 pages,
50 figures, 67 plates, 1 table. 14 June 1972.

11.G. Arthur Cooper. “Homeomorphy in Recent Deep-Sea Braciepods 25 pages,
5 figures, 4 plates. 10 March 1972.

13. Porter M. Kier. “Upper Miocene Echinoids from the Yorktown Formation of
Virginia and Their Environmental Significance.” 41 pages, 7 figures, 10 plates, 2 |
tables. 10 April 1972. |

—
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 179

50

58

63.

69.

76.

81.

84.

85.

87.

90.

oie

D2:

93.

95:

98.

oF:

100.

101.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

. Allan Watson. “An Illustrated Catalog of the Neotropic Arctiinae Types in the
United States National Museum (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae), Part I.” 361 pages,
252 plates. 2 June 1971. [Not reported in SY 1971.]

. J. Laurens Barnard. “Keys to the Hawaiian Marine Gammaridea, 0-30 Meters.”
135 pages, 68 figures. 23 September 1971.

Alan Brindle. “‘Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica:

The Dermaptera (Earwigs) of Dominica.” 25 pages, 27 figures. 7 July 1971.

James A. Peters. ““Biostatistical Programs in BASIC Language for Time-Shared

Computers: Coordinated with the Book ‘Quantitative Zoology’.” 46 pages.

Reprinted 1 March 1972, Original 10 March 1971.

Neil C. Hulings, editor. “Proceedings of the First International Conference on
Meiofauna.” ix + 205 pages, 68 figures, 9 tables. 30 December 1971.

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. “The Entocytherid Ostracods of Mexico and Cuba.” 55

pages, 31 figures, 1 table. 15 July 1971.

William D. Field. “Butterflies of the Genus Vanessa and of the Resurrected

Genera Bassaris and Cynthia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). 105 pages, 160

figures. 5S October 1971.

Ernest A. Lachner and Robert E. Jenkins. “Systematics, Distribution, and

Evolution of the Chub Genus Nocomis (Girard) (Pisces, Cyprinidae) of Eastern

United States, with Descriptions of New Species.” 97 pages, 30 figures, 27

tables. 17 August 1971.

Ju-Shey Ho. “Parasitic Copepods of the Family Chondracanthidae from Fishes

of Eastern North America.” 39 pages, 26 figures. 7 July 1971.

Robert E. Jenkins and Ernest A. Lachner. “Criteria for Analysis and

Interpretation of the American Fish Genera Nocomis Girard and Hybopsis

Agassiz.” 15 pages, 1 figure, 4 tables. 12 November 1971.

Ernest A. Lachner and Robert E. Jenkins. “Systematics, Distribution, and

Evolution of the Nocomis biguttatus Species Group (Family Cyprinidae: Pisces)

with a Description of a New Species from the Ozark Upland.” 28 pages, 8

figures, 9 tables. 6 October 1971.

Ernest A. Lachner and Martin L. Wiley. “Populations of the Polytypic Species

Nocomis leptocephalus (Girard) with a Description of a New Subspecies.” 35

pages, 4 figures, 15 tables. 12 November 1971.

C. E. Machado-Allision and Rafael Antequera. ‘““Notes on Neotropical Mesostig-

mata VI: Four New Venezuelan Species of the Genus Periglischrus (Acarina:

Spinturnicidae).” 16 pages, 61 figures. 29 July 1971.

J. F. Gates Clarke. “Neotropical Microlepidoptera XIX: Notes on and New

Species of Oecophoridae (Lepidoptera). 39 pages, 26 figures, 3 plates. 9

September 1971.

Fenner A. Chace, Jr. “The Shrimps of the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean

Expeditions with a Summary of the West Indian Shallow-water Species

(Crustacea: Decapoda: Natantia).” x + 179 pages, 61 figures. 18 February 1972.

Nabil N. Youssef. “Topography of the Cephalic Musculature and Nervous

System of the Honey Bee Apis mellifera Linnaeus.” 54 pages, 10 figures, 5

tables. 30 December 1971.

Norman Marston. “Taxonomic Study of the Known Pupae of the Genus

Anthrax (Diptera: Bombyliidae) in North and South America.” 17 pages, 4

plates, 1 table. 17 August 1971.

John F. Eisenberg and Melvyn Lockhart. “An Ecological Reconnaissance of
Wilpattu National Park, Ceylon.” 118 pages, 76 figures, 16 tables. 3 May 1972.
180 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

102. Robert J. Menzies and Milton A. Miller. “Systematics and Zoogeography of the
Genus Synidotea (Crustacea: Isopoda) with an Account of Californian Species.”
33 pages, 12 figures, 5 tables. 4 February 1972.

103. J. Laurens Barnard. “Gammaridean Amphipoda of Australia, Part I.” 333 pages,
194 figures, 1 table. 3 May 1972.

104. Marian H. Pettibone. “Revision of Some Species Referred to Leptonereis,
Nicon, and Laeonereis (Polychaeta: Nereididae).” 53 pages, 27 figures. 13
October 1971.

105. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., and Thomas C. Barr, Jr. “Origins and Affinities of the
Troglobitic Crayfishes of North America (Decapoda: Astacidae), II: Genus
Orconectes.”’ 84 pages, 16 figures. 10 March 1972.

106. W. Donald Duckworth. ‘‘Neotropical Microlepidoptera XX: Revision of the
Genus Setiostoma (Lepidoptera: Stenomidae).” 45 pages, 62 figures, 2 plates,

2 maps. 13 October 1971.

107. James A. Peters. ““A New Approach in the Analysis of Biogeographical Data.” 28
pages, 15 figures, 2 tables. 21 October 1971.

108. Charles A. Triplehorn. “‘A Review of the Genus Zopherus of the World
(Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae).”” 24 pages, 4 plates. 7 February 1972.

109. Marian H. Pettibone. ‘“‘Partial Revision of the Genus Sthenelais Kinberg
(Polychaeta: Sigalionidae) with Diagnoses of Two New Genera.” 40 pages, 24
figures. 21 October 1971.

110. Herman A. Scullen. ““Review of the Genus Cerceris Latreille in Mexico and
Central America (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae).” 121 pages, 173 figures. 30 June
1972.

111.S. Dillon Ripley and Gorman M. Bond. “Systematic Notes on a Collection ot
Birds from Kenya.” 21 pages, 1 figure, 16 November 1971.

112. Victor G. Springer and William F. Smith-Vaniz. “Mimetic Relationships
Involving Fishes of the Family Blenniidae.” 36 pages, 4 figures, 7 plates, 2
tables. 2 February 1972.

113. Harry W. Allen. ““A Monographic Study of the Subfamily Tiphiinae (Hy-
menoptera: Tiphiidae) of South America.” 76 pages, 57 figures. 26 April 1972.

114. Paul D. Hurd, Jr., and E. Gorton Linsley. ‘Parasitic Bees of the Genus
Holcopasites Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Apoidea). 41 pages, 16 figures, 1 table.
10 March 1972.

115.Howard E. Evans. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of
Dominica: Aculeate Wasps (Hymenoptera: Scolioidea, Vespoidea, Pompiloidea,
Sphecoidea).”’ 19 pages, 20 figures. 3 March 1972.

116. Edward W. Baker and Donald M. Tuttle. ““New Species and Further Notes on
the Tetranychoidea Mostly from the Southwestern United States (Acarina:
Tetranychidae and Tenuipalpidae).”’ 37 pages, 70 figures. 10 April 1972.

117. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. “The Subgenera of the Crayfish Genus Procambarus
(Decapoda: Astacidae).”’ 22 pages, 20 figures, 1 table. 4 February 1972.

118. Oliver S. Flint, Jr. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XIII: The Genus
Ochrotrichia from Mexico and Central America (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae).”
28 pages, 78 figures. 3 March 1972.

119. Marjorie Estelle Carter and Janet M. Bradford. ‘“‘Postembryonic Development of
Three Species of Freshwater Harpacticoid Copepoda.” 26 pages, 14 figures, 1
table. 24 May 1972.

122. Carl F.W. Muesebeck. ‘“‘Nearctic Species of Scelionidae (Hymenoptera: Procto-
trupoidea) that Parsitize the Eggs of Grasshoppers.” 33 pages, 51 figures. 21
June 1972.

APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 181

123. Roger F. Cressey. “Revision of the Genus Alebion (Copepoda: Caligoida).” 29
pages, 132 figures. 24 May 1972.

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

7. Grace Rogers Cooper. ““The Copp Family Textiles.” viii + 65 pages, 68 figures, 3
tables. 27 July 1971.
9. Paul J. Scheips. “Hold the Fort! The Story of a Song from the Sawdust Trail to
the Picket Line.” iv + 57 pages, 19 figures. 9 September 1971.
12. Otto Mayr. ““Feedback Mechanisms in the Historical Collections of the National
Museum of History and Technology.” x + 133 pages, 145 figures. 20 July 1971.
13. Peter L. Koffsky. ““The Consul General’s Shanghai Postal Agency, 1867-1907.”
v + 46 pages, 7 figures. 1 March 1972.
16. John T. Schlebecker and Gale E. Peterson. “‘Living Historical Farms Hand-
book.” iii + 91 pages. 24 April 1972.
22. Robert B. Shaw. “‘History of the Comstock Patent Medicine Business and Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.’ 49 pages, 28 figures. 26 May 1972.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM BULLETIN
(Final volume of series)

298. “Publications of the United States National Museum (1947-1970). 77 pages. 7
September 1971.

Public Education

American Art Programs of Higher Education and Research at the National Collection
of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution. Announcement. 7 October 1971.

Books and Records from the Smithsonian Institution Press. Order form. 21 October
1971.

Breeskin, Adelyn D. Lee Gatch, 1902-1968. Catalog of the exhibition, 64 pages, 40
illustrations. 5 October 1971.

Breeskin, Adelyn D. Two American Painters: Fritz Scholder and T.C. Cannon.
Foreword by Joshua C. Taylor, introduction by Robert A. Ewing. Catalog of
the exhibition, 45 pages, illustrated. 16 March 1972. Paper.

Breeskin, Adelyn D. William H. Johnson, 1901-1970. Foreword by Joshua C. Taylor,
catalog of the exhibition by Jan K. Muhlert. 208 pages, 168 illustrations. 29
October 1971. Paper.

Brown, Letitia W., and Elsie M. Lewis. Washington From Banneker to Douglass,
1791-1870. 40 pages, illustrated. 18 November 1971. Poster.

Brown, Letitia W., and Elsie M. Lewis. Washington in the New Era, 1870-1970. 41

pages, illustrated. 6 March 1972. Paper. Poster.

The Catalog of American Portraits. Folder. 5 pages. 25 January 1972.

Charles A. Lindbergh and The Spirit of St. Louis. Foldout. 28 December 1971.

Checklist of Books for the 1971 Meeting of the American Studies Association. Order
form, 21 October 1971.

Edith Gregor Halpert Memorial Exhibition. Introduction by Adelyn D. Breeskin.
Catalog of the exhibition. 4 pages. 4 April 1972.

The Evolution of a Community. Foreword by John R. Kinard, introduction by Larry
Erskine Thomas. 27 pages, illustrated. 24 February 1972. Poster February 1972.
182 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Flint, Janet A. Boris Anisfeldt: Twenty Years of Designs for the Theater. Foreword
by Joshua C. Taylor, Catalog. 35 pages, 12 illustrations. 8 September 1971.
Paper.

Flint, Janet A. Drawings by William Glackens, 1870-1938. Foreword by Joshua C.
Taylor, introduction by Ira Glackens. 20 pages, 12 illustrations. 24 February
1972. Paper.

Freeze-dry at the Smithsonian. Foldout. 12 July 1971.

The Glass of Frederick Carder. Announcement of the exhibition. 16 February 1972.

Hoover, Cynthia A. Music Machines—American Style. Foreword by Daniel J.
Boorstin; introductory notes by Erik Barnouw and Irving Kolodin. Catalog of
the exhibition. 140 pages, 220 illustrations. 21 September 1971. Paper.

If Elected ...’: Unsuccessful Candidates for the Presidency, 1796-1968. Foreword
by Marvin Sadik, introduction by Lillian B. Miller. 512 pages, illustrated. 3 May
1972. Paper. Folder 14 April 1972.

XXXVI International Biennial Exhibition of Art/Venice. Catalog. 16 pages, il-
lustrated. 5 June 1972. Paper.

John Steuart Curry: Themes and Variations. Catalog of the exhibition, 4 pages. 12
November 1971.

Learning Opportunities for Schools. Pamphlet. 12 pages. 24 August 1971.

The McDonnell FH-1 Phantom. Foldout. July 1971.

The National Collection of Fine Arts. Museum guide Foldout. 22 October 1971.

National Museum of History and Technology. Museum guide foldout. 26 October
1971. Reprint 4 May 1972.

National Parks and the American Landscape. Foreword by Joshua C. Taylor,
introductory remarks by Rogers C.B. Morton and William H. Truettner and
Robin Bolton-Smith. 141 pages, 135 illustrations. 15 June 1972. Paper.

National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution. 24 pages, illustrated. Reprint 6
March 1972.

NCFA Calendar. January-June 1972.

Organs in Early America. Foldout. 20 September 1971.

Portraits of the American Stage, 1771-1971, Foreword by Marvin Sadik, introduction
by Monroe H. Fabian. Catalog of the exhibition. 203 pages, 93 illustrations. 10
September 1971. Paper.

Pueblo Pottery. Poster. 16 February 1972.

Saturday Conference: Interactions. Poster. 4 March 1972.

Saturday Conference: Science and Education. Poster. 4 March 1972.

Saturday Conference: Times and Places. Poster. 4 March 1972.

Scherer, Joanna Cohan. Indian Images: Photographs of North American Indians,
1847-1928. Catalog. 31 pages, 13 illustrations. First edition 30 June 1970.
Second printing 21 December 1971. Paper.

Science: Man’s Greatest Adventure: An Exhibition Honoring Black Scientists and
their Achievements. Pamphlet. 12 pages, illustrated. 27 July 1971.

Smithsonian Institution Bulletin for Schools. Folders. 4 pages. 30 November
1971-May 1972.

Smithsonian Institution Programs of Higher Education and Research Training in
American History or American Material Culture. Announcement. 8 October
1971.

Smithsonian Institution Program of Higher Education and Research in Anthropology.
Announcement. 7 October 1971.

Smithsonian Institution Program of Higher Education and Research Training in the
Biological Sciences. Announcement. 8 October 1971.
APPENDIX 5. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 183

Smithsonian Institution Program of Higher Education and Research Training in the
History of Science and Technology. Announcement. 7 October 1971.

Smithsonian Institution Program of Higher Education and Research Training in
Physical Sciences. Announcement. 7 October 1971.

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, Number 1. 6 pages, illustrated. 30 May
1972.

Smithsonian Institution Seminar Series in Patheopathology. 1972. Announcement. 7
October 1971.

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Guide foldout. 12 November 1971.
Reprint 5 May 1972.

Stachiw, Jerry B. Window in the Sea: Development of the Smithsonian’s Johnson-
Sea-Link Submarine. 31 pages, 22 illustrations. 2 December 1971. $1.25.

The Story of a Legendary Copper Boulder. Foldout. 29 October 197:.$.10.

The T-2 Airplane and The First Nonstop Coast-to-Coast Flight. 7 pages. Information
Leaflet 466. 8 June 1972.

What AmI.. .? Children’s foldout. 9 May 1972.

Wind Instruments. Foldout. 20 September 1971.

Winslow Homer, 1836-1910. Foreword by Lisa Taylor, introduction by Lloyd
Goodrich, catalog of the exhibition by Elaine Evans Dee. 125 pages, 106
illustrations. 1 May 1972. Paper.

Woodenworks. Catalog of the exhibition. Foldout. 16 February 1972.

Institutional Publications

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1970. Volume 1:
“Proceedings.” xvi + 170 pages. 23 February 1972.

1970 Annual Report, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, 1 July 1969
through 30 June 1970. 89 pages, 16 figures. 28 January 1972.

Preliminary Guide to the Smithsonian Archives: 125th Anniversary of the Smith-
sonian Institution. 72 pages. September 1971.

Smithsonian International Exchange Service, 1970 Annual Report. 9 pages. January
OTe

Smithsonian International Exchange Service, 1971 Annual Report. 9 pages. 5 May
OT Ze

Smithsonian Year 1971: Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year
Ended 30 June 1971. vi + 247 pages, illustrated. Publication 4767. 27 January
NS),

ATOLL RESEARCH BULLETIN

149. D.R. Stoddart and J.D. Taylor, editors. ““Geography and Ecology of Diego
Garcia Atoll, Chagos Archipelago.” 237 pages, 34 figures, 50 plates, 9 tables. 27
August 1971.

150. A. Binion Amerson, Jr. “‘The Natural History of French Frigate Shoals,
Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.” 383 pages, 74 figures, 149 tables. 20
December 1971.
Appendix 6

PUBLICATIONS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION STAFF
IN FISCAL YEAR 1972

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science

Challinor, David, and David B. Wingate. ““The Struggle for Survival of the Bermuda
Cedar.” Biological Conservation, volume 3, number 3 (April 1971), pages
220-222.

National Museum of Natural History
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY

Angel, J. Lawrence. The People of Lerna: Analysis of a Prehistoric Aegean
Population. xii + 159 pages. American School of Classical Studies of Athens,
Princeton, New Jersey, and Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C.,
1971.

. “Disease and Culture in the Ancient East Mediterranean.” Pages
503-508, in Anthropological Congress dedicated to Alés Hrdlicka, 30th August-
Sth September 1969, Praha and Humpolec. Praha: Academia [Publishing House
of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences], 1971.

. “Early Skeletons from Catai Huyitik: Demography and Pathology.”
Anatolian Studies, volume 21 (1971), pages 77-98.

. “Biological Relations of Egyptian and East Mediterranean Popula-
tions during Predynastic and Dynastic Times.” In Chiarelli, editor, Symposium on
Population Biology of the Ancient Egyptians. Journal of Human Evolution,
volume 1, number 3 (1972).

“Genetic and Social Factors in a Cypriote Village.” Human
Biology, volume 44 (1972), pages 53-80.

Bass, William M., and Donald J. Ortner, “A Case of Forgery of Indian Artifacts
Worked Human Bone Tools from Kansas.” Kansas Anthropological Association
Newsletter, volume 16 (1971) pages 1-4.

Collins, Henry B. “The L’Anse aux Meadows Archaeological Site in Northern
Newfoundland.” National Geographic Society Research Reports, 1961-1962
Projects (1970), pages 39-40. [Not previously reported.]

. “Prehistoric Relations between Japan and the American Arctic:
Eskimo and Pre-Eskimo.” VJ/th Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological
Sciences, Tokyo and Kyoto 1968, volume 3 (1970), pages 358-359. [Not
previously reported. |

. “Composite Maska: Chinese and Eskimo.”’ Anthropologica, new
series, volume 13, numbers 1-2 (1971), pages 271-278.

Ct. “Study of the Religious Beliefs of the Canadian Eskimo.” National
Geographic Society Research Reports, 1965 Projects (1971), pages 87-89.

“Eskimo Archaeology.” Pages 704-706 in Encyclopaedia
Britannica, volume 8, Chicago, 1971.

184
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 185

. “Peoples of the Arctic.” Pages 345-346 in Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica, volume 2. Chicago, 1971.
. “Origin and Development of Eskimo Culture.” VII Congres
International des Anthropologiques et Ethnologiques, Moscow 1964, volume 10,
pages 257-259. [Dated Moscow 1970; received May 1972. Not previously
reported.|
Crocker, William H. “The Canela (Brazil) Taboo System: A Preliminary Exploration
of an Anxiety-reducing Device.” Verhandlungen des XXXVIII Internationalen
Amerikanistenkongresses, Stuttgart-Munchen 1968, Band 3 (1971), pages
323-331.

>

. “Observations Concerning Certain RamkokamekraCanela (Brazil)
Indian Restrictive Taboo Practice.” Verhandlungen des XX XVIII Internationalen
Amertkanistenkongresses, Stuttgart-Munchen 1968, Band 3 (1971), pages 337-
339.

Evans, Clifford, and Betty J. Meggers. “Introducao.”’ In “Programa Nacional de
Pesquisas Arqueologicas, Resultados Preliminares do Quarto Ano, 1968-69.”
Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi, Publicacozes Avulsas, number 15 (1971), pages
7-9 Belem.

Ewers. John C. “Bodily Proportions as Guides to Lineal Measurements Among the
Blackfoot Indians.” American Anthropologist, volume 72, number 3 (1970),
pages 561-562. [Not previously reported.]

. “Jean Louis Berlandier: A French Scientist Among the Wild
Comanches of Texas in 1828. Pages 290-300, in John Francis Mc Dermott, editor,
Travelers on the Western Frontier. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1970.
[Not previously reported. |

. “Contraceptive Charms Among the Plains Indian.” Plains Anthro-
pologist, volume 15, number 49 (1970), pages 216-218, 1 plate. [Not previously
reported. |

. “A Crow Chief’s Tribute to the Unknown Soldier.” The American
West, volume 8 number 6 (1971), pages 30-35, 5 plates.

. “Not Quite Red Men: The Plains Indian Illustrations of Felix O.C.
Darley.” The American Art Journal, volume 3, number 2 (Fall), pages 88-98, 16
plates.

“When Red and White Men Met.’ The Western Historical
Quarterly, volume 2, number 2 (1971), pages 133-150.

. “Winold Reiss: His Portraits and Proteges.”” The Magazine of
Western Historv, volume 21, number 3 (1971), pages 44-55, 22 plates.

. “Indians as Warriors.” The American Way, volume 4, number 8
(1971), pages 20-27, 12 plates.

. “The Influence of the Horse in Blackfoot Culture.” Pages 252-270,
in Deward E. Walker, editor, The Emergent Native Americans: A Reader in
Culture Contact. Boston: Little Brown and Co., 1972.

. “Folk Art in The Fur Trade of the Upper Missouri.”’ Prologue (The
National Archives), volume 4, number 2 (June 1972), pages 99-108, 7 plates.

. “Blackfoot Camp Life.” Pages 133-144, in Bruce A. Glasrud and
Alan H. Smith, editors, Promises to Keep A Portrayal of Nonwhites in the United
States. Chicago: Rand McNally and Co., 1972.

Fitzhugh William, ‘Fife Brook Surveys and Excavations, Upper Deerfield River.”
Bulletin of the Massachusetts Archaeological Society, volume 33, numbers 1-2
(1971), pages 21-29.

CC, « “Environmental Archeology and Cultural Systems in Hamilton
Inlet, Labrador: A Survey of the Central Labrador Coast from 3000 B.C. to the
186 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Present.” Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology, number 16 (1972), xix +
299 pages, 80 figures, 87 plates, 30 tables.

Knez, Eugene I. ‘“‘Ainu.” Pages 308-309, in Funk and Wagnalls New Encyclopedia,
volume 1. New York, 1971.

Koritzer, Richard T. ‘““Enameloma in a prehistoric Indian skull.” American Journal of
Physical Anthropology, volume 33, number 3 (1970), pages 439441. [Not
previously reported.]|

. “Arthritic changes of temporomandibular joint related to the
dentition.” Georgetown Dental Journal, volume 37, number 1 (1971), pages
7 2i)

Meggers, Betty J. “Contacts from Asia.” Pages 239-259, in Geoffrey Ashe and others,
The Quest for America. New York: Pall Mall Press, London and Praeger, 1971.

. Prehistoric America. vii + 200 pages, 100 figures. Chicago: Aldine
Atherton, 1972.

Meggers, Betty J., and Clifford Evans. “Especulaciones sobre rutas tempranas de
difusion de la cer4mica entre sur y Mesoamerica.” Revista Dominicana de
Arqueologia y Antropologia, Ano 1, volume 1, number 1, pages, 137-149,
enero-junio de 1971.

, contributing editors. “Archaeology: South America.’ Number 33,
pages 67-102, in Handbook of Latin American Studies, Gainesville: University of
Florida Press, 1971.

Metcalf, George, and Harold Carlson. “‘An Atlatl Weight from North Dakota.” Plains
Anthropologist, volume 16, number 52 (May 1971), pages 121-122. [Not
previously reported. |]

Phebus, George E. Jr. Alaskan Eskimo Art in the 1890’s as Sketched by Native
Artists. 168 pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1972.

. “Archeology: Western Hemisphere.”’ Americana Annual (1972),
pages 100-101. New York.

Riesenberg, Saul H., editor. A Residence of Eleven Years in New Holland and the
Caroline Islands, by James F. O'Connell. Pacific History Series number 4, 232
pages. Canberra: Australian National University Press. 1972.

Riesenberg, Saul H., and Samuel H. Elbert. ‘““The Poi of the Meeting.” The Journal of
the Polynesian Society, volume 80 (1971), pages 217-227.

Stewart, T.D. “Use of the Hrdli¢ka Skeletal Collection in a Museum Presentation of
the Biology of Man.” Pages 17-24 in Anthropological Congress dedicated to Ales
Hrdlitka, 30th August-Sth September 1969, Praha, Humpolec. Praha: Academia
[Publishing House of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences], 1971.

. “What the Bones Tell Today.” FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin,
volume 41, number 2 (1972), pages 16-20, 30-31.

St. Hoyme, Lucile E., and Richard T. Koritzer. ““Unusual Dental Pathology in an
Illinois Indian ca. 500 A.D.” Dental Digest, volume 76 (1970), pages 386-387.
[Not previously reported. |

Sturtevant, William C. ‘“‘Traditional Crafts and Art of Northwest Coast Indians.”
Pages 18-21 in 1971 Festival of American Folklife July 1-5, Washington, D.C.:
Division of Performing Arts, The Smithsonian Institution, 1971.

. “Notes on the Creek Hothouse.’ Southern Indian Studies, volume
20 (1971), pages 3-5. Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

_ CC. “A ~Short History of the Strange Custom of Tattooing.” Pages
1-10, in C.H. Fellowes, editor, Tattoo Book. Princeton: The Pyne Press, 1971.

. “Creek into Seminole.’ Chapter 4, pages 92-128, in E.B. Leacock
and N.O. Luire, editors, North American Indians in Historical Perspective. New
York: Random House, 1971.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 187

. “Smithsonian Plans New Native American Handbook.” The Indian
Historian, volume 4, number 4 (1972), pages 5-8. San Francisco.

. “American Indian Religions.” The American Way, volume 5,
number 2 (1972), pages 28-34. New York.

. “Studies in Ethnoscience.” Pages 129-167, in James P. Spradley,
editor, Culture and Cognition: Rules, Maps, ard Plans. San Francisco: Chandler
Publishing Co., 1972. [Reprinted from American Anthropologist, volume 66,
number 3, part 2 (1964), pages 99-131.]

Trousdale, William B. “Iranian Culture Continuum in the Himalaya.” Paper presented
at the 28th International Congress of Orientalists, Canberra, 1971.

Ubelaker, Douglas, H. ““The Dentition.” Appendix 1 in Bass, Evans, and Jantz, “An
Analysis of the Leavenworth Site, 39C09, Carson County, South Dakota.”’ The
University of Kansas, Publication Series in Anthropology, number 2 (1971).

. “The Human Dentition.” Chapter 4, in William M. Bass, editor,
Human Osteology: A Laboratory and Field Manual of the Human Skeleton.
Columbia: Special Publications, Missouri Archaeological Society, 1971.

DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY

Ayensu, Edward S. Anatomy of the Monocotyledons: Dioscoreales. Oxford:
Clarendon Press, 1972.

. “Morphology and Anatomy of Synsepalum  dulcificum
(Sapotaceae).” Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society, volume 65, number 2
(1972), pages 179-187.

_. “The Need for Training in Technological Management in develop-
ing Countries—Ghana, A Case in Point.” Journal of the Washington Academy of
Sciences, volume 62, number 1 (1972), pages 17-22.

Barroso, G.M., and R. M. King. “New Taxa of Compositae (Eupatorieae) from
Brazil.” Brittonia, volume 23 (1971), pages 118-121.

Conger, Paul S. ‘‘Philip Weiss Wolle.” Journal of Phycology, volume 7, number 1
(1971), pages 50-53.

Cuatrecasas, J. “Observaciones sobre Compositae.” Anales Escuela Nacional Sciencias
Biologicas (Mexico), volume 18 (1970), pages 9-15.

_ . “Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora, II. Phytologia,
volume 23 (1972), pages 350-365.

Cuatrecasas, J., and Lyman B. Smith. “Cunoniaceae.” In Flora Ilustrada Catarinense
(1971), pages 1-22.

Dahl, Arthur Lyon. “Development, Form and Environment in the Brown Alga
Zonaria farlowii (Dictyotales). Botanica Marina, volume 14 (1971), pages 76-112.

Dahl, Arthur Lyon, and M. Neushul. “Ultrastructural Studies of Brown Algal
Nuclei.” American Journal of Botany, volume 59 (1972), pages 401-410.

_ CC. “*Zonation in the Apical Cell of Zonaria.’’ American Journal of
Botany, volume 59 (1972), pages 393-400.

Eyde, R.H. “Notes on Geological Histories on Flowering Plants.” Brittonia, volume
24, number 1 (1972), pages 111-116.

Fosberg, F.R. “The Axis Deer Problem.” Volume 2, pages 201-202, in Mueller-
Dombois, /sland Ecosystems Stability and Evolution, USIBP Technical Report,
Honolulu, 1972.

__—C. “Endangered Island Plants.” Bulletin of the Pacific Tropical
Botanical Garden, volume 1, number 3 (1971), pages 1-7.

. “The Fern Vegetation of Aldabra Atoll.“ 4merican Fern Journal,

volume 61 (1971), pages 97-101.

188 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 19724}

TC; “‘Tsland Faunas and Floras.” McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science | \
and Technology, 3rd edition (1970), pages 309-311.
. “Man’s Effects on Island Ecosystems.” Pages 869-880, in M.T.}-
Farvar, and J.P. Milton, editors, The Careless Technology. Garden City, New!
York: Natural History Press, 1972.
. “Mangroves v. Tidal Waves.” Biological Conservation, volume 4!
(1971), pages 38-39.
. “Psidium L. (Myrtaceae) in Ceylon. Ceylon Journal of Science, |
Biological Sciences, volume 9 (1971), pages 58-60.
_, “Synopsis of Views of F.R. Fosberg Relative to the Harvesting of |
Koa and Hapuu on the Big Island.” Volume 2, page 205, in Mueller-Dombois, |
Island Ecosystems Stability and Evolution. USIBP Technical Report, Honolulu, |
1972.
Fosberg, F.R., and A.A. Bullock. “List of Diego Garcia Vascular Plants.” Atoll
Research Bulletin, volume 149 (1971), pages 143-160.
Fosberg, F.R., 2nd M.-H. Sachet. “Three Indo-Pacific Thelypteris Species Re- |
interpreted and a New African Species Described.” Smithsonian Contributions to |
Botany, volume 8 (1972), pages 1-10.
“Thespesia populnea (L.) Solander ex Correa and Thespesia |
populneoides (Rosburgh) Kosteletsky (Malvaceae). Smithsonian Contributions to
Botany, volume 7 (1972), pages 1-13.
Hale, Mason E. “Five New Parmeliae from Tropical America.” Phytologia, volume 22 |
(1971), pages 30-35.
. “Four New Species of Parmelia (Lichenes) from India and the |
Philippines.” Bryologist, volume 75 (1972), pages 97-100.
. “Morden-Smithsonian Expedition to Dominica: The Lichens |
(Parmeliaceae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, number 4 (1971), pages |
1-25.
—__—C(“R “New Paarrmeliae (Lichenes) from Africa.” Phytologia, volume 22
(1971), pages 94-96.
Se »6S New. Species) of sfarmelia sect, siiy potrachyna™ (leichenes) a
Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 433-438.
“Parmelia affluens, a New Species of Lichen in Subgenus
Amphigymnia with a Yellow Medulla.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages °
141-142.
“Parmelia jamesii, an Unusual Species in Section Jmbricaria
(Lichenes) from Australia and New Zealand.” Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), page
179.
. “Parmelia permaculata, a New Lichen from Alabama and Mexico.” .
phytologia, volume 21 (1971), page 425.
“Parmelia pustulifera, a New Lichen from Southeastern United
States.” Brittonia, volume 24 (1972), pages 22-27.
SC “‘Parmelia squarrosa, a New Species in Section Parmelia.” '
Phy tologia, volume 22 (1971), page 29.
Ct, “Studies on Parmelia Subgenus Xanthoparmelia (Lichenes) in |
South Africa.” Botaniska Notiser, volume 124 (1971), pages 343-354.
_ ts “ST wo New Species of Parmelia (Lichenes) from North America.” '
Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 92-93.
—__—™.s“*T ypification of Parmelia dolosa des Abayyes (Lichenes).”
Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 137-138.
Hale, Mason E., and M. Wirth. “Notes on Parmelia Subgenus Everniiformes With
Descriptions of Six New Species.” Phy tologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 36-40.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 189

King, R.M., and H. Robinson. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XXXVI. A
New Genus Neobartlettia.’’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 294-297.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XXXVII. The Genus,
Hebeclinium.”’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 298-301.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XXXVIII. A New Genus,
Peteravenia.”’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 394-395.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XXXIX. A New Genus,
Guayania.”’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 302-303.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XI. The Genus,
Urolepis.”’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 304-305.
ee. Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae): XLI. The Genus
Eupatoriastrum.”’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 306-307.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLII. A New Genus,
Eupatorina.”’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 396-397.
—. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLIII. A New Genus,
Antillia.’’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 398-399.
eee) studies) in the» Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLIV. The Genus,
Radlkoferotoma.”’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 400401.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLV. A New Genus,
Fleischmanniopsis.’’ Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 402404.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLVI. A New Genus,
Standleyanthus.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 4142.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLVII. A New Genus,
Steyermarkina.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 43-55.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLVIII. The Genus,
Critonia.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 46-51.
___s«C(<*ws«‘Stturdies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XLIX. A New Genus,
Critoniadelphus.” Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 52-53.
ee Studies) in the Eupatoneae (Asteraceae), Le Al New? Genus:
Urbananthus.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 54-55.
—___——C—“"n. “‘Stturliess in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LI. The Disynaphioid
Complex.” Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 109-110.
oe otucies inthe Hupatoneae (Asteraceae):, Ell, A New ‘Genus:
Acanthostyles.’’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 111-112.
ee ee SiGics inthe: /upatoneae .(Asteracede) swell. A New Genus:
Raulinoreitzia.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 113-114.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LIV. The Genus,
Symphyopappus.” Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 115-117.
“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LV. The Genus,
Dimorpholepis.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 118-120.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LVI. A New Genus,
Campovassouria.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 121-122.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LVII. The Genus,
Disynaphia.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 123-125.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LVII]. A New Genus,
Tamaulipa.” Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 153-155.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LIX. A New Genus,
Steviopsis.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 156-157.
ee Studies in the Eupatomeae (Asteraceae). 5x. “Ay New (Gentis:
Dyscritogyne.” Phytologia volume 22 (1971), pages 158-159.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae), LXI. Additions to the
Hebeclinium complex with Bartlettina, A New Generic Name.” Phytologia,
volume 22 (1971), pages 160-162.
190 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXII. A New Genus,
Neohintonia.’’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 143-144.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXIII. A New Genus,
Kyrsteniopsis.’’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 145-146.

eee SSiudies in) the Eupatoricae «(Asteraceae)s ExXiVes tihesGenuse
Koanophyllon.”’ Phytologia, volume 22 (1971), pages 147-152.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXV. A New Genus,
Neocabreria.”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 151-152.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae), LXVI. The Genus,
Pachythamnus.”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 153-154.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXVII. Grazielia nom.
nov. for Dimorpholepis.”’ Phy tologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 305-306.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LX VIII. A New Genus,
Conocliniopsis.”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 307-309.

__C*. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXIX. A New Genus,
Gyptidium.”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 310-311.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXX. A New Genus,
Bahianthus.”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 312-313.

_C«sCSStturie's: inn thee EEupattorieae (Asteraceae). LXXI. A New Genus.
Hatschbachiella.’”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 393-394.

CC, “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXII. Notes on the
Genus Koanophyllon.”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 395-396.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXIII. The Genus, |
Ophryosporus.”’ Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 397-400.

Lellinger, David B. ““The American Species of Plagiogyria Sect. Carinatae.’’ American
Fern Journal, volume 61, number 3 (1971), pages 110-118.

__s—«.:«sS““‘~Dichilorvos and Lindane as Herbarium Insecticides.” Taxon,

volume 21, number 2 (1971), pages 91-95.

Lellinger, David B., and E.R. de la Sota. ‘‘Collecting Ferns in the Choco, Colombia.”
American Fern Journal, volume 62, number | (1972), pages 1-8.

Morton, Conrad V. “‘Asplenium kamtchatkanum Gilbert, A Dubious Eastern Asiatic
Fern.” American Fern Journal, volume 61, number 3 (1971), pages 140-141.

“The Fern Collections in Some European Herbaria, VII.”

American Fern Journal, volume 61, number 2 (1971), pages 59-75.
. “The Genus Grammatosorus.”’ American Fern Journal, volume 61,
number 4 (1971), pages 145-148. |

_ SA «=Reduction of Trichantha to Columnea (Gesneriaceae).”
Phy tologia, volume 22, number 3 (1971), pages 223-224.

. “Supplementary Notes on Grammitis in Ecuador.” Phytologia,
volume 22, number 2 (1971), pages 71-82.

i _., “A Wrongly Localized Species’ of Pyrrosia:” American Hern
Journal, volume 61, number 2 (1971), page 94.

Morton, Conrad V., and David B. Lellinger. ““Notes on the Ferns of Dominica and St.
Vincent, Il.” American Fern Journal, volume 61, number 4 (1971), pages
161-165.

Morton, Conrad V., and M. Raymond. “‘A Columnea Species and an Episcia Species
[Gesneriaceae] New to Science and Cultivation.” Baileya, volume 18, number 1
(1971), pages 6-12.

Morton, Conrad V., and Bernice G. Schubert. “‘Studies in Dioscorea, 11: An Unusual
New Species from Mexico.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 84, number 52 (1952), pages 445-448.

Parker, K.F. Weeds of Arizona. Tucson: University of Arizona Press, June 1972. |

| APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 191

'Powell, A.M., and J. Cuatrecasas. “‘Chromosome Numbers in Compositae: Colombian
and Venezuelan species.” Annals of Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 57
(1970), pages 374-379.

Read, R.W. “Hohenbergia.”’ Pages 4345, in C. D. Adams, Flowering Plants of

| Jamaica. Mona, Jamaica: University of the West Indies, 1972.

oo. “Palmae.” Pages 73-76, in €.D: Adams, Flowering Plants of
Jamaica. Mona, Jamaica: University of the West Indies, 1972.

“Vriesea.”’ Pages 52-53, in C.D. Adams, Flowering Plants of
Jamaica. Mona, Jamaica: University of the West Indies, 1972.
Read, R.W., and Leo J. Hickey. “A Revised Classification of Fossil Palm and Palmlike
Leaves.” Taxon, volume 21, number | (1972), pages 129-137.
Robinson, H. “Four New Species of Mosses from Peru.” Phytologia, volume 21
(1971), pages 389-393.
. “Observations on the Origin of the Specialized Leaves of Fissidens
and Schistostega.”” Revue Bryologique et Lichenologique, volume 37
(1970-1971), pages 941-947.

tC. “SA Revised Classification for the Orders and Families of Mosses.”

Phytologia, volume 21 (1971), pages 289-293.

. “Cheilothela vaginata and Syrrhopodon Steyermarkii, Two New

Moss Species from Venezuela.” Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 390-391.

__——Cti—(CtéCSS#“SSccannning =Electron Microscope Studies on Moss Leaves and

| Peristomes.” The Bryologist, volume 74 (1971), pages 473-483.

“The Status of the Genus Cryphidium (Bryophyta: Musci).”
Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 149-150.

Robinson, H., L.B. Holm-Nielsen, and S. Jeppesen. ‘“‘Mosses of Ecuador.” Lindbergia,
volume 1 (1971), pages 66-74.

Schultes, E.R., and J. Cuatrecasas. ““New Species of Ichthyotoxic Plant from the
Amazon.” Botanical Museum Leaflet of Harvard University, volume 23, number 3
(1972), pages 129-136.

Rudd, Velva E. “A New Variety of Poiretia latifolia and a Brief Resume of the Genus
Poiretia Vent. (Leguminosae).” Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 141-148.

_ CC. “New Combinations in Machaerium (Leguminosae).” Phytologia,
volume 22 (1971), page 56.

_ Css ‘Reduction of Balisaea to Aeschynomene (Leguminosae).” Phy-
tologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 321-322.

Sachet, M.-H., and F.R. Fosberg. /sland Bibliographies Supplement. Washington,
D.C.: National Academy of Sciences, 1971.

- Shetler, Stanwyn G. “Walcott, Mary Morris Vaux.” In Edward T. James, Janet Wilson

| James, and Paul S. Boyer, editors, Notable American Women 1607-1950. A

| Biographical Dictionary, volume P-Z, pages 525-526. Cambridge, Massachusetts:

The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, November 1971.

_ Smith, L.B. “‘Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXIII.”’ Phytologia, volume 22, number 2

| (1971), pages 85-87.

_____——. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXIII.” Phytologia, volume 22, number
2 (1971), pages 85-87.
| . “Herbarium Notes, III. Phytologia, volume 22, number 2 (1971),
pages 87-91.
. “Bromeliaceae.” Flora de Venezuela, volume 12 (1971), pages

1-361.
Smith, L.B., and Harold E. Robinson. ‘“Hippocratedceas.” Flora Ilustrada
Catarinense, part 1, fascicle HIPO (1971), pages 1-33.

192 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 _

Smith, L.B., and Ruth C. Smith. “‘Begonidceas.”” Flora Ilustrada Catarinense, part 1, ©

fascicle BEGO (1971), pages 1-128.

Soderstrom, T.R., and C.E. Calderon. “Insect Pollination in Tropical Rain Forest
Grasses.” Biotropica, volume 3, number 1 (1971), pages 1-16.

Soderstrom, T.R., and F.A. McClure. “The Agristological Term Anthecium.” Taxon,
volume 21, number 1 (1972), pages 153-154.

Wurdack, J.J. ““Certamen Melastomataceis XVIII.’ Phytologia, volume 21, number 6
(1971), pages 353-368.

_ CSC “SCertamen Melastomataceis XVII. ” Phytologia, volume 22,
number 5 (1972), pages 399-418.

_ CSC Seco graphic Errors in Bonpland Collections of Melastomataceae.”
Taxon, volume 20, number 4 (1971), pages 591-593.

_———é“( SCTE ~Melastomataceae Collections of A.R. Ferreira.
volume 20, number 4 (1971), pages 595-596.

_—C,s«SNootes on Some Cultivated Species of Miconia [Melastomat-
aceae].”’ Baileya, volume 18, number 1 (1971), pages 17-19.

Wurdack, J.J., and Lyman B. Smith. ‘“‘Poligalaceas.” ‘Flora Ilustrada Catarinense,
part 1, fascicle POLIGA (1971), pages 1-70.

”

Taxon,

DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY

Blake, Doris H. ‘‘Some New Chrysomelid Beetles from Cuba.” Casopes Moravskeho
Museu (Czechoslovakia), volume 55 (1971), pages 115-126.

. “Fifteen New West Indian Chrysomelid Beetles.’’ Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 73, number 3 (1971), pages
269-282.

Bush, Mignon M. ‘Some Notes on Cave Insects.” District of Columbia Speleograph,
volume 38, number 3 (1972), pages 14-15.

Cartwright, Oscar L., and Robert D. Gordon. ‘“‘Coleoptera; Scarabaeidae,” Insects of
Micronesia, volume 17, number 4 (1971), pages 257-296.

Crabill, Ralph E. ‘““A New Neotropical Schendylurus, with Key to its South American
Congeners.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 74,
number 1 (1972), pages 18-21.

Davis, D.R. ‘‘Ferguson Collection to Smithsonian Institution.” Journal of the
Lepidoptera Society, volume 25, number 3 (1971), page 168.

. “Tetrapalpus trinidadensis, a New Genus and Species of Cave Moth
from Trinidad (Lepidoptera: Tineidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological
Society of Washington, volume 74, number 1 (1972), pages 49-59.

“Careospina quercivora, a New Genus and Species of Moth
Infesting Live Oaks in California (Lepidoptera: Incurvariidae).” Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 74, number | (1972), pages
121-128.

DeLong, Dwight M., and Mignon Marie Bush. “Studies of the Gyponinae: New
Species of Ponanella and Acuponana.”’ Ohio Journal of Science, volume 71
(1971), pages 376-378

Duckworth, W. Donald. ‘Neotropical Microlepidoptera XX: Revision of the Genus
Setiostoma (Lepidoptera: Stenomidae).”’ Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 106 (1971), pages 145.

Emerson, K.C. “‘Notes on Mallophaga from Owls in Thailand.” Pages 13-16, in
McClure, Migratory Animal Pathological Survey, Annual Progress Report, 1970
(1971).

;

)
]
:
:
APPENDIX 6, PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 193

. “Records of a Collection of Mallophaga and Anoplura from
Nicaraguan Mammals.” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society, volume 44
(1971), pages 332-334.

. “New Records of Anoplura from Mexico.” Journal of the Kansas
Entomological Society, volume 44 (1971), pages 374-377.

Emerson, K.C., and Roger D. Price. “A New Species of Pelmatocrandra from a Diving
Petrel (Mallophaga: Philopteridae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington, volume 73 (1971), pages 211-212.

. “Three New Species of Mallophaga from African Mammals
(Trichodectidae).”’ Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington,
volume 73 (1971), pages 372-376.

Erwin, Terry L. “A Teratomorphic Carabid Beetle with Notes on Polymorphic
Asymmetry of the Gular Region in the Same Population (Coleoptera:
Carabidae).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist, volume 47, number 4 (1971), page 303.

. “Notes and Corrections to a Reclassification of Bombardier Beetles
(Carabidae: Brachinidae).” Quaestiones entomologicae, volume 1 (1971), page
281.

. “Fossil Tachyine Beetles from Mexican and Baltic Amber with
Notes on a New Synonymy of an Extant Group (Col., Carabidae).”’ Entomologica
Scandanavia, volume 2, number 3 (1971), pages 233-236.

. “Two New Genera of Bembidiine Carabid Beetles from Australia
and South America with Notes on their Phylogenetic and Zoogeographic
Significance (Coleoptera).” Breviora, number 383 (1972), pages 1-19.

ss C«s “SCaratbid Beetles, Mountain Tops, and Trees.” Lecture. Washington
Entomological Society, Washington, D.C., 3 February 1972.

_ «ss SZocgeography and Carabid Ground Beetles.’ Lecture. Entomo-
logical Seminar. University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, 29 March 1972.

Erwin, Terry L., and LaVerne J. Erwin. A Guide to the Ground-beetle Collection in
the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris (Coleoptera: Carabidae). 22
pages, 1971. Multilithed.

Field, William D. “Butterflies of the Genus Vanessa and of the Resurrected Genera
Bassaris and Cynthia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 84 (1971), pages 1-105, 160 figures.

. “List of the Butterflies of Kansas, Including Native and Visitant
Species.” The Mid-Continent Lepidoptera Series, number 40 (1970), pages 1-16.

“lint, Oliver S., Jr. ““Life-history Studies on Chilean Caddisflies (Trichoptera).”’ Year
Book of the American Philosophical Society 1970 (1971), pages 312-313.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XII: Rhyacophilidae, Glos-
sosomatidae, Philopotamidae, and Psychomyiidae from the Amazon Basin
(Trichoptera).”” Amazoniana, volume 3 (1971), pages 1-67.

_. “R/V Hero Cruise 71-2 to Isla de Los Estados.” Antarctic Journal
of the United States, volume 6 (1971), pages 263-265.

. “Three New Caddisflies from the Southeastern United States.”
Journal of the Georgia Entomological Society, volume 7 (1972), pages 79-82.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XIII: The Genus Ochrotrichia
from Mexico and Central America (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae).” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, number 118 (1972), pages 1-28, 78 figures.

“roeschner, Richard C. “Nabis propinquus Reuter Ranges Southward into Maryland
(Hemiptera: Nabidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington,
volume 73 (1971), page 468.

. “New Records of Lace Bugs from Nevada (Hemiptera: Tingidae).”
Great Basin Naturalist, volume 31 (1971), page 160.
194 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

. “A New Species of Gargaphia Lace Bugs from Beans in Colombia —
(Hemiptera: Tingidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington,
volume 74 (1972), pages 59-60.

Harrison, B.A., P. Boonyakanist, and K. Mongkolpanya. “Biological Observations on
Aedes seatoi Huang in Thailand with Notes on Rural Aedes aegypti (L.)
Populations.” Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 9, number 1 (15 March
1972), pages 1-6.

Hurd, Paul D., Jr., and E. Gorton Linsley. ‘Parasitic Bees of the Genus Holcopasites
Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Apoidea).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 114 (10 March 1972), 41 pages, 16 figures, 1 table.

. “Insects, their Dangers and Values to Mankind in Africa and the
United States.” Voice of America, 10 August 1971.

. “Origin of Angiosperms from the Viewpoint of Bees.” Lecture.
Department of Botany, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., 13 December
IOV.

. ‘Insect Societies.” Radio Smithsonian, 15 October 1971.

“Insect Zoo”? NBC-TV, Channel 4, 20 July 1971, Tuesday, 7:00
p.m. and 11:00 p.m.

Kim, Ke Ching, and K.C. Emerson. “Sucking Lice (Anoplura) from Iranian
Mammals.”’ Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 8 (1971), pages 7-16.

Knight, K.L., and J.L. Laffoon. “A Mosquito Glossary. VIII: The Larval
Chaetotaxy.” Mosquito Systematic Newsletter, volume 3, number 4 (December,
1971), pages 160-194.

Knutson, L.V., and Oliver S. Flint, Jr. ““Pupae of Empididae in Pupal Cocoons of |
Rhyacophilidae and Glossosomatidae (Diptera: Trichoptera).’’ Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington, volume 73 (1971), pages 314-320.

Krombein, Karl V. ‘“‘A Monograph of the Mutillidae of New Guinea, Bismarck
Archipelago and Solomon Island, Part I: Mutillinae.”” Entomological Essays to
Commemorate the Retirement of Prof. K. Yasumatsu, pages 25-60, 24 figures,
NOW2F

. “A New Wasp from Trinidad, Predaceous on Curculionidae and
Bruchidae.”’ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84
(1972), pages 435-437, 1 figure.
“Smithsonian Entomological Fieldwork in Kenya and South
Africa.” Lectures. To Entomological Laboratory, Faculty of Agriculture, Kyushu
University, Fukuoka, 14 February 1972. To Faculty and Graduate Students of
Zoology Department, University of Ceylon, Perideniya, 5 March 1972. To Natural
History Section, Ceylon Association for the Advancement of Science, Colombo,
Ceylon, 13 March 1972.

Lakskminarayana, K.V., and K.C. Emerson. “‘Mallophaga Indica—VI. Notes on
Goniocotes (Mallophaga: Philopteridae) Found on Pavo cristatus, with Descrip-
tion of a New Species.” Oriental Insects, volume 5 (1971), pages 95-102.

Mattingly, Peter F. “Illustrated Keys to the Genera of Mosquitoes. Contributions to
the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia. XII.” Contributions of the American
Entomological Institute, volume 7 (August, 1971), number 4, pages 1-89.

Michelbacher, A.E., Paul D. Hurd, Jr., and E. Gorton Linsley. ‘Experimental
Introduction of Squash Bees (Peponapis) to Improve Yield of Squashes, Gourds
and Pumpkins.” Bee World, volume 52, number 4 (1971), pages 156-166, 4
figures, 2 tables.

Muesebeck, C.F.W. “On the Identity of Agonophorus Dahlbom (Proctotrupoidea,
Diapriidae).”’ Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 74
(1972), page 131.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 195

Nadchatram, M., and R. Traub. “‘Chiggers of the Genus Helenicula of the Old World
Including Descriptions of 9 New Species (Acarina: Prostigmata, Trombiculidae).”
Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 8 (1971), pages 562-597.

Price, Roger D., and K.C. Emerson. “A Revision of the Genus Geomydoecus
(Mallophaga: Trichodectidae) of the New World Pocket Gophers (Rodentia:
Geomyidae).”’ Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 8 (1971), pages 228-257.

Rothchild, N., and R. Traub. ““A Revised Glossary of Terms Used in the Taxonomy
and Morphology of Fleas.” Pages 8-85, in G.H.E. Hopkins and M. Rothschild, An
Illustrated Catalogue of the Rothschild Collection of Fleas (Siphonaptera) in the
British Museum (Natural History), volume 5 (1971), viii + 530 pages.

Spangler, Paul J. ““A New Genus and New Species of Water Beetle from Bolivia with a
Key to the Genera of the Western Hemisphere Colymbetini (Coleoptera:
Dytiscidae).”” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84,
number 49 (1972), pages 427-434, 7 figures.

. “A New Genus and Two New Species of Madicolous Water Beetles
from Venuzuela (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae).”’ Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 85, number 10 (1972), pages 139-146.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Barnard, J. Laurens. “Keys to the Hawaiian Marine Gammaridea, 0-30 Meters.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 58 (1971), pages 1-135, 68
figures.

_ se CCCC,s«SGammaridean Amphipods of Australia, Part I.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, number 103 (1971), pages 1-333. 194 figures, 1 table.

Bowman, Thomas E. ‘‘Palaega lamnae, New Species (Crustacea: Isopoda) from the
Upper Cretaceous of Texas,” Journal of Paleontology, volume 45, number 3
(1971), pages 540-541.

. “Tortanus scaphus and Tortanus lophus, New Pacific Planktonic
Copepods, with Notes on Jortanus murrayi (Calanoida, Tortanidae).” Pacific
Science, volume 25, number 4 (1971), pages 521-528.

. “Cirolana narica n. sp., a New Zealand Isopod (Crustacea) Found
in the Nasal Tract of the Dolphin Cephalorhynchus hectori.”’ Beaufortia, volume
19, number 252 (1971), pages 107-112.

_——CS.sS ‘TTihe:«Caase of the Nonubiquitous Telson and the Fraudulent
Furca.” Crustaceana, volume 21, part 2 (1971), pages 165-175.

Carter, Marjorie Estelle, and Janet M. Bradford. “Postembryonic Development of
Three Species of Freshwater Harpacticoid Copepoda.” Smithsonian Contributions
to Zoology, number 119 (1972), pages 1-26, 14 figures, 1 table.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. “The Shrimps of the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedi-
tions with a Summary of the West Indian Shallow-water Species (Crustacea:
Decapoda: Natantia).”” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 98
(1972), pages 1-179, 61 figures.

Cressey, Roger F. “Two New Argulids (Crustacea: Branchiura) from the Eastern
United States.‘‘ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84,
number 31 (1971), pages 253-258.

. “Revision of the Genus Alebion (Copepoda: Caligoida).” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, number 123 (1972), pages 1-29.

Downey, Maureen E. “Ampheraster alaminos, A New Species of the Family
Asteriidae (Echinodermata: Asteriodea) from the Gulf of Mexico.” Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84, number 6 (1971), pages 51-54.
196 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

“A New Species of the Genus Solaster (Echinodermata:
Asteroidea) from Martinique.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washing-
ton,volume 84, number 4 (1971), pages 39-42.
. “Two New Species of the Genus Tamaria (Echinodermata:
Asteroidea) from the Tropical Western Atlantic.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 84, number 5 (1971), pages 43-50.

Heron, Gayle A., and Thomas E. Bowman. “Postnaupliar Developmental Stages of
the Copepod Crustaceans Clausocalanus laticeps, C. brevipes, and Ctenocalanus
citer (Calanoida: Pseudocalanidae).’’ Antarctic Research Series, volume 17
(1971), pages 141-165.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. “The Entocytherid Ostracods of Mexico and Cuba.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 81 (1971), pages 1-55, 31 figures.

. “New Crayfishes of the Genus Procambarus from Alabama and
Texas (Decapoda, Astacidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washing-
ton, volume 84, number 11 (1971), pages 81-94, 2 figures.

_ Css SSA':~ New Troglobitic Crayfish from Florida.” Quarterly Journal of
the Florida Academy of Sciences, volume 34, number 2 (1971), pages 114-124,
19 figures.

. “The Subgenera of the Crayfish Genus Procambarus (Decapoda:
Astacidae).”’ Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 117 (1972), pages
1-22, 20 figures.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Thomas C. Barr, Jr. “Origins and Affinities of the
Troglobitic Crayfish of North America (Decapoda: Astacidae), II: Genus
Orconectes.”’ Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 105 (1971), pages
1-84, 16 figures.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and D. Bruce Means. “Two New Troglobitic Cray fishes
(Decapoda, Astacidae) from Florida.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, volume 84, number 46 (1972), pages 393-409, 2 figures.

Hope, W. Duane. “‘The Current Status of the Systematics of Marine Nematodes.” In
N.C. Hulings, editor, Proceedings of the First International Conference on
Meiofauna.”” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 76 (1971), pages
33-36.

Jones, Meredith L. ‘‘Magelona berkeleyi n. sp. from Puget Sound (Annelida:
Polychaeta), with a Further Redescription of Magelona longicornis Johnson and a
Consideration of Recently Described Species of Magelona.’”’ Journal of the
Fisheries Research Board of Canada, volume 28, number 10 (1971), pages
1445-1454.

Jones, Meredith L., and Raymond B. Manning. ‘“‘A Two-ocean Bouillabaisse Can
Result If and When Sea-Level Canal is Dug.” Smithsonian, volume 2, number 9
(1972), pages 12-21.

Kornicker, Louis S. “Benthic Ostracoda (Myodocopina: Cypridinacea) from the
South Shetland Islands and the Palmer Archipelago, Antarctica.” Antarctic
Research Series, volume 17 (1971), pages 167-216, 32 figures.

Kornicker, Louis S., and I.G. Sohn. “Viability of Ostracode Eggs Egested by Fish and
Effect of Digestive Fluids on Ostracode Shells—Ecologic and Paleoecologic
Implications.” Bulletin Centre Recherche Pau - SNPA, Supplement 5 (1971),
pages 125-135, 3 tables, 1 plate.

Manning, Raymond B. “Two New Species of Gonodactylus (Crustacea, Stomato-
poda) from Eniwetok Atoll, Pacific Ocean.” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington, volume 84 (1971), pages 73-80.

. “Lysiosquilla panamica, A New Stomatopod Crustacean from the
Eastern Pacific Region.’ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 84 (1971), pages 225-230.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 197

. “The Postlarva of the Stomatopod Crustacean Heterosquilla
polydactyla (Von Martens).”’ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 84 (1971), pages 265-270.

___ SC. “Stomatopod Crustacea. Eastern Pacific Expeditions of the New
York Zoological Society. Zoologica, volume 56, number 3 (1972), pages 95-113.

. “Two New Species of Pseudosquilla (Crustacea, Stomatopoda)
from the Pacific Ocean.” American Museum Novitates, number 2484 (1972),
pages 1-11.

Michel, A., and Raymond B. Manning. “The Pelagic Larvae of Chorisquilla
tuberculata (Borradaile, 1907) (Stomatopoda).” Crustaceana, volume 22, part 2
(1972), pages 113-126.

Morrison, J.P.E. “Sympatric Species of Elliptio in North Carolina.’ Bulletin
American Malacological Union for 1971 (February 1972), pages 38-39.

Pawson, David L. ‘‘The Western Australian Psolid Holothurian Ceto cuvieria
(Cuvier). Journal of the Royal Society of Western Australia, volume 54, part 2,
(1971), pages 33-39.

. ‘“Siniotrochus phoxus New Genus, New Species, A Myriotrochid
Holothurian New to the United States East Coast.’ Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 84, number 28 (1971), pages 231-234.

“Ekkentropelma brychia N.G., n. sp., an Antarctic Psolid
Holothurian with a Functionally Lateral Sole.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 84, number 14 (1971), pages 113-118.

. “Holothuroidea.” Pages 287-290, in “Marion and Prince Edwards
Islands.” South African Biological-Geological Expedition 1965-6, Balkema, Cape
Town, 1971.

Pettibone, Marian H. “Descriptions of Sthenelais fusca Johnson 1897 and S.
berkeleyi n. sp. (Polychaeta: Sigalionidae) from the Eastern Pacific.” Journal of
the Fisheries Research Board of Canada, volume 28, number 10 (1971), pages
1393-1401.

. “Revision of Some Species Referred to Leptonereis, Nicon, and
Laeonereis (Polychaeta: Nereididae).”’ Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 104 (1971), pages 1-53, 27 figures.

. “Partial Revision of the Genus Sthenelais Kinberg (Polychaeta:
Sigalionidae) with Diagnoses of Two New Genera.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 109 (1971), pages 140, 24 figures.

Prins, Rudolph, and Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. ““A New Crayfish of the Subgenus
Puncticambarus from the Savannah River Drainage with Notes on Cambarus (P.)
reburrus Prins.” Proceedings of the Biological society of Washington, volume 84,
number 47 (1972), pages 411420, 1 figure.

Rice, Mary E. “Sipuncula of the Coral and Beachrock Communities of the Maldive
Islands.’ Symposium on Indian Ocean and Adjacent Seas, number 222, section
XXI (1971), page 140.

Roper, Clyde F.E., and R.E. Young. “First Records of Juvenile Giant Squid
Architeuthis (Cephalopoda; Oegopsida).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, volume 85, number 16 (1972), pages 205-222.

Rosewater, Joseph. “The Family Littorinidae in the Indo-Pacific. Part II. The
Subfamilies Tectariinae and Echinininae.” Indo-Pacific Mollusca, volume 2,
number 12 (1972), pages 507-534.

Sohn, I.G., and L.S. Kornicker. ‘‘Predation of Schistosomiasis Vector Snails by
Ostracoda (Crustacea).” Science, volume 175 (1972), pages 1258-1259.

Walton, Margaret, and Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. “The Distribution of Certain
Entocytherid Ostracods on Their Crayfish Hosts.” Proceedings of the Academy of
Natural Sciences, volume 123, number 4 (1971), pages 87-103.
198 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL SCIENCES

Arem, J.E. “The State of the Art— X-ray Crystallography. II-Single Crystal Methods.”
Mineralogical Record, volume 2 (1971), pages 111-122.

______—-—.« “The State of the Art—III-The Powder Method.” Mineralogical
Record, volume 2 (1971), pages 174-179.

. “The Curse of The Million Dollar Diamond.” Rock and Gem,
Sept/Oct (1971), pages 76-78.
. “Tools of the Trade.” Rock and Gem, Nov/Dec (1971), pages
68-74.
“Synthetic Crystals: The Glittering Heart of Technology.”
Saturday Review of Science, volume 55, number 28 (1972), pages 47-52.

Arem, J.E., and J. Ito. ‘““Idocrase; Synthesis, Phase Relations and Crystal Chemistry.”
Mineralogical Society of Japan, Special Paper, number 1, IMA—AIGOD Meetings,
volume | (1971), pages 63-66.

Berger, I.A., P. Zubovic, J.C. Chandler, and Roy S. Clarke, Jr. ‘“‘Occurrence and
Significance of Formaldehyde in the Allende Carbonaceous Chondrite.” Nature,
volume 236 (1972), pages 155-158.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr., editor. “The Meteoritical Bulletin number 50.” Meteoritics,
volume 6 (1971), pages 111-124.

Desautels, P.E. The Gem Kingdom. 252 pages. New York: Random House, 1971.

Foder, R.V., K. Keil, E. Jarosewich, and G.I. Huss. ‘““Mineralogy and Chemistry of
the Kyle, Texas Chondrite.”’ Meteoritics, volume 6 (1971), pages 71-79.

Fredriksson, K., J. Nelen, and W.G. Melson. Petrography and Origin of Lunar Breccias
and Glasses.’ Proceedings of Apollo II Lunar Science Conference, volume 1
(1970), pages 419-432.

Fredriksson K., J. Nelen, and A. Noonan. “Glasses and Sialic Components in Mare
Procellarum Soil.” Proceedings of Second Lunar Science Conference, volume |
(1971), pages 727-735.

Fredriksson, K., J. Nelen, A. Noonan, and F. Kraut. “‘Glasses, Breccias, Chondrules.”
In C. Watkins, editor, ““Lunar Science III,” Lunar Science Institute Contribution,
number 88 (1972), pages 280-282.

Fudali, R.F., and W.A. Cassidy. “Gravity Reconnaissance at Three Mauritanian
Craters of Explosive Origin.” Meteoritics, volume 7 (1972), pages 51-70.

Fudali, R.F., and W.G. Melson. “‘Ejecta Velocities, Magma Chamber Pressure and
Kinetic Energy Associated with the 1968 Eruption of Arenal Volcanc.” Bulletin
Volcanologique, volume 35, number 2 (1972), pages 383-401.

Jarosewich, E., R.V. Foder, K. Keil, and G.I. Huss. “‘Mineralogy, Petrology, and
Chemistry of the Burdett, Kansas Meteorites.”” Chemie der Erde, volume 30
(1971), pages 103-113.

Lawless, J., K. Kvenvolden, E. Peterson, C. Ponnamperuma, and E. Jarosewich.
“Evidence for Amino-Acids of Extraterrestrial Origin in the Orguiel Meteorite.”
Nature, volume 236 (1972), pages 66-67.

Mason, B. “The Carbonaceous Chondrites — A Selective Review.” Meteoritics,
volume 6 (1971), pages 59-70.

. Principios de Geoquimica. 403 pages. [Portuguese translation of
third edition of Principles of Geochemistry. | Sao Paulo: Editora Poligono, 1971.

. “Merrillite and Whitlockite or What’s in a Name?” Mineralogical
Record, volume 2 (1971), pages 277-279.

, editor. Handbook Of Elemental Abundances in Meteorites. 555
pages. New York: Gordon and Breech, 1971.

. “The Lunar Rocks.” Scientific American, volume 225, number 4
(1971), pages 48-58.
_ APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 1)

______. “Materials Extraterrestre Sulla Terra.’ Annuario della Enciclopedia
dell Scienza e dell Technica (1972), pages 102-118.
' Mason, B., E.P. Henderson, E. Jarosewich, W.G. Melson, and J. Nelen. “Composition
of Luna 16-G52, and Apollo 14 Fines.” Lunar Science Institute Contribution
number 88 (1972), pages 510-511.
_Mason, B., and E. Jarosewich. “The Composition of the Johnstown Meteorite.”
Meteoritics, volume 6 (1971), pages 241-245.

| Mason, B., E. Jarosewich, and J. Nelen. “Transition Element Distribution in Stony
| Meteorites and in Terrestrial and Lunar Rocks.” Chemie der Erde, volume 30
| (1971), pages 259-268.
| Mason, B., W.G. Melson, and J. Nelen. “Spinel and Hornblende in Apollo 14 Fines.”
Lunar Science Institute Contribution number 88 (1972), pages 512-514.

Melson, W.G. “‘Geology of the Lincoln Area, Lewis and Clark County, Montana.”
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 7 (1971), 22 pages.
“St. Paul’s Rocks, Equatorial Atlantic: Petrogenesis, Radiometric

Ages, and Implications on Sea-Floor Spreading. “Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution Report, number 71-20 (1971), 38 pages.
. “Volcanic Rocks Recovered from Leg 6, Deep Sea Drilling
Project.” Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, volume 6 (1972), pages
1119-1120.
Melson, W.G., and B. Mason. “Lunar ‘Basalts’: Some Comparisons With Terrestrial
| and Meteoritic Analogs, and a Proposed Classification and Nomenclature.”
| Proceedings of the Second Lunar Science Conference, volume 1 (1971), pages
459-467.
Melson, W.G., B. Mason, J. Nelen, and S. Jacobson. ‘Apollo 14 Basaltic Rocks.”
Lunar Science Institute Contribution number 88 (1972), pages 535-536.
Olsen, E., and E. Jarosewich. ““Chondrules: First Occurrence in an Iron Meteorite.”
Science, volume 174 (1971), pages 583-585.
Simkin, T. “Geological Investigations in the Galapagos Islands During the Summer of
1970.” Noticias de Galapagos, volume 18 (1971), pages 5-10.
White, J.S., Jr., and Lee Boltin. Color Underground. 62 pages. New York: Charles
Scribner’s Son, 1971.
White, J. S., Jr., and M. Fleischer. Glossary of Mineral Species 1971. Mineralogical
Record Special Publication (1972), 120 pages.

DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY

Benson, Richard H. ‘““A New Cenozoic Deep-Sea Genus, Abyssocythere (Crustacea:
Ostracoda: Trachyleberididae), with Descriptions of Five New Species.” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Paleobiology, number 7 (1971), 25 pages, 12 figures, 3
plates, 1 table.

Benson, Richard H., and P.C. Sylvester-Bradley. “Deep-Sea Ostracodes and the
Transformation of Ocean to Sea in the Tethys.” Colloque sur la Paleoecologie des
Ostracodes, Bulletin Société Nationale des Pétroles d’Aquitaine, Centre de
Recherches - Pau, volume 5, pages 63-92.

Boardman, Richard S. “Mode of Growth and Functional Morphology of Autozooids
in Some Recent and Paleozoic Tubular Bryozoa.”’ Smithsonian Contributions to
Paleobiology, number 8 (1971), 51 pages, 6 figures, 11 plates.

. “Body Walls and Attachment Organs in Some Recent Cyclostomes
and Paleozoic Trepostomes.” Paper presented at the Second International
Conference on Bryozoa, International Bryozoology Association, Durham, 1971.
200 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Buzas, Martin A. ‘“‘Analyses of Species Densities by the Multivariate General Linear
Model.” Limnology and Oceanography, volume 16 (1971), pages 667-670.

“Biofacies Analysis of Presence or Absence Data Through |

Canonical Variate Analysis.” Journal of Paleontology, volume 46 (1972), pages
55-57.

Cheetham, Alan H. ‘“‘Functional Morphology and Biofacies Distribution of Cheilo-—

stome Bryozoa in the Danian Stage (Paleocene) of Southern Scandinavia.”

Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, number 6 (1971), 87 pages, 29

figures, 17 plates, 10 tables.

. “Cheilostome Bryozoa of Late Eocene Age from Fua, Tonga.”
United States Geological Survey Professional Paper, 640-E (1972), pages E1-E26,
7 figures, 7 plates.

Cifelli, Richard. “‘On the Temperature Relationships of Planktonic Foraminifera.”
Journal of Foraminiferal Research, number 4 (1971), pages 170-177.

Emry, Robert J. ““A New Species of Agnotocastor (Rodentia, Castoridae) from the
Early Oligocene of Wyoming.” American Museum Novitates, number 2485
(February 1972), pages 1-7, figures 1-2.

. “A New Heteromyid Rodent from the Early Oligocene of Natrona
County, Wyoming.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wyoming.

Fenner, P., G. Kelling, and Daniel J. Stanley. “Bottom Currents In Wilmington
Submarine Canyon.” Nature (Physical Sciences), volume 229 (1971), pages 52-54.

Hickey, Leo J., and R.W. Read. “A Revised Classification of Fossil Palm and
Palm-like Leaves.’ Taxon, volume 21 (1971), pages 129-137.

Hueber, Francis M. “‘Astralocaulis: A New Name for Schizopodium Harris.” Taxon,
volume 20, number 4 (August 1971), pages 640-641.

. “Sawdonia ornata: A New Name for Psilophyton princeps var.
ornatum.”’ Taxon, volume 20, number 4 (August 1971), pages 641-642.

. “Early Devonian Land Plants from Bathurst Island, District
Franklin.” Geological Survey of Canada Paper, number 71-28 (January 1972), 17
pages, 3 plates.

Kauffman, Erle G. ‘‘Cretaceous Bivalvia.” In Hallam, A., editor, Atlas of Paleo-
biogeography. Amsterdam: Elsevier Publishing Company, 1972.

. “Evolutionary Rates and Patterns of North American Cretaceous
Mollusca.” Proceedings of the 24th International Geological Congress (1972), 24
pages, 5 figures.

. “Ptychodus Predation upon a Cretaceous /noceramus,”’ Palaeon-
tology, volume 15, part 3 (1972), pages 439-445, plate 81.

Kier, Porter. ‘Upper Miocene Echinoids from the Yorktown Formation of Virginia
and Their Environmental Significance.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleo-
biology, number 13 (1972), 41 pages, 7 figures, 10 plates, 2 tables.

_, “Tertiary and Mesozoic Echinoids of Saudi Arabia.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Paleobiology, number 10 (1972), 242 pages, 50 figures, 67
plates, | table.

Pierce, Jack W., D.D. Nelson and Colquhoun. “Holocene Evolution of a Portion of
the North Carolina Coast: Reply.” Geological Society of America Bulletin,
volume 82 (1971), pages 2371-2372, 3527-3528.

. “Suspended Sedimant off the Southeast Coast of the United
States.” Page 179, in Proceedings of the 2nd National Coastal and Shallow Water
Conference, 1971.

Ryan, W.F.B., Daniel J. Stanley, J.B. Hersey, D.A. Fahlquist, and T.D. Allan. “The
Tectonics and Geology of the Mediterranean Sea.” The Sea, volume 4, part 2
(1971), pages 387-492.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 201

Stanley , Daniel J. “‘Bioturbation and Sediment Failure in Some Submarine Canyons.”
Vie et Milieu, Supplement 22, pages 541-555.

Stanley, Daniel J., C.E. Gehin and C. Bartolini. “Flysch-type Sedimentation in the
Alboran Sea, Western Mediterranean.” Nature, volume 228 (1971), pages
979-983.

Stanley, Daniel J., H. Sheng, and C.P. Pedraza. ‘“‘Lower Continental Rise East of the
Middle Atlantic States: Predominant Sediment Dispersal Perpendicular to
Isobaths.” Geological Society of America Bulletin, volume 82 (1971), pages
1831-1839.

Starley, Daniel J., D.J.P. Swift, N. Silverberg, N.P. James, and R.G. Sutton. “‘Late
Quaternary Progradation and Sand Spillover on the Outer Continental Margin off
Nova Scotia, Southeast Canada.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth
Sciences, number 8 (1972), 88 pages, 83 figures, 6 tables.

Stanley, Daniel J., and R. Unrug. “Submarine Channel Deposits, Fluxoturbidites and
Other Indicators of Slope and Base-of-Slope Environments in Modern and Ancient
Marine Basins.” Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, Special
Paper 16 (1972), pages 287-340.

Swift, D.J.P., Daniel J. Stanley, and J.R. Curray. “‘Relict Sediments on Continental
Shelves: A Reconsideration.” Journal of Geology, volume 79 (1971), pages
322-346.

Sylvester-Bradley, P.C., and Richard H. Benson. “Terminology for Surface Features
in Ornate Ostracodes.” Lethaia, volume 4, number 3, pages 249-286.

Waller, Thomas R. “The Pectinidae (Mollusca: Bivalvia) of Eniwetok Atoll, Marshall
Islands.”’ The Veliger, volume 14, number 3 (1972), pages 221-264, 22 figures, 8
plates, 13 tables.

DEPARTMENT OF VETERBRATE ZOOLOGY

Ali, Salim, and S. Dillon Ripley. ““Frogmouths to Pittas.” Handbook of the Birds of
India and Pakistan, volume 4, xiii + 265 pages, 11 plates, 18 maps, numerous line
drawings. London: Oxford University Press, 1970.

. “Larks to the Grey Hypocolius.”’ Handbook of the Birds of India
and Pakistan, volume 5, xiii + 276 pages, 11 plates, 34 maps, numerous line
drawings. London: Oxford University Press, 1972.

. “Cuckoo-Shrikes to Babaxes.”’ Handbook of the Birds of India and
Pakistan, volume 6, xiii + 245 pages, 8 plates, 38 maps, numerous line drawings.
London: Oxford University Press, 1971.

. “Laughing Thrushes to the Mangrove Whistler.”” Handbook of the
Birds of India and Pakistan, volume 7, xiii + 236 pages, 10 plates, 28 maps,
numerous line drawings. London: Oxford University Press, 1972.

Amerson, A. Binion, Jr. “The Natural History of French Frigate Shoals, Northwestern
Hawaiian Islands.” Atoll Research Bulletin, number 150 (20 December 1971),
383 pages, 74 figures, 149 tables.

Banks, Richard C. ‘‘Publication Dates of the North American Fauna Series.” Auk,
volume 88, number 3 (1971), page 676.

. “Proceedings of the Eighty-ninth Stated Meeting of the Americar:
Ornithologists’ Union.” Auk, volume 89, number 1 (1972), pages 114-162.

Banks, Richard C., and Roger B. Clapp. “Birds Imported into the United States in
1969.” U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of
Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, Special Scientific Report—Wildlife, number 148, 91

pages.
202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Banks, Richard C., and Eley P. Denson. “Department of the Interior’s Regulations on
Importation and Shipment of Scientific and Zoological Specimens of Fish and
Wildlife.” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 52, number 2, pages 491-493, and
Copeia, number 2 (1971), pages 384-386.

Brownell, Robert L., Jr. “Whales, Dolphins and Oil Pollution.” Pages 255-276, in D.
Straughan, editor, Biological and Oceanographic Survey of the Santa Barbara
Channel Oil Spill, I., Biology and Bacteriology. Los Angeles: Allan Hancock
Foundation, University of Southern California, 1971.

Brownell, Robert L., Jr., and Burney J. LeBoeuf. “California Sea Lion Mortality:
Natural or Artifact.” Pages 287-306, in D. Straughan, editor, Biological and
Oceanographic Survey of the Santa Barbara Channel Oil Spill I, Biology and
Bacteriology. Los Angeles: Allan Hancock Foundation, University of Southern
California, 1971.

Dailey, M.D. and Robert L. Brownell, Jr. “‘A Checklist of Marine Mammal Parasites.”
Pages 528-589, in S. H. Ridgway, editor, Mammals of the Sea; Biology and
Medicine. Springfield: Charles C. Thomas, 1972.

Desfayes, M. ‘The Blackbird Turdus merula maximus in Nepal.” Journal of the
Bombay Natural History Society, volume 67 (1971), pages 571-572.

_ “Revision générique des Cardudlidés.” L’Oiseau et la Revue
frangaise d’Ornithologie, volume 41 (1971), pages 130-147.

Gardner, A., and D. Wilson. “A Melanized Subcutaneous Covering of the Cranial
Musculature in the Phyllostomid Bat, Ectophylla alba.’’ Journal of Mammalogy,
volume 52, pages 854-855.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. ‘“‘“Notes on Fishes of the Genus Eustomias (Stomiatoidei,
Melanostomiatidae) in Bermuda Waters, with the Description of a New Species.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84, number 29
(1971), pages 235-243, 2 figures.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., Richard H. Goodyear, Michael J. Keene, and Dail W. Brown.
“Biological Studies of the Bermuda Ocean Acre IJ. Vertical Distribution and
Ecology of the Lantern Fishes (Family Myctophidae).’ Report to U.S. Navy
Underwater Systems Center (1971), pages 1-141, 85 tables, 72 figures.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., and Clyde F. E. Roper. “Ocean Acre: Preliminary Report on
Vertical Distribution of Fishes and Cephalopods.” Proceedings of an International
Symposium on Biological Sound Scattering in the Ocean. Report number 005,
pages 119-133, 5 tables, 5 figures. Washington, D.C.: Maury Center for Ocean
Science, Department of Navy, 1971.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., Clyde F.E. Roper, Dail W. Brown, and Richard H. Goodyear.
‘‘Biological Studies of the Bermuda Ocean Acre I. Station Data, Methods, and
Equipment for Cruises I through II, October 1967-January 1971.” Report to U.S.
Navy Underwater Systems Center (1971), pages 149, 2 tables, 14 figures.

Handley, C.O., Jr. ““Appalachian Mammalian Geography—Recent Epoch.” In “The
Distributional History of the Biota of the Southern Appalachians.” Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University Research Division Monograph, number
4, part 3: Vertebrates (5 April 1972), pages 263-303, 29 figures.

Handley, C.O., Jr., and K.C. Ferris. “‘Descriptions of New Bats of the Genus
Vampyrops.’’ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84 (19
February 1972), pages 519-523.

Harper, Peter C., George E. Watson, and J. Phillip Angle. ““New Records of the
Kerguelen Petrel (Pterodroma brevirostris) in the South Atlantic and Pacific
Oceans.” Notornis, volume 19, part 1 (March 1972), pages 56-60.

Harrison, Richard J., and Robert L. Brownell, Jr. “The Gonads of the South
American Dolphins, J/nia geoffrensis, Pontoporia blainvillei, and Sotalia
fluviatilis.’’ Journal of Mammalogy, volume 52. number 2 (1971). pages 413419.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 203

Jenkins, Robert E., and Ernest A. Lachner. “Criteria for Analysis and Interpretation
of the American Fish Genera Nocomis Girard and Hybopsis Agassiz.” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, number 90 (12 November 1971) 15 pages, 1
figure, 4 tables.

Jenkins, Robert E., Ernest A. Lachner, and Frank J. Schwartz. “‘Fishes of the Central
Appalachian Drainages: Their Distribution and Dispersal.” Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University Research Division Monograph, number 4, part 3:
Vertebrates (5 April 1972), pages 43-117, 1 figure, 9 tables.

Jones, Clyde. ‘‘Notes on the Anomalurids of Rio Muni and Adjacent Areas.” Journal
of Mammalogy, volume 52 (1971), pages 568-572.

. “Natural Diets of Wild Primates.” Pages 58-77, in R. N. T-W.
Fiennes, editor, Pathology of Simian Primates, Part I: General Pathology. Basel:
S. Karger, 1972.

. “Observations on Dental Deposits and Deficiencies of Wild
Talapoin Monkeys (Cercopithecus talapoin) Collected in Rio Muni, West Africa.”
Laboratory Primate Newsletter, number 11 (1972), pages 28-34.

Jones Clyde, and J. Paradiso. ‘‘Mammals Imported into the United States in 1969.”
U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Sport
Fisheries and Wildlife, Special Scientific Report—Wildlife, number 147 (1972), ii
+ 33 pages.

Jones, Clyde, and R. Suttkus. “Notes on Netting Bats for Eleven Years in Western
New Mexico.” Southwestern Naturalist, volume 16 (1972), pages 261-266.

_, “Wing Loading in Plecotus rafinesquii.’’ Journal of Mammalogy,
volume 52, pages 458-460.

Lachner, Ernest A. ‘Proposed Suppression Under the Plenary Powers of Two Nomina
Oblita in the Family Echeneididae (Pisces).” Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature,
volume 28, parts 5/6 (December 1971), pages 168-170.

Lachner, Ernest A., and Robert E. Jenkins. ‘Systematics, Distribution, and Evolution
of the Chub Genus Nocomis Girard (Pisces: Cyprinidae) of the Eastern United
States, with Descriptions of New Species.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 85 (17 August 1971), 97 pages, 30 figures, 27 tables.

‘Systematics, Distribution, and Evolution of the Nocomis
biguttatus Species Group (Family Cyprinidae: Pisces) with a Description of a New
Species from the Ozark Upland.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number
91 (6 October 1971), 28 pages, 8 figures, 9 tables.

Lachner, Ernest A., and Martin L. Wiley. “Populations of the Polytypic Species
Nocomis leptocephalus (Girard) with a Description of a New Subspecies.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 92 (12 November 1971), 35
pages, 4 figures, 15 tables.

Locke, Louis N., and Richard C. Banks. ‘‘Avian Cholera in Cedar Waxwings in Ohio.”
Journal of Wildlife Diseases, volume 8 (1972), page 106.

Manville, Richard H. (Anon.) “Kellogg Memorial Fund.” Journal of Mammalogy,
volume 52, number 1, page 258.

_ “Malcolm Davis (1899-1970).” [Obituary.] Auk, volume 88,
number 4, pages 962-963.

_ CC, “Study Shows Sea Harvest Conducted in Humane Manner.” The
Wildlife Society News, number 137, page 72.

Olson, Storrs L. “Two Vagrants to Ascension Island.” Bulletin of the British
Ornithologists’ Club, volume 91 (1971), pages 90-92.

__ CO, ‘Taxonomic Comments on the Eurylaimidae.” /bis, volume 113
(1971), pages 507-516.
204 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

. “The Ascension Island Rail.” Lecture. American Ornithologists’
Union, Seattle, Washington, September 1971.

. “The Extinct Avifauna of St. Helena.’ Lecture. Society of
Vertebrate Paleontology, Washington, D.C., November 1971.

. “The Evolution of the Rails of the South Atlantic Islands.”
Lecture. Cooper Ornithological Society , Las Cruces, New Mexico, April 1972.

Paradiso, John L. ‘‘A New Subspecies of Cynopterus sphinx (Chiroptera: Ptero-
podidae) from Serasan (South Natuna) Island, Indonesia.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 84 (1971), pages 293-300.

. “Status Report on Cats (Felidae) of the World, 1971.” U.S.
Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Sport Fisheries
and Wildlife, Special Scientific Report— Wildlife, number 157.

Paradiso, John L., and R. Nowak. “ A Report on the Taxonomic Status and
Distribution of the Red Wolf.” U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife
Service, Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, Special Scientific Report—
Wildlife, number 145, (1972), ii + 36 pages.

Paradiso, John, and R. Nowak. “Taxonomic Status of the Sonoran Pronghorn.”
Journal of Mammalogy, volume 52, number 4 (1971), pages 855-858.

Peters, James A. “‘A New Approach in the Analysis of Biogeographic Data.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 107 (21 October 1971), pages
1-28, 15 figures, 2 tables.

. “The Computer and the Collection-at-Large.” Curator, volume 13,
number 4 (1970 [1972] ), pages 263-267.

. “Biostatistical Programs in BASIC Language for Time-shared
Computers: Coordinated with the Book ‘Quantitative Zoology’.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, number 69 (reprinted 1 March 1972, original 10 March
1971), pages 146.

. “Career Opportunities for the Evolutionist.’ Society for the Study
of Evolution, 1971, pages 14.

__ Css “* TTimee-shared Computer Programming.” Two lectures. Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D.C. 5 and 6 July 1971.

. “Computer Use in the Systematics Laboratory.” Lecture. Univer-
sity of Kansas, Lawrence, 1 February 1972.

Peters, James A., and Julie Booth. “Behavioral Studies on the Green Turtle, Chelonia
mydas, in the Sea.” Lecture. American Association for the Advancement of
Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 29 December 1971.

Peterson, Roger T., and George E. Watson. “Franklin’s Gull and Bridled Tern in
Southern Chile.” Auk, volume 88, number 3 (1 July 1971), pages 670-671.

Pine, Ronald H. ‘“‘A Review of the Long-Whiskered Rice Rat, Oryvzomys bombycinus
Goldman.” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 52, number 3 (1971), pages 590-596.

Pine, Ronald H., Dilford C. Carter, and Richard K. LaVal. “Status of Bawerus Van
Gelder and its Relationships to Other Nyctophiline Bats.” Journal of Mammalogy,
volume 52, number 4 (1971), pages 663-669.

Ripley, S. Dillon. ‘“‘Umweltprobleme in Amerika: Ein Paradigma?’’ Schweitzer
Monatshefte, volume 50, number 6 (September 1970), pages 508-511. [Not
previously reported. |

_ Cs “Conservation Comes of Age.” American Scientist, volume 59,
number 5 (September-October 1971), pages 529-531.

“Extinction’s Tide and the Ripples and Eddies of Hope.”
Smithsonian, volume 2, number 11 (February 1972), pages 20-26.

Ripley, S. Dillon, and Gorman M. Bond. “Systematic Notes on a Collection of Birds
from Kenya.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 111 (16 November
1971), 21 pages, 1 figure.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 205

|

Setzer, Henry W. “New Bats of the Genus Laephotis from Africa (Mammalia:
Chiroptera).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84,
number 32, pages 259-264.

Setzer, Henry W., and Gary L. Ranck. ‘tA New Gerbil (Genus Gerbillus) from the
Chad.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84, number
7 (30 June 1971), pages 55-58.

Schlitter, Duane A., and Henry W. Setzer. ‘“‘A New Species of Short-tailed Gerbil
(Dipodillus) from Morocco (Mammalia: Cricetidae: Gerbillinae).”’ Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington, volume 84, number 45 (29 February 1972),
pages 385-392.

Solomon, G.B., and C.O. Handley, Jr. “Capillaria hepatica (Bancroft, 1893) in
Appalachian Mammals.” Journal of Parasitology, volume 57 (1971), pages
1142-1144.

Springer, Victor G., and William F. Smith-Vaniz. “‘Mimetic Relationships Involving
Fishes of the Family Blenniidae.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number
112 (2 February 1972), 36 pages, 4 figures, 7 plates.

. “A New Tribe (Phenablenniini) and Genus (Phenablennius) of
Blenniid Fishes Based on Petroscirtes heyligeri Bleeker.” Copeia, number 1
(1970), pages 64-71.

Thorington, Richard W., Jr. “Survey of Nonhuman Primates Being Maintained on 1
January 1971.” JLAR News, volume 15, number 1 (1971), pages 7-10.

. “The Identification of Primates Used in Viral Research.” Labora-
tory Animal Science, volume 21, number 6 (1971), pages 1074-1077.

. “Censusing Wild Populations of South American Monkeys.” In
“Second International Symposium on Health Aspects of the International
Movement of Animals.” Pan American Health Organization Scientific Publication,
number 235 (1972), pages 26-32.

. “Importation, Breeding, and Mortality of New World Primates in
the United States.” /nternational Zoo Yearbook, volume 12 (1972), pages 18-23.

—_____ SS. “Rhesus Monkeys for Dissection.” Carolina Tips, volume 35, (1
June 1972), pages 21-22.

Tuck, Robert G., Jr. “Rediscovery and Redescription of the Khuzistan Dwarf
Gecko, Microgecko helenae Nikolsky (Sauria: Gekkonidae).” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 83, number 42 (9 February 1971),
pages 477-4482, 3 figures.

. “Amphibians and Reptiles from Iran in the United States National
Museum Collection.” Bulletin of the Maryland Herpetological Society, volume 7,
number 3 (September 1971), pages 48-86, 9 figures, 23 maps, 1 table.

. “The Snakes of Southern Maryland.” Lecture. Southern Maryland
Audubon Society, La Plata, Maryland, 4 April 1972.

Tuck, Robert G., Jr., M. Kathleen Klimkiewicz, and Kay G. Ferris. ““Notes on Pilot
Blacksnake (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta) (Serpentes: Colubridae) Eggs and
Hatchlings.” Bulletin of the Maryland Herpetological Society, volume 7, number
4 (December 1971), pages 96-99, 1 table.

Watson, George E. ‘‘Diomedea leptorhyncha Coues, 1966 (Aves): Proposed Sup-
pression Under the Plenary Powers.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature,
volume 28, page 106.

. “Slender-billed Gull Larus genei at Lake Manyara, Tanzania.”
Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club, volume 91, number 6 (20 December
1971), page 167.

. Eudyptes sclateri Buller, 1888, and Eudyptes robustus Oliver,
1963 (Aves, Spheniscidae): Proposed Preservation Under the Plenary Powers.”
206 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature, volume 28, parts 3/4 (December 1971),
pages 92-93.

Watson, George E., and George J. Divoky. “Identification of Diomedea leptorhyncha
Coues 1966, An Albatross with Remarkably Small Salt Glands.” The Condor,
volume 73, number 4 (Winter, 1971), pages 487-489.

Watson, George E., J. Phillip Angle, Peter C. Harper, Margaret A. Bridge, Roberto P.
Schlatter, W.L. N. Tickell, John C. Boyd, and Maria M. Boyd. “Birds of the
Antarctic and Subantarctic.”’ Antarctic Map Folio Series, Vivian C. Bushnell,
editor, number 14, pages 1-18, 1 plate, 39 maps.

Wilson, D., and J. Findley. “Randomness in Bat Homing.” American Naturalist,
volume 106, pages 418424.

Weitzman, Stanley H., and William L. Fink. “A New Species of Characid Fish of the
Genus Nematobrycon from the Rio Calima of Colombia (Pisces, Characoidei,
Characidae).” Beaufortia, volume 19, number 248 (27 July 1971), pages 57-77.

Zug, George R. “Buoyancy, Locomotion, Morphology of the Pelvic Girdle and
Hindlimbs and Systematics of Crypotodiran Turtles.” Miscellaneous Publications,
Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan, number 142 (1971), pages 1-98.

—_ CSC “SAmerican Musk Turtles, Sternothaerus or Sternotherus.”
Herpetologica, volume 27, number 4 (1971), pages 446-449.

. “Frog Locomotion and Morphology.” Lecture. Wildlife Labora-
tory, D.A.S.F., Moitaka, Papua—New Guinea, January 1972.

Zug, George R., and A. Schwartz. “Deirochelys, D. reticularia.”’ Catalogue of

American Amphibians and Reptiles, number 107 (1971), pages 1-3.

National Air and Space Museum

Casey, Louis S. “Introduction” In Mohler and Johnson, Wiley Post, His Winnie Mae,
and the World’s First Pressure Suit.” Smithsonian Annals of Flight, number 8
(22 November 1971), vii + 127 pages, 139 figures.

Mikesh, Robert C. Aircraft in Museums Around the World. Sections 1 and 2.
{Multilith. |

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Ahmad, I.A., and W.A. Deutschman. “Ultraviolet Photometry of the Moon with the
Celescope Experiment on the OAO-II.” Presented at the Orbiting Astronomical
Observatory Symposium, Amherst, Massachusetts, August 1971.

Allison, A.C. “‘Spin-Change Frequency Shifts in H-H Collisions.” Physical Review A,
volume 5 (1972), pages 2695-2696.

. “The Calculation of Absorption and Elastic Cross Sections Using
the Optical Potential.” Computer Physics Communications, volume 3 (1972),
pages 173-179.

Allison, A.C., and A. Dalgarno. “Continuity at the Dissociation Threshold in
Molecular Absorption.” Journal of Chemical Physics, volume 55 (1971), pages
43424344.

CC, “Rootational Excitation of CN by Electron Impact.” Astronomy
and Astrophysics, volume 13 (1971), pages 331-332.

Allison, A.C., A. Dalgarno, and N.W. Pasachoff. “Absorption by Vibrationally
Excited Molecular Oxygen in the Schumann-Runge Continuum.” Planetary and
Space Science, volume 19 (1971), pages 1463-1473.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 207

Allison, A.C., and F. J. Smith. “Transport Properties of Atomic Hydrogen.” Atomic
Data, volume 3 (1971), pages 317-321.

Avrett, E.H., and R. Loeser, “‘Radiative Transfer in Two-Component Stellar
Atmospheres.” Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer,
volume 11 (1971), pages 559-571.

Baker, B.H., P.A. Mohr, and L.A.J. Williams. “Geology of the Eastern Rift System.”
The Geological Society of America Special Paper, number 136 (1972), 67 pages.

Bottcher, C., A.C. Allison, and A. Dalgarno. “Potential Curves for Nat and
Resonnance Charge Transfer Cross-Sections.” Chemical Physics Letters, volume
11 (1971), pages 307-309.

Dalgarno, A., and G.W.F. Drake. “‘An Energy Maximization Method for Autoionizing
States.” Chemical Physics Letters, volume 11 (1971), pages 509-511.

D’Amico, J., J. DeFelice, E.L. Fireman, C. Jones, and G. Spannagel. ‘‘Tritium and
Argon Radioactivities and Their Depth Variations in Apollo Samples.” Pages
1825-1839, in Proceedings of the 2nd Lunar Science Conference, Geochimica et
Cosmochimica Acta, volume 2. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press, 1971.

Davis, R.J. “The Celescope Catalog of Ultraviolet Observations.” Presented at the
Orbiting Astronomical Observatory Symposium, Amherst, Massachusetts, August
eile

. “New Astronomy Space Experiments with Television Scanning.”
Presented at the International Conference, Space Applications of Television
Tubes, Paris, November 1971.

Davis, R.J., W.A. Deutschman, C.A. Lundquist, Y. Nozawa, and S.D. Bass.
“Ultraviolet Television Data from the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory, I:
Instrumentation and Analysis Techniques for the Celescope Experiment.”
Presented at the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory Symposium, Amherst,
Massachusetts, August 1971.

Decker, R.W., P. Einarsson, and P.A. Mohr. “‘Rifting in Iceland: New Geodetic Data.”
Science, volume 173 (1971), pages 530-533.

Deutschman, W.A. “‘A Calibration Model for a Stellar Photometer Using a SEC
Vidicon.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, volume 84
(1972), pages 123-126.

“Ultraviolet Photometry of the Moon with the Celescope
Experiment on the OAO-II.” Presented at the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory
Symposium, Amherst, Massachusetts, August 1971.

“Orbital Operation and Calibration of SEC Vidicons in the
Celescope Experiment.” Presented at the Fifth Symposium on Photo-Electronic
Image Devices, London, September 1971.

Deutschman, W.A., and C.A. Lundquist. ‘“‘A Search for the Pulsar Centaurus X-3 with
the Celescope Experiment on OAO 2.” Presented at the 15th International
COSPAR Meeting, Madrid, May 1972.

Esposito, R., and M.D. Grossi. ‘“‘Channel Characterization for Digital Communica-
tions in Ground-to-Space HF Paths.” Presented at the 11th Technical Meeting of
the Joint Satellite Studies Group, Florence, October 1971.

Fazio, G.G., P. Albats, S.E. Ball, J.P. Delvaille, K.I. Greisen, D.K. Koch, B. McBreen,
D.R. Hearn, and H.F. Helmken. “A Large Area Gaserenkov Telescope for
High-Energy Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” Nuclear Instruments and Methods,
volume 95 (1971), pages 189-194.

Fazio, G.G., H.F. Helmken, E. O’Mongain, G.H. Rieke, and T.C. Weekes. ‘“‘A Search
for 10'! to 10!* eV Gamma Rays from Discrete Soruces.”” Pages 1697- 1702, in
Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Cosmic Rays, volume 5.
Hobart, Tasmania: University of Tasmania, 1971.

Fireman, E.L., J. D’Amico, J. DeFelice, and G. Spannagel. “‘Radioactivities in
Returned Lunar Material.’ Presented at the 3rd Lunar Science Conference,
Houston, Texas, January 1972.
208 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Fireman, E.L., and G. Spannagel. “Fresh Meteorites in 1970 and the Cosmic-Ray
Gradient.” Chemie der Erde, volume 30 (1971), numbers 1/4.

Flannery, M.R. “‘The Binary-Encounter Theory for a General Interaction.” Journal of
Physics B, volume 4 (1971), pages 892-895.

_C,sCS“EXcitation and Ionization of Hydrogen by Hydrogen Atom
Impact.’’ Canadian Journal of Physics, volume 50 (1972), pages 61-64.

Franklin, F.A., G. Colombo, and A.F. Cook. ‘““A Dynamical Model for the Radial
Structure of Saturn’s Rings. II.’ Jcarus, volume 15 (1971), pages 80-92.

Gaposchkin, E.M. ““Ephemeris Calculation for Geos C.” Presented at the Sea Surface
Topography Conference, Miami, Florida, October 1971.

Gaposchkin, E.M., and K. Lambeck. “‘The Earth’s Gravity Field to 16th Degree and
Station Coordinates from Satellite and Terrestrial Data.” Journal of Geophysical
Research, volume 76 (1971), pages 4855-4883.

Gaposchkin, E.M., G. Veis, Y. Kozai, and G.C. Weiffenbach. “‘Geodetic Studies at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.” Presented at the International Union of
Geodesy and Geophysics Conference, Moscow, August 1971.

Giacaglia, G.E.O., and C.A. Lundquist. “Sampling Functions as an Alternative to
Spherical Harmonics.’ Pages 149-153, in S. Yumi, editor, Rotation of the Earth,
Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 48. Sendai,
Japan: Sasaki Printing and Publishing Company, 1972.

Gingerich, O. “Apianus’s Astronomicum Caesareum and its Leipzig Facsimile.”
Journal for the History of Astronomy, volume 2 (1971), pages 168-177.

—_____. . “Kepler and the Rudolphine Tables.” Sky and Telescope, volume
42 (1971), pages 1-8.

___ Cs “‘Keeppler’s Treatment of Redundant Observations or, The Computer
Versus Kepler Revisited.’ Presented at International Kepler Symposium, Weil de
Stadt, 1971.

Gingerich, O., R.W. Noyes, W. Kalkofen, and Y. Cuny. ‘‘The Harvard-Smithsonian
Reference Atmosphere.” Solar Physics, volume 18 (1971), pages 347-365.

Grindlay, J.E. “Possible Evidence for Pulsed 10!7 ev Gamma Rays trom NP 0532.”
Nature (Physical Science), volume 234 (1971), pages 153-155.

—_________.. “New Studies of EAS and Cosmic-Ray Composition at Energies 3
se adine eV.” Presented at the 12th International Conference on Cosmic Rays,
Hobart, Tasmania, August 1971.

. “Detection of Pulsed Gamma Rays of 10'? eV from the Pulsar in
the Crab Nebula.” Astrophysical Journal Letters, volume 174 (1972), pages
L9-L17.

Grindlay, J.E., and J.A. Hoffman. “‘Compton-Synchrotron Spectrum of the Crab
Nebula with the Pulsar Magnetic Field.” Astrophysical Letters, volume 8 (1971),
pages 209-213.

Grossi, M.D. “‘Radio Communications and Wind Measures by Meteor Trail Forward
Scattering.” Presented at the 23rd International Science Conference, Pakistan
Association for the Advancement of Science, Peshawar, West Pakistan, September
1971.

_. “Comparative Analysis of the Results of Two Recent Experiments
of HF Magnetoconjugate Propagation.” Presented at USNC/URSI Spring Meeting,
Washington, D.C., April 1972.

_sC«s SUSLF Propagation Experiments.”’ Presented at the 2nd Conference
on sub-LF Downlink Satellite Communications, Washington, D.C., June 1972.

Grossi, M.D., H.T. Chang, R.K. Cross, and J.V. Harrington. “Propagation of e.m.
Waves at Subhertz Frequencies in the Earth Crust Waveguide.” Presented at the
Navy Long Radio Wave Propagation Symposium, Washington, D.C., April 1972.

Grossi, M.D., R.B. Southworth, and S.K. Rosenthal. ““Radar Observations of Meteor
Winds above Illinois.” Pages 205-208, in W.L. Webb, editor, Thermospheric
Circulation. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press, 1972.

Hall, D.N.B., R.W. Noyes, and T.R. Ayres. “The Identification of '*c 1°0 in the
Infrared Sunspot Spectrum and the Determination of the Solar ae 16
Abundance Ratio.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 171 (1972), pages 615-620.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 209

Haramundanis, K. “The Construction and Documentation of the Celescope Catalog.”
Presented at the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 50,
Argentina, October 1971.

Hawkins, G.S. ‘“‘Micrometeorite and Cosmic Dust Data Near the Earth’s Orbit.”
Presented at the 15th International COSPAR Meeting, Madrid, May 1972.

Hegyi, D.J., W.A. Traub, and N.P. Carleton. “Cosmic Background Radiation at 1.32
mm.” Physical Review Letters, volume 28 (1972), pages 1541-1544.

Helmken, H.F., and J.A. Hoffman. “Gas-Cerenkov Detector for Gamma-Ray
Astronomy.” Presented at the 12th International Conference on Cosmic Rays,
Hobart, Tasmania, August 1971.

Hodge, P.W. “‘The Population I Content of the Elliptical Companions of M31.” Pages
46-47, in D.S. Evans, editor, ““External Galaxies and Quasi-Stellar Sources,” of
Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 44.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

ts “SD warrf Galaxies.”’ Annual Reviews of Astronomy and Astro-
physics, volume 9 (1971), pages 35-66.

Hodge, P.W., D. E. Brownlee, and W. Bucher. ““Micrometeoroid Flux from Surveyor
Glass Surfaces,” Pages 2781-2789, in Proceedings of the 2nd Lunar Science
Conference, Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, volume 3. Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts: MIT Press, 1971.

Hodge, P.W., W. Porch, E. Mannery, and R. Charlson. “Use of Astronomical
Telescopes to Measure Background Aerosol Pollution.’ Nature, volume 233
(1971), page 326.

Hodge, P.W., and F.W. Wright. “Dust Fall Measures—An Arctic Clean Air Baseline.”
Project ASTRA Publication Number 5 (1972).

—_ tS, SA:«Sturdy of the Meteoritic Particles in the Soil Surrounding the
Henbury Meteorite Craters.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 76 (1971),
pages 3880-3895.

. “Summary of a 10-year High Altitude Atmospheric Dust Collect-
ing Program.” Project ASTRA Publication Number 7 (1971).

. “Note on LMC Variable Stars’ In L. Detre and B. Szeidl, editors,
Commission 27 of the International Astronomical Union Information Bulletin on
Variable Stars, number 590, pages 1-8.

Horowitz, P., C. Papaliolios, and N. Carleton. “Stability of the Crab Pulsar.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 172 (1972), pages L51-L54.

Hummer, D.G., and G. Rybicki. ‘““Formation of Spectral Lines.” Annual Reviews of
Astronomy and Astrophysics, volume 9 (1971). pages 237-270.

Jacchia, L. “Semi-Annual Variation in the Heterosphere: A Reappraisal.” Journal of
Geophysical Research, volume 76 (1971), pages 46024607.

Jacchia, L.G., and J.W. Slowey. “‘A Study of the Variations in the Thermosphere
Related to Solar Activity.” Presented at the 15th International COSPAR Meeting,
Madrid, May 1972.

Jura, M., and A. Dalgarno. ‘‘Time-Dependent Models of the Interstellar Gas.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 174, number 2 (1972), pages 141-143.

Kalaghan, P.M., and A. Dalgarno. “Hyperfine Structure of the Molecular Ion Hs.
Physics Letters A, volume 33 (1972), pages 485-486.

Kirshner, R.P., and R.W. Noyes. “Extreme Ultraviolet Observations of a Surge.”
Solar Physics, volume 20 (1971), pages 428-437.

Kleinmann, D.E., E. Becklin, J.A. Frogel, G. Neugebauer, E. Ney, and D. Stecker.
“Infrared Observations of the Core of Centaurus A, NGC 5128.” Astrophysical
Journal Letters, volume 170 (1971), page L15.

Kleinmann, D.E., J.A. Frogel, and S.E. Persson. “Infrared Observations of the Small
H Il Region Sh 266.” Astrophysical Letters, volume 11 (1972), page 95.

Lecar, M., editor. “The Gravitational N-Body Problem.” in Proceedings of the 10th
International Astronomical Union Colloquium, Astrophysics and Space Science,
volume 13. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.
210 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Lehr, C.G., M.R. Pearlman, G.M. Mendes, and C. Tsiang. ‘““The Laser Network of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.” Presented at the XVth General As-
sembly of the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics, Moscow, August
1971.

Levine, M. ‘‘Measurement of the Gravitational Redshift Using a Clock in an Orbiting
Satellite.” In R.W. Davies, editor, “Proceedings of the Conference on Experi-
mental Tests of Gravitational Theories,’ Jet Propulsion Laboratory Report
33-499, 1971.

_ “Recent Developments Affecting the Hydrogen Maser as a
Frequency Standard.” In D.N. Langenberg and B.N. Taylor, editors, ‘‘Precision
Measurement and Fundamental Constants,” National Bureau of Standards Special
Publication No. 343. Washington, D.C.: National Bureau of Standards, 1971.

Levy, H., II. ‘“‘Normal Atmosphere: Large Radical and Formaldehyde Concentrations
Predicted.” Science, volume 173 (1971), pages 141-143.

Litvak, M. ‘Masers and Optical Pumping.” Presented at the National Radio
Astronomy Observatory Symposium on Interstellar Molecules, Charlottesville,
Virginia, October 1971.

Lundguist, C.W., W.A. Deutschman, and R.E. Young, “Digital Processing Techniques
Used in Determining Stellar Ultraviolet Magnitudes from OAO—Celescope Image
Data.” Presented at the Symposium on Processing of Telescopic Images, Quebec,
October 1971.

Lundquist, C.A., and G.E.O. Giacaglia. ““Use of Altimetry Data in a Sampling
Function Approach to the Geoid.” Presented at the Sea Surface Topography
Conference, Miami, Florida, October 197].

Marsden, B.G. “Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.”
International Astronomical Union Information Bulletin No. 26. (1971), pages 4-6.

Css «Letter to the Editor.” Monthly Notes of the Astronomical
Society of Southern Africa, volume 30 (1971), page 96.

—_____. - “On Choosing a Comet.” Proceedings of the Cometary Science
Working Group, Yerkes Observatory (1971), pages 110-113.

“Report of Meeting of Commission 6.” Transactions of the
International Astronomical Union, volume 14B (1971), page 90.
. “Reports on Progress in Astronomy: Comets in 1970.” Quarterly
Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society, volume 12 (1971), pages 244-273.
“Catalogue of Cometary Orbits.” International Astronomical
Union Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams, Cambridge, Massachusetts
(1972), 70 pages.

—_______. “Evolution of Comets into Asteroids?” /nternational Astronomical
Union Colloquium No. 12 (1972), pages 413421.

. “Frost, Edwin Brant.” Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume
5 (1972), page 199.

. “Gould, Benjamin Apthorp.” Dictionary of Scientific Biography,
volume 5 (1972), pages 479-480.

. “Letter to the Editor.” New Scientist, volume 53 (1972), page
292:

. “Letter to the Editor.” Sky and Telescope, volume 43 (1972),
page 224.

___ ts “Precision of Ephemerides for Space Missions.” Jnternational
Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 12 (1972), pages 639-642.

Marsden, B.G., T. Gehrels, and E. Roemer. “Minor Planets and Related Objects. VII.
Asteroid 1971 FA.” Astronomical Journal, volume 76 (1971), pages 607-608.
Marsden, B.G., and Z. Sekanina. “‘Comets and Nongravitational Forces. IV.”

Astronomical Journal, volume 76 (1971), pages 1135-1151.

Marvin, U.B. “Lunar Niobian Rutile.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters, volume
11 (1971), pages 7-9.

Marvin, U.B., and G.J. Taylor. “Indications of Lunar Peridotite.” Presented at the
34th Annual Meeting of the Meteoritical Society, Tubingen, August 1971.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 2 al

Marvin, U.B., J.A. Wood, G.J. Taylor, J.B. Reid, Jr., B.N. Powell, J.S. Dickey, and
J.F. Bower. “Relative Proportions and Probable Sources of Rock Fragments in
the Apollo 12 Soil Samples.” Pages 679-699, in Proceedings of the 2nd Lunar
Science Conference, Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, volume 1. Cambridge,
Massachusetts: MIT Press, 1971.

Megrue, G.H. “Search for Gas-Rich Meteorites.” Presented at the 34th Annual
Meeting of the Meteoritical Society , Tubingen, August 1971.

Megrue, G.H., and F. Steinbrunn. “Classification and Source of Lunar Soil; Clastic
Rocks; and Individual Mineral, Rock, and Glass Fragments from Apollo 12 and 14
Samples as Determined by the Concentration Gradients of the Helium, Neon, and
Argon Isotopes.” Presented at the 3rd Lunar Science Conference, Houston, Texas,
January 1972.

Menzel, D.H. “The History of Astronomical Spectroscopy, 1: Qualitative Chemical
Analysis and Radial Velocities.” Presented at the International Conference on
Education in and History of Modern Astronomy, New York, August 1971.

_Cws«C““The ~=History of Astronomical Spectroscopy, 2: Quantitative
Chemical Analysis and the Structure of the Solar Atmosphere.” Presented at the
International Conference on Education in and History of Modern Astronomy,
New York, August 1971.

Menzel, D.H., M. Minnaert, B. Levin, and B. Bell. “‘Report on Lunar Nomenclature
by the Working Group of Commission 17 of the International Astronomical
Union.” Space Science Reviews, volume 12 (1971), pages 136-186.

Mertz, L. “Analysis of Telescope Costs.” Presented at the Orbiting Astronomical
Observatory Symposium, Amherst, Massachusetts, August 1971.

. “Fourier Reconstruction for the Rotation Collimator.” Presented
at the Symposium on Processing of Telescopic Images, Quebec, October 1971.

Michael, W.H., Jr., D.L. Cain, G. Fjeldbo, G.F. Levy, J.G. Davies, M.D. Grossi, I.I.
Shapiro, and G.L. Taylor. “Radio Science Experiments: The Viking Mars Orbiter
and Lander.” /carus, volume 16 (1972), pages 57-73.

Mohr, P.A. “The Ethiopian Triple-Rift Junction in Terms of Plate Tectonics.”
Bulletin of the Geophysical Observatory of Addis Ababa, number 13 (1971),
pages 1-17.

—____. “Smithsonian Geodimeter Survey.” Bulletin of the Geophysical
Observatory of Addis Ababa, number 13 (1971), page 121.

Cs “Outline Tectonics of Ethiopia.” Earth Sciences, volume 6 (1971),
pages 447-458.

—______., -“Regional Significance of Volcanic Geochemistry in the Afar
Triple Junction Ethiopia.” Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, volume
83 (1972), pages 213-222.

Moran, J. “Some Characteristics of an Operational System for Measuring UT-1 Using
Very Long Baseline Interferometry (VLBI).” Presented at the 15th International
COSPAR Meeting, Madrid, May 1972.

Noyes, R.W. “models of the Quiet and Active Atmosphere from Harvard OSO Data.”
Pages 192-218, in C.J. Macris, editor, Physics of the Solar Corona. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1971.

—________. “Solar Astronomy from Space.” Astronautics and Aeronautics,
volume 9 (1971), pages 18-24.

—___.. “Ultraviolet Studies of the Solar Atmosphere.” Annual Reviews of
Astronomy and Astrophysics, volume 9 (1971), pages 209-236.

Nozawa, Y. “Engineering Aspects of Uvicon/Celescope System.” Presented at the
International Conference, Space Applications of Television Tubes, Paris,
November 1971.

Parsons, S. ‘Comparison of Celescope Magnitudes with Model Atmosphere Fluxes for
A, F, and G Supergiants.” Presented at the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory
Symposium, Amherst, Massachusetts, August 1971.

Payne-Gaposchkin, C. “Comparison of the Cepheid Variables in the Magellanic
Clouds and the Galaxy.” Pages 3446, in A.B. Muller, editor, The Magellanic
Clouds. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1971.
242 : SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Peytremann, E. “‘Theoretical Effect on Various Broadening Parameters on Ultraviolet
Line Profiles.” Presented at the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory Symposium,
Amherst, Massachusetts, August 1971.

Peytremann, E., and R.J. Davis. “Stellar Ultraviolet Colors and Interstellar
Extinction.” Presented at the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory Symposium,
Amherst, Massachusetts, August 1971.

Radford, H.E. ‘“‘Remeasurement of the Rest Frequency of the 36-cm Radio Line of
Methanol.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 174 (1972), pages 207-208.

Reeves, E.M., M.C.E. Huber, G.L. Withbroe, and R.W. Noyes. ‘“‘Real-time Control of
an Orbiting Solar Observatory.” Pages 336-347, in F. Labuhn and R. Lust,
editors, New Techniques in Space Astronomy, Proceedings of the International
Astronomical Union Symposium No, 41. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publish-
ing Company, 1971.

Reid, J.B., Jr., G.J. Taylor, U.B. Marvin, and J.A. Wood. “Luna 16: Relative
Proportions and Petrologic Significance of Particles in the Soil from Mare
Fecunditatis.”” Earth and Planetary Science Letters, number 13 (1972), pages
286-298.

Rybicki, G. “Relaxation Times in Strictly Disk Systems.” Astrophysics and Space
Science, volume 4, number 2 (1971).

Salisbury, W., and D. Fernald. ‘‘Post-Occultation Reception of Lunar Ship Endeavour
Radio Transmission.” Nature, volume 234 (1971), page 95.

Sando, K.M. “‘The Emission of Radiation Near 600A by Helium” Molecular Physics,
volume 21 (1971), pages 439-447.

Schild, R., and F. Chaffee. “Energy Distributions and Spectra of Orion B Stars.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 169 (1971), pages 529-536.

Schild, R., and J. Oke. “‘Energy Distributions and K Corrections for the Total Light
from Giant Elliptical Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 169 (1971), pages
209-214.

Simon, G.W., and R.W. Noyes. “Observations of the Coronal Network.” Pages
663-666, in R. Howard, editor, Solar Magnetic Fields, Proceedings of the
International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 43. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1971.

__ ts “SOserved Heights of EUV Lines Formed in the Transition Zone
and Corona.” Solar Physics, volume 22 (1972), pages 450-458.

Spannagel, G. “‘Reduction of 37 ar and 3? Ar Counting Data.” Presented at the 34th
Annual Meeting of the Meteoritical Society, Tiibingen, August 1971.

Stephens, T.L., and A. Dalgarno. “Spontaneous Radiative Dissociation in Molecular
Hydrogen.” Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, volume
12 (1972), pages 569-586.

Strom, S., K. Strom, and J.N. Bregman. “The Blue Stars above the Turn-Off in M67:
Horizontal Branch or Blue Stragglers?’’ Publications of the Astronomical Society
of the Pacific, volume 83 (1971), pages 768-779.

Taylor, G.J., and U.B. Marvin. ‘“‘Dunite-Norite Lunar Microbreccia.” Meteoritics,
volume 6 (1971), pages 173-180.

Taylor, G.J., U.B. Marvin, J.B. Reid, Jr., and J.A. Wood. “‘Noritic Fragments in the
Apollo 14 and 12 Soils and the Origin of Oceanus Procellarum.” Presented at the
3rd Lunar Science Conference, Houston, Texas, January 1972.

Vernazza, J.E., and R.W. Noyes. “Inhomogeneous Structure of the Solar Chromo-
sphere from Lyman Continuum Data.” Solar Physics, volume 22 (19/2), pages
358-374.

Victor, G.A., and C. Laughlin. “Model Potential Calculation of the Electron Affinity
of Lithium.” Chemical Physics Letters, volume 14 (1972), page 74.

Victor, G.A., and K. Sando. ‘‘Long-Range Interaction between Metastable Helium
and Ground-State Helium.” Journal of Chemical Physics, volume 55 (1971), pages
5421-5422.

Weekes, T.C. “Time Variations in High-Energy Cosmic Rays.” Nature (Physical
Science), volume 233 (1971), pages 129-130.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 213

Weekes, T.C., G.G. Fazio, H.F. Helmken, E. O’Mongain, and G. H. Rieke, “‘A Search
for Discrete Sources of Cosmic Gamma Rays of Energy 10°! 40.110"? ev?
Astrophysical Journal, volume 174 (1972), pages 165-179.

Weiffenbach, G.C. “An Observational Philosophy for Geos-C Satellite Altimetry.”
Presented at the Sea Surface Topography Conference, Miami, Florida, October
1971. :

Weisheit, J.C., and A. Dalgarno. “Spin-Orbit and Core Polarization Effects in
Potassium.” Physical Review Letters, volume 27 (1971), pages 701-703.

Whipple, F.L. “Accumulation of Chondrules on Asteroids.’ Pages 251-256, in T.
Gehrels, editor, Physical Studies of Minor Planets. Washington, D.C.: National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1971.

. “The Incentive of a Bold Hypothesis—Hyperbolic Meteors and
Comets.” Presented at the New York Academy of Sciences Symposium, New
York, August 1971.

—_______—.. “On the Amount of Dust in the Asteroid Belt.” Pages 389-393, in
T. Gehrels, editor, Physical Studies of Minor Planets. Washington, D.C.: National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1971.

Wood, J.A. “Thermal History and Early Magmatism in the Moon.” Jcarus, volume 16
(1972), pages 229-240.

Wood, J.A., A. Burlingame, D. Burnett, B. Doe, D. Gault, L. Haskin, H. Schnoes, D.
Heymann, W. Melson, J. Papike, R. Tilling, and N. Toksoz. ‘‘Primal Igneous
Activity in the Outer Layers of the Moon Generated by a 40 km Thick Feldspathic
Crust.” Presented at the 3rd Lunar Science Conference, Houston, Texas, January
1972.

Wood, J.A., J.B. Reid, Jr., G.J. Taylor, and U.B. Marvin. ‘“‘Petrological Character of
the Luna 16 Sample from Mare Fecunditatis.”’ Meteoritics, volume 6 (1971),
pages 181-194.

Wright, E.L., and A. Dalgarno. “Infrared Emissivities of H7 and HD.” Astrophysical
Journal Letters, volume 174 (1972), pages L49-L51.

Wright, F.W. ““Examples of Moon Sights to Obtain Time and Longitude.” Navigation,
volume 18 (1971), pages 292-297.

Wright, F.W., and P.W. Hodge. “‘Further Studies of Variable Stars of the Large
Magellanic Cloud.” Astronomical Journal, volume 76 (1971), pages 1003-1165.

SPECIAL REPORTS

Through its Special Report series, the Observatory distributes catalogs of satellite
observations, orbital data, and scientific papers before journal publication.

336. R.E. McCrosky, A. Posen, G. Schwartz, and C.-Y. Shao. “‘Lost City Meteorite:
Its Recovery and a Comparison with Other Fireballs.” 20 August 1971.

337. P.W. Hodge. “Color-Magnitude Diagrams of Five Faint Clusters of the Large
Magellanic Cloud.” 24 August 1971.

338. E. Chipman. “‘Analysis of Solar Ultraviolet Lines.” 15 September 1971.

339. P.A. Mohr. “Ethiopian Tertiary Dike Swarms.” 6 October 1971.

340. W.W. Hauck, Jr. “Foundations for Estimation by the Method of Least Squares.”
27 December 1971.

341. J.L. Elliot. ““Atmospheric Fluorescence as a Ground-based Method of Detecting
Cosmic X-rays.” 24 January 1972.

342. E.M. Gaposchkin. ‘‘Empirical Data and the Variance-Covariance Matrix for the
1969 Smithsonian Standard Earth (II). 17 April 1972.

343. R.F.C. Vessot. ‘“‘The Significance of the Redshift Rocket Probe Experiment to
Theories of Gravitation.” 1 May 1972.

214 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Birkeland, Charles, and F.S. Chia. ““Recruitment Risk, Growth, Age and Predation in —
two Populations of the Sand Dollars, Dendraster excentricus.” Journal of —
Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology, volume 6 (1971), pages 265-278. [Not
previously reported. |

Birkeland, Charles, F.S. Chia, and R. Strathmann. “Development, Substratum
Selection, Delay of Metamorphosis and Growth in the Seastar Mediaster aequalis
Stimpson.” The Biological Bulletin, volume 141 (1971), pages 99-108.

Croat, Thomas B. “‘Gnetaceae. Flora of Panama, Part II, Family 2A.” Annals of the
Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 57, number 1 (1970), pages 14. [Not
previously reported. |

“Studies in Solidago 1: S. graminofolia- gymnospermoides
Complex.” Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 57 (1970), pages
250-251. [Not previously reported. ]

__ CC; “History of Summit Garden, Canal Zone.” Taxon, volume 20
(1971), pages 769-772.

Croat, Thomas B., and D.M. Porter. “The Flowers of Trattinnickia aspera
(Burseraceae) Discovered.” Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden, volume 57
(1970), pages 152-154. [ Not previously reported.]

Dressler, Robert L. ‘Una Pleurothallis extrana de Panamé.” Orquideologid, volume 5
(1970), pages 75-78. [| Not previously reported. ]

_ “Una ~Gongora Interesante del Ecuador.” Orquideologid, volume 6
(1971), pages 769-772.

. “Phymatidium panamense, un Género “Brasiletio” en Panama.”
Orquideologia, volume 6 (1971), pages 142-143.

. “El Complejo de Encyclia fragrans en los paises Andinos.”
Orquideologia, volume 6 (1971), pages 195-203.

“Una Teuscheria nueva del Ecuador.” Orquideologia, volume 7
(1972), pages 3-6.

. ‘Epidendrum ibaguense, Its Distribution and Variation.” Souvenir
Program, 7th World Orchid Conference, (April 1972), pages 87-91.

Dressler, Robert L., and N.H. Williams. ‘““An Overlooked Genus in the Oncidiinae.”
American Orchid Society Bulletin, volume 39 (1970), pages 988-994. [Not
previously reported.]

“Dark Pollinia in Hummingbird-pollinated Orchids, or Do
Hummingbirds Suffer from Strabismus?” The American Naturalist, volume 105
(1971), pages 80-83. [ Not previously reported.]

__—CsC Dos: Orquideas nuevas de Mé€xico Occidental.” Anales del
Instituto de Biologfa, México, Serie Botanica, 39 (1971), pages 117-120. [Not
previously reported. }

. “Local Polymorphism in Brachyrhaphis episcopi (Poeciliidae).”
Copeia, 1971, pages 170-171. [Not previously reported. |

Glynn, Peter W. “Growth of Algal Epiphytes on a Tropical Marine Isopod.” Journal
of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology, volume 5 (1970), pages 88-93.

{ Not previously reported. ]

. “A Systematic Study of the Sphaeromatidae (Crustacea: Isopoda)
of Isla Margarita, Venezuela, with Descriptions of Three New Species.”’ Memorias
de la Sociedad de Ciencias Naturales La Salle, volume 30, number 85 (1970),
pages 5-48. [Not previously reported. |

. “Rediscovery of Paracerceis edithae Boone (Isopoda, Sphaero-
matidae) with Supplementary Notes on Morphology and Habitat.” Crustaceana,
supplement 3, 1972.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 2L5

Goreau, Thomas F., J.C. Lang, E.A. Graham, and P.D. Goreau. “Structure and
Ecology of the Saipan Reefs in Relation to Predation by Acanthaster planci
(Linnaeus).” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 22, number 1 (1972), pages
113-152.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “Temperature Tolerances of Some Closely Related Tropical

Atlantic and Pacific Fish Species.’’ Science, volume 172 (1971), pages 861-863.

[ Not previously reported. |]

. “Aerial Vision in Amphibious Fishes.’ Fauna, volume 3 (1971),

pages 14-23.

| —___________.. “Low Temperature Acclimation and the Seasonal Temperature

Sensitivity of Some Tropical Marine Fishes.’ Physiological Zoology, volume 45,

| number 1 (1972), pages 1-13.

| Graham, Jeffrey B., I. Rubinoff, and M.K. Hecht. “Temperature Physiology of the

| Sea Snake Pelamis platurus: An Index of its Colonization Potential in the Atlantic

Ocean.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. volume 68 (1971),

pages 1360-1363. [Not previously reported.]

Healey, Ian N., and J.M. Anderson. “Improvements in the Gelatin-embedding

| Technique for the Sectioning of Woodland Soils.” Pedobiologia, volume 10
(1970), pages 108-121. [Not previously reported.]|

. “The Study of Production in Soft Bodies Micro-arthropods.”
International Biological Programme Handbook, volume 13 (1971), pages 203-329.
[ Not previously reported. ]

. “The Habitat, the Community, and the Niche: A Review of
Concepts.” Pages 307-342, in R.N. Fiennes, editor, Biology of Nutrition. New
York: Pergamon Press, 1971. [ Not previously reported.]

Hespenheide, Henry A., and R.L. Dressler. “Una Stelis Notable de Panama.”
Orquideologia, volume 6 (1971), pages 21-23. [Not previously reported. ]

| . “Food Preference and the Extent of Overlap in some Insectivorous
Birds, with Special Reference to the Tyrannidae.” /bis, volume 113 (1971), pages
59-72. [Not previously reported.]

Hladik, Annette. “Contribution a l’étude biologique d’une Araliaceae d’Amerique
Tropicale: Didymopanax morototoni.”’ Adansonia, series 2, volume 10, number 3
(1970), pages 383-407. | Not previously reported. ]

Hladik, Annette, C.M. Hladik, J. Bousset, P. Valdebouze, G. Viroben, and J.
Delort-Laval. ““Le regime alimentaire des primates de Barro-Colorado (Panama).”
Folia Primatologica, volume 16 (1971), pages 85-122. [ Not previously reported.]

Hladik, Claude Marcel. “Les singes du nouveau monde.” Science et Nature, number
102 (1970), pages 1-9. [Not previously reported. ]

Karr, James R. “Ecological, Behavioral, and Distributional Notes on Some Central
Panama Birds.” The Condor, volume 73, number 1 (1971), pages 107-111. [Not
previously reported. |]

. “Structure of Avian Communities in Selective Panama and Illinois
Habitats.” Ecological Monographs, volume 41 (1971), pages 207-233.

_. “ Wintering Kentucky Warblers (Oporornis formosus) and a Warning
to Banders.” Bird-Banding, volume 42 (1971), page 299.

Karr, James R., and R.R. Roth. “Vegetation Structure and Avian Diversity in Several
New World Areas.” The American Naturalist, volume 105, number 945 (1971),
pages 423-435.

Kropach, Chaim. “Sea Snake (Pelamis platurus) Aggregations on Slicks in Panama.”
Herpetologica, volume 27, number 2 (1971), pages 131-135. [Not previously
reported.]

!
r

216 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

. “Another Color Variety of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus from
the Panama Bay.” Herpetologica, volume 27, number 3 (1971), pages 326-327.

Lang, Judith C. “Interspecific Aggression by Scleractinian Corals, I: The Rediscovery
of Scolymia cubensis (Milne-Edwards and Haime).” Bulletin of Marine Science,
volume 21 (1971), pages 952-959.

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr. “Sex Ratio and Differential Mortality Between the Sexes.’’ The
American Naturalist, volume 104 (1970), pages 205-210. [Not previously
reported. ]

. “Natural Selection and Mutability.” The American Naturalist,
volume 104 (1970), pages 301-305. [Not previously reported.] ;

. Adaptation and Diversity: Natural History and Mathematics of
Evolution. 288 pages. San Francisco: Freeman, Cooper & Co., 1971.

MacArthur, R.H., JM. Diamond, and J.R. Karr. “Density Compensation in Island
Faunas.” Ecology, volume 53, number 2 (1972), pages 330-342.

McCosker, John E. ‘‘Faunal Investigations of Pacific and Caribbean Reef Fishes.”
Research Reports (Alpha Helix Research Program, 1969-1970, University of
Califomia, San Diego), page 38. [Not previously reported. |

. “A Review of the Eel Genera Leptenchelys and Muraenichthys,
with the Description of a New Genus, Schismorhynchus, and a New Species,
Muraenichthys chilensis.’’ Pacific Science, volume 24, number 4 (1970), pages
506-516. [Not previously reported. ]

. “A New Species of Parapercis (Pisces: Mugiloididae) from the Juan
Fernandez Islands.” Copeia, volume 4 (1971), pages 682-686.

McCosker, John E., and R.F. Nigrelli. ““New Records of Lymphocystis Disease in
Four Eastern Pacific Fish Species.” Journal of the Fisheries Research Board of
Canada, volume 28 (1971), pages 1809-1810.

McCosker, John E., and R.H. Rosenblatt. ‘Eastern Pacific Snake-eels of the Genus
Callechelys (Apodes: Ophichthidae).’’ Transactions of the San Diego Society of
Natural History, volume 17, number 2 (1972), pages 15-24.

Meyer, David L. “‘The Collagenuous Nature of Problematical Ligaments in Crinoids
(Echinodermata). Marine Biology, volume 9, number 3 (1971), pages 235-241.
[Not previously reported. ]

“Ctenantedon, A New Antedonid Crinoid Convergent with
Comasterids.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 22, number 1 (1972), pages
53-66.

Morton, Eugene S. “Food and Migration Habits of the Eastern Kingbird in Panama.”
The Auk, volume 88, number 4 (1971), pages 925-926. [Not previously
reported. ]

. “Nest Predation Affecting the Breeding Season of the Clay-Colored
Robin, a Tropical Song Bird.” Science, volume 141 (1971), pages 920-921. [Not
previously reported.]

Moynihan, Martin H. “Control, Suppression, Decay, Disappearance, and Replacement
of Displays.” Journal of Theoretical Biology, volume 29 (1970), pages 85-112.
[ Not previously reported.]

_sC«ss«“SSucccesses and Failures of Tropical Mammals and Birds.” The
American Naturalist, volume 105 (1971), pages 371-383.

Oppenheimer, John R. ‘“Mouthbreeding in Fishes.” Animal Behaviour, volume 18,
number 3 (1970), pages 493-503. [Not previously reported.]

Ramirez, William B. “Die Bestatibung der Feigen durch Feigenwespen.” Umschau,
volume 15 (1971), page 571.

Rand, A. Stanley, and E.E. Williams. “‘An Estimation of Redundancy and
Information Content of Anole Dewlaps.” The American Naturalist, volume 104
(1970), pages 99-103. [Not previously reported. ]

|
|
|

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 2T7

Reimer, Amada A. “‘Uptake and Utilization of Carbon ratte Glycine by Zoanthus and
its Coelenteric Bacteria.” Pages 209-217, in Lenhoff, Muscatine, and Davis,
editors, Experimental Coelenterate Biology. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press,
1971. [Not previously reported. |

. “Chemical Control of Feeding Behavior and Role of Glycine in the

Nutrition of Zoanthus (Coelenterata, Zoanthidea).” Comparative Biochemistry
and Physiology, volume 39A (1971), pages 743-759.

____.. “Chemical Control of Feeding Behavior in Palythoa (Zoanthidea,

Coelenterata).” Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume 40A (1971),

pages 19-38.

-“Observations on the Relationships Between Several Species of
Tropical Zoanthids (Zoanthidea, Coelenterata) and their Zooxanthellae.” Journal
of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology, volume 7 (1971), pages 207-214.

. “Feeding Behavior in the Zoanthids Palythoa and Zoanthus.”’

Pacific Science, volume 25, number 4 (1971), pages 512-522.

. “Specificity of Feeding Chemoreceptors in Palythoa psammophilia
(Zoanthidea, Coelenterata).”’ Comparative and General Pharmacology, volume 2,
number 8 (1971), pages 383-396.

Robinson, Michael H., L.G. Abele, and B. Robinson. “Attack Autotomy: A Defense
Against Predators.” Science, volume 169 (1970), pages 300-301. [Not previously
reported. |

Robinson, Michael H., and H. Mirick. “The Predatory Behavior of Nephila clavipes
(L).” Psyche, volume 78 (1971), pages 123-139.

Robinson, Michael H., and B. Robinson. “The Stabilimentum of the Orb Web Spider,
Argiope argentata: An Improbable Defense Against Predators.” Canadian Ento-
mologist, volume 102 (1970), pages 641-655. [Not previously reported.]

“Prey Caught by a Sample Population of the Spider Argiope
argentata (Araneae: Araneidae) in Panama: A Year’s Census Data.”’ Zoological
Journal of the Linnean Society of London, volume 49 (1970), pages 345-357.
[ Not previously reported.]

. “The Predatory Behavior of the Ogre-faced Spider Dinopis longipes
F. Cambridge (Araneae: Dinopidae).”’ American Midland Naturalist, volume 85
(1971), pages 85-96. | Not previously reported.]

Cw “Animals that Mimic Parts of Plants.” Morris Arboretum Bulletin,
volume 21 (1970), pages 51-58. [Not previously reported.]

. “Methods of Observing Spider Behaviour.” Bulletin of the British
Arachnological Society, volume 4 (1972), pages 58-59.

Robinson, Michael H., B. Robinson, and W. Graney. “The Predatory Behaviour of the
Nocturnal Orb-Web Spider Eriophora fuliginea (C.L. Koch). Actas del Primer
Congreso Latinoamericano de Entomologia, 1972.

Rosenblatt, R.H., and J.E. McCosker. ““A Key to the Genera of the Ophichthid Eels,
with Descriptions of Two New Genera and Three New Species from the Eastern
Pacific.” Pacific Science. volume 24, number 4 (1970), pages 495-505. [Not
previously reported.]

Rubinoff, Ira. “The Sea-Level Canal Controversy.” Biological Conservation, volume
3, number 1 (1970), pages 33-36. [Not previously reported.]

Rubinoff, Ira, and C. Kropach. “Differential Reactions of Atlantic and Pacific
Predators to Sea-Snakes.” Nature, volume 228 (1970), pages 1288-1290. [Not
previously reported. ]

Rubinoff, Roberta W., and I. Rubinoff. ‘“‘“Geographic and Reproductive Isolation in
Atlantic and Pacific Populations of Panamanian Bathygobius.’’ Evolution, volume
25, number 1 (1971), pages 88-97. [Not previously reported.]

218 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Smith, Neal G. “On Change in Biological Communities.’ Science, volume 170
(1970), pages 312-313. [ Not previously reported.]

. “Biovarianism in Insular Populations of a Neotropical Passerine
Bird.” American Midland Naturalist, volume 86 (1971), pages 238-241. [Not
previously reported. |

. “Migration of the Day-flying Moth Urania in Central and South
America.” Caribbean Journal of Science, volume 12 (1971). [Not previously
reported.|

Cw “‘Re productive Behavior.” Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1972.

Smith, W. John. ‘“‘Displays and Message Assortment in Sayornis Species.” Behaviour,
volume 37 (1970), pages 85-112. [Not previously reported. |]

. “Song-like Displays in Sayornis Species.” Behaviour, volume 37
(1970), pages 4-84. [ Not previously reported. |]

Smith, W. John, and F. Vuilleumier. “Evolutionary Relationships of Some South
American Ground Tyrants.” Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology,
volume 141, number 5 (1971), pages 181-232. [ Not previously reported.]

Smythe, Nicholas. “The Adaptive Value of the Social Organization of the Coati
(Nasua narica)” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 51 (1970), pages 818-820. [Not
previously reported. ]

. “On the Existence of ‘Pursuit Invitation’ Signals in Mammals.”
The American Naturalist, volume 104 (1970), pages 491-494. [Not previously
reported. |

Stephens, J.S., R. K. Johnson, G.S. Key, and J.E. McCosker. “The Comparative
Ecology of Three Sympatric Species of California Blennies of the Genus
Hypsoblennius Gill (Teleostomi, Blenniidae).’’ Ecological Monographs, volume 40 ©
(1970), pages 213-233. | Not previously reported. |

Thien, L.B., and R. L. Dressler. ““Taxonomy of Barkeria Orchidaceae). Brittonia,
volume 22 (1970), pages 289-302. [ Not previously reported. |

Todd, Eric S. “Respiratory Control in the Longjaw Mudsucker Gillichthys mirabilis.”
Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume 39, number 1A (1971), pages
147-163. [Not previously reported. ]

“Hemoglobin Concentration in A New Air-breathing Fish.”
‘Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume 41A, number 5 (1972).

Topp, Robert W. “Behavior and Color Change of the Rudderfish, Kyphosus elegans,
in the Gulf of Panama.” Copeia, volume 4 (1970), pages 763-765. [Not previously
reported.| |

Vermeij, Geerat J., and J.W. Porter. “Some Characteristics of the Dominant Intertidal
Organisms in Pernambuco, Brazil.” Bulletin of Marine Science, volume 21, |
number 2 (1971), pages 440-457.

Wolda, Hirsidrik. “Variation in Growth Rate in the Landsnail Cepaea nemoralis.”’ \
Researches in Population Ecology, volume 12 (1970), pages 185-204. [Not |
previously reported. ]

. “The Role of Food in the Dynamic of Populations of the
Landsnail Cepaea nemoralis.’’ Oecologia, volume 7 (1971), pages 361-381.

. “Ecological Variation and its Implications for the Dynamics of
Populations of the Landsnail Cepaea nemoralis.”’ In P.J. den Boer and G.R.°
Gradwell, editors, Dynamics of Populations.” Proceedings of the Advanced Study
Institute on Dynamics of Numbers in Populations, Oosterbeck, The Netherlands, {
7-18 September 1970 (1971), pages 98-108.

Zaret, Thomas M. “The Distribution, Diet, and Feeding Habits of the Atherinid Fish

Melaniris chagresi in Gatun Lake, Panama Canal Zone.” Copeia, volume 2 (1971), °.
pages 341-343. [Not previously reported. ]
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 219

. “Predator-prey Interaction in a Tropical Lacustrine Ecosystem.”
Ecology, volume 53, number 2 (1972), pages 248-257.
Zaret, Thomas M., and A.S. Rand. “Competition in Tropical Stream Fishes: Support
for the Competive Exclusion Principle.” Ecology, volume 52 (1971), pages
336-342. [Not previously reported. ]

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Brooks, C. “The Bilin-Apoprotein Bonds in Cryptomonad Phycoerythrin.” Presented
at the Annual Meeting of the Washington Area Section, American Society of Plant
Physiologists, Beltsville, Maryland, 5 May 1972.

Brooks, C., and E. Gantt. ““A Comparative Study of Cryptophyte Phycoerythrin.”
Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Washington Area Section, American
Society of Plant Physiologists, Beltsville, Maryland, 5 May 1972.

Correll, D.L. ‘““‘The Measurement of Phosphorus Metabolism in Natural Populations of
Microorganisms.” Presented at Symposium on Bioassay Techniques and Environ-
mental Chemistry of the 162nd National American Chemical Society Convention,
Washington, D.C. 14 September 1971.

. “Early Products of Photophosphorylation in Chlorella.” Presented
to Biology Department, the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, 14
March 1972.

. “Phytochrome, Part I: History and Biological Responses.” ‘Part
II: Biochemical Properties.” Presented to Biochemistry Department, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, 13-14 March 1972.

Edwards, M.R., and E. Gantt. “‘Phycobilisomes of the Thermophilic Blue-Green Alga
Suygauiaeai lividus.”’ Journal of Cell Biology, volume 50 (1971), pages
896-900.

Gantt, E. “Micromorphology of the Periplast of Chroomonas sp. (Cryptophyceae).”
Journal of Phycology, volume 7 (1971), pages 177-184.

“Photosynthetic Accessory Pigment Localization in Algae.”
Presented to the Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Louisiana State
University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 16 November 1971.

. “Organization of a Phycobiliprotein Pigment Complex on Photo-
synthetic Membranes.” Presented at the Botany Graduate Student Seminar Series,
University of Texas at Austin, 11 February 1972.

. “Organization of a Phycobiliprotein Pigment Complex on Photo-
synthetic Membranes.” Presented at Seminar of the Washington Section of the
American Society of Plant Physiologists, 18 February 1972.

Gantt, E., and C.A. Lipschultz. ‘“‘Phycobilisomes of Prophyridium cruentum.
Isolation.” Presented at the Washington Section of the American Society of Plant
Physiologists,’ Beltsville, Maryland, 5 May 1972.

Gettens, Rebecca. “Influence of Light Quality During Seed Development on
Subsequent Germination.” Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Washington
Area Section of the American Society for Plant Physiologists, Beltsville,

_ Maryland, 5 May 1972.

Goldberg, B., and W.H. Klein. “Comparison of Normal Incident Solar Energy
Measurements at Washington, D.C.” Solar Energy, volume 13 (1971), pages
311-321.

Harding, Roy W. “‘Inhibition of Photoinduced Carotenoid Biosynthesis in Neurospora
crassa by inhibitors of Protein Synthesis.’ Presented at Annual Meeting of the
Washington Area Section, American Society of Plant Physiologists, Beltsville,
Maryland, 5 May 1972.
220 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Honeycutt, R.C., and M.M. Margulies. ‘“‘Synthesis of Chloroplast Proteins in |
Chlamydomonas, |: Detection and Properties of Nascent Proteins.” Presented at |
the Annual Meeting of the Washington Area Section, American Society of Plant
Physiologists, Beltsville, Maryland, 5 May 1972.

Klein, W.H. ‘‘Qualitative and Quantitative Aspects of Solar Radiation.’’ Presented at
Meeting on Photoalteration of Pesticides at National Academy of Science,
Washington, D.C., 17 April 1972.

Margulies, M.M. ‘‘Concerning the Sites of Synthesis of Proteins of Chloroplast
Ribosomes and of Fraction I Proteins (ribulose-1, 5-diphosphate carboxylase).”
Biochemical Biophysical Research Communications, volume 44 (1971), pages
539-545.

. “An Evaluation of The Evidence Concerning the Sites of Synthesis
of Chloroplast Proteins.” Lecture. University of Bari, Italy, 2 July 1971, and
Biologisches Institut II, University of Freiburg, Freiburg im Breisgau, West
Germany, 5 July 1971.

“Effect of Cold-Storage of Bean Leaves on Photosynthetic
Reactions of Isolated Chloroplasts. Inability to Donate Electrons to Photosystem
II and Relation to Manganese Content.” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, volume
267 (1972), pages 96-103. q

Margulies, M.M., and R.C. Honeycutt. “‘Synthesis of Chloroplast Proteins in
Chlamydomonas, Il: Effect of Chloramphenicol and Cycloheximide on Synthesis
of Ribosomal Proteins and Ribulose Diphosphate Carboxylase.” Lecture. Annual |
Meeting, Washington Area Section, American Society of Plant Physiologists, |
Beltsville, Maryland, 5 May 1972. ;

Shropshire, W., Jr. ‘““Phototropic Bending Rate in Phycomyces as a Function of
Average Growth Rate and Cell Radius.” In “Biophysics of Cells and Organs,” of. .
Proceedings of First European Biophysics Congress, volume 5 (1971), pages
111-114.

. “Physical and Chemical Properties of Phytochrome. Action and
Absorption Spectra of Phytochrome in vivo.” Presented to NATO Advanced
Study Institute on Phytochrome, Eretria, Greece, 2 September 1971.

. (1) ‘““‘Phycomyces — An Opening Block Box.” (2) “‘Theory and
Techniques for Determining Action Spectra in Biological Systems.” (3) ‘‘Phyto-
chrome—A Photochromic Sensor.” Visiting Scholar Lectures. Virginia Polytechnic |
Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia, 3-5 April 1972.

Shropshire, W., Jr., H. Lange, and H. Mohr. “An Analysis of Phy tochrome-Mediated
Anthocyanin Synthesis.”’ Presented to American Society of Plant Physiologists, —
Pacific Grove, California, 23 August 1971.

Stuckenrath, Robert. ““C-14 vs Paleo-Indian.”’ Presented at the Annual Meetings of |
the Canadian Archaeological Society, St. John’s, Newfoundland, 24-27 February —
1972.

__—C. “So How Old Is It?” Presented at the Annual Meeting of Marylandg
Moree aeniea Society at Annapolis, Maryland, 8 April 1972.

Weintraub, Robert L., and Verna R. Lawson. “Effects of Growth Regulators on
Elongation of Excised Apices of Coleoptiles of Barley, Corn, Oats, Rye, and - |
Wheat.’ Presented at thc Annual Meeting of the Washington Area Section, .
American Society of Plant Physiologists, Beltsville, Maryland, 5 May 1972. }

National Zoological Park

Buechner, H.K. “Ecosystem Level of Organization.” Hierarchically Organized |
Systems in Theory and Practice (1971), pages 45-58. .

|
| APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 221
. “Radiotelemetry for Research on Large Land Mammals.” Jnter-
national Telemetering Conference Proceedings, volume 7 (1971), pages 387-392.
. “Lek Behavior in the Uganda Kob.”’ Zoonooz, volume 45, number
_ 2 (1972), pages 10-14.

Buechner, H.K,. F.C. Craighead, Jr., J.J. Craighead, and C.E. Cote. “‘Satellites for
Research on Free-Roaming Animals.” Bioscience, volume 21, number 24 (1971),
pages 1201-1205.

Collins, L.R., and J.F. Eisenberg. ‘““The Behavior and Breeding of Pacaranas Dinomys
branickii) in Captivity.” International Zoo Yearbook, volume 12 (1972), pages
108-114.

Cook, James E., Embert H. Coles, and F.H. Garner. “Detecting Leptospires in
Formalin-fixed Hamster Tissues by Fluorescent Antibody Techniques.” The
American Journal of Veterinary Research, volume 33, number 1 (1972), pages
277-282.

Egoscue, H.J. ““A Laboratory Colony of the Polynesian Rat (Rattus exulans).”
Journal of Mammalogy, volume 51, number 2 (1970), pages 261-266.

__C,s«S“*Nornagouti’ A New Recessive Color Mutation in Deer Mice.”
Journal of Heredity, volume 62, number 2 (1971), page 372.

—_______. ~““Breeding the Long-tailed Pouched Rat (Beamys hindei) in
Captivity.” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 53, number 2 (1972), pages 296-302.

Egoscue, H.J., J.G. Bittmenn, and J.A. Petrovich. ‘““Some Fecundity and Longevity
Records for Captive Small Mammals.” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 51,
number 3 (1970), pages 622-623.

Eisenberg, J.R., and P. Leyhausen. “The Phylogenesis of Predatory Behavior.”
Zeitschrinft fiir Tierpsychologie, volume 30 (1972), pages 59-93.

Eisenberg, J.F., and M. Lockhart. “An Ecological Reconnaissance of Wilpattu
National Park, Ceylon.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 101
(1972), pages 1-118, 76 figures, 16 tables.

Eisenberg, J.F., N. Muckenhirn, and R. Rudran. “The Relation between Ecology and
Social Structure in Primates.” Science, volume 176 (1972), pages 863-874.

Gray, C.W. “Immunization of the Exotic Felidae for Panleukopenia.”’ Journal of Zoo
Animal Medicine, volume 3, number 1 (1972), pages 14-15.

Cs “SLead ~=Toxicosis.”” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, volume 3,
number | (1972), page 20.

_—___—T—. “Conjunctivitis in the Jungle Cat (Felis chaus).”’ Journal of Zoo
Animal Medicine, volume 3, number 1 (1972), page 26.

Jainudeen, M.R., J.F. Eisenberg, and N. Tilakeratne. ““Estrous Cycle of the Asiatic
Elephant (Elephas maximus) in Captivity.” Journal of Reproduction and
Fertility, volume 27, pages 321-328.

Kleiman, D.G. “The Courtship and Copulatory Behavior of the Green Acouchi
(Myoprocta pratti).” Zeitschrinft fiir Tierpsychologie, volume 29 (1971), pages
259-278.

Migaki, G., H.R. Seibold, R.H. Wolf, and F.M. Garner. “Pathologic Conditions in the
Patas Monkey.” The Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association,
volume 159, number 5 (1971), pages 549-556.

Morrison, J.A., and H.K. Buechner. “Reproductive Phenomena During the Post-
partum Preconception Interval in the Uganda Kob.” Journal of Reproduction and
Fertility, volume 26, pages 307-317.

Sauer, R.M., and B.C. Zook. “Selenium-Vitamin E Deficiency at the National
Zoological Park.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, volume 3 (1972), pages
34-36.

Stroman, H.R., and L.M. Slaughter. ‘““‘The Care and Breeding of Pigmy Hippos in
Captivity.” International Zoo Yearbook, volume 12 (1972), pages 126-131.
222 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Wemmer, C. ‘“‘Scent-Marking and Anointing: Behavioral Parallelism in Mammals.”
American Zoologist, volume 11 (1971), page 623.

Xanten, W.A., Jr. “Gestation Period in the Bongo.’ Journal of Mammalogy, volume
52, number 1 (1972), page 232.

Zook, B.C. ‘“‘Biologic Effects of Atmospheric Pollutants. Lead: Airborne Lead in
Perspective.” National Academy of Sciences (1972), page 185.

Zook, B.C., L. Kopito, J.L. Carpenter, D.V. Cramer, and H. Schwachman. “‘Lead
Poisoning in Dogs: Analysis of Blood, Urine, Hair, and Liver for Lead,” American
Journal of Veterinary Research, volume 33, number 5 (1972), pages 903-909.

Zook, B.C., J.L. Carpenter, R.M. Roberts. “Lead Poisoning in Dogs: Occurrence,

Source, Clinical Pathology, and Electroencephalography.” American Journal of —

Veterinary Research, volume 33, number 5 (1972), pages 891-902.

Office of Environmental Sciences
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Harinasuta, C., S. Sornmani, V. Kitikoon, C.R. Schneider, and O. Pathammavong.
“Infection of Aquatic Hydrobiid Snails and Animals with Schistosoma
japonicum-like parasites from Khong Island, Southern Laos.’ Transactions of
the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, volume 66 (1972), pages
184-185.

ECOLOGY PROGRAM

Boyes, J.W., L.V. Knutson, and Janny M. van Brink. “Further Cytotaxonomic
Studies of Scimyzidae, with Description of a New Species, Dichetophora boyesi
Steyskal (Diptera: Acalyptratae).”’ Genetica, volume 43 (August 1972), pages
200-234.

Jenkins, D.W. “Global Biological Monitoring.” Pages 351-370, in Man’s Impact on
Terrestial and Oceanic Ecosystems. Cambridge: Massachusetts Institute of
Technology Press, 1971.

. “Remote Sensing of Environment and Ecology of Developing
Countries.” Pages 34-48, in Proceedings Symposium on Potential Application of
Remote Sensing to Economic Development in Developing Countries, Smithsonian
Institution, November 19-20, 1970. 1971.

. “Agriculture and Forestry—Identification, Vigor and Disease.” In |

“Proceedings, Remote Sensing of the Chesapeake Bay, April 5-7, 1971.” National

Space and Aeronautics Administration, Special Publication, number 294 (1971), |

pages 91-102.

. “International Ecological Program of the Smithsonian Institution”
In Proceedings Symposium on Ecology and Developing Countries, Stockholm,
April 27-28, 1971. 5 pages. 1971.

Jenkins, D.W., and R. Poole. ‘“‘Taking Ecology Overseas.” Journal of Environmental .

Education, volume 3, number 2 (1971), pages 24-26.

Knutson, L.V. “Description of the Female of Pherbecta limenitis Steyskal (Diptera: °

Sciomyzidae), with Notes on Biology, Immature Stages, and Distribution.”
Entomology News, volume 83 (1972) pages 15-21.
Knutson, L.V., and C.O. Berg. ‘““The Malacophagous Flies of Norway (Diptera:

Sciomyzidae).” In Knutson, L.V. and C.O. Bert, ‘““The Malacophagous Flies off

Norway (Diptera; Sciomyzidae).” Norsk ent. Tidsskr. volume 18, pages 119-134.

ee

-APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 223

‘Knutson, L.V., and Oliver S. Flint, Jr. ““Pupae of Empididae in Pupal Cocoons of

Rhyacophilidae and Glossosomatidae (Diptera: Trichoptera).” Proceedings of the

Entomological Society of Washington, volume 73, number 3 (September 1971),
pages 314-320.

OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY PROGRAM

| Higgins, R.P., contributing author. In N.C. Hulings and J.S. Gray, editors, ‘““A Manual
| for the Study of Meiofauna.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 78
(1971). [Not previously reported.]

. “A Historical Overview of Kinorhynch Research.” In N.C. Hulings,
editor, ‘Proceedings of the First International Conference on Meiofauna.”
| Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology. Number 76 (1971), pages 25-31.

. “The Kinorhyncha as Bibliocryptozorns.” Lecture. University of
Pittsburg, 15 December 1972.

. “The Mediterranean Sea: Aristotle was Right.” Lecture. University
of Massachusetts, 1 March 1972.

. “The Lesser-known Invertebrates.” Lecture. Clarke University, 20

:
\
!

April 1972.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

)

-Fehimann, H.F. “USARP Activities at the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting
Center.” Antarctic Journal of the United States, volume 6, number 6 (1972), page
Dole

Houbrick, R.S. ‘“‘Some Aspects of the Anatomy, Reproduction, and Early Develop-
ment of Cerithium nodulosum (Bruguiere).” Pacific Science, volume 25, number
4 (1972), pages 560-565.

Landrum, B.J. “Documentation of U.S. Antarctica Collections.” Antarctic Journal of
the United States, volume 6, number 6 (1972), pages 251-252.

Simkin, Tom. “Rocks from the Antarctic Seas.” Antarctic Journal of the United
States, volume 6, number 6 (1972), page 251.

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

White, C.M., W.B. Emison, and Francis S. L. Williamson. “Dynamics of Raptor
Populations on Amchitka Island, Alaska.” BioScience, volume 21 (1971), pages
623-627.

Williamson, Francis S.L. “Biology and the Chesapeake Bay.” Presented at the
Symposium on Science and the Environment, January 1972.

. The Ecology of Poxvirus Disease in the Starling, Sturnus vulgaris L.
Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1971.

Williamson, Francis $.L., and W.B. Emison, “Variation in the Timing of Breeding and
Molt of the Lapland longspur (Calcarius lapponicus) in Alaska, with Relation to
Differences in Latitude.’ BioScience, volume 21 (1971) pages 701-707.

Williamson, Francis §.L., W.B. Emison, and C.M. White. “‘Studies of the Avifauna on
Amchitka Island, Alaska, July 1970-June 1971.” United States Atomic Energy
Commission Report Battele Memorial Institute, number 171-131 (1971).

. “Geographical Affinities and Migrations of the Avifauna on
Amchitka Island, Alaska.” BioScience, volume 21 (1971), pages 627-631.
224 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

Williamson, Francis S.L., and J. Kevin Sullivan. Road River Estuary: Interdisciplinary
Research on a Watershed-Estuarine System of the Chesapeake Bay. Volume 1
and 2 (September 1971). [Multilith. |

CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA
(Reports issued by the Center)

Annual Report 1971. 310 pages. May 1972.
Cameron, Winifred Sawtell. “Comparative Analyses of Observations of Lunar :
Transient Phenomena.” October 1971.
Citron, Robert. “Outline for a Feasibility Study for the Establishment of an |
International Natural Disaster Warning System.” Prepared for the Office of
Science and Technology of the United Nations, July 1971.
Elizalde, Manuel, Jr. ““The Tasaday Forest People”. A Data Paper on a Newly |
Discovered Food Gathering and Stone Tool Using Manubo Group in the |
Mountains of South Cotabato, Mindanao, Phillippines, July 1971.
Fourcardt, N., and H. Viramonte. “Present Situation of Volcanic Activity in |
Deception Islands- South Chetland Island, Antarctica.” 8 pages. May 1972.
Heroun, T. ““Neragongo Volcanic Activity.” 7 pages. February 1972.
Redhead, R.E. “Army Worm (Spodoptera exempta) Predation by Yellow-Necked |
Spurfowl (Pternistis leucoscepus) in the Longido Game Controlled Area.” July |
1971. |
Rittman, Alfredo. “‘The Mt. Etna Volcanic Eruption of 1971.” The Volcanology ;|
Institute of the University of Catania and the International Institute of |
Volcanology of the National Research Council. Event Chronology: 23 April—14 |
June 1971, July 1971.
Schoen, Ivan L. “‘Report of the Emergency Trip Made by the West Indies Mission to
the Akoerio Indians, June 1971.” July 1971.
Shepherd, J.B., H. Sigurdsson, J.F. Tomblin, and W.P. Aspinall. “The Soufriere
Volcanic Eruption-St. Vicents Island Carribean Sea.” 17 pages. 1972.
Smithsonian Institution. ‘Natural Disaster Research Centers and Warning Systems: A _
Preliminary Survey.” July 1971.
Tomblin, J.F., and H. Sigurdsson. “The Soufriere Volcanic Eruption-St. Vicent |
Island Caribbean Sea. Event Chronology: 1-15 November 1971.” 20 December ©
SIAL.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE

Foster, W.R., and G.E. Clipper. ‘‘A Special Research Center—Smithsonian Science |
Information Exchange Builds International Bridges of Information”. A Current
Bibliography on African Affairs, series 2, volume 5 (1972), pages 49-54.

Foster, W.R., and F.J. Kreysa. ““SSIE: An Interdisciplinary Resource for Teachers.” ~
Journal of College Science Teaching (December 1971).

Hersey, D.F., W.R. Foster, E.Q. Stalder, and W.T. Carlson. “Free Test Word Retrieval |}
and Scientist Indexing: Performance Profiles and Costs.” The Journal of |
Documentation, volume 27, number 3 (September 1971), pages 167-183. '

Office of Assistant Secretary for History and Art

Grove, Richard. “‘Understanding Your Art Museum.” Art Education, volume 24, |
number 9 (December 1971), pages 18-21.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 225

. “Final Address.” 1971 Shakespeare Seminars, McMaster University
in association with the Stratford Festival, Stratford, Ontario, 6 August 1971.

The National Museum of History and Technology
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Bedini, Silvio A. “The Tube for Long Vision: An Iconographic History of the
Telescope in Its First Fifty Years.” Physis, volume 13, fascicle 2 (1971), pages
147-204.

. “Benjamin Banneker and the Survey of the District of Columbia.”
Records of the Columbia Historical Society of Washington, 1969-1970 (May
1972), pages 7-30.

. The Life of Benjamin Banneker. 434 pages. New York: Charles
Scribner’s Sons 1972.

Boorstin, Daniel J. The Image. Reprint. 315 pages. New York: Atheneum, 1971.
“Democracy and the Sense of Place.” Lecture. U.S. Capitol

Historical Society , Washington, D.C., 15 September 1971.

. “Democracy and the Sense of Place.” The Capitol Dome (1971),
pages 2-3.

. “The New Segregation.” Life (10 September 1971), pages 36-69.

. “Education and National Power.’ Lecture. The National War
College, Washington, D.C., 10 September 1971.

. “What Historians Don’t Talk About.” Lecture. Indiana University,
Bloomington, Indiana, 25 October 1971.

. “Une lecon pour la France: Les Américains en ont assez de leur
TV.” Science & Vie, volume 120, number 71 (November 1971), pages 100-104.

“Technology and Democracy.” Lecture. Auburn University,

Auburn, Alabama, 11 November 1971.

. “Divergent Views in American History.” Broadcast. BBC, London,
England, 3 January 1972.

. “Technology and Democracy.” Lecture. Wabash College, Craw-
fordsville, Indiana, 9 February 1972.

—__________ . “The Exploring Spirit.”” New Worlds (March 1972). pages 17, 25.

. “Frontiers of Ignorance.”” The William W. Cook Lectures on
American Institutions, The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Lecture
1: “The Idea of Negative Discovery,” 3 April 1972; Lecture 2: “Illusions of
Historical Knowledge,” 4 April 1972; Lecture 3: “Prisons of History,’ 5 April
1972; Lecture 4: “Temptations of the Well-Informed,” 6 April 1972; Lecture 5:
“The Omnipresent Present,” 7 April 1972.

—_—S——, “Are We Talking Too Much.” Syndicated Article. Field Enter-
prises, Inc., April 1972.

eee SA Look’ at “American Politics.” “Address: The Washington
Journalism Center, Washington, D.C., 12 April 1972.

. “Revolution: Future Prospects.”’ Lecture. University of Missouri,
St. Louis, Missouri, 21 April 1972.
. “The Future—What’s up for America?” Address. Republican
Governors Association meeting, White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, 2 May
1972,
“The American Social Order and Public Policy.’ Address.
Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C., 16 May 1972.
226 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

. “It’s Dangerous to Talk about ‘National Sickness’.”” U.S. News and
World Report (29 May 1972), pages 18-20.

Gorr, Louis F. “The Rise and Fall of the Foxall-Columbia Foundry, Georgtown: A
Profile of an Early American Defense Contractor.’’ Paper delivered to the
Columbia Historical Society, April 1972.

__C(. “TS: the Scientist Responsible?” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.
(June 1971), pages 36-37.

_ SC “Technology and Humanism.” The Humanist (July/August,
1971), pages 39-42.

. “The Maximum Automatic Machine Gun.” Exhibit brochure.
United States Marine Corps Museum, Quantico. Virginia, Fall, 1971.

Skramstad, Harold K. “‘American Things: A Neglected Material Culture.” American

Studies, volume 10 (Spring 1972), pages 11-22.
. “The Anatomy of Washington: Contours of Capital City Growth.”
Lecture. Woodrow Wilson School, Princeton University, 14 March 1972.
. “Historical Archeology and its Role in Historic Preservation.”
Lecture. Tenth Annual National Trust Woodlawn Conference for Historic
Preservation, 21 February 1972.
. “Material Aspects of American Civilization.’ Graduate Seminar.
Smithsonian American Studies Program, Fall 1971.
“American Technology and its Cultural Impact.” Graduate
Seminar. Smithsonian American Studies Program, Fall 1971.
“American Technology and its Cultural Impact.” Graduate
Seminar. Smithsonian American Studies Program, Spring 1972.
. “Dialogue on Preservation in Washington.” Session at First Annual
Washington Preservation Conference, 14 April 1972.

DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED ARTS

Adrosko, Rita J. ““American Textiles, 1750-1850.” Lecture. School of Architecture,
Columbia University. March 1972.

__C—~CSsC«S“SEarly European and American Handlooms.” Lecture. Hand-
weavers’ Guild of Westchester. March 1972.

. “Textiles from the Smithsonian’s Collection.” Handweaver & —

Craftsman, volume 23, number 2 (March/April 1972) pages 20-22, 4 illustrations.

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. ‘“‘Visiting the Smithsonian: Color Slides Available.” Scott
Monthly Journal, volume 52, number 10 (January 1972) pages 4-5, 31.

__—C,« “The ~ Honorable Discharge Emblem Commemorative of 1946.” —
American Philatelic Congress Book (1971), pages 11-25.

_C«ss«““Visiting the Smithsonian: The National Parks.” Scott Monthly ‘
Journal, volume 53, number 5 (July 1972), pages 18-19, 38, 43.

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. “Artistic Evolution of Medals in the United States.” National
Sculpture Review, (Fall 1971), pages 14-17, illustrated.

___. “Kiinstler U.S.A.” In Katalog XIV. Inter Medaille Kéin 1971.
Cologne, 1971.

. “Deutsche Beitrage zur Kinstlerischen Entwicklung der Ameri- *
kanischen Medaille.” [German Contributions to the Art of the Medal in the
United States’] Lecture. F.I.D.E.M. (Fédération Internationale de la Médaille)
Congress, Cologne, Germany, 15 September 1971.

. “L’Italia e gl’Italiani nelle loro monete’’. [‘‘Italy and the Italians as
Reflected in Their Coinages”]. Lecture. Italian Society of Washington, Washing-—
ton, D.C., 18 November 1971.

4
|
\

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 227)

Clain-Stefanelli, V. “‘Deutsche Beitrage zur Technischen Entwicklung der Ameri-
kanischen Medaille und Munze,” [‘‘German Contributions to Medal- and
Coin-manufacturing Techniques in the United States’”]. Invitational lecture.
F.I.D.E.M. Congress, Cologne, Germany, 17 September 1971.

Cooper, Grace R. The Copp Family Textiles. 65 pages, 68 illustrations. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971.

—________. “Handweaving and the Powerloom in 18th Century America.”
Handweaver & Craftsman, volume 22, number 9 (Fall 1971), pages 5-9, 6 figures.

Haberstich, David E. “The Smithsonian’s History of Photography Collection.”
Lecture. National Institutes of Health Camera Club, 21 December 1971.

Harris, Elizabeth M. “The American Common Press.”” The Journal of the Printing
Historical Society, volume 7 (1971).

Marzio, Peter C. “‘Carpentry in the Southern Colonies during the Eighteenth Century
with Emphasis on Maryland and Virginia.” Winterthur Portfolio, volume 7
(1972), pages 229-250.

. “Early American Prints as a News Medium.” Lecture. Library of
Congress Print Conference, June, 1972.

Norby, Reidar. “Unique Swedish Printing Technique.” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 7
number 7 (July 1971), pages 123-124, 2 figures.

. “Postal Economy of the Northlands for 1970.” Scandinavian
Scribe, volume 7, number 7 (July 1971), pages 135-137.

. “Postal Stationery.” Scott Monthly Journal, volume 52, number 8
(November 1971), pages 18-19, 4 figures.

. “Postal Look at Scandinavia, 1969, 1970.’ Scandinavian Scribe,

| volume 7, number 9 (Oct/Nov. 1971), page 178.

__—C*=n “Fiive Nordic Philatelic Centenaries in 1972.” Scandinavian Scribe,
volume 8, number 2 (February 1972), pages 19-21, 10 figures.
. ‘New Counterfeit of Norway 3 Skill 1863?” Scandinavian Scribe,
volume 8, number 2 (February 1972), pages 27-28, 8 figures.
. “Off-set—What Is It, Really?’ Scandinavian Scribe, volume 8
number 3 (March 1972), pages 35-37, 2 figures.
Watermarks - What Are They, Really? 12 pages, 11 illus.
Washington, D.C.: Scandinavian Scribe, 1972.
. “A Three-strip Returns Home.” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 8,
number 6 (June 1972), pages 88-89, 3 figures.
. “Scandinavian Varieties.” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 8 (1972),

pages 14, 46, 60, 75, 94, 6 figures.

__ CCC, “Philatelic Gems of the Smithsonian Collections.” Lecture. CIA
Stamp Club, June 1971.

. “Smithsonian’s Special Exhibition - Stamps and Posts of Scandi-
navia”. Lecture. General Directorate of Post and Telegraph of Denmark,
Copenhagen, Denmark, August 1971.

. “Smithsonian’s Special Exhibition - Stamps and Posts of Scandi-
navia.” Lecture. Royal Postal Administration of Sweden, Stockholm, Sweden,
August 1971.

__ ts “Preparations for Philatelic Exhibitions.’ Lecture. Washington
Chapter of Scandinavian Collectors Club, February 1972.

Ostroff, Eugene. ““Foreword.” In Edward M. Estabrooke, The Ferreotype and How
to Make It. Revised edition. Hastings-on-the Hudson, New York: Morgan and
Morgan, March 1972. [First edition 1872.]

. “Preservation and Conservation of Photographs and Related
Documents.” Seminar. National Museum of History and Technology, 5, 6, 7
March 1972.
228 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Roney, Ellen E. “‘The Photograph Collection.” Scott Monthly Journal, volume 53,
number 2 (April 1972), page 5.

Roney, Ellen E., Reidar Norby, and Carl H. Scheele. “Smithsonian Philatelic
Booklist.” S.P.A. Journal, volumes 33, 34 (1971).

Scheele, Carl H. ‘“‘The Burden of the Far West: U.S. Mails and the Turner Thesis.”
The American Philatelist, volume 85, number 7 (September 1971), pages
597-604.

. “The Western Post Office under Buchanan and Lincoln.” The
American Philatelist, volume 85, number 9 (September 1971), pages 781-791.

. “Visiting the Smithsonian: The Headsville Post Office.” Scott
Monthly Journal, volume 52, number 6 (September 1971), pages 10-11.

. “Philatelic Rarities in the National Postage Stamp Collection.”
Lecture. Collectors Club of Washington, D.C., 7 June 1972.

Turner, Craig J. ‘‘The Early United States Revenues.” The New Orleans Collector
(November-December 1971), pages 112, 113, 114,115.

_ CC. “The Last Railway Mail Car.” The American Philatelist, volume
85, number 2 (February 1972), pages 127, 128, 129, 130, 131.

Vann, Lois M. ‘“‘Natural Fibers, Processing and Spinning.” Lecture. Department of
Home Economics, Howard University, November 1971.

DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL HISTORY

Ahlborn, Richard E. ‘Spanish New Mexico, 1775-1875.” Lecture. Cedar Crest
College, Allentown, Pennsylvania, March 1972.

_ Cs “SOD jects as Historic Documents.” Lecture. American University,
Washington, D.C., November, 1971. ;

. “Spanish New Mexican Material Cuiture.” Lecture. American
Studies Program at the Smithsonian, October, 1971.

. “Space and Form in Spanish New Mexican Architecture.” Lecture.
D.C. Chapter of the Society for Architectural Historians, April, 1972.

. “Spanish New Mexican Folk Art.” Lecture. Cooperstown, New
York, July, 1971.

. “Spanish American Arts, Old Mexico to New.” Lecture. Shelburne
Village, Vermont, August, 1971.

. “Spanish-American Material Culture, 1600-1900: Spain; Mexican
Colonial Architecture; Spanish Colonial Arts: New Mexican Arts.” Lectures (4).
University of Vermont Course at Shelburne, August, 1972.

Fesperman, John. “Three Snetzler Organs in the U.S.” Volume 2 of The Organ
Yearbook, London (1972).

Kidwell, Claudia B. “Women’s 19th Century Dress—Evolution and Inspiration.”
Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D.C. 19 February 1972.

. “Care and Maintenance of Collections: Textiles and Costume.”
Lecture. National Trust for Historic Preservation Workshop: ‘‘What to do before
the Conservator is Hired.”’ 13 May 1972.

__——C—SCsséLeccttrres: (1) ‘‘17th Century American Costume as Listed in
Maryland Inventories.”” November 1971. (2) “Introduction to 18th Century
Costumes.” 26 January 1972. (3) “18th Century Costume Construction Tech-
niques.” February 1972. (4) ‘18th Century Costumes in Paintings.”’ 17 May
1972. The Costume Study Group National Museum of History and Technology.

Murray, Anne Wood. “The Copp Family Silhouettes.” Antiques, volume 101i (March
1972), pages 506-509, 11 figures.

Odell, J. Scott. “Folk Instruments.” Arts in Virginia, volume 12, number 1 (Fall
1971).
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 229

Roth, Rodris. “Pieces of History: Relic Furniture of the Nineteenth Century.”
Antiques, volume 101 (May 1972), pages 874-878, 8 figures.

. “Furnishing the Victorian House 1840-1860.” Illustrated lecture.
Decorative Arts Society, City Art Museum of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, 9
December 1971.

Watkins, C. Malcolm. “Artifacts from the Sites of Three Nineteenth Century. Houses
and Ditches at Darien Bluff, Georgia.” University of Georgia Laboratory of
Archaeology Series Report, number 9.

. “Albert Wells and the Genesis of Old Sturbridge Village.”’ Lecture.
Old Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge, Massachusetts, 1 November 1971.

. “A Waspish View of Early California: Anglo-Colonialism in the
Material Environment.” Lecture. Smithsonian 19th Century Seminar. 16 Novem-
ber 1971.

. “An Essex County Girl in the Gold Rush.” Lecture. Middleton
Historical Society, Middleton, Massachusetts, 19 May 1972.

DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIES

Berkebile, Don H. ‘“‘The Motor Truck and its Place in the National Museum’s
Collections.” Lecture. U.S. Truck Historical Society, National Museum of
Transport, St. Louis, Missouri, March 1972.

Gardner, Paul V. The Glass of Frederick Carder. 373 pages, illustrated. New York:
Crown Publishers, Inc.. 1971.

Hoffman, John N. Centennial Year in Review, Prince Edwin Lodge, Middletown,
Pennsylvania. 30 pages, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: Central Publishing Company,
1972.

. “Coal’s Future in the Energy Market.” Lecture. Industrial War
College, Ft. McNair, Washington, D.C., 8 February 1972.

__—~Css “Maines for the Future—U.S. Position.” Lecture. Industrial War
College, Ft. McNair, Washington, D.C., 15 February 1972.

—_______. -““Stockpiling—A Need of the Future.” Lecture. Industrial War
College, Ft. McNair, Washington, D.C. 22 March 1972.

. “The Search for Space Age Minerals.” Lecture. U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers Mobilization Detachment, Army Map Service, Washington, D.C., 29
March 1972.

. “Mechanization of the Anthracite Industry.” Paper presented to
the 7th Annual Conference of the Pennsylvania Research Association, Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, 29 April 1972.

Miller, J. Jefferson II. “English Yellow-Glazed Earthenware, Part I.” Antiques
Magazine (July 1971), pages 93-98.

. “English Yellow-Glazed Earthenware, Part II.’ Antigives Magazine
(August 1971), pages 236-240.

. “The Porcelain Trade of America.” Discovering Antiques, number
43, (Fall 1971), pages 1019-1023.

. “Analysis of the Ralph Wark Collection of Meissen Porcelain.”
Paper read to the American Ceramic Circle, New York, New York, November
1971.

Schlebecker, John T. ‘Farmers in the Lower Shenandoah Valley, 1850.” The
Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, volume 79 (October 1971), pages
462-476.

——________. “Curatorial Agriculture.” Agricultural History, volume 46 (Janusry
1972), pages 95-103.
230 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

. “Farming on the Western Frontier.” Lecture. The Western History
Association Convention, Santa Fe, New Mexico, 15 October 1971.

Schlebecker, John T., and Gale E. Peterson. “Living Historical Farms Handbook”
Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, number 16 (24 April 1972), 91
pages.

Sharrer, G. Terry. ‘“‘The Indigo Bonanza in South Carolina, 1740-90.” Technology
and Culture, volume 12, number 3 (July 1971), pages 447-455.

“International Impact of Selected Agricultural Pressures.”
Graduate research seminar. University of Maryland, Department of Agricultural
and Resource Economics, Spring semester 1972.

White, John H., Jr. “The Railway Museum—Does it Have a Future.” Paper read to the

American Railway Museum Association, Baltimore, Maryland, October 1971.

DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL AND MILITARY HISTORY

Collins, Herbert Ridgeway. Presidents on Wheels. Washington, D.C.: Acropolis
Books, 1971.

Klapthor, Margaret B. “Furniture in the Capitol: Desks and Chairs Used in the
Chamber of the House of Representatives, 1819-1857.” Records of the Columbia
Historical Society (May 1972), pages 190-211.

Langley, H.D. “Early Diplomatic Couriers.” Foreign Service Journal (October 1971),
pages 6-10.

. “An Adventurer Critiques the Custer Disaster.” Montana History
(Spring 1972), pages 20-33.

Lundeberg, Philip K. ““The Museum Perspective.” Military Affairs, volume 35 (1971),
pages 111-113, 157-158; and volume 36 (1972), pages 22-24, 65-67.

Peterson, Mendel L. “‘Buried Treasure Beneath the Spanish Main.” Courier (May
1972), UNESCO: Paris.

. “Bermuda Underwater Expedition, 1965.” National Geographic
Society Research Reports, number 506. 1971.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Davis, Audrey B. “Magnesia Alba Before Black.” Presented at the History of Phar-
macy meeting, Houston, Texas, 24 April 1972.
Eklund, Jon B. “Duhamel du Monceau.” Pages 223-225, in Dictionary of Scientific
Biography, volume 4. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1971.
. “The Medical Student’s Experience in Edinburgh.” Lecture.
Conference on Scottish Studies, Banner Elk, North Carolina, 5-6 May 1972.

. “Some Applications of Philosophy of Science to the History of

Chemistry.” Lecture to curators, Department of Science and Technology, Smith-
sonian Institution, 16 February 1972.

Finn, Bernard §. “Telegraphy: Theory and Practice in the 19th Century.” Lecture.
XIII International Congress for the History of Science, Moscow, August 1971.

. “History in Three Dimensions.” Lecture. Delta Epsilon Sigma
Honor Society, Stonehill College, North Easton, Massachusetts, April 1972.

. “Alexander Graham Bell.” Pages 582-583, in Dictionary of Scien-
tific Biography, volume 1. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not
previously reported.]

. “Josiah Latimer Clark.” Pages 288-289, in Dictionary of Scientific
Biography, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not previously
reported. |

ae

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 231

. “James Cumming.” Page 497, in Dictionary of Scientific Bio-
graphy, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not previously
reported. |

. “Thomas Alva Edison.” Pages 283-284, in Dictionary of Scientific

Biography, volume 4. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1971.

—____ ss. “Richard Tetley Glazebrook.” Pages 423-424, in Dictionary of
Scientific Biography, volume 5. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1972.
Hamarneh, Sami K., Pharmacy Museums, U.S.A. vi + 49 pages, illustrated. Madison,
Wisconsin: American Institute of the History of Pharmacy, 1972.
. “The Physician and the Health Professions in Medieval Islam.”
Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine, volume 47 (September 1971),
pages 1088-1110, 6 illustrations.
. “Contributions of Ali al-Tabari to Ninth Century Arabic Culture.”

Folia Orientalia, volume 12 (1971), pages 91-101.

____ Ct. “Arabic Medicine and its Impact on the Teaching and Practice of
the Healing Arts in the West.’’ Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei (Rome, Italy),
volume 13 (1971), pages 395-425, 10 plates.

. “Development of Arabic Medical Therapy in the Tenth Century.”
Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences, volume 27 (1972), pages
65-79.

. “Dental Exhibition and Reference Collection at the Smithsonian

Institution.” HSMHA Health Reports, volume 87, number 4 (1972), pages

291-303, illustrated.

. “Physicians and Practitioners during the Arabic Golden Age.”
Lecture. Medical Faculty, University of Alexandria, Egypt, 28 October 1971.

. “Origins and Concepts of Arabic Medical Therapy.” Lecture. Na-
tional Library of Medicine, 15 March 1972.

. “Educational Impact of Pharmacy Museums: A Historical Survey.”
Lecture. National Pharmaceutical Association of Washington, D.C. 17 March
1972.

__ SS. “Museum Curators and Displays.’ Lecture. International Students
Incorporated, Washington, D.C., 25 March 1972.

___ SS. «““Greco-Roman Medical Legacy and its Influence on Arabic
Medicine.’ Lecture. North-Carolina State University at Raleigh, 20 April 1972.
Mayr, Otto. ‘“‘Feedback Mechanisms in the Historical Collections of the National
Museum of History and Technology.” Smithsonian Studies in History and

Technology, number 12 (20 July 1971), 133 pages, 145 figures.
“Victorian Physicists and Speed Regulation: An Encounter
Between Science and Technology.” Notes and Records of the Royal Society,
volume 26 (1971), pages 205-228.
. “Maxwell and the Origins of Cybernetics.” /sis, volume 62 (1971),
pages 425-444.

Multhauf, Robert P. “The French Crash-Program for Saltpeter Production, 1776-94.”
Technology and Culture, volume 12 (1971), pages 163-181.

. Laurits Christian Eichner: Craftsman, 1894-1967. 60 pages. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Privately printed, 1971.

Warner, Deborah Jean. ‘‘The Celestial Cartography of Giovanni Antonio Vanosina da
Varese.” Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes, volume 34 (1971),
pages 366-367.

. “Lewis Boss.” Pages 332-333, in Dictionary of Scientific Bio-

graphy, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not previously

reported. |
252 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

_ tt. “John A. Brashear.” Pages 423-424, in Dictionary of Scientific
Biography, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not previously
reported. |

SC _. “William Robert Brooks.” Pages 502-503, in Dictionary of Scien-
tific Biography, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not pre-
viously reported. ]

. “Ernest William Brown.” Page 516, in Dictionary of Scientific |
Biography, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not previously
reported. |

_. “Sherburne Wesley Burnham.” Pages 614-615, in Dictionary of
Scientific Biography, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not
previously reported. ]

Ct “Alvan Graham Clark.” Page 288, in Dictionary of Scientific Bio-
graphy, volume 3. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1971.

__ Cs “SGeecorge Cary Comstock.” Page 374, in Dictionary of Scientific
Biography, volume 3. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1971.

Freer Gallery of Art

Atil, Esin. Exhibition of 2500 Years of Persian Art. 83 pages. Washington, D.C.:
Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, 1971.

. “A Stunning Display of Art with a 2500-year History.” Smith-
sonian, volume 3, number 1 (1972), pages 16-22.

“Ottoman Art at the Freer Gallery.” Sanat Tarihi Arastirmalari, |
volume 4 (1971), pages 185-213. (Annual bulletin of the History of Art Depart-
ment of Istanbul University.)

Chase, W. Thomas. “Science in Art.” In The McGraw-Hill Yearbook of Science and
Technology 1971. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1972.

_____ CC. “SEgypptian Blue as a Pigment and Ceramic Material.”’ Chapter 5, in

Robert H. Brill, editor, Science and Archaeology. Cambridge and London: MIT
Press, 1971"

. “Discussion of Gondus’s Analytical Results.” Lecture. Fogg Art
Museum, January 1971. [Not previously reported. ]

. “Optics and the Examination of Works of Art.” Lecture. For the
Optical Society of America at Georgetown University, May 1971. [Not previously
reported. |

_—__________.. “‘Chinese Belt-Hooks.” Lecture. Archaeology Seminar, Kyoto
University, Japan, October 1971.

. “Chinese Belt-Hooks and Their Technical Examination.” Lecture. .
The National Palace Museum, Taipei, Taiwan, October 1971.

. “Some Thoughts on Analyses of Ancient Chinese Bronzes.”’ Lec-
ture. Nuclear Engineering Seminar, National Tsing-hua University, Hsinchu,
Taiwan, October 1971.

____——. ““Analyses of Ancient Bronzes.” Lecture. Indian National Museum,
New Delhi, November 1971. i

. “Aspects of Analysis of Chinese Bronzes.” Lecture. Oriental
Bronze Seminar. The Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto, Canada, December 1971.

—____.. “My Trip to Taiwan.” Lecture. Washington Region Conservation
Guild, January 1972.

. “Practical Problems and Technical Concepts in Treatment of .
Bronze Disease.” Lecture. Washington Region Conservation Guild, February
1972.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 233

—_—________ . “Thermoluminescence and the Freer Chinese Bronzes.”’ Lecture.
American Oriental Society, 182nd Annual Meeting, Chapel Hill, North Carolina,
April 1972.

Chase, W. Thomas, Rutherford J. Gettens, and Roy S. Clarke, Jr. ““Two Early Chinese
Bronze Weapons with Meteoritic Iron Blades.” Freer Gallery of Art Occasional
Papers, volume 4, number | (1971).

Chase, W. Thomas, and Jeremy Hutt, ““Aaron Draper Shattuck’s Patent Stretcher
Key.” Studies in Conservation, number 17 (1972), pages 12-29.

Chase, W. Thomas, and Maurice Salmon. “Spectroscopy in the History of Materials.”
Lecture. Society for Applied Spectroscopy, Baltimore-Washington Section, May
1972:

The Freer Gallery of Art I: China, 184 pages, Tokyo: Kodansha, Ltd., 1971. In
English and Japanese.

The Freer Gallery of Art II: Japan, 184 pages, Tokyo: Kodansha, Ltd., 1971. In
English and Japanese.

Lawton, Thomas. Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Memorial Exhibition. 77 pages.
Washington, D.C.: Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, 1971.

. “Notes on Five Paintings from a Ch’ing Dynasty Collection.” Ars
Orientalis, volume 8 (1970), pages 191-215. [Not previously reported. ]

. “Aspects of Chinese Culture.” Course. Institute for Sino-Soviet
Studies of the George Washington University. September 1970-January 1971.
{Not previously reported. |

. “Chinese Buddhist Art.” Lecture. Johns Hopkins University,
November 1970. [Not previously reported. ]

. “Chinese Buddhist Art: Han through Sung.” Lecture. Allentown
Art Museum, April 1971. [Not previously reported. ]

- Charles Lang Freer as a Collector.’
Museum of Art, October 1971.

. “Charles Lang Freer as a Collector.
Washington, D.C., December 1971.

Lovell, Hin-cheung. “‘Notes on Chu-lu Hsien.”’ Oriental Art, volume 16, number 3

(Autumn, 1970), pages 259-261. [ Not previously reported. |

. “Wang Hui’s Dwelling in the Fu-ch’un Mountains: A Classical
Theme, Its Origin and Variations.” A/S Orientalis, volume 8 (1970), pages
217-242. [Not previously reported. |

_.__.... “The Art of the Chrien-lung Period.” Lecture. The Hermitage
Foundation, Norfolk, November 1971.

—_______.___. “Chinese Ceramics.”’ Lecture. Chinese Community Church, Wash-
ington, D.C., April 1972.

Pope, John A. “The Beginnings of Procelain in Japan.” Pages 1-7 in 200 Years of
Japanese Procelain. Exhibition catalog. St. Louis, Missouri: City Art Museum of
St. Louis, 1970. | Not previously reported. |

_..-_______ . “The Freer Gallery of Art.’ Records of the Columbia Historical
Society of Washington, D.C., 1969-1970 (June 1971), pages 380-398.

. “Chinese Influences on Iznik Pottery: A Reexamination of an Old
Problem.” Pages 125-139, in Richard Ettinghausen, editor, /slamic Art in the
Metropolitan Museum of Art. New York: 1972.

21 . “Chinese Porcelains at Home and Abroad.” Lecture. The Alex-
andria Association, Alexandria, Virginia, October 1970. [Not previously re-
ported. |

>

Lecture. Metropolitan

”

Lecture. Cosmos Club,

. “Japanese Porcelains and The Dutch Trade.” Lecture. City Art
Museum of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, December 1970. [Not previously
reported. |
234 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Lae . “Charles Lang Freer and His Collection.” Lecture. The Alexandria
Association, Alexandria, Virginia, October 1970. [Not previously reported.]

___ ws “Japanese Porcelain and the Dutch Trade.” Lecture. William
Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City, Missouri, December 1970. [Not
previously reported. ]

‘Ming Porcelain: A Retrospective.” Lecture. China Institute in

America, Inc., New York, November 1970. [Not previously reported. ]

Stern, Harold P. ‘‘Preface.” In Zaigai Hiho—Suzuki Haronobu (Ukiyoe Prints in
Western Collections.) Tokyo: Gakken, 1972.

—________-— . “Introduction.” In Hosomi Kokoan. Toki ni Hana. Osaka: Naniwa
Sha, 1971.

. “Japan, Fine Arts, and Architecture.” Pages 57-59, in East Asia: A
Bibliography for Undergraduate Libraries. Williamsport, Pennsylvania: Bro-Dart
Publishing Co., 1970. [Not previously reported. ]
. Rimpa: Masterworks of the Japanese Decorative School. New
York: Japan Society, 1971.
_______—~—. “Rimpa.”’ Lecture. Japan House, New York, September 1971.
. “Mirror, Mirror.” Lecture. The Art Institute of Chicago, November
Ny7/ile
________. . “Technical Problems Relating to Ukiyoe.” Lecture. The Art Insti-
tute of Chicago, November 1971.
__ CS. “SUKiyor Paintings in the Freer Gallery of Art.” Lecture. Tokyo,
January 1972.
. “Japan and the United States-The Future of Ukiyoe Studies.”
Lecture. Tokyo, January 1972.
. “The Paintings of Tachibana Tenkei.” Lecture. West Texas State
University, June 1972.
Winter, John. ‘““Thermoluminescent Dating of Pottery.” Chapter 4, in H.N. Michael
and E.K. Ralph, editors, Dating Techniques for the Archaeologist. Cambridge and
London: MIT Press, 1971.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Breeskin, Adelyn D. “20th Century American Artists.’’ Lecture. Wives Seminar For-
eign Service Institute, Washington, D.C. (Monthly lecture), 1971-1972.
-_ . “Kathe Kollwitz.” Lecture. Temple Oheb Shalom, Baltimore,
Maryland, 15 November 1971.
. “The Delaware Art Center.” Lecture. Wilmington Society of the
Fine Arts, Wilmington, Delaware, 19 November 1971.
. “Philadelphia Museum of Art. Lecture. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
18 November 1971.
. “Mary Cassatt.’ Lecture. The Norfolk Society of Arts, Norfolk,
Virginia, 7 January 1972.
__—. “Early Years of Print Collecting in Baltimore.” Lecture. Baltimore
Print Club, Maryland, 27 February 1972.
__ ts “The ~ Rise Of Women Artists.” Lecture. The Cosmopolitan Club,
New York, New York, 16 March 1972.
_______________. “The Rise of Women Artists.” Lecture. The North Carolina Mu-
seum of Art, Raleigh, North Carolina, 28 March 1972.
. “Two American Painters: Fritz Scholder and T.C. Cannon.” Lec-
ture. National Collection of Fine Arts. Washington, D.C. 11 April 1972.

APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 235

. “The Rise of Women in the Arts.’’ Lecture. Corcoran Gallery of
Art, Washington, D.C., 21 April 1972.

. “20th Century American Art in the National Collection of Fine
Arts.” Lecture. National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C., 20 June
1972.

. William H. Johnson: 1901-1970. Catalog. 208 pages, 168 illustra-
tions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971.

. Lee Gatch, 1902-1968. Catalog. 64 pages, 40 illustrations. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971.

. “Introduction.” Edith Gregor Halpert, Memorial Exhibition. Cata-
log checklist. 4 pages, 1 illustration. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press. 1972.

. Two American Painters: Fritz Scholder and T.C. Cannon. Catalog.
45 pages, 15 illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1972.

Feldman, Arthur M. “The History of the Renwick Gallery.” Lecture. The Corcoran
Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., 26 April 1972.
“The History of the Renwick Gallery.”’ Lecture. National
Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C., 20 May 1972.

. “American Furniture 17th, 18th & 19th Centuries.” In Oxford

Companion to the Useful Arts. London, England, Oxford University Press. 1972.
Flint, Janet. Boris Anisfeldt: Twenty Years of Designs for the Theater. Catalog. 35
pages, 12 illustrations, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971.
. Drawings by William Glackens, 1870-1938. Catalog. 20 pages 12
illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1972.
—________.. “Art Nouveau: American Posters and Prints.”’ Discovering Anti-
ques, London, England, issue 79 (April 1972), pages 1882-1886.
| ——______.. J. Alden Weir: An American Printmaker. Catalog. 96 pages, 88
illustrations. Prove, Utah: Brigham Young University Press, 1972.
Herman, Lloyd E. “Crafts in America: Who Needs Them Today?” Lecture. Montgo-
mery College, Takoma Park, Maryland, 17 April 1972.

. “Preface.” Page 2, in Woodenworks. Catalog. 48 pages, 41

illustrations. Saint Paul, Minnesota: Minnesota Museum of Art, January 1972.

Muhlert, Jan K. “William H. Johnson.” TV interview. WITG—TV, Channel 5,
Washington, D.C., 11 and 14 November 1971: “‘Panorama,” Channel 5, Wash-
ington, D.C., 12 November 1971; and WTOP-TV Channel 9, Washington, D.C.,
1 December 1971.

—_—_____. ~“William H. Johnson.” Lecture. United States Information
Agency, Washington, D.C., 16 March 1972.

| Taylor, Joshua C. ‘‘To Catch the Eye and Hold the Mind: The Museum as Educator.”
Art Education (October 1971).

—___—C. “The “National Collection of Fine Arts.’ Lecture. Educational and
Cultural Attaches, Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C., 12 October 1971.

pee SCulpture asithe !xploration of spaces, Lectures Dhe J.B= speed:
Art Museum, Louisville, Kentucky, 13 November 1971.

. “The Malbin Collection.” Lecture. American Institute of De-
signers, Detroit, Michigan, 21 March 1972.

—____ “The Modern Image.”’ Lecture. The High Museum, Atlanta, Georgia,
10 April 1972.

—________ . “Where is Art?” Lecture. University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois,
22 April 1972.
. “The Obligation of the Artist.’ Lecture. The Art Academy of

Cincinnati, 19 May 1972.

236 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

___ .. “What is an Art School?” Commencement address. Portland,
Oregon: Museum Art School, August 1971.

—____ SS. “The Concept of Abstraction in Italy.” In Color & Form 1909-
1941. San Diego, California: The Fine Arts Gallery of San Diego, November 1971.

Truettner, William H. “Collecting Activities of William T. Evans.” The American Art
Journal, (November 1971).

Truettner, William H., and Robin Bolton-Smith. “‘National Parks and the American
Landscape.”’ Pages 13-33 in, National Parks and the American Landscape. Catalog.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1972.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

Dee, Elaine Evans. “‘Catalog of the Exhibition.” In Winslow Homer, 1836-1910.
Catalog. 125 pages [unnumbered], 106 illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1972.

Frangiamore, Catherine. ““On Wallpaper.” The Designer (March 1972), pages 4-6.

Goodrich, Lloyd. “Introduction.” In Winslow Homer, 1836-1910. Catalog. 125 pages
[unnumbered], 106 illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1972: |

Sonday, Milton. “‘A Second Type of Mughal Sash.” Textile Museum Journal (1971).

Wilmerding, John. “Winslow Homer’s Drawings.” In Winslow Homer, 1836-1910. |
Catalog. 125 pages [unnumbered], 106 illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smith- —
sonian Institution Press, 1972. |

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

Elliott, John M. “Wonder Where Ole Yellow Went.” Journal of American Aviation
Historical Quarterly, volume 17, number 1 (1st quarter 1972), pages 18-20.
—_______. “Another Look at the Record.” Marine Corps Gazette (June }
1972), pages 56-57.
——. “Sparrowhawk Remarked.” Journal of American Aviation Histori- —
cal Quarterly, volume 17, number 2 (2d quarter 1972), pages 117-121.
Hutchins, James S. “Westward with the United States Dragoons.” Lecture. Potomac
Corral, The Westerners, Washington, D.C., 21 October 1971.
. “Henry Dodge, George Catlin, and the “Grand Western Tour,’
1834.” Lecture. Missouri Historical Society, St. Louis, Missouri, 25 February ©
1972. |
Stokesberry, James J. “‘Washington, D.C., in the Civil War.” Lecture. Point Park ©
College, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, April 1972.
—____.... “The Tecumseh: Project.” Lecture.. John Ericsson Republican
League of Illinois, St. Charles, Illinois, April 1972.

Joseph Henry Papers

Molella, Arthur P. “‘Philosophy and Nineteenth-Century German Electrodynamics:
The Problem of Action at a Distance.’ PhD dissertation, Cornell University, New
York, 1972.

Reingold, Nathan. “Cleveland Abbe.”’ Page 6, in Dictionary of Scientific Biography,
volume 1. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not previously reported. ]

. “Alexander Dallas Bache.” Pages 363-365, in Dictionary of Scien-
tific Biography, volume 1. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not pre- .
viously reported. |

| APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 2371

|

—_____—__. “Louis Agricola Bauer.” Pages 521-522, in Dictionary of Scientific
Biography, volume 1. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not pre-
viously reported.]

. “Nathaniel Bowditch.” Pages 368-369, in Dictionary of Scientific
| Biography, volume 2. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1970. [Not previously
reported. |

. “James McKeen Cattell.” Pages 130-131, in Dictionary of Scien-
tific Biography, volume 3. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1971.

. “James P. Espy.” Pages 410-411, in Dictionary of Scientific Bio-
| graphy, volume 4. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1971.
| . “O.W. Gibbs.” Pages 393-394, in Dictionary of Scientific Bio-
| graphy, volume 5. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1972.

. “Joseph Henry: The Improbable Creator of an Improbable Institu-
tion.” Lecture. 125th Anniversary of the Founding of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, September 1971.

. “Joseph Henry as a Two Cultures Myth.” Lecture. History of
Science and Technology Forum, Iowa State University, March 1972.

. “Historical Editing.” Lecture. Graduate Program, New York State
Historical Association, Cooperstown, March 1972.

. “History of Science in the United States, 1800-1950.” Seminar.
Smithsonian Institution, September 1971-June 1972.

Reingold, Nathan, and A.P. Molella. ‘“‘Theories and Ingenious Mechanics: Joseph
| Henry Defines Science.” Paper presented to joint session of the History of
Science Society and the American Historical Association, December 1971.

Office of American Studies

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “American Indians.” Pages 355-357, in The Americana An-

| nual, 1970: Yearbook of the Encyclopedia Americana, 48th edition. New York:

| Americana Corporation, 1970. [Not previously reported. |

——_—_-—__—. “American Indians.” Pages 348-349, in The Americana Annual,

1971: Yearbook of the Encyclopedia Americana, 49th edition, New York:

Americana Corporation, 1971.

TT. “American Indians.” Pages 342-343, in The Americana Annual,
1971: Yearbook of the Encyclopedia Americana, 50th edition. New York:
Americana Corporation, 1972.

eres . Red Man’s Land/White Man’s Law: A Study of the Past and
| Present Status of the American Indian. x + 288 pages. New York: Charles

Scribner’s Sons, 1971.

. “Representation of Unknown Lands in XIV-, XV-, and XVI-

Century Cartography.” In Revista do Instituto Hist6rico e Georgafico Brasileiro,

volume 287, pages 449-462. Rio de Janeiro: Departamento de Imprensa Nacional,

1970. [A variation, with some material omitted, some added, of paper of similar

title published at Coimbra, Portugal, listed in last annual report. ]

—____________. Editor. Proceedings of the Vinland Map Conference. xv + 187 pages.

Published for the Newberry Library. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1971.

. “The Writing of American Indian History: A Status Report.” Pa-

cific Historical Review, volume 40, number 3 (August 1971), pages 261-281.

238 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Office of Seminars

Dillon, Wilton S. “Anthropological Perspectives on Violence.” Chapter 4, in Gene
Usdin, editor, Perspectives on Violence. New York: Brunner/Mazel, publishers,
1972;

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Eirk, K.G. ‘“‘An Experimental Evaluation of Accepted Methods for Removing Spots
and Stains from Works of Art on Paper.” Bulletin, International Institute for
Conservation - American Group, volume 12, number 2 (1972), pages 82-87.

Goodway, M.E. “Reaching the Verdict on a Pair of Earrings: Not Gilty.”’ Bulletin,
International Institute for Conservation - American Group, volume 12, number 2
(1972), pages 117-118.

McMillan, E. “‘Notes on Paper.” Bulletin, International Institute for Conservation -
American Group, volume 12, number 1 (1971) pages 11-15.

Olin, J.S. ‘““Neutron-Activation Analysis of Medieval Window Glass.” Lecture. Tenth
National Meeting of the Society for Applied Spectroscopy, St. Louis, Missouri,
October 1971.

Olin, J.S. and E.V. Sayre. ‘Compositional Categories of Some English and American
Pottery of the American Colonial Period.’ Chapter 14, in Science and Archae-
ology. Cambridge: MIT Press, 1971.

Olin, J.S., B.A. Thompson, and E.V. Sayre. ‘‘Characterization of Medieval Window
Glass by Neutron Activation Analysis.’’ Developments in Applied Spectroscopy,
volume 10 (1972).

Organ, R.M. “‘Conservation Problems.” Lecture. Williamsburg Historic House Semi-
nar, National Trust, Smithsonian Institution, 9 July 1971.

. “Artefact Conservation.” Lectures No. 21 to 40 and 61 to 80 ofa
series delivered in fall and winter at Smithsonian Institution, 1971-1972.
. “Practical Problems and Technical Concepts in Treatment of
Bronze Disease.” Lecture, shared. Washington Region Conservation Guild. Smith-
sonian Institution, 3 February 1972.
“Conservation Problems’’. Lecture. Woodlawn Conference, Na-
tional Trust. Smithsonian Institution, 24 February 1972.

C—O". “Conservation of Museum Artifacts”. Lecture. Department of Art,
University of Maryland, 15 March 1972.

. “Care and Restoration of Ceramics, Glass, and Metals.” Lecture.
Virginia History Federation. Gunston Hall, 8 April 1972.

. “Stone Diseases.” Lecture. School of Architecture, Columbia
University, 11 April 1972.

Salmon, M.E. “Uses of Spectroscopy in the History of Materials.” Lecture.
Baltimore-Washington Section of Society for Applied Spectroscopy. Hyattsville,
23 May 1972.

Office of Public Affairs
(Leaflets issued by the Office)

“Color Slides of Items Exhibited in the American Costume Hall. Division of Cos-
tumes and Furnishings, Information Leaflet 71-17.

“Archeology as a Career.” Office of Public Affairs, Information Leaflet 71-18. “Select-
ed Readings in Archeology.” Office of Public Affairs, Information Leaflet 71-19.
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 239

“Instructions for Completing Smithsonian Photographic Order Form for Reproduc-
tion of Manuscripts.”” Department of Anthropology, Information Leaflet 71-20.

“Announcement of Publication, Copp Family Textiles,” Division of Textiles, In-
formation Leaflet 71-21.

“Making a “‘Limberjack’.”” Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Informa-
tion Leaflet 71-22.

“Numismatic Dealers in New York City.” Division of Numismatics, Information Leaf-
let 71-23.

“Selected Resources for the Study of Human Ecology.” Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education, Information Leaflet 71-24.

“Procedure for Motion Pictures, TV Filming.” Office of Public Affairs, Information
Leaflet 71-25.

“SI Photographic Lighting Restrictions.” Office of Public Affairs, Information Leaf-
let 71-26.

“Numismatic Dealers in N.J., N.Y., Pa.” Division of Numismatics, Information
Leaflet 71-27.

“Numismatic Dealers in N.C., S.C., Ga., Fla., etc.” Division of Numismatics,
Information Leaflet 71-28.

“Numismatic Dealers in Md., D.C., Va., Ky., etc.’’ Division of Numismatics,
Information Leaflet 71-29.

“Numismatic Dealers in Minn., Neb., Kan., Okla., etc.’ Division of Numismatics,
Information Leaflet 71-30.

“Numismatic Dealers in Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, etc.” Division of Numis-
matics, Information Leaflet 71-31.

“Numismatic Dealers in Oregon, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, etc.” Division of Numis-
matics, Information Leaflet 71-32.

“Numismatic Dealers in Hawaii, Alaska, California, Washington.” Division of Numis-
matics, Information Leaflet 71-33.

“Numismatic Dealers in New England.” Division of Numismatics, Information Leaf-
let 71-34.

“Photos of Women’s 19th Century Dresses.” Division of Costume and Furnishings,
Information Leaflet 71-35.

“Photos of Items in American Costume Hall.” Division of Costume and Furnishings,
Information Leaflet 71-36.

“Photo Services Division Slide Price List.” Photo Services Division, Information Leaf-
let 71-37.

“Photos Available from National Anthropology Archives.” Department of Anthropo-
logy, Information Leaflet 71-38.

“Sources of Non-Technical Information on Zoology.” Department of Vertebrate
Zoology, Information Leaflet 71-39.

“BAE Manuscript Collection.” Department of Anthropology, Information Leaflet
71-40.

“Sources of Information on Mollusks.” Division of Mollusks, Information Leaflet
72-1.

“Making a ‘Limberjack’ ” (revision). Office of Education, Information Leaflet 72-2.

“Suggested Publications on Fishes—West Coast North America-Marine. Division of
Fishes, Information Leaflet 72-3.

“Hammer Dulcimer History and Playing.’ Office of Education, Information Leaflet
72-4.

“Making a Hammer Dulcimer.”’ Office of Education, Information Leaflet 72-5.

“Publications Available on Exchange.” SI Libraries, Information Leaflet 72-6.
240 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

“Suggested References on Dolls.’ Division of Costumes and Furnishings, Information:
Leaflet 72-7.

“Suggested Publications on Fishes—Asia Fresh-Water and Marine.”’ Division of Fishes,
Information Leaflet 72-8.

“Suggested Publications on Sharks.” Division of Fishes, Information Leaflet 72-9.

“Suggested Publications on Fishes—North American-Fresh-water.”’ Division of Fishes,
Information Leaflet 72-10.

“Suggested Publications on Fishes (General). Division of Fishes, Information Leaflet
72-11.

“Bibliography of Selected Readings on the Presidents of the U.S. and Presidential
Campaigning.” Division of Political History, Information Leaflet 72-12.

“Recommended Readings for Political Campaign Collecting.” Division of Political
History, Information Leaflet 72-13. -

“The Foucault Pendulum.” Division of Physical Sciences, Information Leaflet 72-14.

“Photographs of American Presidential Memorabilia in the SI Collections.” Division of
Political History, Information Leaflet 72-15.

Division of Performing Arts

Rinzler, Ralph C., and Norm Cohen. “‘Uncle Dave Macon: A Bio-Discography.” John
Edwards Memorial Foundation Special Series, number 3.

Rinzler, Ralph C. “‘Foreword.” In The Songs of Doc Watson. New York: Oak Publi-
cations, 1971.

Smithsonian Institution Press
Hubel, Gordon. “Subsidiary Rights.” Chapter 2, in Marketing Handbook. New York:
The Association of American University Presses, 1971.
Reading Is Fundamental

RIF’s Guide to Book Selection. Supplement 2. 68 pages. October 1971.

RIF Newsletter, volume 1, issue 3 (August 1971), 4 pages, and volume 1, issue 4
(November 1971), 6 pages.

Reading Is Fun-damental. Descriptive brochure. 4 pages. September 1971.

Information Systems Division

Creighton, Reginald A., and James J. Crockett. “SELGEM: A System for Collection |

Management.” Smithsonian Institution Information Systems Innovations, volume
2, number 3 (August 1971).
Roth, H. Daniel. “‘Cluster Analysis for the Biological and Social Sciences.” In

Cuadernos de Historia Economica de Cataluna, VI, Barcelona, Spain: Publicacion —

Interna del Departamento de Historia Econémica de la Facultad de Ciencias Polit-

icas, Economicas y Comerciales de las Universidad, y del Instituto Municipal de *

Historia de Barcelona, October 1971.

“Statistical Reviews.” International Journal of Mathematical

Geology, volume 4, number 2 (June 1972).
Roth, H. Daniel, and J. Pierce, “Multivariate Discriminant Analysis of Brollastic

Turbidites.” International Journal of Mathematical Geology, volume 4, number 2 ~

(June 1972).
APPENDIX 6. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 241

National Gallery of Art

Bullard, E. John. “‘The Centennial Year of Artist John Sloan.” Smithsonian Magazine,
volume 2, number 7 (October 1971).

“John Sloan as an Illustrator.’ American Artist, volume 35
(October 1971), page 52.

Bullard, E. John, and David W. Scott. John Sloan 1871-1951. Washington, D.C.:
National Gallery of Art, 1971.

Cain, Fred. “Introduction.” In Masters of the Passion: Diirer and Rouault. Catalog.
Los Angeles: University of California, Los Angeles, 1971.

Campbell, William P. “The American Heritage at the National Gallery of Art.” The
Connoisseur, volume 178 (December 1971), pages 268-276.

Cooke, H. Lester. Eyewitness to Space. New York: Harry Abrams, Inc., 1971.

. Painting Techniques of the Masters. New York: Watson-Guptill,
1972"

Feller, Robert L. “Analysis of Pigments.” Pages 327-344, in American Painting to
1776: A Reappraisal. Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1971.

. “Notes on the Chemistry of Bleaching.” Bulletin of the American
Group—The International Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic
Works, volume 11, number 2 (1971), pages 39-56.

. “Scientific Examination of Artistic and Decorative Colorants.”
Journal of Paint Technology, volume 44 (1972), pages 51-58.

Feller, Robert L., and Catherine W. Bailie. “Solubility of Aged Coatings Based on
Dammar, Mastic, and Resin AW-2.” Bulletin of the American Group—The Inter-
national Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, volume 12,
number 2 (1972), pages 72-81.

Feller, Robert L., and M. Curran. “‘Lightfast Soluble Colorants.” Bulletin of the
American Group—The International Institute for Conservation of Historic and
Artistic Works, volume 11, number 2 (1971), page 15.

Feller, Robert L., B. Keisch, and M. Curran. “Notes on Modern Pigments.” Bulletin
of the American Group—The International Institute for Conservation of Historic
and Artistic Works, volume 12, number 1 (1972), pages 60-62.

Feller, Robert L., Nathan Stolow, and Elizabeth H. Jones. On Picture Varnishes and
their Solvents. Revised edition. Cleveland: The Press of Case Western University,
USA

Grossman, Sheldon. ““An Anonymous Florentine Drawing and the ‘So-Called Ver-
rocchio Sketchbook’.” Master Drawings, volume 10 (1972), pages 15-19.

Lewis, Douglas. ““Romantic Classicism in America: The Full Temple Form.” Paper
delivered at 13th International Congress in the History of Architecture, Vicenza,
Italy, September 1971.

_Oberhuber, Konrad. / grandi disegni italiani dell’ Albertina di Vienna. Milan: Silvana
editrice, 1971.

—___. “Raphael and the State Portrait—II: The Portrait of Lorenzo de’
Medici.” The Burlington Magazine, volume 113, number 821 (1971), pages
436-443.

_ Parkhurst, Charles. ‘“‘A Color Theory from Prague: Anselme de Boodt.” Bulletin of
the Allen Memorial Art Museum, volume 29 (1971), pages 3-10.

{_ “FS Red—Yellow—Blue, A Color Triad in Seventeenth-Century Paint-
ing.” Annual of the Baltimore Museum of Art, volume 4 (1972), pages 33-39.

Russell, H. Diane. Rare Etchings by Giovanni Battista and Giovanni Domenico
Tiepolo. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1972.

Scott, David W. ‘Plans and Programmes—The National Gallery’s East Building.” The
Connoisseur, volume 178 (December 1971), pages 263-265.
242 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Scott, David W., and Bullard, E. John. John Sloan 1871-1951. Washington, D.C.:
National Gallery of Art, 1971.

White, Christopher. Diirer: The Artist and his Drawings. London and New York:
Phaidon and Watson-Gupthill, 1972.

. “The Durer Exhibition at Nuremberg.” The Burlington Magazine,
volume 113, number 821 (1971), pages 484-488.

. “The Armand Hammer Collection: Drawings.” Apollo Magazine,
new series, volume 95, number 124 (June 1972), pages 456-4463.

Williams, William J. “Architecture.” “Bridge,” “Building Materials,” ‘“‘Caisson,”
“Castle,” ‘Cathedral,’ ‘Construction,’ ‘Construction Equipment,” “Empire
State Building,” “Gothic Architecture,” “House,” “Tower,” Young Students
Encyclopedia. New York: Funk and Wagnalls, Inc., 1972.

. “A 400-year Survey of Italian Stage Design.” Smithsonian Maga-
zine, volume 2, number 9 (December 1971), pages 38-45.

Se ee

Appendix 7

ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 1971-1972

Postdoctoral Visiting Research Associates

| Asterisks indicate Fellows whose research was supported through a grant for
American Indian Historical, Cultural, and Social Studies awarded by the National
_ Endowment for the Humanities for tenure at the Smithsonian Institution.

| Program in American History

: Paul Kleppner. Symbols of American politics, 1860-1892, with Dr. Wilcomb E.
Washburn, American Studies Program, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August
N92:

Allison W. Saville. American submarine technological development, 1919-1941,
with Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg, National Museum of History and Technology, from
1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

_ Program in Anthropology

| James M. Adovasio. The relationship of ethnographic North American textile and

basketry techniques to their archeological antecedents, with Dr. Waldo R. Wedel,

National Museum of Natural History, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

| *Karen J. Blu. Research into the nature and content of Lumbee Indian ethnic

identity under conditions of social change, with Dr. William C. Sturtevant, Na-

tional Museum of Natural History, from 15 September 1971 to 14 June 1972.

| *Raymond J. DeMallie. Cultural and historical studies of the Dakota (Sioux) Indians,
with Dr. John C. Ewers, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 October
1971 to 30 June 1972.

*Jerald T. Milanich. Woodland Pattern Formative cultures of the southeastern
United States 1000 B.C. to 1000 A.D., with Dr. William W. Fitzhugh, National
Museum of Natural History, from 15 September 1971 to 15 June 1972.

James H. Rauh. Investigation of interrelationships of the Borgia group of Mexican
manuscripts and the Maya Codex Madrid, with Dr. Clifford Evans, Jr., National
Museum of Natural History, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

_ Program in Environmental Sciences

| Clarke Brooks. Analysis of algal biliproteins, with Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, Radiation
Biology Laboratory, from 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1972.

Stephen I. Rothstein. An experimental investigation of host preferences in the
brown-headed cowbird, with Dr. Francis §.L. Williamson, Chesapeake Bay Center
for Environmental Studies, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

Madeline Andrews. Insular-Continental comparisons of Anolis ecology, with Dr. A.
Stanley Rand, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 August 1971 to
31 July 1972.

243
244 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Jeffrey B. Graham. Studies in the biology of the amphibious clinid, Mnierpes mac-
rocephalus, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from
15 September 1971 to 15 June 1972.

Annette F. Hladik. Comparative studies of tropical forests, with Dr. Martin H.
Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 July 1971 to 30 June
1972.

James R. Karr. Comparisons of structure of avian communities in selected tropical
areas with emphasis on the Old World Tropics, with Dr. Neal G. Smith, Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1972.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Thomas D. Eichlin. Revision of the lepidopterous family Aegeriidae of North
America, with Dr. W. Donald Duckworth, National Museum of Natural History,
from 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1972.

Richard U. Gooding. Studies of Animals associated with shallow-water diadematid
sea urchins in the Pacific and Western Atlantic, with Dr. Roger F. Cressey, Jr.,
National Museum of Natural History, from 1 December 1971 to 31 November
S72=

Chong Kun Park. Research in the genera and species of the Pterodectinae (Acarina:
Proctophyllodidae), with Dr. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

Rudolf Schmid. Comparative floral anatomy of the Myrtaceae, subfamily Myr-
toinae, with Dr. Richard H. Eyde, National Museum of Natural History, from 1
October 1971 to 30 September 1972.

Adam Urbanek. Research on ultrastructure of peridermal derivatives in Grapto- —
lithina and Pterobranchia and studies on modern evolutionary theories and their
application for fossil material, with Dr. Richard S. Boardman, National Museum
of Natural History, from 1 August 1971 to 31 January 1972.

John Utgaard. The classification of cystoporate Bryozoa, with Dr. Richard S.
Boardman, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 January 1972 to 30 June
1972

Norris H. Williams. Systematic anatomy of the subtribes Laeliinae, Cyrtopodiinae,
Catasetinae, Stanhopeinae, Sygopetalinae and Oncidiinae (Orchidaceae), with Dr.
Edward S. Ayensu, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 September 1971
to 31 August 1972.

Richard Winterbottom. The Phylogeny of stomiatoid fishes as evidenced by their
myology, with Dr. Stanley H. Weitzman, National Museum of Natural History,
from 1 October 1971 to 30 September 1972.

Program in the History of Art and Music

Lena Lee. A new study of the problem of the identity of the so-called “‘Pratyeka
Buddha” images in Chinese Buddhist Sculpture, with Dr. Thomas Lawton, Freer
Gallery of Art, from 1 January 1972 to 31 December 1972.

Sonya Monosoff. Research in the history and development of violins and bows,
with Mr. John T. Fesperman, National Museum of History and Technology, from
1 October 1971 to 31 August 1972.

Francis V. O’Connor. Research in the history of American art during the 1930s,
with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 1 September
1971 to 31 August 1972.
APPENDIX 7. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 1971-1972 245

_ Program in the History of Science and Technology

Maxine Benson. Advanced documentary editing in the history of science with Dr.
Nathan Reingold, The Joseph Henry Papers, from 1 September 1971 to 31 Au-
gust 1972.

Bert S. Hall. German technological manuscripts in the age of Leonardo da Vinci,
with Dr. Otto Mayr, National Museum of History and Technology, from 1 August
1971 to 31 July 1972.

Emilie §. Smith. An investigation of the Galenic origins of early Islamic writings on
the anatomy of the eye, theories of vision, and the treatment of certain
pathological conditions of the eye, with Dr. Sami K. Hamarneh, National Museum
of History and Technology, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

Program in Physical Sciences

Martin R. Flannery. Theoretical investigation of certain atomic and molecular
processes relevant to the earth’s atmosphere, stellar and planetary atmospheres,
and HI, HII regions of the sun, with Dr. Owen J. Gingerich, Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, from 1 March 1971 to 30 September 1971.

Andrew L. Graham. The majorelement composition of meteoritic chondrules, with
Dr. Brian H. Mason, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 September
1971 to 31 August 1972.

Stanley A. Mertzman. The geology, petrology, and geochemistry of Lake Yohoa
volcanic field, northeastern Honduras, with Dr. William G. Melson, National
Museum of Natural History, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

G. Jeffrey Taylor. Petrological and chemical research on lunar samples and theoreti-

| cal interpretation and research on the metallic minerals in chondritic meteorites,

with Dr. John A. Wood, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July

1971 to 31 August 1972.

Predoctoral Visiting Research Associates

Program in American History

Patrick H. Butler III. Study of attitudes toward death and afterlife in the colonial
Chesapeake Bay Region as determinants in social, political, and cultural behavior,
with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies Program, from 1 July 1971 to
30 June 1972.

Susan Falb, Smithsonian Institution-Georgetown University Cooperative Fellow.
Studies in American material culture, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American
Studies Program, from 1 September 1971 to 30 June 1972.

Yvonne Lange. Santos, the household wooden saints of Puerto Rico, with Mr.
Richard E. Ahlborn, National Museum of History and Technology from 1 August
1971 to 30 June 1972.

Arthur C. Townsend. Pattern and change in the material culture of Junction City,
Kansas, between 1890 and 1922, as seen through the life and lens of Joseph Judd
Pennell, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, American Studies Program, from 1 July
1971 to 30 June 1972.

Lawrence Velten, Smithsonian Institution-Georgetown University Cooperative Fel-
low. Studies in American material culture, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn,
American Studies Program, from 1 September 1971 to 30 June 1972.

246 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Program in Anthropology

Mun Woong Lee. Rural North Korea under Communism: a study of sociocultural
change, with Dr. Eugene I. Knez, National Museum of Natural History, from 1
June 1971 to 31 May 1972.

Program in Environmental Sciences

Edward DeFabo. A biphasic response in the inactivation of some microorganisms
by ultra-violet light, with Dr. Walter A. Shropshire, Jr., Radiation Biology Labora-
tory, from 15 September 1971 to 14 September 1972.

C. John Ralph. Research on the migration of birds, with Dr. Francis §. L. William-
son, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from 1 July 1971 to 30
June 1972.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology, Tropical Zones

James W. Porter. Structure and diversity of Panama coral reefs with particular
emphasis on those of the eastern Pacific, with Dr. Peter W. Glynn, Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute, from 1 August 1971 to 31 July 1972.

Wayne L. Smith. Population studies of the mysid Heteromysis actiniae Clarke living
symbiotically with the sea anemone Bartholomea annulata Leseur, with Dr. Peter
W. Glynn, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 August 1971 to 31
July 1972.

Joseph G. Strauch, Jr. Communal behavior of the Crotophaginae, with Dr. Neal G.
Smith, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 August 1971 to 1 March
1972.

Bernice Tannenbaum. The adaptive significance of social behavior in neotropical
bats, with Dr. Neal G. Smith, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1
August 1971 to 31 July 1972.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Theodore Gary Gautier. Cryptostome Bryozoa from the Permian (Leonardian) of
the Glass Mountains, Texas, with Dr. Richard S. Boardman, National Museum of
Natural History, from 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1972.

Storrs L. Olson. The history, adaptations, and relationships of the fossil Rallidae,
with Dr. George E. Watson, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 Septem-
ber 1971 to 31 March 1972.

Program in the History of Art and Music

Peter Bermingham. Barbizon art in America: its influence on American painting,
1850-1890, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 15
June 1971 to 14 June 1972.

Richard N. Murray. A study of figurative mural painting, public and private in the
United States, 1890-1920, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine
Arts, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Saroj Kumar Ghose. History of electric telegraphy in the 19th century, with Dr.
Bernard S. Finn, National Museum of History and Technology, from 24 May
1971 to 30 June 1972.

Barbara B. Kaplan. The relevance of alchemical and hermetic ideas to 13th and
14th century medicine in western Europe, with Dr. Sami K. Hamarneh, National
Museum of History and Technology, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.
APPENDIX 7. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 1971-1972 247

John D. Kazar. The United States Navy and scientific exploration, 1837-1860, with
Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August
1972.

John T. Kelly. American science of the eighteenth century, with particular con-
sideration of the science curricula of the colonial colleges, and the science of the
city of Philadelphia, with Mr. Silvio A. Bedini, National Museum of History and
Technology, from 1 September 1971 to 31 August 1972.

Clay McShane. Studies dealing with the reaction of large American cities to the
automobile, 1900-1930, with Mr. Don H. Berkebile and Mr. Harold K. Skramstad,
National Museum of History and Technology, from 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1972.

Robert Post. Research and study of the career of Charles Grafton Page, with Dr.
Bernard S. Finn, National Museum of History and Technology, from 1 September
1971 to 31 August 1972.

Program in Museum Studies

Shelley Fletcher. Special problems in paper conservation, with Mr. Anton Konrad,
National Collection of Fine Arts/National Portrait Gallery Conservation Labora-
tory, from 1 October 1971 to 30 September 1972.

Elaine Sloan. Museum libraries as information systems for professionals and for the
general public, with Dr. Russell Shank, Smithsonian Libraries, from 1 September
1971 to 31 August 1972.

Program in Physical Sciences

James Elliot. Investigation of atmospheric fluorescence as a means of detecting
transient X-ray phenomena from cosmic sources, with Dr. G.G. Fazio, Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, 1 July 1971 to 31 January 1972.

William R. Forman. Study of magnetic field structure in the Crab Nebula, with Dr.
R.E. Schild, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1971 to 30
June 1972.

Richard I. Klein. Studies on the effect of shock waves on the formation of spectral
lines in pulsating variable star atmospheres, with Dr. Wolfgang Kalkofen, Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1971 to 30 June 1972.

Robert L. Kurucz. Research in radiative transfer and model stellar atmospheres,
with Dr. E.H Avrett, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 July 1971
to 30 June 1972.

Charles J. Lada. Research in astrophysics, with Dr. D. Kleinmann, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from 15 September 1971 to 15 June 1972.

Joseph Schwarz. A study of the formation of interstellar clouds and filaments in
the ionized zone created by an ultraviolet radiation burst from a supernova, with
Dr. A. Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 15 September
1971 to 15 June 1972.

Graduate and Undergraduate Research
and Study Appointments

Asterisks indicate students whose research was supported through grants from the
National Science Foundation’s Undergraduate Research Participation Program (grants
GY8823: Social Sciences and GY9057: Geological Sciences).
248 SMiTHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Program in American History

Group study project in historical archeology at St. Mary’s City, Maryland, supervised
by Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies:
Rachel Baker, Brown University.
Frederick DeMarr, University of Maryland.
Ross Kimmel, University of Maryland.
Antoinette Lee, The George Washington University.
Nancy Nutt, The George Washington University.

Richard Schaffer, University of Maryland. Research on development of air trans-
portation from the balloon era to the present, with Mr. Louis S. Casey, National
Air and Space Museum.

Program in Anthropology

Geraldine Anderson, University of California, Los Angeles. Investigation of Har-
rison manuscripts in National Anthropological Archives, with Dr. William C.
Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural History.

*Ellison Banks, Wellesley College. Dating Navajo rugs and blankets, with Dr.
William C. Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural History.

*Sharon Couch, Bennington College. Reconstructing Mayan Ritual Almanacs, with
Dr. James H. Rauh, National Museum of Natural History.

Sheri Finkel, Kutztown State College. Establishing Motul dictionary in semantic
categories for further ethnographic analysis, with Dr. James H. Rauh, National |
Museum of Natural History.

*Eva Hoffmann, The City College of New York. Research on the Venus Tables of |
the Dresden Codex, with Dr. James H. Rauh, National Museum of Natural His-
tory.

*Stephanie Nathanson, The City College of New York. Study project correlating
Maya daynames with glyphs, with Dr. James H. Rauh, National Museum of Na-
tural History.

*Celia Orgel, University of Chicago. Development of criteria for the biographical
dictionary of the Handbook of North American Indians, with Dr. William C.
Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural History.

*Lisa Rhudy, The George Washington University. Protein-decay analysis to deter-
mine the archeological age of burials, with Dr. Donald J. Ortner, National Mu-
seum of Natural History.

Winfield Swanson, The American University. Ethnographic studies of Eskimos,
with Mr. George E. Phebus, National Museum of Natural History.

James Wells, University of Maryland. A study of primate basicranial morphology to
determine functional relationships with associated nonmorphological variables,
with Dr. Lucile St. Hoyme, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Raymond Bouchard, University of Tennessee. Studies of the crayfish of Tennessee,
with Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., National Museum of Natural History.

Meade Cadot, University of Kansas. Research in the systematics and biogeography
of Benthic Ostracoda from southern oceans, with Dr. Richard H. Benson,
National Museum of Natural History.

Jarrett L. Cross. Research on the salt marsh insects of an impoundment on Assatea-
gue Island, with Dr. Paul J. Spangler, National Museum of Natural History.

APPENDIX 7. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 1971-1972 249

Daryl Domning, University of California, Berkeley. Study of the anatomy of Si-
renians, especially myology of Dugong, with Dr. Charles O. Handley, National
Museum of Natural History.

Christine M. Feely, Stephens College. Research in physiological aspect of marine
zoology, with Dr. Victor G. Springer, National Museum of Natural History.

Joel Friedman, Emory University. Research on African primates, with Dr. Richard
W. Thorington, Jr., National Museum of Natural History.

*Andrew Janoff, American University. Ontogenetic study of polypide cycle of skel-
etal structures in cyclostome bryozoa, with Dr. Richard S. Boardman, National
Museum of Natural History.

Sanford Leffler, Washington State University. Research in Smithsonian collection
of shore birds, with Dr. Richard L. Zusi, National Museum of Natural History.
*James McClammer, University of Maryland. Investigation into the ecological suc-
cession of Lodgepole pine in the forest of the Bighorn Basin, with Dr. Leo J.

Hickey, National Museum of Natural History.

Keith Serafy, University of Maine. Variation in the polytypic sea urchin, Lytech-
inus variegatus in the North Atlantic, with Dr. David L. Pawson, National Mu-
seum of Natural History.

Program in the History of Art

Jerry Adelman, Georgetown University. A study of the art of federal art projects,
with Dr. Francis V. O’Connor, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Jocelyn Brown, The George Washington University. A study of the Gellatly Collec-
tion, with Mr. Robert T. Davis, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Ellen Meyer, The George Washington University. A study of contemporary Ameri-
can art, with Mrs. Adelyn D. Breeskin and Mrs. Jan I.K. Muhlert, National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts.

Peter Munsing, University of Michigan. Development of a study booklet for high
school students, Department of Education; Cataloging furnishings, Barney House,
with Mr. Darrell L. Sewell and Mr. Donald R. McClelland, National Collection of
Fine Arts.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

_ James Auerbach, University of Maryland. Research on the social impact of machine

tools, with Dr. Otto Mayr, National Museum of History and Technology.

Joe Cameron, Maryland Institute, College of Art. A study of photography in the
Washington area, with Mr. David E. Haberstich, National Museum of History and
Technology.

*Lorraine Daston, Harvard University. Research and review of papers of Alexander
Dallas Bache, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers.

*Donald Hoke, Beloit College. Research into the history of American pocket
watches, with Mr. Edwin A. Battison, National Museum of History and Tech-
nology.

*David Hounshell, Southern Methodist University. Research on Elisha Gray, with
Dr. Bernard S. Finn, National Museum of History and Technology.

*Brian Jensen, Virginia Commonwealth University. Research in the Clark Radio
collection, with Mr. Elliott N. Sivowitch, National Museum of History and
Technology.

*Marci Kramish, Duke University. Research in medicinal plants and pharmaceutical
objects, with Dr. Jon B. Eklund, National Museum of History and Technology.
250 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

*Maria Quinlan, Smith College. Comparative study of kitchens from 1750, 1850,
and 1950, with Mr. Silvio A. Bedini, National Museum of History and Tech-
nology.

*Warren A. Ramey, Duke University. Bibliography on Naval technology during the
American Revolution, with Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg, National Museum of History
and Technology.

Nancy Rexroth, Ohio University. Research on platinum printing and photography,
with Mr. David E. Haberstich, National Museum of History and Technology.

Allan Rhodes, Southern Methodist University. Research in historical model con-
struction, with Dr. Otto Mayr, National Museum of History and Technology.
Michael Shapiro, Brown University. Research on the Centennial Exposition of

1876, with Mr. Richard H. Lytle, Smithsonian Archives.

Program in Museum Studies

Kermit L. Baumgartner, Jr., Elizabethtown College. A study of regular Army uni-
forms, 1821-1911, with Mr. Donald E. Kloster, National Museum of History and
Technology.

Donald B. Christman, St. Mary’s College of Maryland. Studies of military heraldry
and museum collection management, with Mr. Donald E. Kloster, National
Museum of History and Technology.

John Ehrmann, Macalester College. Studies of nineteenth-century Presidential cam-
paign artifacts and literature, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American
Studies.

Lynn Felsher, Philadelphia College of Art. Studies in preservation, cleaning, and
Collection management of textiles, with Mrs. Grace R. Cooper, National Museum
of History and Technology.

Joel F. Janosky, Syracuse University. Studies of the zoogeography of midwater
fishes from Southeastern Pacific Ocean, with Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., National
Museum of Natural History.

James H. Myersburg. Studies of basic audiovisual techniques, with Mr. Roy V.
LaRoche, Office of Exhibits Programs.

Susan Olsen, University of Arizona. Studies in the conservation of anthropological
objects in the collections, with Mrs. Bethune M. Gibson, National Museum of
Natural History.

Charles Potter, Syracuse University. A study of rodent genus Atlantoxerus and
studies of museum curatorial techniques, with Dr. Henry W. Setzer, National
Museum of Natural History.

George Ronkin, Beloit College. Studies of computer programming and systems
analysis, with Mr. Dante Piacesi, Jr., Information Systems Division.

Linda Southwick, Tufts University. A bibliographic study of tropical marine algae
and coral reef ecology with Dr. Arthur L. Dahl, National Museum of Natural
History.

Sharon N. White, University of Pennsylvania. Studies in organizing and cataloging
Jewish materials; compiling various bibliographies with Mr. Richard E. Ahlborn,
National Museum of History and Technology.
Appendix 8

PUBLIC AFFAIRS

News Releases Issued

Smithsonian To Keep 3 More Buildings Open Until 9 p.m. through
Labor Day

Notable Prints from Smithsonian Collections Show Three Centuries of

American Art Mastery

1 July 71

1 July 71

Live Insects Doing Their Thing Daily for Natural History Museum Visitors 8 July 71

NCFA To Show ‘‘Romare Bearden: The Prevalence of Ritual”

Photo Contest Held for District Youths; Smithsonian Museum Will
Show Top Entries

NASA To Make Formal Presentation of Lunar Module to
Smithsonian

Contributions of Black Scientists Outlined in Anacostia Exhibition

Concerts Set for Smithsonian’s Museum of History and Technology

Dr. David Challinor Named Assistant Secretary for Science

Registration Open Through August 6 for Associates Summer Courses

Wilson Center Appoints 16 Additional Fellows

Yale Scholar Will Lecture on Contemporary Black Art

Smithsonian Puppet Theatre To Be Closed August 18-20

Smithsonian Will Celebrate 125th Birthday September 26

Smithsonian Exhibit Shows Slovenian Culture in U.S.

Year-Long Survey Offers Picture of “Typical” Smithsonian Visitor

Freer Gallery Announces Retirement of John Pope

Participation Workshops at NCFA Designed To ‘‘Make Art Sensible”

Special Program Will Commemorate 100th Birthday of Orville Wright

Thomas Nast Self-Portrait on Exhibit at Smithsonian

Tom Sawyer To Begin Fall Season at Smithsonian’s Puppet Theatre

Coast Guard To Hoist 25-Ton Engine From Ship for Smithsonian
Display

Freer Gallery To Stage Meyer Memorial Exhibit

Insect Zoo Closing Announced

Smithsonian Museums Break Out in Hives

Langley Medal Will Be Presented to Lt. Gen. Samuel C. Phillips

Spiders Star in New Exhibit at Museum of Natural History

Street Theater Version of “Macbeth” To Be Presented in Museum
Courtyard

Angel Finds Even Ancient Greeks Affected by Ecological Problems

National Portrait Gallery Exhibition Salutes Opening of Kennedy
Center for Performing Arts

National Collection of Fine Arts To Show Russian Ballet Designs by
Boris Anisfeldt

Lecture at Freer to Focus on “Uncommon” Japanese Artist

Professor To Lecture at Art Museum on Exotic 20th Century Stage
Decor

Za

8 July 71
12 July 71

12 July 71
15 July 71
15 July 71
19 July 71
21 July 71
28 July 71
28 July 71
29 July 71
30 July 71
4 Aug. 71
4 Aug. 71
9 Aug. 71
9 Aug. 71
10 Aug. 71
12 Aug. 71
16 Aug. 71

16 Aug. 71
19 Aug. 71
19 Aug. 71
23 Aug. 71
25 Aug. 71
27 Aug. 71

30 Aug. 71
31 Aug. 71

31 Aug. 71

2 Sept. 71
wees (il

2 Sept. 71

2o2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Associates Present Free Lecture on Art, Architecture of Russia

Musician To Lecture on Elements of Rock

MHT Post Office-General Store

Early Plastic Products Donated to Smithsonian Collections

Industrial Archeology Conference Set for October 16 at
Smithsonian

Smithsonian Seeks Volunteers To Guide School Groups

“The Proposition” To Be Presented at Smithsonian

Smithsonian To Present ‘Proposition Circus” October 9

Smithsonian Anniversary Day Schedule

Wilson Center Sets October 1 Deadline for Applications

NCFA Announces ’72 Exhibition Schedule

Smithsonian Receives Grant for Seminar

Museums Can Bring Together Generations, Dr. Mead Says

Smithsonian, Folklore Society To Open Concert Series October 1

Anniversary Exhibition Chronicles Smithsonian’s 125 Years of Growth

National Collection of Fine Arts To Show Lee Gatch Retrospective

Smithsonian Schedules January Opening for Renwick Gallery of Design,

Crafts

New Exhibit Shows Changes in Korean Village Culture

Smithsonian Free Film Theatre To Open Fall Season October 6

Lecture on Painter Lee Gatch Will Be Given at NCFA October 30

The Restoration: “‘Eyesore” to Art Museum

Smithsonian Names 2 Key Staff Members for Renwick Gallery of
Design, Crafts

An American Architectural Monument

Chronology of the Renwick Gallery

Smithsonian To Open Bookstore in History & Technology Museum

Concerts Set for Smithsonian’s Museum of History & Technology

National Board Established for Smithsonian Associates

Grant Rogers Will Perform at Smithsonian Folk Concert

First Music from Marlboro Concert Scheduled for Nov. 6 at
Smithsonian

Smithsonian’s Hodgkins Medal Goes to Author Lewis Mumford

Panel Will Discuss Impact of Mechanization of Music

Malvina Reynolds To Perform at Smithsonian November 19

G. Evelyn Hutchinson Named First Browning Award Winner

Freer Gallery of Art Names Lawton Assistant Director

Smithsonian Will Exhibit Appliances Given by Donors Throughout
Country

200 Eakins Photographs To Be Shown at NCFA

Smithsonian Publishes First Major Catalog on Art of Black Painter
William H. Johnson

Black Painter Being Accorded Major Retrospective at Smithsonian’s
NCFA

Chinese Blue and Green Art Style To Be Discussed

Symposium on Print Prices To Be Held at National Collection of
Fine Arts

Bishop Museum’s Gregory Medal Goes to Smithsonian’s Fosberg

November Schedule — Free Film Theatre

NPG Opens Exhibition Focusing on Washington’s Black Community

Harvard Professor Will Discuss Effect of Herbicides in Vietnam

3 Sept.
3 Sept.
9 Sept.
13 Sept.

16 Sept.
16 Sept.
16 Sept.
16 Sept.
17 Sept.
2GSept.
22 Sept.
22 Sept.
23 Sept.
24 Sept.
24 Sept.
27 Sept.

28 Sept.
29 Sept.
30 Sept.
30 Sept.
30 Sept.

30 Sept.
30 Sept.
30 Sept.
hOck
4 Oct.
4 Oct.
8 Oct.

Ock
13 Oct.
15 Oct.
15 Oct.
20 Oct.
20 Oct.

22Ock
26 Oct.

26 Oct.

26 Oct.
28 Oct.

28 Oct.
28 Oct.
28 Oct.
29 Oct.

1 Nov.

71
71
71
714
APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Statement— Bicentennial Outdoor Museum

Smithsonian Announces Forty-Six Research Appointments for 71-72

Portrait of Religious Leader Joseph Smith Will Be Given to National
Portrait Gallery

Carl Larsen Appointed Director of Smithsonian Public Affairs

Russell Bourne Named Consultant on Book Publishing at Smithsonian

Smithsonian Appoints Williams To Set up Jazz Studies Program

Smithsonian Women’s Committee To Present Afternoon with Sikkimese
Royalty November 17

The Proposition Returns to Smithsonian December 2-6

Smithsonian To Present Proposition Performance for Children
December 4

Notice for Correspondents and Photographers—Museum Shops Toys

2 Scientists, 2 Views: Should Man Try To Save Bay Island from
Erosion

Smithsonian Art Museum To Exhibit John Steuart Curry Retrospective

“Eccentric, Optimist,” Scientist, Spilhaus Keeps Looking to Future

EUREKA! Opens Winter Season at Smithsonian Puppet Theatre

Tapestry Presented to Air and Space Museum

Smithsonian Names Douglass Williams To Traveling Exhibition Liaison
Job

Portfolio Day at National Collection Brings Educators to Students
Dec; 11

Historic and Beautiful Biblical Manuscripts Among Treasures of Freer
Gallery of Art

One-Eyed Flyer Wiley Post Revolutionized Aeronautics

Films by Chris Marker Will Be Shown December 7 in Place of Carson
Movie

Wilson Center Sets January 1 Deadline for Applications

Smithsonian Enlists Trust Officers’ Assistance in Fund Raising
Efforts

Freer Lecturer To Discuss Ottoman Art Production

500 Cast Iron & Tinplate Toys Going on Display at Smithsonian

National Collection of Fine Arts Will Show Art of Roaring Twenties

Wilson Center, Starting 2nd Year, Appoints Six Additional Fellows

Painting by Important Woman Artist Goes to National Portrait Gallery

Portrait Gallery Acquires Painting of Zachary Taylor

Portrait Gallery Obtains Pastel of Robert E. Lee

Smithsonian Schedules January 29th Opening for New Renwick Gallery
of Design, Crafts

Michigan “‘Friends” Help Smithsonian Preserve Memory of President
Arthur

Smithsonian Art Museum To Show Karl Schrag Print Retrospective

Press Preview— Renwick Gallery

MacAgy Named Exhibition Curator for Opening of Hirshhorn Museum

Bust of Architect James Renwick To Be Presented to Smithsonian

Peter Hoover Will Perform in Folklore Concert Jan. 14

Lucy M. Stanton Portrait of “‘Uncle Remus’”’ Author Given to NPG

Press Preview—Greenland: Arctic Denmark

Freer Gallery To Present Exhibition of Persian Art

Air Force Art on Display in Smithsonian Air Museum

253

5 Nov.

5 Nov.

5 Nov.
8 Nov.
10 Nov.
10 Noy.

12 Nov.
15 Nov.

16 Nov.
19 Nov.

22 Nov.
9h
22 Nov.
23 Nov.
23 Nov.

22 Nov

24 Nov.

24 Nov.

24 Nov.
29 Nov.

30 Nov.
2 Dec.

5 Dec:

8 Dec.
i Dec:
15 Dec.
22 Dec.
22 sDec:
22 Dec:
23 Dec-

28, Dec:

29 Dec.

4 Jan.
4 Jan.
5 Jan.
6 Jan.
6 Jan.
7 Jan.
7 Jan.
ivan:
11 Jan.

71
71

aA
71
Te
eal

71
71

71
7A

nm

a4
71
fA

71

71

al
71

71
71

71
pA
a
aA
vA
7A
71
71

71

v4
a2
72
72
72
I2
72
72
72
72
254 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Historic Zuni, Acoma Pottery Will Be Shown in 1st Exhibit Honoring
American Indian Arts

Major Opening Exhibition at Renwick Gallery Will Spotlight Furniture

Frederick Carder’s 80-Year Achievement in Glassmaking To Be
Celebrated With Exhibit at Renwick

New, High-Quality Volumes on Freer Art Now Available

Showing of Architectural Photographs at Renwick To Document
U.S. Heritage

“Design Is...’ Exhibition Ranges from Indian War Club to Plastics

Music from Marlboro Artists To Perform at Smithsonian Feb. 5

Eureka! Will Begin Extended Run at Smithsonian Puppet Theatre on
March 15

Symbolism in Yuan Paintings Is Subject of Freer Lecture

William Eilers Appointed Director of Smithsonian Environment Office
Portrait Gallery Exhibit To Focus on History of D.C. Black Community

New Mark Twain Portrait Added to NPG Collection

Neighborhood Museum Exhibit Relates History of Anacostia

Eighth Annual Link Lecture To Be Held at Smithsonian

Museum of History and Technology To Show Early Mine Rescue
Equipment

Electronic Musician Steve Reich Will Perform at Renwick Gallery

GE Donates Early Carrier-Current Telephone to Smithsonian Museum

Radiation Biology Lab to Sponsor Lectures on Genetics, Evolution

Smithsonian Announces Plans for Maritime Hall at National Museum
of History and Technology

Bill Williams Will Perform in Folklore Society Concert

Portrait of Temperance Leader Given to Smithsonian Gallery

History and Technology Museum To Exhibit Memorabilia of Washington

and Lincoln

Smithsonian’s Annual Folklife Festival Set for June 30 to July 4 in
Washington

Background—Japanese Attack Balloon

Portraits of 80 Presidential Candidates Displayed in Major Spring
NPG Exhibition

Environmental Law Course To Be Held at Smithsonian

Swedish Environmentalist To Speak at Smithsonian

March 2 Conference To Consider Study of World Growth Problems

Smithsonian To Stage 3 Forums on History, Meaning of Science

National Collection of Fine Arts Stages One-Month Showing of
Contemporary Art

Smithsonian Exhibit Will Trace Colorful History of Ballooning

“French Chef” Julia Child Will Give Cooking Demonstration at
Smithsonian

Guitar Player Jon Wilcox To Perform at Smithsonian

National Collection of Fine Arts To Show 60 Drawings by Glackens

D.C. Grade School Art To Be Shown at National Collection of Fine
Arts

Landscape Show at NCFA Will Honor Centennial of National Park
System

Smithsonian To Present ‘‘Music from Marlboro”

New Archeological Discoveries Seen in Chinese Film at Freer

Nixon Portrait Unveiled Today

13 Jan.
13 Jan.

13 Jan.
13 Jan.

14 Jan.
14 Jan.
17 Jan.

17 Jan.
17 Jan.
19 Jan.
20 Jan.
20 Jan.
24 Jan.
25 Jan.

26 Jan.

26 Jan.
26 Jan.
28 Jan.

28 Jan.
1 Feb.
1 Feb.

2 Feb.

3 Feb.
4 Feb.

9 Feb.
9 Feb.
9 Feb.
14 Feb.
15 Feb.

15 Feb.
16 Feb.

23 Feb.
23 Feb.
24 Feb.

25 Feb.

28 Feb.
29 Feb.
3 Mar.
3 Mar.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

World War II V-Mail Camera Given To Museum of History &
Technology

Hirshhorn Museum To Receive $7 Million in Additional Art Works
from Benefactor

Walter Hopps To Organize Exhibition for 36th Venice Art Biennial
in June

Textile Designer Will Be Accorded Retrospective by Renwick Gallery

National Collection of Fine Arts Will Exhibit Protest, Put-on
Paintings by 2 American Indians

National Collection of Fine Arts To Hold Exhibition as Memorial
to Edith Halpert

Freer Lecturer Will Discuss Paintings of ‘‘Three Laughers”

Exhibition of Portraits and Campaign Items Will Open May 3 at
National Portrait Gallery

National Portrait Gallery Will Spotlight Defeated Presidential
Candidates 1796-1968

Koss Stereo Headphones Presented To Museum of History &
Technology

Balloon Exhibit Features Unusual Philatelic Items

Woodrow Wilson Center Appoints New Fellows

Woodrow Wilson Center Seminars Will Examine Political System

World War I Fighter Aircraft Highlighted in New Exhibit

Background on the World War I Fighter Plane Exhibit

Musical Weekend in D.C. Offered by Smithsonian

Irwin Will Speak at Freer on Indian Art Masterpiece

Old, New, Electric Ranges Contrast at Smithsonian

National Collection of Fine Arts Showing 17 Oils by Folk Painter

Military Power May Not Be Applicable to World Problems of ’70’s,
Vance Says

Local, National Kite Contests Set for April 1 at Monument

Smithsonian Museums Start Evening Hours

Background—Exhibit Techniques

“Lost” Stuart Portrait of John Adams Acquired by National
Portrait Gallery

Graphics by J. Alden Weir To Be Shown at Smithsonian’s
National Collection

Music by American Indian Composer To Be Played at Smithsonian
Museum

Smithsonian Balloon Show Holds Attractions for Numismatists

Wilson Center Sets May 1 Deadline for Applications

Exhibit Surveys Rich Culture of 5 Ancient Arabian Kingdoms

Smithsonian Exhibits Statuette, Plaque for “‘Fallen
Astronauts”

Puppet Theater Will Bring Land of Oz to Smithsonian

British Singers To Perform in Folklore Society Concert

Paul Perrot Named Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs

World Health Exhibit Opens April 7 at Museum of History &
Technology

Odd Places Hold Clues to Peril of Toxic Metals in Environment

Air Museum Acquires Bust of Record-Holding Pilot

Wendell Castle To Give Illustrated Talk on Furniture at
Renwick Gallery

255

7 Mar.

7 Mar.

9 Mar.
10 Mar.

10 Mar.

13 Mar.
13 Mar.

17 Mar.

17 Mar.

17 Mar.
2
e722
52
21 Mar.
22 Mar.
23 Mar.
23 Mar.
23 Mar.
3 12?

20 Mar
21 Mar
21 Mar

23 Mar

24 Mar

29 Mar.

29 Mar.

29 Mar.
30 Mar.
31 Mar.
31 Mar.

72

i

72
72

72

72
72

d2

2

WZ

72
72
a2
72
72

iP}
24 Mar.
27 Mar.
29 Mar.

[2
72
72

V2
72
72
72

12
122

4 April 72
4 April 72

4 Apr.
4 Apr.

4 Apr.
6 Apr.
6 Apr.

6 Apr.

fb
72

72
q2
122

G22

256 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |

National Collection of Fine Arts Plans See-and-Do Day for
Children on May 13

Colonial Bed Rug on Exhibition at History & Technology Museum
Ceramic Exhibition Shows Traditional Craftsmanship by Contemporary

Artists

Folklife Researchers Discover Greece in Downtown Baltimore

Museum Reopens Exhibition of Korean Village Culture

2-Hour Movie Programs on Restoration Scheduled at Renwick
Gallery April 18

Lecture on Renwick Gallery Planned at National Collection on
May 20th

NPG Historian Speaks at Peale Birthplace Dedication

Folk Musician Bill Vanaver To Perform at Smithsonian

Work of 6 Artists Will Be Exhibited in U.S. Pavilion at
Venice Biennale

Rhode Island School of Design Students To Give Sculpture
Demonstrations, Show at Art Museum

Smithsonian To Dedicate Urn to First Landscape Architect

National Portrait Gallery’s Catalog of American Portraits

Catalog of American Portraits—Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

New Mixed Media Educational Resources Produced for National
Portrait Gallery

Nigerian Potter To Give Demonstration of Her Art at Renwick
Gallery on May 6

Smithsonian Offers Photos of Ling-Ling, Hsing-Hsing

Presidential Candidates, Pundits, Politicians Invited to
Opening of NPG “If Elected...’’ Show

Smithsonian Handbook Explains How To Start Historical Farms

Climbers Scale Mt. McKinley To Pick Up Trash at 17,000

Drugs: A Special Exhibition

Wildlife Ecologists Claim Benefit From Some Controlled Forest
Fires

Martin Williams Will Lecture on Jazz May 6 at Smithsonian

Indian Writer, Philosopher To Lecture on Gandhi May 10

Archeology of Malta, Western Mediterranean To Be Illustrated
in Lecture at Smithsonian

Textiles Display at Renwick Gallery Will Demonstrate “The
Swedish Touch”

Tooth Fantasy Exhibit Opens May 19 at Museum of History and
Technology

Statement by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution

Ethnic Food Will Be Highlight of Smithsonian Folk Festival

Smithsonian Special Exhibition Puts Drug Use in Social
Context

Special Activities To Accompany Smithsonian Exhibition
on Drugs

Indians of Southwest Will Demonstrate Cultural Heritage at
Folklife Festival

Voices of Bryan, Debs, Al Smith Now Heard at National Portrait
Gallery

New Policy Adopted for Investment of Smithsonian Endowment Funds

6 Apr. 72
6 Apr. 72

6 Apr. 72

6 Apr. 72
12 Apr. 72
12 Apr. 72
14 Apr. 72
14 Apr. 72
19 Apr. 72
19 Apr. 72
20 Apr. 72
21 Apr. 72
21 Apr. 72
21 Apr. 72
24 Apr. 72

25 Apr.72 |
26 Apr. 72

27 Apr. 72
28 Apr. 72
28 Apr. 72
28 Apr. 72
1 May 72
2 May 72
2 May 72
3 May 72
4 May 72
9 May 72

9 May 72
9 May 72

10 May 72
11 May 72
11 May 72

11 May 72
11 May 72

APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Curator of Stockholm Craft Museum To Lecture on Modern Swedish
Textiles at Renwick Gallery

Guitarist To Play Flamenco Concert at National Collection of
Fine Arts

Film Maker L.M. Kit Carson Presents New Work at Natural History
Auditorium

Background: Credits

Scholars Meet in Cairo To Focus Attention of Anthropologists
on Problems of World Concern

Smithsonian Puppet Theatre Will Bring Back Tom Sawyer

Smithsonian Seeks Student Volunteers To Serve as Tour Guides
During Summer

Live Insects To “Perform” for Smithsonian Visitors

Three Citizen Members Appointed to Smithsonian Board of Regents

Arvid Pardo, Lincoln Gordon Named Wilson Center Fellows

John E. Anglim, Smithsonian Exhibits Director, Dies

“Space Art” by Bonestell on Display at Smithsonian

Washington Artist Adam Peiperl To Show Light Sculptures at
Smithsonian

Bronze Bust of Walter Reuther Will Be Given to the NPG

Smithsonian, Folklore Society Will Present Concert of
Southern Mountain Music June 9

- Union Workers Will Demonstrate Skills at Folklife Festival

June 30-July 4

_ Smithsonian To Stage 3rd Annual Boomerang Workshop & Competition

M-G-M, Disney Highlights Recall Heyday of Movie Musicals in
Smithsonian Exhibit

Smithsonian Names Miss Scott To Direct Air Museum Library

Smithsonian Personnel Office Offers Learning Lab for Staff

_ Lorton’s Inner Voices, Panel on Historic Perspective Highlights
of June Drug Activities at Smithsonian

Private Collectors To Show Prizes in Washington Print Club
Exhibit

Ecology, Attica, Africa, Food Are Themes in Art Exhibit by
D.C. Junior High Pupils

Public Exhibition of Prints To Be Held at Swiss Embassy

Unusual Annual Report Outlines 1971’s Offbeat Natural Events

_ RCA Gives Grant to Smithsonian for U.S. Art Exhibit in Venice

Former Aide To Give Smithsonian Talk on Frederick Carder, Genius
of Glass

What Is a Monotype Print? Art Exhibit To Give Answer

Gold & Silver Botanical Sculptures on Display in Smithsonian
Gem Hall

' National Collection of Fine Arts To Show 70 Prints, Watercolors
of American Fauna

Maryland Police Captain Will Give Own Time To Talk to
Smithsonian Visitors about Drugs

Record Number of Acquisitions Added to National Portrait Gallery
Collection

Panel at Smithsonian Will Examine Socio-Cultural Patterns of
Drug Misuse

pai |

12 May 72
12 May 72

12 May 72
15 May 72

17 May 72
18 May 72

18 May 72
18 May 72
19 May 72
23 May 72
23 May 72
25 May 72

25 May 72
25 May 72

25 May 72

30 May 72
30 May 72

30 May 72
30 May 72
30 May 72
30 May 72
1 June 72
1 June 72
1 June 72
2 June 72
2 June 72

2 June 72
2 June 72

6 June 72
6 June 72
9 June 72
9 June 72

13 June 72
258 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

Concert of American Music To Be Played in Courtyard of
Smithsonian Art Museum

First-Day Stamp Talks To Open at Smithsonian

The Smithsonian’s NCFA and Renwick Gallery List Exhibit
Schedules

“Ethics of Addiction” Topic of Smithsonian Panel July 10

Rosenblatt Honored

Smithsonian Appoints Euell Acting Assistant Secretary

Early Films of Presidential Candidates Shown Daily at
National Portrait Gallery

Special Exhibition of Political Cartoons Now on Display at
NPG

Smithsonian Institution Appoints Robert Brooks Assistant
Secretary

Films at the Festival of American Folklife us

Smithsonian Names Archie Grimmett To Direct Equal Employment
Office

Parks Centennial Honored by Show at Smithsonian

Smithsonian Receives Islamic Archives

New Dining Facility at Smithsonian Building Will Offer
Moderately Priced Natural Food

National Collection of Fine Arts To Honor Centennial of National
Parks with Exhibit

The Marvelous Land of Oz Returns to Smithsonian Puppet Theatre

Statement by George Meany

Smithsonian To Get Plates Marking Confederate Era

“Radio Smithsonian” Programs

JULY 1971

14 June 72
14 June 72

15 June 72
16 June 72
16 June 72
20 June 72

20 June 72

20 June 72

21 June 72
21 June 72

22 June 72
22 June 72
22 June 72

23 June 72

26 June 72
27 June 72
27 June 72
29 June 72

“What IS the Archives of American Art?” Garnett McCoy, Deputy Director and
Archivist. “Behind the Scenes,” with Ted Mack, for years the host of the “Original

Amateur Hour.”

_ How About a Change of Face?” Dr. Blair Rogers, plastic surgeon. “How to Protect
Your Painting,’ Charles Olin, Head Conservator for the National Collection of

Fine Arts and the National Portrait Gallery.

“Government and the Press, Part I.” A panel of journalists and government officials

discusses their relationship today.

“Government and the Press, Part II.” A panel discussion of possibilities for the

future.

AUGUST 1971

“Sing for Your Votes.” A short history of campaign songs from 1800 to 1968, with

Herbert Collins, Curator of Political History.

“A Zoo for Insects,” Dr. Ronald Goor of the National Museum of Natural History.
“How Do You Serve Your Soup?” A look at soup tureens with Bill Parker,

President of the Campbell Museum.

“Folk Concert.” West Virginian Franklin George and some of his friends play tunes

on the dulcimer, the banjo, and the fiddle.

“The Prevalence of Ritual.” Artist Romare Bearden talks about black life as reflected
in his work. “Prints as Art,’ Jacob Kainen, artist and consultant to the National

Collection of Fine Arts.

|

APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS 259

“Concert.” Catharina Meints and James Caldwell, violists da gamba, and James
Weaver, harpsichord, playing works by Ste.-Colombe and Marais.

SEPTEMBER 1971

“Creating an Exhibit.” How a Smithsonian exhibit comes into being, from
conception to realization.

“The 1971 Festival of American Folklife, Part I.”

“The 1971 Festival of American Folklife, Part II.”

“Charles Lang Freer as Collector.” Dr. Thomas Lawton, Curator of Chinese Art at the
Freer Gallery of Art, talks about the Gallery’s distinguished and dedicated
founder. “The Improbable Creator of an Improbable Institution,’ with Dr.
Nathan Reingold, Editor of the Joseph Henry Papers, Smithsonian Institution, on
the subject of the germinal early days of the now 125-year-old Smithsonian.

OCTOBER 1971

“The Gagliano Trio.” A Smithsonian concert featuring the Trio in C Minor by
Beethoven, performed by Jacqueline Anderson, violin; Lane Anderson, cello; and
Helen Hollis, piano.

*“A Visit with the Spider Lady.” Mrs. Anne Moreton tells how you can learn to love
spiders. ‘What Does a Microlepidopterist Do?” with Dr. Gates Clarke, Senior
Entomologist at the National Museum of Natural History.

“Street, Blues, and Gospel Music of Washington, D.C.” Excerpts from a concert
presented at the Smithsonian.

“You and Your Teeth,’ with Dr. Lucile St. Hoyme, Curator of Physical
Anthropology. “The Center for Short-Lived Phenomena,” explained by Robert
Citron, Director.

“Can They Survive?” A report on endangered species of wildlife and the efforts being
made to protect them.

NOVEMBER 1971

“Can They Survive? Part II.” A report on endangered species of wildlife and the
efforts being made to protect them.

“The Concentus Musicus of Vienna,” under the direction of Nikolaus Harnoncourt,
in a program of music by Bach.

“A Conversation with Dr. Louis S.B. Leakey.” The distinguished anthropologist talks
about his discoveries and theories concerning the evolution of man.

“The Tower of London and its Treasures,” with Howard Blackmore, Assistant Master
of the Armouries at the Tower. ‘“‘Ask a Simple Question...” and get an answer from
an expert at the Smithsonian.

DECEMBER 1971

“Social Customs in the Animal World,” with Dr. Martin Moynihan, Director of the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. “Spanish Armor in Kansas?” Dr. Waldo
Wedel of the National Museum of Natural History discusses his finds.

“Portraits—History or Art?” with Marvin Sadik, Director of National Portrait Gallery.
“Postmark: Smithsonian.’’ Carl Scheele, Curator of Postal History, tells about the
reconstructed 19th century post office in operation at the Smithsonian.

“Presidents on Wheels.” Some fascinating stories about Presidents and their vehicles,
with Herbert Collins, Curator of Political History. “Ecology Is Nothing New,” with
Dr. G. Evelyn Hutchinson, who has spent his life studying the environment.

260 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972

“Saving the Asian Lion.” An interview with Michael Huxley, Special Assistant to the
Smithsonian’s Assistant Secretary for Science. ““Ask a Simple Question...” and get
an answer from a Smithsonian expert.

JANUARY 1972

“Concert: The Concentus Musicus, Vienna,” under the direction of Nikolaus
Harnoncourt, in a program of Italian baroque music.

“‘The Middle East: What’s Really Hapening?” A discussion with Dr. Amos Perlmutter,
Fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and Dr. Abdul
Said, Professor at the American University School of International Service.

“Folk Concert,” featuring Grant Rogers, folksinger, fiddler, and guitarist.

“The Renwick: A Showcase for American Design.” Interview with Lloyd Herman,
Director of the Renwick Gallery, the newest of the Smithsonian’s branches.
“Perception and Society,” with Dr. Robert Livingstone, Visiting Professor at Brain
Research Institute of the University of Zurich.

“Life Among the Chimps.” Dr. Jane van Lawick-Goodall talks about some of the
striking discoveries she has made about chimpanzees over the past decade.

FEBRUARY 1972

“Rodin: True or False.’ Kirk Varnedoe of the National Gallery of Art explains how
you can tell a real Rodin drawing from the many fake ones. “Carbon Dating: What
Is It?” Dr. Robert Stuckenrath of the Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory
tells how he determines the age of organic remains.

“Folk Concert.” A program of old-time fiddle music.

“Exploring the Meaning of Discovery.” with Dr. Melvin Jackson, Curator of Maritime
Transportation, and Dr. Wilcomb Washburn, Director of the Smithsonian’s Office
of American Studies.

“Listening to Brain Waves.” Dr. Reginald Bickford, a neurophysiologist, discusses
and plays recordings of “‘brain music.” “Cotton Comes to America.” Mrs. Grace
Cooper of the Division of Textiles talks about Samuel Slater, considered the father
of the American textile industry.

MARCH 1972

“Concert.” Malcolm Bilson plays music for the fortepiano.

“A Conversation with Dr. Edward Teller.”

“How Birds Communicate,“ with Dr. Gene Morton of the Smithsonian Chesapeake
Bay Center. “The Art of John Held, Jr.” Mrs. Held talks about her late husband,
the creator of the flapper cartoons of the 1920s.

“Science at the Smithsonian.” An interview with Dr. David Challinor, Smithsonian’s
Assistant Secretary for Science. “Israel: An Archeologist’s Dream,” with Dr.
Avraham Biran, Director of the Department of Antiquities and Museums of Israel,
and Dr. Gus Van Beek, Smithsonian Curator of Old World Anthropology.

APRIL 1972

“Folk Concert.” Alan Jabbour and Pete Hoover playing fiddle and banjo.

“How to Live ina Stately Home and Stay Solvent.’ An interview with Lord Montagu
of Beaulieu, owner of one of England’s most impressive mansions. ‘“‘Ecolibrium.”
Dr. Athelstan Spilhaus, Chairman, American Association for the Advancement of
Science, discusses his thoughts on maintaining an environmental balance.

“Ballooning: Man’s First Step into the Air,’ with Roger Pineau, historian for the
Smithsonian’s new exhibit on ballooning, and Constance Wolf, holder of the major
world’s records for women balloonists.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLIC AFFAIRS 261

“Concert.” The Danzi Woodwind Quintet of Amsterdam.

“Latest Discoveries at Lake Rudolf.” Dr. Richard Leakey talks about his newest
findings concerning man’s ancestors. “A Global View of the Human
Environment,” interview with Swedish statesman Rolf Edberg.

MAY 1972

“Underwater Treasure.” Mendel Peterson, Curator of Historic Archeology, discusses
treasures lost by Spanish fleets sailing to and from the New World. “What’s New in
Chinese Archeology?” An interview with Dr. Thomas Lawton, Assistant Director
of the Freer Gallery of Art.

“The Talents of Frank Sinatra.” Music critic Henry Pleasants explains why he
considers Sinatra ‘“‘a great vocal artist.”

“World War I Fliers.”” General E.P. Curtis, USAF Retired, recalls his experiences as a
pilot during World War I. “The French Chef Off Camera.” Julia Child discusses her
life as TV’s leading chef.

“Congress and Foreign Policy.” Discussion between Alton Frye, Fellow of the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and Henry Brandon,
Washington correspondent for the London Sunday Times.

JUNE 1972

“Concert.” Sonya Monosoff, violin, Judith Davidoff, cello, and James Weaver,
harpsichord, play violin sonatas of Corelli.

“Terms of the Social Contract.” Robert Ardrey, author, discusses the structure of
society with Wilton Dillon, Director of Seminars at the Smithsonian.

“The Also Rans.”’ Lillian Miller, National Portrait Gallery Historian, talks about
candidates who ran for president—and lost. ‘““Are Heavy Metals Dangerous?” with
Dale Jenkins, Director of the Smithsonian’s Ecology Program.

“Where is the Melody?” Martin Williams, noted jazz critic and Director of the
Smithsonian’s Jazz Program, discusses and illustrates jazz fundamentals.
Appendix 9

SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS

National Museum of History and Technology

PERMANENT EXHIBITIONS
Hall of Monetary History and Medallic Art

Beekeeping Graphic Arts
Electricity Phase II 1864 Post Office

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

A Children’s World 1875-1950 Art and Physics—Adam Pieperal
(Sears Toy Collection) Micro Film
American Holidays Exhibit— National Parks Centennial (Philately)
Christmas Objects of the Month
Explorers Slovenians in America
Fourth of July World Health Organization
Labor Day Why Teeth?
Thanksgiving
Washington/Lincoln

National Museum of Natural History
PERMANENT EXHIBITIONS

Our Restless Planet (Physical Geology)

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Animal Artists Insect Zoo

Arabia Felix Archeology Japanese Armor

Baird Exhibit (Rotunda) Korean Village

Fisheries Spanish Burial

Greenland: Arctic Denmark Spider Lady
(Traveling Exhibit)

National Air and Space Museum

Air Force Art Show Lunar Rover Vehicle

Apollo 15 Pre-Flight Mategot Tapestry

Apollo 16 Pre-Flight Recent Acquisitions Exhibit
Ballooning Vertical Flight

Bonestell Art Show World War I Fighter Aircraft

Fallen Astronaut

262
APPENDIX 9. SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS

National Collection of Fine Arts

Boris Anisfeldt: 20 Years of Designs
for the American Theatre

Drawings by William Glackens

Edith Gregor Halpert Memorial
Exhibition

J. Alden Weir, An American
Printmaker

Jennie Cell Paintings

John Steuart Curry: Theme and
Variations

Lee Gatch

National Collection of Fine Arts
Collection (Contemporary Painting
and Sculpture)

Prints by Karl Schrag
Romare Bearden: The
Prevalence of Ritual
The Art of John Held, Jr:
“The Roaring Twenties”
Thomas Eakins: His Photographic
Works
Two American Painters:
Fritz Scholder and T.C. Cannon
William H. Johnson (SITES)

Renwick Gallery

_ Architectural Photographs of Frank Roos
Design Is

Four Continents

Glass of Frederick Carder

Grand Salon (Permanent)

Index of American Design

Jack Lenor Larsen Retrospective
James Renwick of Washington
Pueblo Pottery

Octagon Room (Permanent)
The Swedish Touch
Woodenworks

Freer Gallery of Art

_ Christian Art

_ Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer

| Memorial Exhibition

_ Exhibition of Japanese Rimpa
school art

Japanese Art—Recent Accessions

Special Exhibition of Japanese
Pottery (RAKU Ware)

2500 Years of Persian Art

National Portrait Gallery

_ A Glimmer of Their Own Beauty
If Elected
Portraits of the American Eagle

Temporary Student Exhibit
Washington in the New Era

Washington from Banneker to Douglass

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Accent ’71

Evolution of a Community, Part I
Science —Man’s Greatest Adventure

National Zoological Park

The Pandas

264 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1972 |,
Smithsonian Building (Great Hall)

125th Anniversary

Arts and Industries Building
(Smithsonian Institution)

Drugs

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Services

A Children’s World 1875-1950 Nutrition in Burundi
(Versions 1, 2, 3) Paleolithic: Paintings of France
Contemporary American Drawings V: and Spain
Norfolk Biennial Swiss Posters: The Best of 1969-1970
Graphics ’71: West Coast U.S.A. The Art of the Comic Strip
Greenland: Arctic Denmark The Graphic Art of Felix Valloton
Indian Images (Version 2) The Monotype: An Addition of One
James Weldon Johnson The Story of a Goblet
Just Before the War UNICEF —Helping the World’s Children
(Versions | and 2) Victorian Glass
Lalihela Vision of Peace in Painting
Movie Palace Modern William H. Johnson

Norway Now: 11 Painters

Appendix 10

PROGRESS ON BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, RESTORATION,
AND RENOVATION

Air and Space Building. Construction of a planetarium exhibit started in April and
is expected to be completed in July.

Arts and Industries Building. Decking the northwest range was completed in
February. Painting the east hall and the rotunda was completed in April. In June
sewage systems were completed to effect sanitary and storm sewer separation,
contracts were let for decking the west-north range, construction of offices on the
first floor northwest range was completed, and bids were opened for exterior lighting.

Freer Gallery of Art. Sewage systems were completed in June to effect sanitary
and storm sewer separation.

History and Technology Building. Bids were opened in June to extend the
sanitary sewer on the north side.

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Construction continued but
various unforeseen delays have extended the expected completion date.

National Air and Space Museum. The National Capital Planning Commission
approved the design concept for the new building and working drawings were in
progress at the close of the year. All possible steps are being taken to complete
construction in time for the Bicentennial of the American Revolution.

National Zoological Park. No major construction projects were completed during
the year. Ground was broken for an annex to the Hospital and Research Building,
which is scheduled for completion late in 1972. An emergency construction need
arose when the Zoo was designated to receive the two giant pandas. As suitable
quarters were not available, some animals were transferred from one of the Delicate
Hoofed Stock buildings and two large cages were remodeled. At year’s end the entire
building and associated outdoor paddocks were being remodeled for the pandas.

The Zoo’s perimeter fence was rehabilitated; the old hospital building, originally a
cookhouse, was remodeled for use by the Division of Interpretation; necessary
changes were made in Paddock 8 to receive the bongos, displaced by the giant
pandas; and new fencing was erected for a large crane yard. A trial section of the Bird
House roof was repaired to correct leaks; the balance will be completed in fiscal year
1197/3).

Natural History Building. In April a contract was awarded to expand the Library’s
facilities and completion is expected in July.

Renwick Gallery. In January work was completed on replacing sidewalk and
stairs, providing exterior lighting, cleaning and sealing main stone staircase, altering
and renovating a portion of the interior, providing glass etching for main entrance,
marbleizing main stairwell, painting interior and exterior, and birdproofing the

- building. In May, manufacture of an ornamental railing for the roof was completed

and exterior brickwork was cleaned.

Silver Hill Facility. In June bids were opened for improvement of the sewage
system, a contract was awarded for construction of the Ramsey Building, and
erection of a wood-frame structure in Building 15 for storing musical instruments was
started with completion expected in July.

Smithsonian Institution Building. In June sewage systems were completed to

effect sanitary and storm sewer separation and bids were opened for exterior lighting.

265
Appendix 11

VISITORS TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION DURING FISCAL YEAR 1972

Smithsonian Arts & Natural Air & Freer History &
Institution Industries History Space Gallery Technology
Building Building Building Building of Art Building

July oe PiSes53 282,174 384,348 213,316 26,286 991,398
AUIBUSE Seren ss 109,696 333,831 405,419 239,506 28,955 884,735
September 44,222 128,100 175,862 88,981 14,544 335 171
October. ee. 57,681 133,853 202,686 87,830 19,232 415,308
November 54,729 1225780 234,469 72,490 13,703 354,048
Wecembere- 25,011 73,946 140,230 32,817 13,029 269,092
WanwaLyiy sic 35,655 77,601 152,484 46,906 125725 PAT NPA
February 4.2... Qian a3 82,438 169,270 66,397 13,226 299,451
March oss.) sec 61,176 164,939 282,872 114,270 22.020, 498,257
April) 35.205 00 107,093 367,519 496,320 141,638 25,032 978,728
Ma Veet sdeccnscrauare 89,024 PAG NOSIS 397,078 Closed 18,901 747,351
TUNE sae oe as ce 92,629 260,834 363,533 Closed 218637 739,713
Totals 818,022 2,299,292! 3,404,571 1,104,151? 229,897 6,790,373"
Fine Arts National Anacostia
& Portrait Renwick Zoological Neighborhood
Month Galleries Gallery Park Museum Totals
July 5 a EN. 0X 24,663 = 695,190 STH lo) 2,734,440
AU SUSE “a is.cinin oot eae tae 18,224 = 650,850 5,086 2,676,302
September <). 5. ioe obese 18,186 = 264,574 3,576 1,073,216
Octo bers .cchereso ahve a) sheeteaeenes 25,241 - 313,141 5,033 1,260,005
INovembere sais sieoeactcne ee 22,819 = 308,093 4,922 1,188,054
December, =. wee cya ers 17-930 - 84,178 9,654 665,888
WAN WAL Weaier sth ec fa oe aes 20,491 11,814 81,340 7,467 723,604
BICDEUALY: soscac Gn sels oe iceus 63 16,270 29,576 171,124 7,682 883,187
Marchumatyn act not crocice 20,071 21,524 457,312 13,788 1,656,836
ADEA Ss kas Sry s reer rer eters 20,364 16,676 957,402 6,393 31 L 7216s
MIB YE Va csc: toheveps: «ralensuenavebevever aie 23,602 12,547 1,160,138 4,974 2,724,891
UNIS Sk. deroeeuee oro a totes 18,334 12,744 699,796 2,691 252 IrOn
Wotals) soni. k eae: 246,196 104,881* 5,843,138  74,978° 20,915,4998

1increase due to extended night hours and to the wide interest in new exhibits opened during the
year, including: the balloon and World War I halls, the drug exhibit and its associated activities, and
the lunar module.
Decrease due to building being closed in May and June for installation of planetarium exhibit.
Increase partially due to popularity of Headsville, West Virginia, Post Office Special Exhibit.
Gallery opened in January 1972.
40,357 adults and children visited museum; the mobile unit was viewed by 34,621 children at
their schools.

Increase of 7,114,291 visits is partially due to the Folklife Festival and to the inclusion of visits
to the National Zoological Park and the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. This total does not include
over 4,000,000 persons who visited the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service’s displays
in museums and educational institutions throughout the United States and Canada.

4
5

266

ee | Se
Toa

UT

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and three Secretaries
Emeritus of the Institution at the celebration of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
Freer Gallery of Art, 2 May 1973. The Secretaries and their terms of office,
reading from left to right, are Leonard Carmichael (1953-1964), S. Dillon Ripley
(1964— ), Charles G. Abbot (1928-1944), and Alexander Wetmore (1945-—
1952). Photograph by Margaret Thomas, courtesy The Washington Post.
Smithsonian Year
1973

ANNUAL REPORT, OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOR WHE YEAR ENDED 30; [UNE-1973

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

City of Washington
1973
SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 5013

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 67-7980

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402—Price $3 (paper cover) |
Stock Number: 4700-00292 |
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men.” In receiving the
property and accepting the trust, Congress determined that the
federal government was without authority to administer the
trust directly, and therefore, constituted an “establishment,”
whose statutory members are “the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”

The Establishment

RICHARD M. Nixon, President of the United States
Sprro T. AGNEW, Vice President of the United States
WarrEN E. Burcer, Chief Justice of the United States
WiLiAM P. Rocers, Secretary of State
GEORGE P. SHULTZ, Secretary of the Treasury
JAMES R. SCHLESINGER, Secretary of Defense
E.tiot L. RICHARDSON, Attorney General
| ELMER T. KLAssEN, Postmaster General
| Rocers C. B. Morton, Secretary of Interior
Earu L. Butz, Secretary of Agriculture
FREDERICK B. DENT, Secretary of Commerce
PETER J. BRENNAN, Secretary of Labor
| Caspar W. WEINBERGER, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
| James T. Lynn, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
CLAUDE S. BRINEGAR, Secretary of Transportation

Board of Regents and Secretary

Presiding Officer ex officio

Regents of the Institution

Executive Committee

The Secretary
Under Secretary
Assistant Secretaries

Treasurer

30 June 1973

vi

RICHARD M. Nixon, President of the
United States, Chancellor

WarREN E. BurGER, Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor

Sprro T. AGNEw, Vice President of the
United States

J. WiLt1aM FULBRIGHT, Member of the
Senate

Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Sen-
ate

HuGu Scott, Member of the Senate

GEORGE H. MAHON, Member of the
House of Representatives

WiLittAM E. MINSHALL, Member of the
House of Representatives

JOHN J. Rooney, Member of the House of
Representatives

JOHN PauL AusTIN, citizen of Georgia

JOHN NIcHOLas Brown, citizen of Rhode
Island

WILLIAM A. M. BurDEN, citizen of New
York

ROBERT F. GOHEEN, citizen of New Jersey

CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of
Delaware

CaryL P. Haskins, citizen of Washing-
ton GE

A. LEON HIGGINBOTHAM Jr., citizen of
Pennsylvania

Tuomas J. WATSON, JR., citizen of Con-
necticut

James E. WEss, citizen of Washington,
D.C.

WARREN E. BurGER, Chancellor (Board
of Regents)

WILLIAM A. M. BURDEN

CaryL P. HASKINS

James E. Wess (Chairman)

S. DILLON RIPLEY

RoBERT A. BROOKS

David CHALLINOR, Assistant Secretary for
Science

CHARLES BLITZER, Assistant Secretary for
History and Art

JULIAN EUELL, Acting Assistant Secretary
for Public Service

Pau N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for
Museum Programs

T. AMES WHEELER

Contents

hemi thsonanwhustitutiony 966-5 odes. ae ee fs coe cence ooo Cnn oeeee
PMALOEGM RCH EMES AMC TSECHCLALY. Pom sce ccs oa eves ats Shae oe oe etnies ote
EIUCIMEM MACE SCCLELALY, nena tits ctl go 22 sg a costa eels oe, See e eho mee
HIM ATC LAPIN DD OTE tag eee clejani hc cavsig lsh es die Aalleca. ae 1s aioe Gl sieve wy br etepeonle S/o
SKIES ~ cn Sa Ba eet res Bitlet aaah, AE Rnd MEM | op Ce BM Ed Peon ATS Ee oe 8 LE toon
WationalsMuseum ot Natural History) i). 92 S.A WSS ee aw te eee
INAHOR Ale NUE aANG, Space: MUSEUM: | 56655 ad sna anal Re cn oe yal make
Smithsonian Astrophysical 'Observatory  < ..2ss6e27. i Ho oes see ances
Smithsonian ropical Research Institute 2s... 1. fas ov. n.2 oe eee ees
RACHATION DIOlO GY TabOLAtORY | 2 joc sa...tatein soci ay seine s/s ot tas Sine AO
NationalpZ ooo gical Par kaet Gh. t 58s 0 st hes sclalyeatalh oro Sepeteeda ee vic ae Aine He
OfficsoishnvironmentalSciencGes:  ..22 5... .cs ooo ee on ee aes
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies ...................
Senictmomthe otidyiok Mans writs. das vos setwk ad bs o eines clea eee:
Smithsonian Science’ Information‘Exchange;Inc. 25.0.2 oh. oe ea es «
HO Ti LtenCeeD UGA Hy Sates ee eres ea ons aecce ee ee
MAIRCORMRAMO AES S888 No.8 Ar ES OSS, Sek SSID SEM tad aa
National Museum of History and Technology ....................+-5-
PEGI ESTO LEA TING Ie CATIA Li Peisr eather et Metre cue ote Detects ctr hates:
PRCCrAG Allene Ol ATG. 2 2PNs sels Tischer eae aes Bs ake seal keke wd
National GollectiionvofebinesArtsiy +... oad atl toe arecree oe
NHI RPEOGITAe Gallen y 2.0 ihe o-0cie  daiang «ioscan Ree s.c RISES Acie ene
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden ................
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design ...............
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board ....................
lise alamldeminv eb AWGES! Ae" tcc c= eethene «= bide wa sictna aiainiare 2 ioesleras Tae geeN
OiiceoimAMMEnICaAMeStUIGIESY ” aig sine. dss siepacs Sauniey skis, a ses hades Oe Eee
@ fifi ceroneA cad EmmiGiStudiesiae.c at: te eri Sas ors cliaes onesie tee icici
SmmithiconianwlinstitutioneAmeEhives= mans ee -iae acon st ciclainices sieiercien sreisienetea
(OMTES Cie CITI ee peas. seo tn eer eS RRB mnie ornieey Se aration a omiceicretoc
Soc Gira WMSC TMs PE ORE ARS) ovarctoyntc ous la et win es oieas.w wie Se ae Sa ave ine semen
Siithsontanwinstitutionweitbranies! sacs ase ace ea see ees eee soeesoreec
Conmsemation-Analytical Laboratory i. 2.ccis on ae cs ielern oi were vince See a eye
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service ...............--
Oiiicero lathe shea Shiane & rier sors Sone ear o cyohegess fh blow slay ayslarsususiats Seats ae:
AO GFiCeT ORR E KIAOLS EROOLADNSN seo) Bo cscie 2 clo c= ciensici ars stele polyenes
IN MOMaM Nv MIScUIn: Act’ PLOGTAMIG @ -eitecnint ate dlsw,ders els idles tee eee ae
[PAR S BVeSYEIARTES “See ales reece Bln eee ene OCR aT ERAT I ta ce ines PMP Psy
SmaMthisonilamwmASSOCLALGS MEN eA tris sia) eee sho- ae fects ctey Toms Raiein aan ences can ere
@Ofhicero me ub liGeAtitains | soe ee caieie oc o eserve nee, cr Sasuke cares, Coke: Sxaie a enone
GitrcevotelmtennationaleNctivities’ G2.~ «ssc cciiaciee cle coe eons SEO
DamisionvoleherrOnmmimne VAGUS: <25.255 as 02 2t Sacto sin sere 9 ei ohele eas ae
MiacostayNeipanoniood NOUISEMIN 22.24 -cj<l 26 hele ee A cre fsa eee
SSO TIOTE IMA GAZING) ight aus ee rs «= eho 2 aaesaCs ole sewn wi Dm AAS ee tee
Chnnitd norvenal | agi rinistoin Mees See eo RAR OE eee oom coonoro blo bcce
Reading is’ Fundamental, (mg.. ost 25-3 ee eta ee 162

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education ...................+-- 163
Belmont Gonterence Center a4 eee ie oe eee ee eee 164
Administrative Management <0 eiitr-8= a oie ses) ota le = nd= nee teat nie 165

Support ACHVINES 207 danse ee ee Oo cere als eee oe ee 165

International ‘Exchange Service «2.5 29.1. ea c.gsew« «epee owe a ees 172
National Gallery of Art ....00c occ 5 etict ose dea iy de lowes eee 174
john ¥. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts %.. 2.42227 <2 speee ee 177
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars ...............+-.... 182
Appendixes

1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, 30 June 1973 .............. 184
2. Smithsonian Associates Membership, 1972-1973 .............-.-- 186
a. Academic Appointments, 1972-1973 2. satires -= see ere ae 194
4. ‘National Museum: Act Grants, 1972=1973> o201.522. 100: eh eee 204
5. Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program Grants Awarded in Fiscal

Vear 1973: .cccsct cess oe meond ode oaclese Paseo wee dete eee oe eee 207

6. List of Publications Produced with Smithsonian Foreign Currency
Support Since the Inception of the Smithsonian Foreign

Corrency Program: :2):3).029 «is ones ke baee os oases See 210
75 PublicbAttains:.. 2. os iscc secs ete Saee oe Be Eo OO Ie OO Ee 223
8. Publications and Selected Contributions of the Smithsonian Institu-

tion staffinyBiscal’ Year 1973), 22 ego cnc ee ee eee 235

9. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1973 300

LOS} SmithsontiansExhibits® 2...5s eee eee eee eee 307
11. Progress on Building Construction, Restoration, and Renovation .. 310
12. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution During Fiscal Year 1973 .... 312
13. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution, 30 June 1973 ................ 313

Vill

Statement of the Secretary
S. DILLON RIPLEY

Look Backward, Lest You Fail
To Mark the Path Ahead

HESE WORDS ARE USEFUL to remember when you are walking in
the woods. If you keep a line of sight backwards on the trail
along which you have come, leaving various prominent objects in
view, or perhaps blazing the tree trunks, it is often possible to get a
straight bearing forward. It sometimes seems as if we were all in
the woods thinking about the Bicentennial year 1976. What is the
path ahead? Where are we going and where have we come from?
It might be useful to think about what happened in the Cen-
tennial year of 1876. By 1873 there was considerable agitation in
the country to hold a great World’s Fair to commemorate the hun-
dredth anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. In January
1874, President Ulysses S. Grant authorized the creation of a
Centennial Board from the Departments of the Treasury, War,
Navy, Interior, Postmaster General, Agriculture, and from the
Smithsonian to plan a federal exhibition at Philadelphia. Fore-
sightedly as always, Joseph Henry some years before, writing on
the Crystal Palace Exhibition of 1851, had jotted down some
unpublished notes:

It is highly important that we should be truly represented at the great
exhibition but by the proper men and well selected articles. As a general
rule new countries like ours are too much occupied in developing their
immediate resources to devote much thought to the progress of the
world in arts and civilization, but this is not the case with this country.

We have from the first kept a keen eye on every discovery of science
and every invention in art.
He goes on to warn against our tendency to arrogate undue credit
to ourselves in improving and refining inventions which may belong
to others, and warns that our representatives,
should be well acquainted with what has been actually accomplished
as well as with our deficiencies in order that the first may be properly
exhibited without any over or under statement which might tend to
lessen the effect intended to be produced.
This could be a good moral for today. No “puffs” for America,
please.
Following the planning of the Centennial Board, a request to
the Congress for an appropriation produced an authorized budget

]
2 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

of about half what had been thought necessary, to the total sum
of $505,000. In addition to preparing the exhibits, this money was
to include up to $150,000 for the construction of a building in
Philadelphia to house the exhibition. A building was erected for
$60,000 plus landscaping costs, containing 102,000 square feet of
which about a quarter was assigned to the exhibits of the Smith-
sonian and its subsidiary organization, the U.S. Fish Commission
exhibits.

The exhibition covered the agricultural and the mineral king-
doms of the United States, showing the Nation’s resources as then
understood, as well as the animal resources ranging from fish,
whales, and seals to the game animals and birds of the continent,
and their method of capture as well as the products to be made
from them, extending from food to fertilizer, all to sustain human
life. In addition to fur, feathers, bones, teeth, and useful oils to be
derived from these resources, the clothes and equipment of the
hunters whether commercial or amateur were shown. The fish
collections were most elaborate and included plaster casts of species,
realistically colored, as well as a special ‘feature under the manage-
ment of a Mr. E. G. Blackford, a refrigerator covered with a glass
top in which fresh fish “from all portions of the United States”
were kept and changed every day so that some of the restaurants
on the grounds could take the fish at the close of the day and
“serve them up to those calling for them.”

An important part of the exhibit, done in collaboration with
the Indian Bureau of the Interior Department consisted of an
illustration of the past and present condition of the native tribes
of the United States. Ethnologists and anthropologists, including
Major J. Wesley Powell, prepared collections especially for the
Centennial including archaeological remains from tribes from such
places as the southeast coast of California, that had already become
extinct, as well as living tribes from as far north as the Haida
territory, from whence a canoe was procured ‘60 feet long, 8 feet
wide, and 4 feet high, cut from a single log of cedar, profusely
ornamented with carvings and paintings.”’

It had originally been proposed that representatives of living
Indian tribes in family groups would be brought to Philadelphia
with their own clothing, utensils, and dwellings to create a tem-
porary community on the Centennial grounds where they could
all carry on their various occupations, including their “aboriginal”
arts from pottery and silver to the dressing of buffalo hides.
Apparently lack of funds prevented what might have been a useful
demonstration indeed to the aboriginal Easterners of the skills
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 3

and high art of the Indians.

As Professor Baird pointed out in the Smithsonian Report for
1875, “it is quite reasonable to infer that by the expiration of a
second hundred-year period of the life of the American republic
[namely 1976] the Indians will have entirely ceased to present
any distinctive characters, and will be merged in the general
population.”

Despite the lack of living Indians, the Centennial exhibit ended
up being a great success. It was a World’s Exposition in truth. It
exhibited for all to see the resources of our fair land, ready to be
developed and utilized by man, the chosen instrument of the
Creator. Fin, fur, and feathers were all at his disposal, and like a
cupbearer of the gods, of Ceres, Mr. Blackford opened his refrig-
erator each evening and dispensed the natural products of the
seas and lakes for gustatory delectation. And so out of the more
than two hundred varieties shown, we can imagine cod and had-
dock, salmon and lake trout being trundled off to the local restau-
rants on the Centennial grounds.

It was all an immensely popular exhibit, and lasted for six
months, after which the Smithsonian received more than fifty car
loads of material from a number of states and territories of the
U.S.A. as well as thirty-four foreign nations. Subsequently Congress
appropriated $250,000 to build a building adjacent to the Smith-
sonian building on the Mall to house this vast increase of objects
to the collections of the National Museum, and also approved
subsequent donations of duplicate specimens to educational and
industrial establishments throughout the United States.

So much for the World’s Fair of 1876, which appears to have
captured the imagination of the American people. Many of the
objects are still on exhibition in Washington. In 1966, President
Johnson created an American Revolution Bicentennial Commission
to foretell and plan the events surrounding the year 1976. (From
an historical point of view, the Smithsonian views the commemora-
tion of the Revolution as extending over a period of years, at least
from the Virginia Declaration of Rights of 1776 on to Yorktown in
1781.) The Commission this time was an amalgam of presidential
appointees from private life, and ex officio heads of departments,
such as State, Commerce, Health, Education, and Welfare, and
Interior, as well as agencies such as the General Services Admin-
istration, the National Endowment of the Arts and Humanities,
the Library of Congress, and, finally, the Smithsonian. ‘Three chair-
men have served this Commission, the first a museum administrator,
the second a university president, and the third a business executive.
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

The appointed members were often distinguished historians like
Katherine Drinker Bowen and Daniel Boorstin, or people well
versed in the management of tourists and their gustatory needs
like the fine and dedicated George Lang, lineal descendant of Mr.
Blackford. Then there were administrators of historic sites like the
then-Director of the National Park Service, George Hartzog, or the
equally dedicated James Biddle, President of the National Trust for
Historic Preservation.

With the best will in the world the Commission has now
foundered. The first blow was resources, for the Congress did not
allot funds to the embryo Commission for two years. The second
blow to the Nation, in retrospect, was that it was firmly decided
that there would be no World’s Fairs in 1976. A World’s Fair by
the latter part of the Twentieth Century, far from being the 1876
concept of a proud display of technological mastery of a new
continent evoking pride and patriotism from everyone, had degen-
erated into hard-sell show of Disneyland proportions with vast
commercial companies vying with each other to capture fleeting
segments of tourists’ attention with razzle-dazzle multimedia adver-
tising. The Bicentennial Commissioners in solemn assembly listened
to proposals for multibillion-dollar expenditures by such diverse
centers as Boston, Miami, Washington, and Dallas. Philadelphia,
an obvious choice, teetered on the brink of a fair, any sort of fair,
a World’s Fair or a Philadelphia Fair, but finally found that the
citizens of the city itself were against the idea. All proposals were
eventually politely turned down. Not only was the Nation at war,
but the divisiveness of the times was against the lollipop and con-
fetti image of a World’s Fair, and no one could face up to such
vast and untidy budgets.

Why then would I say that giving up the idea of a World’s Fair
was a blow? Because time has seemed to prove the truth of what a
tea planter said to my wife in India in the nineteen fifties, “Why
can American only sell goods and not themselves?” He was speak-
ing about the flood of cheaply produced colorful peasant-directed
literature in native tongues flooding through the coolie lines in
India from Russian sources, so effective in relating the simple
peasant life of the Socialist Republics to the simple peasant lives
of Indian tea workers. American life is at such an unimaginable
standard compared to over seventy-five percent of the rest of the
world that we have no truths to tell such people. We can only sell
them objects or foodstuffs. We cannot sell ideas. In the same way,
we are finding difficulty in listening any more to our own prophets.
Who are they and where are they? Truth is a revolutionary kind

|
|
|
|
:
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 5

of thing. We do not deal any more in revolutions, because we
have garnered more objects to ourselves than we know what to do
with, we have not only conquered the continent with our tech-
nological skill but firmly enslaved it, and unlike Professor Baird’s
prophecy, the Indians are still on the reservations. We have gotten
pretty much what we were striving for one hundred years ago, and
in the pursuit of skills, ease, and happiness have come perilously
near to losing our faith.

In retrospect, then, I, as a Commissioner, might well have
settled for another World’s Fair. After all what is the Fourth of
July all about? We celebrate it with a holiday, with speeches, band
concerts, hot dogs, a day at the beach or a day at the Smithsonian’s
Folk Festival, and end up with a fireworks display. Why not? If
life itself has become something of a put-on, as the young would
have us believe, and truth is no more with us, why not just try to
provide a good time for as many foot-sore tourists as possible and
celebrate the occasion with a big bang and a bust. One good hang-
over deserves another. But the Commission, including myself, voted
down the idea, feeling that solemnity decreed against it, and that
sobriety must be the watchword in such austere times. Thus
several years later, and awaiting the formation of still another
Commission (the first one having been disbanded as an expression
of governmental displeasure) , there is no sensible concept of what
people will find themselves driving to in the summer of 1976.

In any case the Smithsonian knows, as I pointed out last year,
that some thirty-odd million tourists will find themselves inexorably
driving to Washington, D.C., in the year 1976. They want objects
to look at, not vague and wordy evocations of ideas or even
ideals. The Smithsonian and its co-workers in the vineyard of
providing something for everyone in Washington, the National
Park Service, the Library of Congress, the National Archives, and
all the wonderful smaller galleries and cultural centers of the
Nation’s capital, know that vast crowds of quiet, orderly, decent
people will be coming, people who still make up the heart and
soul of our country, as well as our neighbor countries on both
sides of the oceans. They have faith, mirabile dictu, and in them
we are renewed. We see them in all their splendour and diversity
for what they are. We see their honest awe, their love of things,
and their reverence for history, despite the scoffing of the literati.
Teachers are today the first to admit that they have lost a great
deal of their own faith in what they are teaching. Academia is
suffering from a hangover and a new-found inferiority complex.
The world of teaching today is itself in the woods, and as history
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

is not being seriously taught anymore in most places, there is no
way of finding directions by looking backwards for tree blazes in
order to see if the pathway lies ahead or somewhere off in a circle.

In this uncertain climate the Smithsonian is looking ahead firmly
toward our own objectives. We can teach the truth as we know it,
sticking to our lathe, being ever mindful of the past, in fact, rever-
ing the past for the truths it tells us of the path ahead. And so in
the end we are producing our own Bicentennial Fair right in
Washington, without razzle-dazzle, without what Joseph Henry
termed “over statement,” without all the gushy pseudo-emotion-
alism of the advertising media that surrounds public entertainment
today. For example, we are preparing a comprehensive exhibit in
the National Museum of History and Technology on the multi-
plicity of our peoples, shown against the backdrop of immigration.
Who came here and when and how? What were they like? What
did each element provide for the warp and woof of that tapestry
which is ourselves? What were the unities, the divisions of that
coming, and to what extent are the Old World’s ways which they
brought with them still discernible? There is so much to learn about
the truth of this country, so much still to be told. Such truth
should provide us with insights about the future. We can use
them as markers to chart the course ahead. We can of course only
delineate these things, but in their exposition there is a message
which can be absorbed as a teacher teaches. There is also help to
reinforce faith and turn away lies. If lies can be put in perspective,
surely the truth is not far away, and without revolution.

In a sense this exhibit about the diversity of our peoples is re-
flected in most of the Smithsonian activities, beginning in this past
year and continuing under our program until at least 1981.
The National Portrait Gallery opened an exhibit on the black in
the Revolution, The Black Presence in the Era of the American
Revolution, 1770-1800, which received high acclaim. With this
exhibition, the first of a whole program of exhibits geared to
1976, went a masterful work of scholarship, a catalogue by Professor
Sidney Kaplan of the University of Massachusetts, which stands by
itself as a dissertation on the subject. Next year’s exhibit in the
sequence is to be In the Minds and Hearts of the People: Prologue
to Revolution, 1760-1774, with a catalogue by Professor Lillian
B. Miller.

The National Collection of Fine Arts has continued its thought-
ful series of exhibits in the history of American art. As Hilton
Kramer said, speaking of one of the exhibits last year, “Under the
directorship of Joshua C. Taylor, the National Collection has

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 7

emerged as our most responsible museological custodian of Ameri-
can art, addressing itself to those disinterested tasks of scholarship
and connoisseurship that have been spurned by more fashion-
conscious museums elsewhere.” He was referring to the exhibit,
Alfred H. Maurer, 1868-1932.
Another exhibit which received acclaim was The Hand and the
Spirit, which was a pioneer exploration of American religious art.
In this new-found tradition of quiet and assured competence, the
NCFA plans Painting and Sculpture from the Pacific Northwest
for next year, leading to an understanding of the immense range
and strengths of American art. No finer undertaking in its field
could be devised to celebrate the Nation’s first two hundred years.
This past year the National Gallery of Art continued a tradition
of showing archaeological objects as art, this time in the “American”
field, with a seminal show of arts of the Northwestern Indians and
Eskimos. I did not see the “Haida canoe, 60 feet long, 8 feet wide,
and 4 feet high .. . profusely ornamented,” but perhaps size was a
consideration? In any case, Haida objects were there demonstrating
once again the difficulty of discussing such art as “aboriginal.’”” The
line between an object as art and an object as a utensil or a
religious vessel is a transparently slippery one, over which historians
of art feel concerned lest their discipline become watered by sub-
jectivism or the easy assimilation of questionable truths. But to
the audience no matter. Both the aboriginal of yesterday or the
aboriginal in a business suit of today may be possessed of an innate
sense of line and economy of design which produces a satisfactory
esthetic reaction. These shows are wonderful to experience.
This is the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Freer Gallery of Art, “the
aristocrat of American museums,” as John Canaday has described
it. The Freer is the antithesis of the noisy, something-for-everybody

art gallery of today, a fashion into which so many of the largest
art galleries are slipping. How fortunate for Washington and for
| the Smithsonian that we have a Freer.

The first of the Freer’s “Fiftieth” was a splendid Japanese show
of Ukiyoe painting, with a magnificent catalogue underwritten by
friends. At the dinner celebrating the occasion, the formulation of
a group of “Friends of the Freer’? was announced, to help that
gallery seek a modest, largely below-ground addition for temporary
‘exhibits and additional work in curation and conservation. The
Freer will have its mind on ’76, as will the Hirshhorn, scheduled
to be open within the year.

The addition of the National Air and Space Museum to our
“museum mile along the Mall’ will help enhance the appropriate

521-552 O- 74-2
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Bicentennial Fair that Washington will be that summer of 1976.
The history of the conquest of air and space is one of America’s
proudest accomplishments in the years since the Centennial Exhibi-
tion. The exhibits planned for that great building will justify our
intuitive feeling that people are eager to look at objects, to savor
their meaning, and to come away with the sense of having brushed
against history. This is a kind of teaching, a transmission through
the stuff of material culture, of a sense of reality and consequent
excitement which leaves its mark, a step along the learning process.

The central axis of the Arts and Industries building, as we call
that 1879 tribute to the solicitude of Congress toward the artifacts
brought back from Philadelphia in all those freight cars, will be
restored to appear as it mirrored the Centennial. It will be a
delightful as well as an instructive exhibition of where we were in
1876, what our accomplishments represented, what our taste
had become, and what the priorities of the time were. In
addition the Smithsonian plans, in collaboration with foreign
nations and State bicentennial groups, a series of exchange and
traveling exhibits which will circulate outside Washington. Small
exhibits and kits are also planned to be available for communities «
across the country planning their own Bicentennial celebrations.
We hope that these kits will be financed in collaboration with the
National Endowments on the Arts and Humanities, as part of the
support that the Endowments are planning for the nationwide
observance. For certainly many hundreds of smaller cities and
towns will be wanting to have their own celebration, their own fun,
recreate their own sense of time.

To add to the eight museums that will then line the Mall there
will be a two- to three-month Folk Festival of living performers,
describing the persistence of ‘‘old ways in the New World,” with |
sample troupes from countries abroad, as well as groups from |
regions of this country, making things, playing folk and ethnic
music, and showing regional variations. Above all there will be |
many native Americans demonstrating their traditional skills in
crafts, arts, music, and the dance. Indian folklore among the tribes
will be described by native American specialists.

And so one hundred years later, the Smithsonian will be able to_
fulfill the thwarted hopes of Professor Baird for the Philadelphia
Centennial. As he had said at the time, “There is reason ... to
believe that no feature on that occasion would be more interesting
to our own people and to foreign visitors than [this one].”

Thus we in the Smithsonian, with the help of the Park Service, |
and the participating agencies which will be having exhibits, sense |

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9

that Washington will be a world’s fair in 1976. It will just happen
that way. It will be an endlessly fascinating series of exhibits, live
as well as automated and still, that will present a panoramic view
of American life to thirty millions of peoples of the globe. In the
process ideas will be conveyed, for we won't be selling anything.
Looking back, we think we see our way out of the woods. If there
is to be a slogan for the event let it be, Let us prepare at this
Bicentennial for our Tricentennial. And if there is to be a Tricen-
tennial at all, let us hope that by that time the Smithsonian will
be recognized for what it is, the delineator of a continuous chain.
Dean Sayre gave a moving address at the Memorial Service for
the late President Truman at the Washington Cathedral in January
last. He said, “Like a great chain are the generations of man,
linked across the endless span of time.”
Could we not complete the chain of museums on the Mall in
Washington with a final museum, a museum of the Family of Man?
In such a museum we could perhaps transmit something that has
eluded museums as collections of objects. We could show the con-
cept of the creations of the spirit of man, the development of ideas
_which arise in the human species wherever it happens to exist.
Could we show the unity of man as an explorer of ideas—in art,
science, invention—all the stuff of culture, moved by spirit, which
occurs in our species no matter how diverse our environments?

This preoccupation with 1976 has been much in our thoughts
the past year. It is reflected in the premonitory series of exhibits
opened in the art museums. It has had an inordinate share of our
planning. The detailed work of the Museum of History and Tech-
nology’s staff in opening renewed halls and exhibits provides a
foretaste. The results of the disastrous fire in that museum’s exhibit
area in 1970 have now finally been erased with the redoing of the
affected halls. The redesigned space is highly effective, in places
spectular. Among the museum’s other accomplishments has been
the agreement, in collaboration with the National Armed Forces
Museum Advisory Board, to set up the Dwight D. Eisenhower In-
stitute for Historical Research.

The Renwick Gallery continues to attract throngs of people inter-

- ested in its fascinating series of exhibits in the decorative arts.
Work continues in the restoration of the building, and late this
past spring, the cast-iron grillage atop the high-pitched mansard
roof was finally reinstalled to lend the proper fillip to the Ren-
wick’s roofline. We hope to be able to copy the statues of Rubens
/and Murillo that once graced the niches on the west side of the
‘| Gallery. They should provide a romantic adornment to the Seven-

e
10 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

teenth Street elevation.

In New York, the Cooper-Hewitt, our National Museum of
Design, continues with plans and preparations for the restoration
of the Carnegie Mansion at 91st Street and Fifth Avenue. Exhibits,
loan shows, and research keep the small, highly skilled staff of
this Museum working at full pace. Only additional restoration
funds are required for the necessary full-steam ahead.

Archival and historic studies assume an even-larger share of
Smithsonian effort. The Archives of American Art, the Smithsonian
Archives itself, and the National Anthropological Archives are
among the most important in the Nation in the fields of the history
of art and science and of American ethnology. In addition this past
year marked the publication, timed to coincide with the mid-winter
meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, of the first volume of The Papers of Joseph Henry. Great
credit is due Nathan Reingold and his staff for the masterly ground
work in developing this project which, organized under a new
method in such historical series, and highly automated, is planned
to consist of a finite series of volumes, some fifteen or more, to be
published with the expected lifetime of a single editor. The volume
has been very handsomely edited and produced, already winning
acclaim for the Smithsonian Press, and the first reviews have been
most encouraging. The National Academy of Sciences, the American
Philosophical Society, and the National Science Foundation can
all be proud of the part they have taken in supporting this fascinat-
ing project.

In the areas of science, the Smithsonian proved active in the
international field in 1972, serving on a number of committees of
commissions, advising the Government on such diverse matters as
international whaling regulations and endangered species. Close
collaboration continues with the British Royal Society on the
research programs of Aldabra Island in the Indian Ocean, as well
as with a UNESCO-sponsored international consortium in the
administration of the Charles Darwin Foundation and research
station in the Galapagos Islands. Additionally, our interest in the
environmental sciences brings us into touch with cooperative proj-
ects with scholars in the Mediterranean, the Caribbean, northern
South America, and the East from South Asia to Indonesia. The
Institution has developed a considerable competence in ecological
assessment studies, particularly in connection with tropical areas;
and, we have suggested more than once that in any continuing
long-range study of ecological succession and regeneration in such
devastated zones as Southeast Asia, more especially in parts of

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 1]

Vietnam and associated states, the Smithsonian could be helpful
as a coordinating force.

Whether by war or commercial exploitation, tropical areas of
the world are being changed so radically in their environment
today, that comparative ecological studies are already at a very
high priority. Unfortunately, long-term interest in ecological
research largely resides in the minds of specialists in the temperate-
zone countries whose voices make little current impression on their
governments. The tropics of the world today have become a vast
frontier for exploitation by a relentless juggernaut of foreign capital
and the exploitation technology of the developed nations, com-
bined with the inexorable surge of population in the emerging,
less-developed nations. The prospect is horrifying, but by prefer-
ence no one cares. It is perhaps the “‘aprés nous le deluge” syndrome.
The deserts of the Middle East and Southwest Asia, themselves
largely man-made, are inexorably marching across southern Asia.
Laterization of soils, now the increasing curse of central and
northern South America, can be seen as the eventual result of
massive forestry coupled with new agricultural practices in South-
east Asia. The deserts of northern Africa are progressing south and
southwestward as well. Tropical land and soil is fragile compared
to the temperate lands, poorly adapted to respond to modern
agricultural techniques, but long-term warning signs seldom prove
effective in influencing government policies.

While tropical-land environments seem easily influenced by
exploitation, much remains to be learned about the responses of
tropical seas. Such environments may be more resistant by far than
those of the high latitudes, such as the Arctic or Antarctic. Here
again enormously important areas of research remain to be
developed in order to foretell long-term changes either harmful
to or beneficial toward man. Some first important steps have been
taken this past year by the Smithsonian’s Tropical Research Insti-
tute. Much of tropical ecology has a strongly applied flavor in its
relation to the health of man; but, like all ecology, it is a difficult
subject for general human understanding or even for sophisticated
planning because of the seeming impossibility of coming to quick
and tidy conclusions. There are no miracle drugs or instant
panaceas in the study of the environment, as we are discovering
to our dismay. This does not make the subject any less vital, nor
lessen the necessity of assigning priority to its support.

In our international activities a first grant has been approved
by the Congress in the award of dollar funds held in foreign cur-
rencies, in this case Egyptian pounds, in support of the restoration
12 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

of the Temple of Philae inundated by the waters of the Aswan
Dam. It is heartening in the midst of the political disarray of the
relations of our country with the Arab world to find that we can
think objectively about international cultural monuments, part
of the world heritage. How many other nations and national
legislatures can?

A major event of the early spring, 1973, was the fifth Smith-
sonian symposium, this one held in conjunction with the National
Academy of Sciences to celebrate the quincentennial of the birth
of Nicholas Copernicus. In addition to a fine exhibit of Copernican
memorabilia and a number of musical and social events, some of
them sponsored by Mr. Edward J. Piszek of Philadelphia, a series
of illuminating talks and seminars were held before a distinguished
audience by panel speakers in the history of science and in physics.
The results will be published in 1974.

Elsewhere in this report there are detailed accounts of progress
of the science bureaux in the past year. A principal hazard in our
operations has been financial support which has slowed down gen-
erally in the scientific community at the very time that costs have
increased in goods, materials, and services. The Institution con-
tinues to find budget difficulties in administering support services
for its science departments, but this area still has our highest
priority. During the past year a useful seminar held at the Belmont
Conference Center on Institution goals reaffirmed the principal of
support services being at the top of our list of future needs. A
notable improvement in the past year has been the organization
of the Office of Protection Services which is headed by Mr. Robert
B. Burke. This office directs the Institution’s health, safety, and
security programs. In 1972 the Smithsonian won the President’s
Safety Award.

Several major staff changes have occurred during the past year.
Professor Fred L. Whipple has retired as Director of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, although not as professor in
Harvard University. His vital work for the Smithsonian stretches
back to 1955, when the two laboratories first were conjoined in a
common program of research. As Director, he is being succeeded
by Professor George Field, formerly of the University of California.
Dr. Richard S. Cowan has retired as Director of the National
Museum of Natural History to resume his active role in the
Department of Botany, and has been succeeded by Dr. Porter M.
Kier, Chairman of the Department of Paleobiology. Dr. Martin H.
Moynihan is stepping down after eleven years as Director of the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and will be succeeded by

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 13

the present Assistant Director, Dr. Ira Rubinoff. Dr. Adair Fehl-
mann has succeeded Dr. Eugene Wallen (Acting Director) as
Director of the Fort Pierce Bureau in Florida. Colonel John H.
Magruder III, Director of the National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board, died tragically by drowning in the autumn of
1972, and has been succeeded as Director by Mr. James S. Hutchins.
Mrs. Janet W. Solinger has been appointed Director of the Resident
Associates Program. Mr. Benjamin H. Read has resigned as Director
of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars to
become President of the new German Marshall Fund of the
United States.

In the central administration of the Institution, Dr. Robert A.
Brooks has been named Under Secretary, Mr. Julian T. Euell
was appointed Acting Assistant Secretary for Public Service; Mrs.
Margaret C. Gaynor was appointed Congressional Liaison for the
Institution; Mr. Richard Griesel was appointed Business Manager
for the Smithsonian revenue-producing activities; Mr. James A.
Mahoney became Director of Exhibits Central under the Assistant
Secretary for Museum Programs; and Mr. Edward H. Kohn
became Deputy Director for Administration at the National Zoo-
logical Park.

On May 16, 1973, Lewis A. Lapham succeeded Thomas J. Watson,
Jr., as Chairman of the National Board of the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates, a group of twenty-seven industrial and citizen leaders com-
mitted to assisting the Institution to extend its appeal to business
organizations for private financial support. The Board held their
second annual meeting at the Smithsonian on November 9, 1972.
In February, six members accompanied me to the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute for an introduction to research being
conducted by Smithsonian scientists in the Panama Canal Zone.

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates com-
pleted a most successful year under the energetic chairmanship of
Mrs. Helen Belding Smith. The Committee’s services benefited the
public and several Smithsonian organizations. The popular Free
Film Theater was revived for the enjoyment of lunch-hour visitors,
and a first Smithsonian appointment calendar was designed and
produced for sale in Museum Shops. One group of volunteers
undertook the laborious work of organizing a part of the Institu-
tion’s photographic files.

Three meetings of the Board of Regents were held during the
past year. The autumn meeting was convened on November 20,
1972, in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Institution
Building.
14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Senator Clinton P. Anderson, upon completion of more than
twenty-eight years in the Congress of the United States and twenty-
four years as a member of the Smithsonian Board of Regents,
announced his retirement to become effective at the conclusion
of the 92d Congress. The Board of Regents recommended that a
resolution be adopted and a citation be presented to him in
tribute to his distinguished service with admiraton and gratitude
for his participation in the affairs of the Institution.

The death of Frank T. Bow, a distinguished member of the
Board of Regents for fourteen years, and an outstanding member
of the House of Representatives, occurred on November 13, 1972.
A citation in recognition of Mr. Bow’s many contributions to the
Smithsonian Institution was unanimously approved.

The Chancellor appointed a study group organized under the
Chairmanship of Dr. Caryl P. Haskins to review all senior positions
in the Institution and report to the Board at its next meeting. The
Regents received a number of status reports including construc-
tion progress on the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
which continues to be slow although renewed assurances have
been received that the building will be completed by June 30, 1973.

The final design and building plans of the National Air and
Space Museum were approved by the National Capita] Planning
Commission, construction funds were transferred to the General
Services Administration and construction started on September 18,
1972.

The National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board will work
with the National Park Service in developing plans for Fort Wash-
ington and exploring other possible sites around the District of
Columbia for the Bicentennial Outdoor Museum.

The Smithsonian projects planned for the American Revolution
Bicentennial, many of which are contained in the President’s
schedule of events for the celebration, will include the Nation of
Nations exhibits in the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology; Ecology 200-U.S.A. in the National Museum of Natural
History; Centennial 1876 in the Arts and Industries Building; the
Artist and the American Scene and Design and the City in the
National Collection of Fine Arts and the Renwick Gallery; Revo-
lutionary Period exhibits in the National Portrait Gallery; Exhibits
Design and Production Laboratory in Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum; Festival of American Folklife by the Division of Perform-
ing Arts; National Bicentennial Traveling Exhibits; and the open-
ing of the National Air and Space Museum.

As authorized by the Regents, the Smithsonian has entered into
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 15

a product development program which will create authentic repro-
ductions of objects in our collections; and these objects are expected
to be on the market by 1974.

The National Zoological Park master plan has been approved,
and the Executive Committee urged that the parking project be
pushed ahead.

The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies received
an additional parcel of land which is vital to the physical integrity
of the Center.

Following the meeting, the Board of Regents went to the con-
struction site of the National Air and Space Museum where the
Chancellor and the Secretary made dedicatory addresses in ground-
breaking ceremonies.

The winter meeting was held at Hillwood, the estate of Mrs.
Marjorie Merriweather Post, on January 24, 1973. The newly
appointed Congressional members of the Board of Regents were
Senator Henry M. Jackson (replacing Senator Anderson) and
Representative William E. Minshall (replacing Representative
Bow).

The Board of Regents approved the resubmission of legislation
that would authorize planning and construction of museum sup-
port facilities; a bill to establish certain senior-level positions in
the Executive Level Salary Scale; and a bill to reserve a site for
future public uses of the Smithsonian Institution.

The James Smithson Society Medallion, the Regents’ benefactor
honor, was awarded to Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post in appre-
ciation for her most generous renewal of James Smithson’s chal-
lenge to mankind for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.

The spring meeting of the Board was held in the Regents’ Room
in the Smithsonian Building on May 9, 1973. The Regents approved
the production of a series of prime-time, commercial network, tele-
Vision specials drawing on areas concerned with its programs in the
fields of art, science, and history. The specials are expected to
begin with the 1974-1975 television season.

A statement declaring the policy on Museum Acquisitions and
addressing particularly the subject of illicit traffic in art, antiquities,
-and natural objects, which broad international efforts now seek to
control, was wholeheartedly endorsed by the Board of Regents. The
policy statement was given wide circulation in the hope that
-Museums will support the laws and adopt standards for acquisitions.
_ At the conclusion of the meeting, the Board of Regents and other

invited guests honored Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn in presenting to
him the James Smithson Society Medallion.
Financial Report

T. AMES WHEELER, Treasurer

ifs IS A PLEASURE to report that substantial progress was made in
the financial affairs of the Institution in Fiscal Year 1973. In-
ceased federal support was provided for on-going educational,
research, and exhibition programs, the construction of the new
National Air and Space Museum, and preparation of major exhibi-
tions for the 1976 program for celebration of the Bicentennial of
the American Revolution. Support in the form of grants and
contracts, gifts and bequests, and other nonfederal-funds income
also increased. Additional funds are, however, now urgently needed
to meet Institutional commitments toward a number of important
projects, notably the reestablishment of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
of Decorative Arts and Design and completion of the land acquisi-
tion and building program of the Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies.

The Institution’s revenue-producing activities, representing an
important element of our efforts toward “self-help,” produced an
overall gain for the first time and contributed to the much larger
favorable FY 1973 balance in our relatively small but vitally impor-
tant unrestricted private trust funds. As a part of such efforts we
continued to lay the groundwork for a collections-related product
development program which, in addition to extending our educa-
tional efforts, should. soon become an important source of addi-
tional financial support.

Overall Sources and Application of Financial Support

Financial affairs of the National Gallery of Art, the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars which are related to, but largely
administered independently of the Smithsonian, are not included
in this Financial Report. Total financial support from all sources

for the Institution, exclusive of those organizations is summarized
in Table 1.

16

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 17

TABLE 1.—Overall Sources of Financial Support
[In $1,000’s]

Sources FY 1970 FY 1971 FY 1972 FY 1973

OPERATING FUNDS
Federal appropriation:

Salaries and expenses...... $32,679 $36,895 $44, 701 $51,633
Smithsonian Science Infor-
mation Exchange........ i i 1,600 1,600
Special Foreign Currency
Programe cn eas isa estes 2,316 2,500 3,500 3,500
Subtotalemoeepieca os $34,995 $39,395 $49, 801 $56 , 733
Research grants and contracts. 10,825* SRS 8,088 8,996

Nonfederal funds:
Gifts (excluding gifts to

endowments)
Restricted purpose....... 2,290 1,905 2,618 3,107
Unrestricted purpose... .. 18 5042— 205" 33 *

Income from endowment and
current funds investment

Restricted purpose....... 999 1 or2 ors We Ae asad
Unrestricted purpose... .. 281 330 334 436
Revenue producing activities
(gross) RE wees ee. 2,800 4,706 6,445 8,483
Less costs and expenses. (3,841) (5,240) (6, 586 ) (8,313)
Miscellaneous-n5 4045 54 o010 503 406 548 es
Total nonfederal funds. 3,050 3,783 4,958 6, ,6007**
Total Operating

SUpPObteee erie: $48,870 $52,490 $62 , 847 $72,329

CONSTRUCTION FUNDS

(Federal )
National Zoological Park..... $ 600 $ 200 $ 200 SS (7/S
National Air and Space

IMiuISetInits csi ayocia ia: —0=- —0- 1,900 40 , 000 ****
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum. 3,500 5,200 3,697 ==
Restoration and renovation of

piniding seems = 529 A295 550 HAO:

Total Construction
IS oe ct §°4;625 $7 5125 $ 6,347 $45 , 689
* SSIE funded by NSF contract in FY 1970 ($1,707,000) to FY 1971 ($1,400,000)
and thereafter by direct federal appropriation.
** Excluding gifts to Associates (included under Revenue Producing Activities).
*** Includes $225,000 of FY 1973 income transferred from Endowment Fund #3
‘for this purpose in FY 1972.
****$13,000,000 in new obligational authority plus $27,000,000 in contract
authority.

18 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

TaBLe 2.—Source and Application of Funds for Year Ended June 30, 1973
[In $1,000’s]

Nonfederal funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Endow-
Federal _ nonfederal ~ Revenue — ment
Funds funds funds General producing income Gifts
FUND BALANCES—

He futlye VOT 2 ian. = $ -O- §$ 4,888 $1,781 $ -O-— $ 551 $2,506
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations.:..... $53 , 233
Investment Income.......... $ 1,947 $ 436 $ — $1,460 $ 51
Grants and Contracts........ 9,027 — — — —
Gillse ar eta ar terek- S297 33 157 72 993,035
Sales and Revenue........... 8, 948 297 — 8 B19 — So2

tess Coston Saltese eaacer (G,207/) == (520/78) ee —

Other tee ea ce ees 496 qt! 7 117 299
iotalsProvided!s.\2.1-'1.1- $53,233 $18,508 $ 843 $3,276 $1,649 $3,713
Total Available....... $53,233 $23,396 $2,624 $3,276 $2,200 $6,219

FUNDS APPLIED

Science:

Environmental Science....... TOV JOSS L264 oe 42 eee Pe $ 165

Natl. Museum of Nat. Hist.... 6,277 1323 3 —- 114 160

Natl. Zoological Park........ 4,057 28 Wz — = NS

Fort Pierce Bureau........... — 1,082 —— — — 1,082

Science Info. Exchange....... 1,600 = = = a =

Smithsonian Astroph.

Observatory. . gases gp 2,902 55.530 18 — 33 166
Radiation Biology Lab. : I eile} 100 3 = 21 =
Smithsonian Tropical

Rtesearchelnstse erat 947 68 2 == 2 4
Interdisciplinary Communica-

LOS) bom sae eee er — 536 = = a= 26
Natl. Air and Space Museum.. 1,122 240 A: = 158 10
Other Sclencese eee eecraee: 840 733 37 = 24 55

SO tale feet aa ceuey 452 sboegr 205329), 10, 704 121 — 352 1 68k
History and Art:
Natl. Portrait Gallery........ 1,028 31 2 — — 19
Natl. Collection of Fine Arts. . . 1,361 46 12 — 4 30
hreen Gallecyenc ee eee 177 ONS — — OMS =

Natl. Museum of History and
Mechnolopyre aire 2,858 344 61 = 38 197

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

15

LE 2.—Source and Application of Funds for Year Ended June 30, 1973—Continued

| Funds

tennial of the American
BevyOlutiony 520.2) oe

Service:

ue Producing Activities
thsonian Press.........
forming Arts...........
'hsonian Mapazine::...:...
BARC ie ee Miss oe 5
Seam Shops... ........

ng Is Fundamental.....
Public Service.........

Museum Act Pgms......
Museum Programs.....

igs Management and Pro-
BZON SETUVICES. . cee ew ws
BREGATION ae. <b escc, cfere-eeo as
rhead Recovered.......
ers for Designated Pur-

‘Total Funds Applied...

’ BALANCES—
) June LOTS ee, co

$53,233 $17,174 §$

[In $1,000’s]
Nonfederal funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Endow- Grants
Federal _nonfederal Revenue ——_ ment and
funds funds General producing income Gifts contracts
= 417 — = = 389 28
203 eds) = = = 135 ==
780 = — = = = =
1,125 43 43 a aa = =
490 245 2 = se 143 100
8,022 2210 120 = 1,057 913 186
761 99 = 99 se see a=
353 472 = 270 = 12 190
= 1,015 — 1,015 == = =
= 671 — 671 = — —
= 610 — 610 = — —
= 407 — 407 —— — —
258 69 22 — — 18 29
= 542 — — = 542 ==
881 63 32 = — 3 28
2,253 3,948 DAO OT2 = 575 247
1,048 4 — — — 4 —_
3,039 52 = — = 30 22
794 — — — — —
1,779 50 14 — — 34 2
6,660 106 14 — — 68 24
11,982 -= = = _ a =
3,987 2,822 175 410 106 25) Wa tehe2
== (2,772) (25). 4410)’ © (06): 9(259)) (1,872)
= 90 (59) 204 278 (322) (11)

300 $3,276 $1,687 $2,915 $8,996

1 =0-

$ 6,222 $2,324 $

=0—. 513. 133, 304, 9. Bil

20 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Thus, total support for operating purposes in FY 1973 exceeded |
$72 million, up about $10 million from the previous year. Of this
amount, federal appropriations provide 79 percent, research grants |
and contracts another 12 percent, and the Institution’s nonfederal |
income the remaining 9 percent. |

In addition Congress approved construction fund appropriations (
of $45,689,000 principally to complete, over a four-year period, the \
new National Air and Space Museum. Other construction funds |
will provide for air conditioning and renovation of the 1879 Arts |
and Industries Building. |

The sources and applications of all of these operating funds f
(excluding construction funds and also excluding the Special For- |
eign Currency Program) are shown in Table 2. }

Federal Operating Funds

As shown in the tables, Smithsonian federal appropriations for
Operating purposes totaled $56,733,000, including $1,600,000 for |
the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, a separately incor- .
porated organization, and $3,500,00 for the Special Foreign Cur-_
rency Program in the form of blocked currencies of certain foreign |
countries administered as grants to some 220 U.S. universities and
similar institutions to conduct research studies in those countries
(see ‘Table 3) .

.
.

TABLE 3.—Special Foreign Currency Program, Fiscal Year 1973 Obligations |

[In $1,000’s]
Systematic
and
environ- Astrophysics Grant
mental and earth Museum  adminis-

Country Archeology biology sciences Programs tration Total
laclia re $1,299.0 $102.6 $ 3.4 $) 219 SO Silnastoeo
MiorocGcomnerr: 162.0 Nee) Doe = = 183.5
Rakistanee ea 39.8 23).4 Wio® == = 64.7
Poland ee eee 58.1 28.9 69.6 98.8 14.0 269"4.
siitmisiane eee 80.5 37220 2e2 16.0 12.0 483.3
Egypte ore 730.6 77.6 ll 7.0 6.9 822.2
Yugoslavia... . 1SIGOr!’ 25655 4.6 a 2.2 394.3 |
Burmateee: 1 = — = = all

i $5220

Total.. $2,501.1 $880.9 $83 .6 $143.

$3,661 .4*

* Includes unexpended balance of FY 1972 appropriation carried forward for —
use in FY 1973. |
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 21

Excluding such special purpose appropriations, federal operat-
ing funds of $51,633,000 were $6,932,000 greater than in FY 1972.
Of this increase, over $3,500,000 was needed for legislated increases
in federal salaries. Nevertheless, the increased federal funds will
also provide for continued preparations for the opening of
the Hirshhorn Museum, for increased Bicentennial activities, for
National Air and Space Museum exhibits and for maintenance,
protection and other support areas which will be a high priority
in future years’ budgets. Allocation of the appropriations for oper-
ating purposes (excluding Foreign Currency Program) by broad
activity areas over the past several years is shown in Table 4.

Grants and Contracts

Many of the Institution’s important research programs are sup-

ported by grants and contracts, the major portion of which are

from federal agencies; see Table 5. This type of support increased
to nearly $9 million in FY 1973, approximately half of this amount

coming from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
for projects of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, such as

|

satellite tracking, analysis of lunar samples, and the operation of the
Mount Hopkins, Arizona, Observatory. The remainder went largely
to support a large variety of other scientific projects ranging from
study of endemic Asian diseases to ecological studies of the Chesa-
peake Bay area.

TABLE 4.—Application of Federal Appropriations, FY 1970 through FY 1973,
Excluding Special Foreign Currency Program

{In $1,000’s]

Area FY 1970 FY 1971 FY 1972 FY 1973

SN OTEGS jn OA ee Se $11,761 $13,495 $18,365* $20,329*
EHISTOLVAN GMAT Geta oh na fere leis « 5,081 5,878 6,285 8,022
MEEG SCCVIC?. ©. Pe ce eee bts: 1,445 1,442 2,093 2,259
Sepneinad! PrOpT ams). ¢).6)2 22. oto. 2 3,592 3,744 5,881 6,660
ExcmaimistratiOn .. sis hee acdc nee hilee = 2,733 3,051 32D 3,987
Building Maintenance and Protection. . . 8,067 9,285 10,442 11,982
URGE Ee Sear hee oe eee $32,679 $36,895 $46,301 $53,233

*Includes $1,600,000 for the Science Information Exchange which had been

funded prior to 1972 by grants from the National Science Foundation.
De SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

TABLE 5.—Grants and Contracts
[In $1,000’s]

Federal agencies FY 1970 FY 1971 FY 1972 FY 1973;
Atomic Energy Commission.............. $ 86.3 Ol" $ (97356§ o76
Department.or Commerce. 2. 2 4- ees 4 166 392 203
Departmentiol Defenses ase eae 1,103 843 916 969
Department of Health, Education and Wel-

HATRCL. A AUSEI AN fils Dos nth ie Os ORE agp 447 409 Ae 306
Depanrtmentotsintenionwen yee eee 112 258 247 230
Department of State. .... ese eevee Mes Ones 21 176 195 593
National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-

PVALL ONS 2 ote Bei Secd ait 8 oe Otel bias ake 6,561 4,930)" 45605> "47.923
National Science Foundation............. 22246. 2 028 560 957
OMnen ye eee tote ey ate ihe ich. ed seen 245 411 689 739

Eo taller sre tonesea tee neni siete a: ¢ eathaucs $10,825 $9,312 $8,088 $8,996

* Includes funding for SSIE of $1,707,000 in FY 1970 and $1,400,000 in FY 1971.

Private Trust Funds

In addition to federal appropriations and grants and contracts,
the Smithsonian also received $6,600,000 of private funds from _
gifts (excluding gifts to endowment funds), endowment fund
income, revenue-producing activities, concession fees and other mis-
cellaneous sources, as shown in Table 1. While such support has
increased in recent years, it is still well below the Institution’s goal _
for achieving a better balance of support from nonfederal sources.
This income is, furthermore, largely dedicated to specific restricted
purposes as shown in Table 6.

TABLE 6.—Total Private Funds Income for Fiscal Year 1973

[In $1,000’s]
Unrestricted Restricted
Revenue sources purposes purposes Total
Investmentsh: S54. A Ree 4a eee $ 436 $1, 736 * G2 lWi2s
Gifts fi. ae. os SRSA es 3355 5 NO 3p 405%
Revenue Producing Activities......... 170 i == 170
Concessions and miscellaneous......... 374 744 1,118
Motalae. Bie. Peace ee $1,013 $5, 587 $6 , 600

* Includes $225,000 of FY 1973 income transferred from Endowment Fund #3 |
for this purpose in FY 1972.

** Excluding $157,000 gifts to Associates (included under Revenue Producing ©
Activities) and $114,000 gifts to Endowment Funds. |
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 23

Unrestricted Private Funds.—As has been continually emphasized
in these reports, a strong and well-balanced position for the Insti-
tution’s unrestricted private funds is absolutely essential to the
maintenance of its unique character among government-related or-
ganizations. These funds permit the flexibility of operation and
high degree of nonpolitical objectivity which contribute impor-
tantly to innovative and lively programs, create special attraction
to visitors and donors of collections of objects of national interest,
and maintain the Institution’s worldwide acceptance in scientific
and cultural fields. The attention given by management to strength-
ening this portion of Smithsonian finances in recent years has re-
sulted in very substantial improvement as shown in the summary
of its unrestricted private accounts given in ‘Table 7.

TABLE 7.—Unrestricted Private Funds
[In $1,000’s]

EY AGTO. SEY ISTE VEY 1972) SELAT9TS:

INCOME:
LER ETSE SS Ale phone cae Serene Sore eee $323) | Sees te Oh 354. hsb
SEHLIR card 4 > OIE re Cee Soe 18 304 26 33
Concession and Miscellaneous......... 540 PAS) 197 374
Motallncome:: (0252 5 sie FSS OF HS53G $1557 eh e843
EXPENDITURE:
Administrative Expense.............. 3,256 25123 2,994 3,242
Less Administrative Recovery......... 2,435 2,254 2,639 PIES /T (2
Net Administrative Expense......... 821 469 355 470
Revenue Producing Activities
_Associates—Smithsonian Magazine... . (472) (209 ) 2 330
Other). 20003..c0o cbh es (41) 10 74 (43 )*
SHOpSHase saees Se. ae ws Lists BE (28) (80) 19 47
BPR Sod oS DOR SOLS Ene Tenn ae cle ore (200) (159) (111) (109)
lSiriteypoarboyer GRO, Cle ae eee (167) (78) (50) (65)
Product, DWevelopment...25...5-. 9-.< = = = 69
@ther-Activitiess 2:0. fee a ee (133) (18) (75) (59)
Total Activities . wet e eee eens (1,041) (534) (141) 170
dlotalbExpenditures.c. .. 2-25 - 1,862 1,003 496 300
INet Gain Gloss) tae... Sa ee ee (981 ) (150) 61 543
ENDING sBalance. 645%). 22sss0. 2 $1.3870. $1,720 | $1,781 $2 , 324

*After charges for portion of Development Office treated as administrative ex-
pense in prior years.
24 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

From this it may be seen that after gaining a small positive bal-
ance in Fiscal Year 1972, Fiscal Year 1973 showed very substantial
further improvement. The net gain of $543,000 for the year raised
the unrestricted fund balance to $2,324,000, moving it a considerable
distance toward our goal of restoring unrestricted working capital
funds to at least the $3,000,000 needed to finance more comfortably
the advances required for our participation in contract research
work, to carry our Museum Shop and publications inventories, and
to handle normal financial needs for payrolls, services, and supplies.

Increased investment income, principally from short-term invest-
ment of larger advance magazine subscription monies, was a factor
in this improved FY 1973 result. Most important to the achieve-
ment of the more favorable result for unrestricted funds in FY 1973
was the $311,000 improvement in the overall results of the revenue-
producing activities which for the first time enabled them to make
an overall positive contribution to Institutional finances. Addi-
tional detail on these activities is shown in Table 8.

Among these activities the most outstanding improvement was
shown by the magazine Smithsonian which produced a net gain of
$330,000, compared with approximately a break-even performance
in FY 1972. The enthusiastic reception given to this publication,
which is designed primarily to extend the Institution’s educational
efforts and build a constituency of interested citizens throughout
the Nation, is evidenced by the rapid gain in circulation in FY 1973
which rose from 330,000 National Associate members as of 30 June
1972 to 458,000 as of 30 June 1973.

The increased attention being devoted to our Museum Shops is
producing favorable results. The 33 percent gain in sales in FY
1972 was followed by a further 18 percent increase in FY 1973 to
$1,622,000, and net income rose to $47,000 this year compared to
$19,000 in FY 1972. Planning is now underway for relocation and
redesign of some of the Shops and for an up-grading of the type of
merchandise handled. Continuing gains are, therefore, expected
over the next several years. It is interesting to note that the new
guidebook, Seeing the Smithsonian, which became available only
in June 1973 has obviously met a strong visitor need and is having
a distinct impact on the Museum Shop sales.

The first tangible financial results of the new Product Develop- ,
ment Program appeared in FY 1973 with advance royalty receipts
of $118,000. This program, which was originated to further the ed-
ucational efforts of our museums through obtaining closely related °
merchandise for our Museum Shops, shows great promise not only —
of accomplishing this objective but also providing substantial and —
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 25

TABLE 8.—Revenue Producing Activities for Fiscal Year 1973

{In $1,000’s]
Associates
Smith- Per- Product
Museum sonian forming develop-
Item Total shops —_Press* magazine Other Arts ment Other**
and Revenues.... $8,319 $1,622 $ 81 $4,731 $1,104 $205 $118 $458
Cost of Sales...... 55207, 966 Sime 35.386 633 — — 125
Gross Income... 3,112 656 (16) 1,345 471 205 118 333
6 Se eee 157 — — — 157 — — _-
MINGOME .):.- . ...: 7 = 6 = = — — 1
Total Income... 3,276 656 (10) 1,345 628 205) 18 334
/ 513S}o optus een 2,696 484 87 865 610 246 49*** 366
me (loss) before
charge for admin-
istrative costs..... 580 172 (97) 480 18 (41) 69 (21)
Administrative
PSS eie4icbe aus J 410 125 12 150 61 24 — 38
IncoME (loss)..... $§ 170 $ 47 $(109) $ 330 $ (43)**** $(65) $ 69 $ (59 )

[he privately funded activities of the Press as opposed to the federally supported publication of
rch papers.

Includes Traveling Exhibitions, Belmont Conference Center, Photo Sales, and the “Commons”
aurant.

* This includes a transfer of $34,000 to Smithsonian bureaus participating in this program.
**After charges for portion of Development Office treated as administrative expense in prior

increasing income in future years. Agreement was reached during
FY 1973 with the Tonka Corporation, a leading U.S. toy manufac-
turer, under which that corporation will manufacture and sell, in
close coordination with the Smithsonian, a line of museum-related
products, the first of which should appear in the spring of 1974.
Somewhat similar arrangements with CBS/Education & Publication
Group led to the publication of the new Smithsonian guidebook,
now being sold in large numbers both in our Museum Shops and
outside the Institution. A reprinting of the guidebook, including
four foreign-language translations, is expected in October 1973.
Similar agreements with manufacturers in a number of other prod-
uct fields are now under consideration. Great care is being taken
in these efforts to insure strict standards of quality, authenticity,

26 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

and good taste in all phases of the products’ design, manufacture,
promotion, and sale.

Additional ‘“‘self-help” efforts include a variety of other under-
takings from the attractive new Smithsonian-McGraw Hill Book-
store in the National Museum of History and Technology and the
inauguration of modest parking fees at the National Zoological
Park to audiophone museum guidance operations, catalogue pub-
lishing, and the sale of photographic slides and “first-day covers”
of historic events in aviation history. The Bookstore, opened in
June 1972, completed a successful first year in FY 1973. The opera-
tion of the parking-fee facilities at the Zoo begun in April 1973 is
handled by the Friends of the National Zoo, who also operate the
Zoo shops and mobile train service, under an agreement whereby
they direct a portion of the net receipts to new educational pro-
grams at the Zoo with the remaining portion of these net receipts
being reserved by the Institution toward improving and enlarging
Zoo parking facilities in the future in a manner designed eventually
to make available an additional 12 acres of park area for animal
care.

These growing Smithsonian efforts appear to promise greater
success in the future in bolstering private funding to a somewhat
better balance with our federal support. There is, nevertheless, a
real need for an increase also in donations trom corporations, foun-
dations, and individuals and a need to build a nationwide constitu-
ency of interest in and support for this national institution. This
is a Major purpose of our National Associates organization.

Restricted Private Funds.—Funds made available to the Institu-
tion for specific purposes, largely from gifts or from income of en-
dowment funds previously dedicated to such purposes, are also of
great importance. In some cases, such as the Freer Gallery of Art,
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and the Fort Pierce Bureau, private
restricted funds provide all or the greatest share of their support.
All of the land of the Chesapeake Bay Center has been acquired
either by direct gift or purchased with private funds donated for
this purpose. Hundreds of separate accounts are maintained for
funds dedicated to a tremendous variety of similar purposes. The
largest of these are given in Table 9.

As may be noted, gifts provided $3,107,000 of this total restricted
purpose income, up from $2,618,000 in the previous year. Endow-
ment fund income added $1,736,000, with another $744,000 coming
from membership fees, rentals, sales of publications, museum
shops, etc.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 2d

TABLE 9.—Restricted Private Funds, Fiscal Year 1973

[In $1,000’s]
Income Fund
Net balance
Invest- Miscel- Total Deduc- increase end of
Bureau ment Gifts laneous —_ income tions (decrease) —_year
SrGallerycee e205. 0% $ 862 $ 72 $111 $1,045 $1,016 $ 29 § 149
miierce Bureaus ose. = - 483* 297 — 780* 1,082 (302 ) (43)
SES Land Acquisition Pro-
Ane ore ea eee oes = 100 49 149 125 24 155
yper-Hewitt Museum
GR ree Se 51 33 35 119 216 (97) (115)
unds for Collection....... = = 181 181 == 181 249
pecial Purpose Funds..... = 176 — 176 28 148 197
uilding Renovation....... = 106 — 106 {99 (53) 885
ding is Fundamental...... = 1,189 — 1,189 542 647 TN
icostia Museum.......... -- 4 “= 4 18 (14) 12
aives of American Art..... 6 15 221 242 135 107 193
CERRO ele ne Oe ee 334 fis 147. 1,596 1,281 315% 1,422
Total Restricted Funds. $1,736* $3,107 $744 $5,587* $4,602 $ 985 $3,816

———<——

Includes $225,000 of FY 1973 income transferred from Endowment Fund #3 for this purpose in
#972.

Adoption of the Total Return Concept of Income for all endow-
ment funds (see below) this year raised the Freer Gallery income
substantially and enabled it to increase collection purchases and
still operate within its resources. The exceptionally large expendi-
tures of the Fort Pierce Bureau, met in part from an additional
contribution of approximately $300,000, reflected continued work
to complete the tender ship, R/V Johnson.

Two important operations which are dependent largely upon re-
stricted funds are in urgent need of greater support. The land ac-
quisition program at Chesapeake Bay Center benefitted by another
$100,000 donation from the A. W. Mellon Foundation but another
$500,000 will still be required to complete this land purchase pro-
gram, and still more funds are needed for conference and study
buildings at that location. And the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in
New York City, although adding to its building renovation and
collection purchase funds in FY 1973, ran an operating deficit of
$97,000 even at its present minimal “holding” level when certain
expected contributions did not materialize by year-end.

The Archives of American Art, which like the Freer Gallery and
Anacostia Museum also receives some federal funds support, devel-
28 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

oped a healthy private funds surplus in FY 73 as the result of a
mounting membership campaign and other successful fund-raising
efforts. Reading is Fundamental has now been incorporated as a
separate organization although it will continue to operate in close
association with the Smithsonian.

Endowment Funds

The Institution has three endowment funds as follows: The Freer
Fund is dedicated entirely to the operation of the Freer Gallery of
Art; Endowment Fund No. 3 supports research work in underwater
oceanography at the Fort Pierce Bureau in Florida; the Consoli-
dated Fund includes all other endowment funds both for restricted
and unrestricted purposes, with investments of the fund being
pooled for investment purposes, although maintained separately for
accounting and administrative purposes.

Changes in market values of endowment funds since 1960, reflect-
ing additions from donations, reinvestment of income, and changes
in securities valuations are shown in Table 10.

TABLE 10.—Market Values of Endowment Funds

[In $1,000’s]

Fund 6/30/60 6/30/65 6/30/70 6/30/71 6/30/72 6/30/73
Preerfiundse cn. o $13,389 $17,276 $14,987 $18,805 $21,973 $18,279
Endowment Fund

INOS Serge aoe: —- — 5,433 2a 14,641 13,196

Consolidated Fund. . 4,498 7,893 8.998 115470 135287) 2493

Motalty 50: $17,887 $25,129 $29,418 $42,606 $49,901 $43,868

The policies and procedures governing the management of our
endowment funds and other investment accounts were outlined in
full in the financial reports of the past two years. In brief, they in-

clude the delegation of the investment management to three profes- ©

sional advisory firms, with full discretion to act, subject to policies
adopted by the Board of Regents and to continual close monitoring
by the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer. In addi-
tion, the principles of the Total Return Concept of investment are

followed as to the establishment of investment goals and the deter- |
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 29

mination of annual income. Such income has been set at 414 per-
cent of the latest running five-year average of market values of the
funds as of March 31st of each year.

Fiscal Year 1973 was a difficult one from the standpoint of finan-
cial management and all of the Institution’s funds suffered a decline
in values as the result of the general fall in stock prices. Results for
the past year of these funds is shown in Table 11.

TABLE 11.—Changes in Endowment Funds, Fiscal Year 1973

Gifts Interest Decline
Market and and Income in Market
Value Trans- Divi- Paid Sub- Market Value
Fund 6/30/72 fers dends* Out total Value 6/30/73
Freer Fund....... $21,973 $— $ 611 $ 862 $21,722 $3,443 $18,279
Endowment Fund
ING SS ey ak 14,641 — 149 258 14,532 1,336 13,196
Consolidated
Band eres >. 13,287 197 384 531 35337, 944 812,393
Total...... $49,901 $197 $1,144 $1,651 $49,591 $5,723 $43,868

* Income earned less managers’ fees.

The decline in the value of the funds due to the fall in security
values alone during the past fiscal year was greater than that shown
by the more widely recognized stock market averages but for the
past two-year period as a whole has been closely comparable to
those averages.

‘Additions to the Consolidated Fund during the year included
$114,000 from bequests and gifts and also $83,000 of transfers of
income for reinvestment in accordance with terms of certain be-
- quests. Income paid out, as determined by Total Return policies
' mentioned above, amounted to $1,651,000 in FY 1973. Such income
will increase further in FY 1974, principally in Endowment Fund
No. 3. A listing of the individual investments held in the various
endowment funds may be obtained upon request to the Treasurer
_ of the Institution.
30

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

TABLE 12.—Consolidated Fund, 30 June 1973

UNRESTRICTED FUNDS § 4,639,163 $ 4,652,782 $199,492 $§ —

Funds participating Book

in pool value value

Principal

Market

RESTRICTED FUNDS...

Abbott, William L......... 216,712 234,315
Archives of American Art... 22 ,687 23,880
Armstrong, Edwin James... 4,030 3,780
Arthur, ames yc acin seis i 65,778 87,655
Bacon, Virginia Purdy..... 188 , 587 182,869
Baird, Spencer Fullerton.... 60, 297 78,355
Barney; Alice: Pike:. <<... 47,172 62,814
Barstow, Frederic D........ 2,078 2,244
Batchelor, Emma E........ 68, 746 65,175
Becker, George F.. .j.....: 324,078 316,512
Brown, Roland W......... 53,545 59, 908
Canfield, Frederick A...... 62,938 96 , 576
Casey, Thomas Lincoln... . 26 , 066 28 , 228
Chamberlain, Frances Lea. . 46,315 61,676
Cooper, G. Arthur, Curator’s

UN Gee ae eerie miner: 2,459 2,325
Cooper-Hewitt Museum... . 162,948 151,628
Desautels, Paul By...1..... 1,550 lei52
Div. of Mammal Curator

BUNS ow ee ee 3,07 3, 582
Div. of Reptiles Curator

15) 500 (0 | Gear. eerie ch 576 614
Wrake, (Carley 6 6 cys ors adie 288 ,675 282 , 264
Dykes; @harles:.. 2.4. 6..25 6% 89,521 96 , 903
Eickemeyer, Florence

Brevoortis : if 94... it. 2%). Be 17,877 23,797
Guggenheim, David and

RlonenCe syne ee ce 220 , 842 Odi
Hanson, Martin Gustav and

Carolme Runice) 2. 2... 18,486 20,010
Pillyer Virgiloe bese s Son sd 13,668 14,803
Hitchcock, Albert S:.. 2.4 2,596 Sole
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie... 99 , 864 109,127
Imhbyalavesh 1 syab eRe chee ele oleae 31,481 41,971
Johnson, E. R. Fenimore... 16,663 14,815
Kellogg, Remington,

SAIS A 48,774 42,324

Lindsey, Jessie: Eh isai )k wick 610 617

Income
1973
Net Unexpended
income balance

9,969 2,743
1,045 ke
156 =
3,835 12,245
7,780 18,668
3,429 1,716
2,748 4,337
95 1,697
2,773 2,890
13,466 15,733

2,621 apie
4,226 ==

1201 480
2,699 4,769
91 =

6,569 =
157 384
27 106

12,168 19,564

AS 23 7,803

1,041 4,307

7,609 ee
851 9, 346
630 7,090
154 188

4,775 1,578

1,836 22,929
630 4,010

1,375 pis
27 243

ee
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 31

TABLE 12.—Consolidated Fund, 30 June 1973—Continued

Principal Income
1973
Funds participating Book Market Net Unexpended
in pool value value, income balance
Woeb; Morris... ..... 550. 181,675 198 , 453 8,443 422
Long, Annette E. and

Hodithweree st. oe tees 894 e222 5S 412
Lyons, Marcus Ward...... 8,941 7,999 340 _-
Maxwell; Mary E.........: 32,260 43,003 1,882 7,901
Myer, Catherine Walden... 42,014 45,483 1935 4,303
Nelson, Edward William... . 39,138 48 ,697 PeJeii —
INoves; prank Byers... ...: 2023 DED9?2 98 1,126
Pell, Cornelia Livingston. . 15,434 16,791 714 5,030
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial. We Mey 16,312 TNE 8 , 064
Rathbun, Richard,

Wemonialmrre a. nae oc 22,139 24 ,058 1,024 10,762
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs.

DeWitt Clinton. ........ 534, 704 478,129 21523 324
Reid, Addison T........... 36 , 984 40,032 1,703 Zone
Roebling Collection........ 198,501 263,061 Whar Ul 1,239
Roebling Solar Research... . 51,220 51,726 Qe 201 -
Rollins, Miriam and William 304 , 922 362,825 15,641 ——
Rue. Bertha Mess... 25. =< 65,716 57,997 A272 22
Smithsonian Agency

ACCOUNTS Ree he vee 168, 734 149,990 5,679 —
Sprague, Joseph White..... DIN I eet) 2,182,979 94,106 43,169
Springer) Prank... 2.320305. 29 , 494 39,255 as 20 , 044
Stevenson. sjohmeAGe =<... -- 9,925 10,665 467 —
Stroup, julia Dei... fsa. 20,810 22,607 962 3,457
T. F.H. Publications, Inc... 8,967 7,280 310 12221
Walcott, Charles|Ds.......- 195,201 226 , 947 9,783 6,730
Walcott, Charles D. and

Mary Vaux....... : 756 , 802 1,007,176 44,071 LOR 532
Walcott Botanical Bablien:

GI OTIS elt e PES aes eae Se avid iets 95,190 L227, 5, 346 1,223
Zerbee, Francis Brinckle... . 1,561 2,064 90 1,634

Total Restricted
UTA GS eecacas cea ccs s $ 7,261,814 $ 7,740,085 $331,823 $292,471

Un Shes et aay ets te $11,900,977 $12,392,867 $531,315 $292,471

32 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

TaBLE 13.—Endowment and Similar Funds Summary of Investments

Book value Market value
Funds 6/30/73 6/30/73

INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS
Freer Fund:

RAST eis se ces eeceea a ere ee oe Ee Se $ 60,958 $ 60, 958
Bonds) Stipend © ie tees eee eee tae eee 3,564,934 3,604,385
GonventiblesyBonds toric i eos Seer 1,784,133 1,658, 362
ISTGEICSHE ASR hei cee weit Oe So ee Ce ee 11,764,610 12,955,449
POLAR ROR Anyi ck aa i: Tee aS os eo $17,174,635 $18,279,154
Consolidated Funds:
Glas heat tae ee aioe soy s SR Re $ 43,873 $ 43,873
SONICS PC ci NS cence lc BS weet crac oe See oe Sonate 2,929,742 2,923 , 584
GonvyertiblesBondss } o<e4eca%. o 4 Soe eee at —0- —0-
Stocks. sso te elon BE 2. eee ees OA 8,927,362 9,425,410
WO Gale Mee core ceo neces dks, Meo oe $11,900,977 $12,392,867
Endowment Fund No. 3:
Gashies tt eae a tien anes on ee pee tee $- 254,522°4$ 6 254-522
Bonds $5, ee aeias | ee cease eles eI estes 5,738,342 6,502,133
Convertible;Bonds..s.:p66 once 550 33 RE Oe oe e 112,000 80,000
Stocks! ics ae Ot He ns cee ee Si, ces 6,432,317 6,358 , 898
Potash ae. SATs cect e 8 ofl ce Sale, grees aks $12 5537,,181) | $3195. 553
Miscellaneous:
Bonds. 25s cea dis ses Sevier $ 10,063 $ 10,412
GommonStocks..., 3.5.2 4yas.dab ce oe Oe nee Soee 11,509
otal’ eer bes hi ead : Gees.) oe ee $ 3), 305s 2.9211

TOvAEPINVESEMENE -ACGOUNTS).4.0 sane oo aoc oh ee $41,626,178 $43,889,495

INoteseReceivable. meant Seer. cote cs oo ede $ 51,486 $ 51,486
Loan to U. S. Treasury in perpetuity.............. 1 ,000 , 000 1,000,000
‘lotalk@ ther Accounts... -20. 4 oe one oe $ 1,051,486 §$ 1,051,486

ToraL ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR Funp BaLances... $42,677,664 $44,940,981

Accounting and Auditing

The private finances of the Institution are regularly audited by
independent public accountants. Accounts of the Smithsonian Sci- °
ence Information Exchange and the Smithsonian Research Founda-
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 33

tion are also audited regularly in this same manner. All accounts
relating to grant and contract monies received from federal agencies
are audited annually by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Feder-
ally appropriated funds are subject to occasional audit by the Gen-
eral Accounting Office. In addition, our internal audit staff, which
has been strengthened considerably in the past two years, performs
continuous audits on a wide range of operations of the Institution.
Such audits are particularly helpful in bringing about improved
administrative practices.

Donors to the Smithsonian

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and be-
quests received during fiscal year 1973 from the following:

$100,000 or more:

The Atlantic Foundation The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

The Edna McConnell Clark Foundation

S$. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Time, Incorporated

$10,000 or more:

American Council of Learned Societies

American Federation of Information
Processing Societies, Inc.

The Annenberg Fund, Inc.

The Arcadia Foundation

The Trustees of the Archives of
American Art

Battelle Memorial Institute

Mary Duke Biddle Foundation

Mrs. Rosemary B. Carroon

Mary Flagler Cary Charitable Trust

The Robert Sterling Clark Foundation

Copernicus Society

Dr. William H. Crocker

- Ford Foundation

_ Mary L. Griggs & Mary G. Burke
Foundation

The Daniel and Florence Guggenheim
Foundation

Henry J. Heinz, II

Interdisciplinary Communication
Associates, Inc.

Mrs. Marguerite H. Kellogg

Keystone Shipping Co.

Lilly Endowment, Inc.

The Charles E. Merrill Trust

The Ambrose Monell Foundation

Philip Morris, Incorporated

National Geographic Society

New York State Council on the Arts

State of Ohio

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

J. W. Robinson Company

Estate of Bertha M. Ruef

The Seafarers International Union

Seatrain Lines, Inc.

Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger

Transporation Institute

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Estate of George Widener

World Wildlife Fund
34 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

$1,000 or more:

Academy Tankers, Inc.

Aldine-Atherthon, Inc.

American Bureau of Shipping

American Conservation Association, Inc.

American Export Lines, Inc.

American Metal Climax Foundation,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Amyas Ames

Anonymous

Arthur Andersen & Company

Mrs. Edward L. Ayers

Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Barker

Mrs. Evelyn F. Bartlett

Bath Iron Works Corporation

Bethlehem Steel Corporation

Mr. William Blackie

Dr. and Mrs. Morton K. Blaustein

Mrs. Arthur H. Buhl, Jr.

Burlington Industries Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Burnham, Jr.

Mrs. Douglas Campbell

Caterpillar Tractor Company

Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Childs

The Coca Cola Company

Mr. Marvin J. Coles

Continental Oil Company

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

The Ben Cooperman Memorial
Foundation

Dana Corporation

Dart Industries, Inc.

Mr. Paul L. Davies

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Dearholt

John Deere Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John de Menil

Elsie DeWolfe Foundation

Mr. John Henry Dick

Drug Abuse Council

Mr. and Mrs. Maitland A. Edey

Dr. William L. Elkins

El Paso Natural Gas Company

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.

Charles Engelhard Foundation

Entomological Society of America

Esso Production Research Company

Esso Research and Engineering
Company

Dr. Clifford Evans

Exxon Company, U. S. A.

Exxon Corporation

Mrs. Sophie Fenykoevi

First National Bank of Miami

Mr. Lawrence Fleischman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Flint

Mr. H. Crowell Freeman

The Fund for Preservation of Wildlife
and Natural Areas

Mr. Howard M. Garfinkle

General Electric Company

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Gollin Foundation, Inc.

Goethe House New York

Dr. and Mrs. Crawford H. Greenewalt

Mr. Charles A. Greenfield

Dr. and Mrs. Morton S. Grossman

Mrs. David L. Guyer

Edith G. Halpert Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. N. Vadim Hammer

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Hawkes

Hewlett-Packard Company

Mrs. J. E. Hightower

Susan Morse Hilles Agency

Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc.

The Holderness Foundation, Inc.

Honeybrook Foundation, Inc.

International Business Machines
Corporation

Interstate Oil Transport Company

The Iran Foundation, Inc.

International Telephone & Telegraph
Company

Johns Hopkins University

Felix and Helen Juda Foundation

Kominers, Ford, Schlefer & Boyer

S. S. Kresge Company

Mr. and Mrs. F. David Lapham

Mr. Lewis A. Lapham :

Mr. Frank Y. Larkin

Mr. James F. Lawrence

Adele R. Levy Fund, Inc.

Mr. Edwin A. Link

Mrs. Ellen Lehman Long

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Lund

Maritime Overseas Corporation

Mr. Robert J. Masser

Mayuyama & Company

Charles A. Meyer Trust {

University of Michigan |

Midgard Foundation |
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 35

The Mobil Foundation, Inc.

Moore-McCormack Lines, Inc.

Bequest of Conrad V. Morton

National Bank of Detroit

National Home Library Foundation

National Steel and Shipbuilding Co.

The Nature Conservancy

Nautilus Foundation, Inc.

The Newport News Shipbuilding and
Dry Dock Company

Northrop Corporation

Northwest Industries Foundation, Inc.

Madame Nesta Obermer

Ohio Arts Council

Olin Corporation Charitable Trust
Palisades Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Pease

James C. Penney Foundation, Inc.
The Petrie Foundation

Piasecki Foundation

Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post
Price Foundation, Inc.

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Robinson
Mr. John D. Rockefeller, 3rd

Mr. Nelson A. Rockefeller

Helena Rubinstein Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Merritt K. Ruddock

Sidney Printing and Publishing Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Silliman

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

Leonard and Rose A. Sperry
Philanthropic Fund

Stack’s Coin Company

Mr. Norman C. Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Gardner D. Stout

The Allie L. Sylvester Fund, Inc.

The Tai-Ping Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor, III

Texas Instruments Foundation

Mr. John S. Thacher

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Tishman

Todd Shipyards Corporation

Marcia Brady Tucker Foundation

Tupper Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner

The Raymond John Wean Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Clifford B. West

Mr. and Mrs. Joshua C. Whetzel

Winn Dixie Stores Foundation

Mrs. Frank Wisner

Woodheath Foundation, Inc.

Charles W. Wright Foundation of
Badger Meter, Inc.

Xerox Corporation

$500 or more:

Mr. Edward E. Abrahams
Allied Chemical Foundation
Alsdorf Foundation
American Petroleum Institute
Anonymous
Mr. Arthur R. Armstrong
Avco Corporation
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Bacon
Mrs. James C. Barbour
Mr. Harry Hood Bassett
Mr. Clay P. Bedford
' Mr. William Peter Blatty
_ Joe Brotherton-Digiorgio Corp.
Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. Curt Buhler
Mrs. J. Oliver Cunningham
| Ms. Priscilla Cunningham
_ Catholic University
Mr. Raymond Cerf

Charron Foundation

Miss Mary Croyle

Dr. Jo Ann Deatherage

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Dickerman
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Dominick
Dover Publications

Mr. Raphael Esmerian

Dr. and Mrs. Charles B. Fals
Ferndale Foundation, Inc.

Mr. David E. Finley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Fuller
George Washington University

B. F. Goodrich Company

Greeff Fabrics, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. John N. Grekin

Miss Margaret Gurney

Mr. David J. Hasinger

Colonel and Mrs. G. Frederick Hawkins
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Henderson
36 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

$500 or more ;—Cont.

Mr. and Mrs. Leopold Hirschfeldt
Johnson City Foundation
Mr. Samuel C. Johnson
Mrs. Phillis B. Lambert
Mr. Harold F. Linder
Dr. and Mrs. Merrill Lipsey
Mr. Earl L. Loe
Mrs. Katherine Adams Lusk
Mrs. John H. Magruder
Mr. Frank E. Masland
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Mautner
Mr. Paul Mellon
Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Assoc.
Mr. and Mrs. Myron A. Minskoft
Mr. Otto Natzler
Mr. and Mrs. Newton Noble
New York Zoological Society
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Nourse
Ogden Marine, Inc.
Mr. Israel Orr
Ove Arup & Partners
Overseas Bulktank Corporation
Propeller Club of U. S., Port of Detroit
Propeller Club of U. S.,
Port of New Orleans

Propeller Club of U. S.,
Port of Washington
Mr. John Shedd Reed
Dr. S. Dillon Ripley
Dr. and Mrs. David Sacks
My. and Mrs. Milton Sass
F. Schumacher & Company
Mr. Sidney N. Shure
Mr. Walter H. Simson
Mrs. Helen Belding Smith
Mrs. Albert F. Sperry
Colonel and Mrs. Pat M. Stevens
Mr. Julius Stolow
Levi Strauss Foundation
Stroheim & Romann
Mr. Walter A. Stryker
Summerhill Foundation
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp.
U. S. News & World Report
Mrs. Velma P. Watts
Mr. and Mrs. H. Westcott
West Point Pepperell
Wyeth Endowment for American Art

We also gratefully acknowledge other contributions in the amount
of $115,187.87 received from 5,038 persons during 1973.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 37

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
1025 CONNECTICUT AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036

The Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution:

We have examined the balance sheet of the Private Funds of
Smithsonian Institution as of June 30, 1973 and the related state-
ments of changes in fund balances for the year then ended. Such
statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of
Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, nor other
departments, bureaus and operations administered by the Institu-
tion under Federal appropriations. Our examination was made in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accord-
ingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other
auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

In our opinion, the aforementioned statements present fairly the
financial position of the Private Funds of Smithsonian Institution
at June 30, 1973, and the changes in its fund balances for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting prin-
_ ciples applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & Co.

| September 19, 1973
38 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS
Balance Sheet, June 30, 1973

(With comparative figures for 1972)

Assets
1973 1972
CURRENT FUNDS:

Cash:

serif] WOR ad We cco: 5s | eee RE $ 293,324 172,821

ine¢bankstandionvhanGdsers.. «55-621 eerie 413,499 290,917

sRotaleasliven see eee ee code oa ee 706 , 823 463,738

Investments, at cost (market value $6,078,226;

$4 149553 Olin ehO7 2) imotewl)i.. = oc 5 cieroe ene 6,223,305 4,186,224
Receivables:

Accountsis 3s Sa a ee ne Eee 935,486 774,332 |

Advances travel and others. sore oe 172,568 160,106 |

Reimbursements—grants and contracts........ 1,061 ,872 986,797 4

2,169,926 1,921, 2358

Inventories, at lower of average cost or net real-

IZADIERVALIIG® caociion cise ite wen ee ee ee 602 , 254 567,210
PE Panel OS DERISCS, io ios So NS ae ocak i ee 456 ,659 114,047
Deferred magazine expenses (note 1)............ 769 ,670 749 , 226
Equipment (less accumulated depreciation of

$303,385; $189,804 in 1972) (notes | and 3).... 328,107 408,211

Potalveummentstunadst:. a eee ee oe ae $11,256, 744 8,409,891 /

OFC Teds ie Ae ie Aas Seen ree a NP DS Ae Rect 359,353 1,299,088 |
INotesireceivables. fs hop awas cbc eat ne meee 51,486 95,316 ;
Investments—at cost (market value $43,530,142; }

$45,629 7 Grane LOAD) elas soe kent ators 41,266,827 32,273,457@
Loan to U. S. Treasury in perpetuity............ 1 ,000 ,000 1,000,000 |

Total endowment and similar funds....... $42,677,666 34,667,861

REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION FUND (note 5):
Real estate, at cost or appraised value at date of
pitt (nate: Wir. conc: 5 acini at erate clea 3,471,825 3,326,956

Total real estate acquisition fund......... $ 3,471,825 3,326,956 |

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 39

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Balance Sheet, June 30, 1973

(With comparative figures for 1972)

Liabilities and Fund Balances

1973 1972
CURRENT FUNDS:
Marewagaple (BBE Sse ws: so eclstiy « s Lwin $ 295,761 383,691
PACE GUIS BAVAMIE Ls... 0) 25s hes on Meals DE eOe ee 875,716 421,213
PNECKME CEA DIMES ta rent a as hiaencaeiia ciciste ote amr cuit 825,949 669,065
Deferred income:
Mapazimeisubscriptions: <5. 60.06 nena sea 2,746,892 1,931,311
Oe eee oe A eer ne oe eee 290 , 560 117,019
sliotalpliabilities’....5 3.0 sce seees >. Hectos 5,034,878 322s 299
Fund balances:
RUinInestrictedet a ntsc eee cicun cle atts cose eee 2,323,953 P7781 105
Restricted:
Unexpended income from endowments. .... . 512,895 550, 580
(GAGE Le ee Seen eS | i Iie 3,304,054 2,505,906
Grants vandiGOnLrAaCtss cc. . cx aiace sides aaa cuele.* - 80,959 50,001
‘otalMund balances... 12. GS0ks 22a ee 6,221,866 4,887,592
Rotalicurrentmunds? <3...) 2 oe bones eee $11,256,744 8,409,891
ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:
Fund balances:
PrRIOWAMEDt TUNES: ooo @ cogs oot la nics eyo wie mie es 36,913,730 29,320,809
Funds functioning as endowment............. 5,763,936 5,347,052
Total endowment and similar funds....... $42,677,666 34,667,861
REAL ESTATE ACQUISITION FUND:
Mortgage notes payable (note 4)............... 432 ,534 353,138
Litre ye lel Syn Enact A a aee iati  ea g 3,039,291 2,973,818

Total real estate acquisition fund......... $ 3,471,825 3,326,956

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Statement of Changes in Current Fund Balances
Year ended June 30, 1973

Unrestricted funds Restricted funds
Income from
Total General Activities endowments Gifts
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Netisales’..., -. sates aiiaise s Seana $ 8,704,654 §$ 68,242 $8,318,992 = $ 317,420
ILess cost of goodsisold’. <5. ..2.--...-- 5, 206 , 784 — 5, 206, 784 — =
(GrossipKoliGeen set eter ea 3,497,870 68,242 3,112,208 — 317,420
Grants and! contracts, net.........<... 9,027,076 = = == = 9,027
Investment return from endowment and
similar funds:
Investment jicomen a= cer -se ae =e 2762 176, 244 — 1,035,518 =
Portion of investment gain appro-
priated (ote:2) rors erie ete 506 , 769 82,463 — 424 , 306 =
Total investment return from
endowment and similar funds. 1,718,531 258,707 — 1,459, 824 —_
Other investment income............. 228 ,043 177,210 —_ — 50,833
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants. . . 3,296,958 32,697 157,089 72,004 3,035,168
Rental and commissions.............. 243,184 229,149 —_ = 14,035
(QliWa rs Aas oes Ab pinee eetelo Soe 495,476 76, 744 6,687 116,805 295, 240
Total revenue and other additions 18,507,138 842,749 3,275,984 1,648,633 3,712,696
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:
Salanysandiibenefitser ceca eet ere 10, 233,027 2,494,621 1,777,108 488 , 246 1,131,469
Purchases for collection. ............. 390 , 888 22,759 — 279,183 70,054
Travel and transportation............ 698, 166 63,749 49,775 58 , 520 145,820
Equipment and facilities............. 822 ,883 182,338 54,759 26, 104 92,949
Supplies and materials............... 1,116,006 73,501 106,718 74,860 406 , 394
Rentiandsulilities ts secre eee. 100,905 29, 350 5,634 — QV 215)
Communicatioussee eee eee eee eee 139,966 59, 960 20,274 69 14,997
Gontractualserviceshee ones eee 3,615,593 204 ,077 557,970 375,890 1,094,031
Promotion and advertising........... 70,389 — 70,389 = =
Depreciationi.- premise aera eee ee 19,990 = 19,990 = a
Administrative expenditures.......... (125,000) (2,771,674) 409 , 400 106 , 241 259,218
Total expenditures and _ other
deductions. Sa... ~.aasens. tee oe 17,082,813 358,681 3,072,017 1,409,113 3,236,147
Excess of revenue and other addi-
tions over expenditures and
other deductions............ 1,424,325 484 , 068 203 , 967 239, 520 476,549
TRANSFERS:
Real estate acquisition fund........... (65,473) —- — — (65,473)
Donor designated endowment......... (5,500) —_— “= — (5,500)
Income added to endowment principal. (66,350) — —- (66,350) —
Cost sharing—grants and contracts. . . . — (7,816) — — (15,856 )
For designated purposes...........-.. (21,128) (102, 964) (34,402) (279,255) 408 , 428
Endowment appropriated............ 68, 400 = = 68 , 400 =
From activities to general funds....... — 169,565 (169,565) — —
Wotalitransfersivas. oe erie: estes (90,051) 58,785 (203 , 967 ) (277,205) 321,599
Net increase (decrease) in fund balances. . . 1, 334,274 542,853 — (37,685) 798, 148
Fund balances at June 30, 1972......... 4,887,592 1,781,105 — 550,580 2,505,906

Fund balances at June 30, 1973......... $ 6,221,866 §$ 2,323,958 — $ 512,895 $3,304,054

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 4]

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Statement of Changes in Endowment and Similar Fund Balances
Year ended June 30, 1973

Endowment funds Trunds func-

= tioning as

Total Total Freer Other endowment

REVENUES AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Investment return:
Realized gain on investment. ... $ 8,383,058 7,971,017 1,978,319 5,992,698 412,041
Less portion of investment gain -

appropriated to current funds . 506 , 769 424 , 306 250,805 173,501 82,463

Net gain added to principal. 7,876,289 7,546,711 Wario) Gs 5,819,197 329,578
Gifts;and bequestsia.:.. 2.3) .--.+: 108 , 938 42,760 = 42,760 66,178

Total revenues and other

AAUGIHONS) 2.2.0 oa ses, 3 wo 7,985,227 7,589,471 1,727,514 5,861,957 395,756
TRANSFERS:
Donor design endowment fund... . 5,500 5,500 — 5,500 —
Income added to principal....... 66 , 350 66 , 350 — 66, 350 =
Designated purposes............ 21,128 — = — 21,128
Endowment appropriated........ (68,400) (68,400 ) — (68 , 400 ) —
Total transfers....... AP 24,578 3,450 — 3,450 21,128
Nepincrease for the) year. =... 12..." 8,009,805 7,592,921 1,727,514 5,865,407 416,884
Fund balances at June 30, 1972.... 34,667,861 29,320,809 15,447,121 13,873,688 5,347,052

Fund balances at June 30, 1973.... $42,677,666 36,913,730 17,174,635 19,739,095 5,763,936

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Statement of Changes in Real Estate Acquisition Fund Balance
Year ended June 30, 1973

Fund balance at June 30, 1972, as previously reported.......... $1,973,818
Adjustment—to record gift funds received for the acquisition of
Preee Gallery of Art building’ (note 1). i2. cde 2 y-.0 a a ee = 1 ,000 , 000

Pend palances at June 30; 1972,°as adjusted >... 2-2. te 2,973,818
Transfer from gift funds—land acquisition:

iestpedkt tsa enters oo. sleet a cas eos $78, 104

FUUWOOCMEStAlCt ss ry atte. Se ee te cone roe eer ie 10 78,114
Transfers to gift funds—land sales—Chesapeake Bay Center........ (12,641 )
Beaid balance atime (SOP 1973..032 4 EY. age oe SSP. a eS $3,039,291

See accompanying notes to financial statements.
4? SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRIVATE FUNDS

Notes to Financial Statements
June 30, 1973

I]. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

a. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on the accrual
method of accounting, except that:
(1) No liability is reflected for annual leave earned by employees but not
taken (approximately $200,000 at June 30, 1973).
(2) Investments are stated at cost or market value at date of gift. Bond
premiums and discounts are not being amortized.
(3) Interest income is not accrued on endowment and similar fund invest-
ments.
The aggregate effect of the above accounting policies, which are commonly
followed by not-for-profit organizations, is estimated not to have a material
effect on the accompanying financial statements.

b. The accounts of the Institution are maintained in accordance with the prin-
ciples of “fund accounting’ whereby resources are classified into funds in
accordance with activities or objectives specified.

Restricted funds may only be utilized in accordance with the purposes estab-
lished by the source of such funds and are in contrast with unrestricted funds
over which the Institution retains full control to use in achieving any of its
institutional purposes.

Endowment funds are subject to the restrictions of gift instruments and are
not wholly expendable on a current basis. Funds functioning as endowment
have been established by the governing board for the same purposes as
endowment funds, any portion of such funds may be expended on a current
basis.

c. Subscription income and promotional expenses in respect to the Institution’s
magazine are deferred and taken into income and expense over the subscrip-
tion period.

d. Fixed assets are recorded as follows:

Museum shop and computer equipment—those purchased with private funds
are capitalized in the current fund.

Land and buildings—those acquired by gift or by use of gift funds are
recorded in the real estate acquisition fund at cost or appraised value at date
of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay, Carnegie
Mansion, and Hillwood Estate, which have been recorded at nominal values.
Gift funds in the amount of $1,000,000 received toward the acquisition of
the Freer Gallery of Art were not recorded in the real estate acquisition fund
when received in 1916. In order to reflect land and buildings on a consistent
basis, the prior years’ financial statements have been restated to reflect such
amount in the real estate account. All other land and buildings (principally
acquired with federal funds) and furniture, equipment, works of art, living
or other specimens are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Museum shops and computer equipment are depreciated on a straight-line

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 43

basis over an estimated useful life of five years. In accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles for not-for-profit organizations, depreciation
is not provided on non-income producing assets.

2. Endowment Funds and Funds Functioning as Endowments

Effective July 1, 1972, the Institution adopted the “total return” approach
to investment management of endowment funds and funds functioning as en-
dowment. Under this approach, the total investment return is considered to
include realized and unrealized gains and losses in addition to interest and
dividends. In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to limit the
amount available for current expenditures to interest and dividends received
where the market value of the assets of any fund is less than 110 percent of
the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation). For 1973, the
Institution provided 414 percent of the five year average of the market value
of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period) as being
available for current expenditures.

The change to the total return approach resulted in appropriations of gains
(realized or unrealized) from endowment funds and funds functioning as en-
dowment to the current unrestricted fund ($82,463) and to the current restricted
fund ($424,306) representing the excess of the amount made available for current
expenditures over interest and dividends received for the year ended June 30,
1973.

3. Note Payable

The note payable in the principal amount of $295,761, which is non-interest
bearing, is secured by computer equipment and is payable in monthly install-
ments of $7,993 to June 30, 1976.

4. Mortgage Notes Payable

The mortgage notes payable are secured by first deeds of trust on property
acquired in connection with the Chesapeake Bay Center. Funds for the repay-
ment of these notes will be transferred from certain restricted funds—gifts,
which are designated for the development of the Chesapeake Bay Center. The
details of the mortgage notes payable are as follows:

a. A $199,500 note on property acquired for $376,000. The note is payable in
fifteen consecutive semi-annual installments of $13,300, plus interest at the
prevailing prime rate on the due date of payment but not less than 8 percent,
with the final payment due July 1, 1980.

b. A $33,034 note on property acquired for $118,533. The note is payable in
monthly installments of $451, including interest at the rate of 6 percent,
with the final payment due on November 1, 1989.

c. A $60,000 note on property acquired for $120,000. The note is payable in
annual installments of $30,000, plus interest at the rate of 7 percent on the
unpaid balance, with the final payment due November I, 1974.

d. A $140,000 note on property acquired for $157,500. The note is payable in
semi-annual installments of $10,000, plus interest at the rate of 6 percent on
the unpaid balance, with the final payment due November 7, 1979.
44 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

5. Real Estate Acquisition Fund

The real estate acquisition fund includes certain land and buildings acquired
by gift or purchased from restricted funds. This property is currently being used
for museums, the Chesapeake Bay Center and a conference center.

6. Pension Plan

The Institution has a contributory pension plan providing for the purchase
of retirement annuity contracts for all employees meeting certain age and length
of service requirements. Under terms of the plan, the Institution contributes
the amount necessary to bring the total contribution to 12 percent of the par-
ticipants’ compensation subject to social security taxes and to 17 percent of the
participants’ compensation in excess of that amount. The total pension expense
for the year was $688,782.

SCIENCE

laos PAST YEAR was a period of increased activity for
SCIENCE, in all of its aspects, at the Smithsonian. The
year saw plans for expansion, new construction, and a turnover
of key personnel.

Fred Whipple, Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory, announced his retirement after 17 years of out-
standing service to the Smithsonian. He has been succeeded by
Dr. George Field, Professor of Astronomy at Harvard, who
heads the newly created Center for Astrophysics, which will
bring together, under one administrative head, the cooperative
programs which the Smithsonian and Harvard have enjoyed
since 1955.

The year 1973 also brought a change in the directorship of
the National Museum of Natural History. Dr. Richard Cowan,
who served as Director for 10 years, stepped down to pursue
his research interests in his new position as Senior Scientist in
the Department of Botany. He was succeeded by Dr. Porter
Kier who served as Chairman of the Museum’s Department of
Paleobiology from 1967 to 1972.

Dr. Adair Fehlmann, Director of the Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center, was named this past year as the Acting
Director of the Fort Pierce Bureau.

In 1973 ground was broken and construction begun for the
newest museum on the mall, the National Air and Space
Museum. This museum, which will chronicle man’s achieve-
ments in flight, is expected to open to the public on 4 July
1976.

The Master Plan for the National Zoological Park received
final approval from all necessary bodies, and plans are now
going forward on a new lion and tiger exhibit and the complete
renovation of the 1904 monkey house.

The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
(CBCES) began a pilot program in environmental education this
past year. The program, designed to introduce concepts of
ecology in urban and natural settings to inner city and suburban
tenth graders, was conducted in cooperation with Camp Letts, a

45
46 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

yMCA facility adjoining the Center. A number of other
educational programs were offered at cBCEs to carry out the
“increase and diffusion of knowledge” theme of the Smithson-
ian.

The Institution-wide conference on priorities in February
recommended closer cooperation among the science bureaus in
environmental sciences; and the past year witnessed an increase
in such cooperation. Substantial progress also was made in 1973
in interbureau research of the Environmental Science Program.
Closer cooperation was seen among the bureaus on many
problems, including the problem of endangered species, which
received wide national scrutiny this past year.

Finally, the science bureaus at the Smithsonian once again
played a prominent role in matters of national and international
concern. Smithsonian scientists and administrators provided
representatives and advisory services to the Council on Environ-
mental Quality (cEQ), to the United States delegation to the
International Whaling Commission, the Second World Confer-
ence on National Parks, the Endangered Species Convention,
and to the Royal Society for ecological studies of atolls in the
Pacific and Indian Oceans. Smithsonian scientists continued
their fruitful collaboration with foreign governments on every
continent and provided technical assistance on environmental
projects. The joint Smithsonian-Peace Corps program continued
to provide scientific technicians to many developing countries.

Details of these concerns and scientific accomplishments in
other areas of research by the individual bureaus, in fiscal year
1973, follow.

National Museum of Natural History

The year 1973 saw another of the infrequent changes in the
directorship of the National Museum of Natural History. Dr.
Richard S. Cowan who for 10 years served in the Office of
Director, first as Assistant Director and for the past 7 years as
the Director, returned to his major interest—research on New
World Leguminosae—and is now a Senior Scientist in the
Museum’s Department of Botany. Dr. Cowan brought to the
Office of Director many innovative and stimulating ideas and
programs. Now, well-equipped facilities ranging from physical
sciences and palynology laboratories to sophisticated research
tools, such as the Scanning Electron Microscope, have been

SCIENCE 47

provided the scientists. Support for the scientific staff, both in
terms of well-qualified technicians and of more adequate
resources, was increased substantially. A new system of evalua-
tion of the scientists, through peer group study and delibera-
tion, has brought more prompt and adequate recognition of
professional competence. These and many other solid achieve-
ments will surely provide Dr. Cowan with a sense of accomplish-
ment fully justifying his 10-year detour from full-time involve-
ment in botanical studies.

After months of careful deliberations by a search committee
established by the Secretary and chaired by Dr. David Challinor,
Assistant Secretary for Science, that body concluded the person
best qualified for and suited to the demanding role of Director
of one of the world’s largest natural history museums was a
member of the Museum’s own staff, Dr. Porter M. Kier.
Previously Dr. Kier had served from 1967 to 1972 as Chairman
of the Department of Paleobiology. After completing under-
graduate studies at the University of Michigan, Dr. Kier
remained at that institution to receive his M.S. degree, majoring
in paleontology. In 1951-1952 he was a Fulbright Scholar at the
University of Cambridge (England) being awarded a Ph.D.
degree by that institution in 1954. After joining the staff of
NMNH in 1957, Dr. Kier was named a Guggenheim Fellow in
1967 and served as President of the American Paleontological
Society in 1972-1973. Within the past few months Dr. Kier was
accorded the signal honor of being awarded the Sc.D. degree by
the University of Cambridge.

Dr. Kier brings to the directorship an outstanding record as
an innovative researcher of almost indefatigable energy and a
dedication to the Museum and the magnificent collections which
it contains. Thus, as we open a new chapter in the life of this
the largest of the museums, we can look forward to another
chronicle of scientific accomplishments under his stimulating
and perceptive leadership.

Over the past 3 years the National Museum of Natural
History has been the primary supporter of the development of
the Smithsonian’s computer system (SELGEM), which is an
automatic data processing system with wide versatility. Use of
SELGEM expanded rapidly in the Museum during fiscal year
1973 and now all seven departments are applying the system in
some phases of research and collection management. Primary
emphasis is placed on capture of data about incoming speci-
mens, but older collections which are of some special interest to
48 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

scientists are not neglected. Over 200,000 specimen records
already have been compiled through sELGEM, and innovations
and improvements in procedures promise to bring about a
rapid increase in that figure. Scientists and collection managers
can retrieve any information rapidly from any of more than 80
files and the data can be printed in almost any order and
format, or the data analyzed statistically and even charted.
Projects now getting underway will increase production and
decrease record costs by using SELGEM files and the computer to
produce specimen labels, catalogue cards, and ledgers. In
specific examples—in the Department of Entomology a proce-
dure has been fully tested which will use a computer-driven
typesetting machine to publish a revised edition of the Hyme-
noptera catalogue and permit updating at any time at a
minimum cost. SELGEM is being used in the Department of
Mineral Sciences to gain better inventory control over collec-
tions of valuable gems and minerals, and in 1973 the Depart-
ment of Vertebrate Zoology began developing plans for the use
of SELGEM to process and account for loans of specimens. The
overall effect of SELGEM application has been to bring greater
thoroughness and organization to collection management and to
provide a better system for storing and retrieving information
in a readily available form for use in manifold ways by scientists,
not only in this but in other countries.

Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, an anthropologist and curator in
NMNH, spent almost the entire past year in Angola continuing
ethnographic research among the Himba people. The results of
his earlier work among Himba and Herero in Namibia were of
such significance that the present studies received support from
the National Institutes of Health through a grant to include a
study of the fertility of the Himba population.

Two aspects of the current work are of outstanding impor-
tance. First, from a technical standpoint, for the first time, so
far as we know, a film (made earlier) entitled Himba Wedding
was shown to Himba audiences during which their spontaneous
reactions and comments were recorded. This technique of
developing “feedback” was found extremely useful in clarifying
some of the rites recorded in the film, permitting a more
complete interpretation of their culture and better record for
use of students of life crisis ceremonies. Clearly, this new and
important research tool will find many applications and will
enhance considerably an understanding of other peoples, their
cultures, customs, and important ceremonies.
SCIENCE 49

Secondly, and perhaps of greater social significance is the
information developed on marital patterns and childbirth. A
carefully selected sample of Himba women ranging in age from
fifteen years upward were studied in detail. While the results
are still being analyzed, it is apparent that in spite of the
absence of any methods of birth control or, in fact, any real
interest in limiting birth, the Himbas have a remarkably low
birth rate. The interest of public health and United Nations
officials, as well as the medical profession in almost all countries,
in this phenomenon is obvious. The explanation for this
situation is not yet clear, but an area for important research has
been identified and further studies in collaboration with medical
researchers will follow.

During the summer of 1972, Dr. William W. Fitzhugh and his
associates continued archeological studies at Hamilton Inlet,
Labrador, on prehistoric cultures and paleo-ecology that were
begun in 1969. This research, which in the past few years has
received support from the National Geographic Society, has
resulted in the complete excavation of a large site at Rattlers
Bight that was occupied 4000 years ago by Indians of the
Maritime Archaic tradition. This is one of the largest prehistoric
settlements known on the icy shores of Labrador and has over
the past 2 years yielded information on these seagoing Indians
which allows us to describe their activities in some detail. The
site was occupied seasonally from spring to fall while the
Indians hunted seals and sea birds and fished for salmon, trout,
cod, and perhaps whales using techniques which today we
associate more with Eskimos.

The site has confirmed that Indians were actually the first
occupants of the subarctic and arctic regions of the Labrador
coast, preceding the Eskimo by some 500-1000 years. Further, it
now appears that toggling harpoons were used for open-water
seal hunting by these Maritime Archaic people and that this
important hunting device was passed to Eskimos in northern
Labrador by 2000 B.c., becoming the dominant feature of
Eskimo technology.

In 1973, in conjunction with the archeological field work, a
new program of paleo-ecological research was begun. Funded
under the Museum’s new palynology program, a series of
samples were taken from pollen-rich lake sediments on the
central Labrador coast ranging from the boreal forest to the
tundra. Preliminary results of this research suggest that glacial
ice had melted off the interior of Labrador by approximately
50 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

6000 years ago and that following this deglaciation the Hamil-
ton Inlet region was tundra for 2000 years before the introduc-
tion of the boreal forest. Surprisingly, the outer Labrador coast
appears to have remained ice-bound virtually until the arrival of
the Maritime Archaic Indians 4000 years ago. This suggests,
contrary to expectation, that the Hypsithermal warm period (ca.
6000-4000 years ago) was not felt in the coastal Labrador
region and that higher ocean temperatures in the North
Atlantic may actually have increased the flow of cold arctic
waters from the polar sea southward along the Labrador coast.

Since 1971 the NMNH has been host to annual seminars on
paleopathology, the most recent of which was begun in January
1973. The major objective of these seminars is to provide high-
level instruction for scholars studying the significance of disease
in human microevolution. During the past 10,000 years man has
been subject to the same basic pressures for biological change
that have characterized the evolutionary processes of all biologi-
cal organisms. Human adaptation to different or changing
environmental situations involves complex relationships between
the genetic potentials of a human population and its natural
and cultural environment. In addition to disease, other factors,
such as climate, vegetation, and nutrition, provide limiting
conditions on the survival and reproductive potential of individ-
uals.

Dr. Donald J. Ortner has given leadership to this major
research and teaching program directed to the study of the
effect of disease on biological change in human groups. Since
the major source of data on disease in nonliving populations is
skeletal remains, the major focus of this program is the study of
those diseases which affect bone. To encourage high-level
research, the seminar series brings together leading interna-
tional authorities on orthopaedic pathology, radiology, calcified
tissue biology, and physical anthropology for a 10-week period.
Advanced students having a research interest in paleopathology
are drawn primarily from universities in North America. The
Museum is uniquely equipped to provide leadership in this field
because of its professional staff and the outstanding collection
of human skeletons in the Department of Anthropology.

These seminars have provided a significant impetus for
studies on ancient disease as evidenced by the growing interest
in them and the fact that at least three participants are now
preparing doctoral dissertations related to the training they
received during the series.
SCIENCE

Dr. Edward S. Ayensu, Chairman of the Museum’s Department of Botany,
using night vision equipment in observing the habits of fruit-eating bats in West
Africa. Bats have been known to destroy over one-third of the ripe mangoes in
this region and a better understanding of plant/animal relationships is needed to
aid in protecting this food supply.

52 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

The establishment of a Palynological Laboratory this past year
in the National Museum of Natural History represents a highly
significant achievement in the Museum’s research program. The
Laboratory functions primarily in basic research—the morphol-
ogy and anatomy of pollen grains, their identification and the
adaptive significance of the external variations found. This
information is utilized to interpret and clarify systematic rela-
tionships and breeding systems. As a direct result of the
operation of this new laboratory, the Museum is in a position to
develop an exchange program with other palynological institu-
tions and an extensive reference collection of modern pollen
slides is being acquired which will be conveniently available to
the botanical community.

The behavioral studies of nocturnally active animals, such as
bats, have recently been greatly enhanced by the use of various
types of night-vision equipment. Of special interest is the “Owl
Eye,” which is capable of multiplying a unit of ambient light
about twenty thousand times. This sophisticated equipment
developed by the Department of Defense and loaned to the
Museum for its research is being used for the study of tropical
fruit-eating bats and will permit a more accurate assessment of
the interaction between bats and plants without interfering with
the normal behavior of these flying mammals during feeding,
mating, or roosting.

It is expected that the availability of this night-vision device
will contribute substantially to an understanding of the myster-
ies surrounding nocturnal activities of plants and animals.

During the year, a number of the Museum’s entomologists
commenced studies utilizing the remarkable capabilities of the
Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM). For example, Dr. Richard
W. Baumann of the newly instituted Aquatic Entomology
Program included in his studies a survey of the eggs of
stoneflies (order Plecoptera). Quite unexpectedly, the detailed
photographs made possible by the sem revealed that the eggs of
Neoperla clymene (Newm.) from different parts of the United
States differ radically in structure. This led to a closer study of
all stages, with the result that what has appeared to be one
widely distributed species, turns out to be two complexes of
closely related species. One complex possesses ribbed eggs and
the other complex punctate eggs, which suggests major differ-
ences in habits or habitat selection. Such discoveries underline
the necessity for careful systematic studies before the initiation
of large-scale environmental projects that might result in the
53

SCIENCE

Chona lampa, burrowing sponge from Bermuda. Top: As formerly observed
through light microscope (1200x). Bottom: Details as observed through Scaa-

ning Electron Microscope (6600).

extinction of species of restricted range or whose success
depends on the accurate prediction of the behavior of a species.
The case closely parallels that of the European malaria-bearing
mosquito that was finally resolved with the discovery, after an
examination of the egg stage, that a complex of closely related
species were involved, each of which differed significantly in its
ability to transmit malaria, thus explaining for the first time why
54 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

the presence of the “Anopheles mosquito” could not be
correlated with the presence or absence of malaria.

A second project involving the sem undertaken this past year
was the investigation by Dr. Paul J. Spangler of the possible use
for taxonomic purposes of the maxillary palpi of water beetles
(order Coleoptera). It was discovered that the irregularities
previously observed actually were caused by branched sensillae
(totally different from anything before reported) that were
embedded in the cuticle. It has long been known that their
antennae (usually the primary sensory structure) had evolved
into organs associated with respiration. This new information
gained from the study of photographs produced by the sEmM
now makes it clear that these palpi have assumed much of the
sensory function that is found in the antennae in most other
insects. Thus, a study designed to improve the identification of
these beetles has led to a new understanding of the ability of
these insects to adapt themselves to their environment.

Another important study of the past year being conducted by
Dr. W. Donald Duckworth and Dr. Thomas D. Eichlin (a
presidential intern) involves a complex of moths whose distribu-
tion appears to be related to the distribution of gourds and
squashes in the Western Hemisphere. The larval forms of the
moths, commonly referred to as squash borers, live within the
stems and roots of the host plant. The insect and plant
obviously are intimately associated, the structure and chemistry
of the squash species being essential to the survival of the moth
species. The researchers hope, therefore, to be able to correlate
the evolution of the species of the squash borer complex with
the evolution and dispersal of their respective plant hosts.
Information can thus be generated for the botanist and the
entomologist by studying either side of the relationship. There
is now good reason to believe that this relationship will prove to
be a textbook example of animal-plant coevolution. Some
conclusions resulting from this study also may shed further light
on the history of man in the New World Tropics. Archeological
evidence indicates that man probably has cultivated squashes
and gourds for nearly 10,000 years. It appears that the
distributional ranges of the moth species converge on that
region in southern Mexico thought by some to be the center of
origin and dispersal of these plants and possibly associated with
the migrations of early man.

A few years ago Museum scientists became aware of a
potentially serious problem at Charlotte Harbor, Florida, which
f]

SCIENCE BD

is threatened by pollution as a result of rapid exploitation of
nearby land through a nationwide promotion campaign. Dr.
Roger F. Cressey, together with his associates, is now conducting
a long-term investigation of the copepods of Charlotte Harbor,
with emphasis upon study of life cycles of the parasites,
population densities and fluctuations, “susceptible ages” for the
fish hosts, and effects of environmental changes upon parasite
populations.

The results of this long-term study will be of extreme value to
scientists working in many fields. “Natural pollution” in the
form of a Red Tide which killed a great number of fishes in
1971 has had some spectacular effects on their copepod
parasites. Data from the summers of 1970, 1971, and 1972 show
that during the Red Tide summer (1971), the number of
parasites per fish dropped to 10-20 percent of the numbers
found in 1970. However, in 1972, numbers increased to a level
far higher than those recorded before the Red Tide. The
reasons for such an increase are unknown; but it is expected
that present investigations will show whether or not such high
numbers have been maintained and should allow some predic-
tion of causes and effects of this phenomenon.

Scientists in the NMNH during the past year have been
involved in seeking answers to such questions as: What kinds of
animals and plants can one find on an undisturbed Caribbean
coral reef? How do they interact with each other? What effects
do changes in light, temperature, and wave action have on these
organisms? How do populations change with time, and with
increasing influence of man? Partial answers to some of these
questions have already been provided by previous research on
coral reefs but many remain unanswered. The iIMswE Program
(Investigations of Marine Shallow-Water Ecosystems), supported
by the Smithsonian’s Environmental Science Program, is de-
signed to provide answers to these questions by enabling
Smithsonian and collaborating scientists to undertake long-term
studies of selected Caribbean reefs. The current site is Carrie-
Bow Cay, a very small (100 x 350 feet) island which stands on
the barrier reef extending along the coast of British Honduras.
Approximately seventeen Museum scientists are involved in the
IMSWE Program; their studies range from the analysis of the
structure of the reefs themselves to a study of the effects of
terrestrial plant and animal communities on the Cay ecosystem.
The program has been in operation for approximately eighteen
months and much baseline data on the kinds of animals living
56 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

in association with the reef have been acquired. Current
investigations include observations of ecological changes with
passage of time, so that such changes can be better understood,
and their effects properly interpreted.

Although marine nematodes, a type of worm, are a major
part, in numbers of species and individuals, of the living
creatures found in the ocean depths, they have remained
essentially unstudied because of the technical problems of
retrieving them. Improved sampling techniques have recently
been developed so that now large collections are available for
study. While these collections have yielded many species similar
to those of shallow-water sediments, they have provided inter-
esting and unique species as well. An example is the discovery
by Dr. W. Duane Hope of new species of the family Mermithi-
dae. Nematodes of this family are common parasites of insects
and some fresh-water crustaceans in their immature stages but
as adults they become inhabitants of soil or fresh-water sedi-
ment. There exist no previously well-documented reports of
mermithids parasitic in marine crustaceans. Samples taken using
the new technique have yielded four new species of abyssal
mermithids inhabiting the sediment as nonparasitic adults.
Their hosts remain unknown. What appears to be a fifth
species, however, was found to be parasitic in an ostracod (a
small crustacean). Apparently adult as well as juvenile ostracods
may become infected. As the nematode reaches maturity it
destroys the ostracod, not unlike the fate inflicted on infected
insects. The young nematodes are provided with a minute,
hollow stylet which they use to puncture host tissue. Presum-
ably, enzymes are secreted through the stylet into the tissue and
the stylet then used to ingest the liquified tissue. All that
remains of the ostracod after the nematode has fully developed
are the undissolved valves and appendages. Having destroyed
their hosts, the fully developed male and female nematodes
apparently enter the sediments where they subsist on their
stored food reserves, until they mate, lay eggs, and die.

An interesting aspect of mermithids is that they are among
the few nematodes whose sex may be influenced by external
environmental factors, such as crowding. Mermithids number-
ing less than nine in grasshoppers, for example, are always
females. Where nine or more adults occur in a single host, all
are males. To date, all ostracods examined have no more than
two nematodes and all are females.

An international conference on echinoderms was organized

SCIENCE 57

by Dr. David L. Pawson and Miss Maureen E. Downey, and held
at the Natural History Museum in September 1972. Approxi-
mately 100 echinoderm specialists from 15 countries attended,
and 45 papers were presented during the 3-day conference.
The conference was highly successful, and a resolution was
passed to hold a second conference in Yugoslavia in 1975.

The Allende meteorite is assuming the importance of a major
scientific event. During the past year it has been called both a
“Rosetta Stone of the Solar System” and a “Solar Nebula
Trashcan” by speakers at a national symposium devoted to the
cosmochemical implications of this remarkable messenger from
space. No other single meteorite has received anything like the
scientific attention that has been focused on Allende. The
multitude of observations and the ideas they have suggested
give new insight into the earliest history of the solar system, a
history that is not available to us from terrestrial or lunar rocks.
The Allende meteorite is an accumulation of materials that
formed under very different conditions, ranging from mineral
associations that formed at unusually high temperatures to
organic compounds that would not be expected to survive for
long at temperatures much in excess of those needed to bake a
cake. A new idea that is gaining considerable acceptance is that
Allende accumulated in a region of the condensing solar nebula
of surprising heterogenity, perhaps a boundary region between
materials that produced the inner planets and those which
produced the outer, major planets.

The Smithsonian has been deeply involved in Allende re-
search since the meteorite fell in northern Mexico on February
8, 1969. Dr. Brian H. Mason and Mr. Roy S. Clarke, Jr., of the
Museum staff were in the field promptly, collecting considerable
amounts of material that was widely distributed to interested
scientists, beginning as early as 12 days after the fall. In the
following months we supplied samples to 99 individual scientists
in 79 different organizations in 18 countries. In the meantime
the Museum staff prepared the basic comprehensive description
of this largest known stony meteorite shower. In the Museum
laboratories a comparative interlaboratory study of the chemis-
try of this rare type meteorite has been initiated. This is the first
| serious attempt at this type of study using meteoritic material.

Since the start of the Lunar Program the NMNH has made
many important contributions to the understanding of the
chemical and mineralogical make-up of lunar rocks. This past
year saw the beginning of intensive studies of samples from the

58 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

The recent volcanic eruption on the island of Heimay (Iceland) began at 2:00
A.M. on 23 January 1973. The next morning a Museum scientist was on the
scene to make observations and working with Icelandic scientists to collect
specimens of the erupted material. By 23 March 1973, the house shown in this
picture was covered completely by lava and ash.
|
|

|
)
|

SCIENCE 59

Apollo 17 mission. Apollo 16 samples taken from the lunar
highlands were found to be distinct from most samples of the
other four lunar regions sampled and are markedly enriched in
plagioclase, probably reflecting the original composition of the
lunar crust, formed over four billion years ago. The Apollo 17
samples now under study include typical lava (basalt) samples of
the Mare as well as highland-type samples, collected along the
sides at the base of the mountains of the Taurus-Littrow
landing site.

Early on the morning of January 23, 1973, after less than 2
days of mild earthquakes, a new volcanic fissure sprang to life
on Haimay, a small but heavily populated island midway
between Iceland and the volcanic island of Surtsey, which was
“born” 10 years ago. A Museum scientist, Dr. Thomas E.
Simkin, was on the scene almost immediately and began studies
and observations on the second morning of the eruption.
Samples of lava were collected during the next 4 days, during a
time of rapid changes in its character. Back in the laboratory,
these samples showed small but significant changes in the lava
composition, changes which indicated that this would probably
turn out to be a major, large-volume eruption. Volcanic action is
still continuing at this important eruption; and scientists from
Iceland together with members of our staff are at the site and
much valuable data has already been recorded.

The determination of the chemical and mineralogical make-
up of natural history objects, ranging from studies of lunar
samples to chemical pollutants in organisms, is an important
function of the Department of Mineral Sciences’ newly ex-
panded Physical Science Laboratory which is under the direc-
tion of Mr. Eugene Jarosewich. In addition to the ongoing
program of providing data for research on the origin and
composition of meteorites, minerals, and rocks, in 1973 the
Laboratory participated in studies of the make-up and develop-
ment of human bone, both in recent and fossil materials. Other
recent studies contributed to understanding the composition of
fossil and recent shelled organisms, including phosphorous and
magnesium uptake during life and during fossilization. Inqui-
ries were made into the suitability of museum specimens,
especially fish, to establish pre-pollution levels of trace elements.
Contamination of such specimens in their containers by labels
and the preservation solutions were shown to be important
sources of error in establishing baseline levels of certain
elements, thus raising grave doubts as to the feasibility of using
60 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

such specimens for baseline studies for certain trace elements.
This work is being pressed since the findings have great
significance to current research in many institutions.

Smithsonian scientists are in the forefront of a “revolution”
which is occurring in the underlying ideas and methods of the
science of paleobiology that is nearly as profound as the one
taking place in concepts of mobility of the earth’s crust and the
drifting of continents, although not so widely heralded. The
trend for the past decade has been increasingly on direct
observation of living counterparts of fossil organisms, to provide
insights into the anatomy of the soft tissues and interpretations
of the living habits and ecology of the fossils. These methods
have paid off handsomely and several important discoveries
were made in the past year.

Dr. Richard S. Boardman’s work on the Bryozoa is illustrative
of the advances which are being made. These tiny invertebrate
animals form colonies made up of thousands of individual
animals, much as corals do. They are important fouling
organisms in the modern oceans and are abundant in ancient
strata extending back more than 500 million years. New
techniques of dissection of the living and fossil species for direct
comparison under high magnification have revealed impressions
of fleshy organs in the fossils that are analagous to those in the
living descendants. Preservation of these incredibly fragile
structures for more than 500 million years is most extraordinary
and fortunate indeed. Prior to the insights gained by thorough
study of the living forms, this had remained an uninterpretable
mystery.

A similar breakthrough has been made this past year in
studies of the group of shelly organisms known as Brachiopoda
which, while only a minor constituent of the modern seas, were.
extremely abundant in the past and nearly a dominant organism
in the Paleozoic Era. The study of living forms by Drs. G.
Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant has resulted in reinterpre-
tation of the muscle systems in Ordovician shells (500 million
years ago) and feeding organs of Permian shells (250 million
years ago). This new understanding will require revisions of
statements that have appeared in the standard textbooks for as
long as 100 years.

Studies of fossils are important to interpretation of physical
events in the past. For example, the work of Dr. Richard H.
Benson on tiny bivalved crustaceans has been helpful in
interpreting an extremely complex series of events in the history

SCIENCE 61

of the Mediterranean Sea, involving opening and closing of the
Sea itself, the warming and cooling of its waters, the near
drying of the entire Basin so that only warm saline lakes
remained, and then renewed flooding in of ocean water from
the Atlantic. These small organisms known as Ostracoda are
abundant in modern lakes, rivers, seas, and oceans and are
extremely sensitive to changes in temperature, depth of water,
and salinity. Study of fossil ostracodes that are obtained in drill
cores from the Mediterranean Sea floor, from surface outcrops
in the high mountains some now more than a thousand miles
from that Sea, and from salt and gypsum quarries that have
been worked since Roman times have revealed the record of
these drastic changes in the Mediterranean region during the
past 15 million years.

Similar comparisons between the living and the fossil speci-
mens made this past year by Dr. Leo J. Hickey have resulted in
a new ordering in the history of the angiosperm plants.
Botanists for years have been confused by the seeming resem-
blance of fossil leaves to those of living plants and were unable
to make sense out of the evolutionary history of the angio-
sperms. New techniques in the study of venation of leaves and
other aspects of leaf architecture, interpreted in light of the
biologic functions of the various parts, now allows significant
distinctions to be made. For the first time a workable taxonomy
of leaves is possible, based on a reasonable phylogenetic
interpretation. This promises to have wide effect upon the
conceptual framework of all botany and to revolutionize ideas
on the history of the development of terrestrial vegetation.

Some phases of paleobiological research are so new that “the
book hasn’t been written yet” and the scientist must conduct
original research in the field in order to establish the funda-
mentals of his subject. Dr. Walter H. Adey, a Smithsonian
paleobotanist who undertook the study of fossil representatives
of the little-known marine plants called coralline algae, found
that hardly anything was known of the living species in the
existing oceans. He began what he thought would be a brief
study of a minor constituent of the marine biota. Instead, he
found that much of what had been called “coral reef’ was in
fact reef made primarily by coralline algae. This has led to on-
the-spot underwater research on these algae almost continu-
ously for the past 9 years, off the coasts of Norway, Spain,
Eastern Canada, and Japan. This year a program in the
| Caribbean was initiated. Operating from a seagoing catamaran
Research vessel designed and constructed by members of the staff of the
National Museum of Natural History. This “floating laboratory” is now in the
Caribbean being used in studies of coralline algae.

SCIENCE 63

that he built himself and equipped with a laboratory designed
especially for the study of rock-secreting algae, the specimens
are collected, prepared aboard the vessel, and the findings
dispatched to various scientific journals for publication and
circulation literally throughout the world.

The African Mammal Program, under the direction of Dr.
Henry W. Setzer, has been involved for more than a decade in
the collection of specimens from all parts of Africa for
systematic and distributional studies. Field teams of foreign
nationals have been trained in many countries to carry out such
studies after the Smithsonian’s work was completed. The program
has cooperated with several microbiologically oriented organiza-
tions in assays of wild mammals and their ectoparasites for
diseases, especially viral and rickettsial infections, that might be
potentially transmissible to man.

Analyses of almost 8000 small mammal tissues were completed
by the Ibadan Virus Laboratory at the University of Ibadan,
Nigeria, and the results that were collated this year showed
some 84 positive viral recoveries. Bat virus was recovered from
specimens of free-tailed bats and Uganda S$ virus was obtained
from rodents and shrews. Lassa Virus, responsible for the lethal
Lassa Fever in humans, was isolated for the first time in a
rodent, Aethomys stannarius.

In previous years studies of yellow fever in Senegal and
monkey pox in Liberia were carried out in cooperation with the
National Institutes of Health’s Communicable Disease Center in
Atlanta. An important discovery was that the primary reservoir
of monkey fever is in arboreal and semiarboreal rodents, rather
than in nonhuman primates.

A pioneering effort to provide baseline data on small
mammals, their ectoparasites and viruses prior to construction
of several large dams on the Orange River in South Africa was
conducted by our field teams together with the South African
Institute for Medical Research. Waters of the Orange River are
to be diverted by means of a tunnel to another drainage basin,
the Fish River, thus creating the potential for transferring
aquatic insects that may be infected vectors of viruses. The
South African government will use personnel trained during
this project to continue monitoring ecological and faunal
changes as the Orange River dams mature. The mammal and
ectoparasite data from many parts of Africa are being comput-
erized for ready recovery and association and will provide
64 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

similar baseline information for major development projects in
other African countries.

The addition to our staff this year of Dr. James G. Mead, a
marine mammalogist, has served as a stimulus to development
and study of our collections of these important animals. Because
study material is not available through routine collecting meth-
ods, a salvage program has been established by means of which
animals that are stranded may be studied on the spot and
valuable specimens recovered for laboratory investigations.
Eventually, the Museum hopes to be able to respond to any
report of a stranded marine mammal on the East Coast of the
United States and to encourage knowledgeable scientists else-
where to do the same. This year the East Coast program
obtained biological data for, and preserved 19 specimens of 7
species of whales or porpoises and 3 specimens of 2 species of
seals. One highlight was a stranded Blainville’s Beaked Whale
(Mesoplodon densirostris) which was maintained alive for 3 days.
This was the first time this species has been seen alive by
biologists, and a group of marine mammalogists from several
institutions responded to the report in time to gather significant
functional information. Future activities of the salvage program
will be greatly enhanced by the donation from the Ford Motor
Company of a specially equipped truck.

Photographs of whales and porpoises that had been scattered
in several different files and storage areas were brought
together this year in a central file that is now useful in curation,
research, and as a source of additional information concerning
specimens in the collection. Visiting investigators have used the
new file extensively, notably for preparation by the Navy of a
guidebook to Atlantic species.

On Saturday, June 2, 1973, a group of metropolitan Washing-
ton area children, carrying “Save Whales” balloons and posters,
gathered under the 90-foot, life-size model of the blue whale in
the National Museum of Natural History to demonstrate their
concern that whales are in danger of becoming extinct because
of the excesses of commercial fishing fleets.

The Smithsonian Institution is supporting a proposed morato-
rium on the killing of whales and other cetaceans, such as
dolphins and porpoises, and for this reason the National
Museum of Natural History, which has long been a center of
cetacean research and a leader in working for their conserva-
tion, cooperated in the march. The march sponsor was “Project
Jonah,” a nonprofit international society which had organized
65

SCIENCE

s march in connection with “Save Whales” program.

Children
66 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

similar marches in cities throughout the world in advance of the
June 1973 annual meeting of the International Whaling Com-
mission. Dr. Porter M. Kier, Museum Director, and Dr. James
G. Mead, NMNH authority on cetaceans, were present to greet
the children and answer their questions about whales.

National Air and Space Museum

For the National Air and Space Museum, 1973 was an
important and productive year. Ground was broken for the new
museum building in an impressive ceremony presided over by
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The Chancellor of
the Institution, The Honorable Warren E. Burger, delivered the
groundbreaking address to an enthusiastic crowd of National
Air and Space Museum friends.

When completed, the building will have a clean and crisp look
which will create a harmonious balance between the sleek
aerodynamic shapes within it and the classical elegance of its
neighbor, the National Gallery of Art. The exterior of the
building will be Tennessee marble of a pinkish hue, matching
that of the National Gallery of Art, and grey glass designed to
filter out harmful ultraviolet rays.

To achieve the ideal blend of subject matter in the Museum,
the interior of the building and its contents require special
planning, experimenting, refining, and changing. The National
Air and Space Museum’s charter is an extremely broad one,
beginning with man’s first aspirations to fly, spanning his first
faltering ascents in hydrogen and hot air balloons, and then
recording the surge of powered flight which followed the
fateful day in 1903 at Kitty Hawk. From Kitty Hawk to the
moon, the pace has been increasingly swift, the technology more
and more sophisticated, the story ever more complex. No
important segment of it can be slighted—not the contributions
of a Goddard or a Lindbergh, nor the story of the aerospace
industries and what they contribute to the quality of our lives.
In addition, the Museum not only will display artifacts, but will
act as a catalyst in exchanging information, and will become a
true national center for aerospace historical research. |

Opposing these grandiose concepts are the realities of space
and budget. The fuselage of a Boeing 747 is longer than the
building is wide; a Saturn V, if parked along side it, would loom
four times as high. Clearly, an alternative must be found to
SCIENCE 67

Secretary S. Dillon Ripley and The Honorable Warren E. Burger break ground on
20 November 1972 for the new National Air and Space Museurn building, while
Senator J. William Fulbright and Senator Jennings Randolph observe.

simply parking machines and putting velvet ropes around them.
Modern technology must be translated into creative communica-
tions. The Museum must communicate in a wide variety of
ways: by showing objects, by labels, by sound, by film, by

68 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Michael Collins, Director of the National Air and Space Museum, and Chief Justice
Warren E. Burger on the happy occasion of the groundbreaking ceremony for the
new National Air and Space Museum building. At right, Meredith Johnson, Smith-
sonian Special Events Officer.

electromechanical and audiovisual devices of the highest fidelity
and reliability. It is recognized that a technique well suited for
one subject may be completely inappropriate for another. For
example, the Hall on Ballooning will include a light, even
frivolous treatment of some byproducts of the crazy era of
ballooning, featuring balloon music, art, furniture—even a
puppet show. On the other hand, the hall devoted to the
Earthbound Benefits of Flight will be a thoughtful, carefully
researched, highly documented treatment of the spinoffs result-
ing from air and space technology. In some areas, such as Early
Rocketry, the collection may be far from complete, and substi-
tutes for actual artifacts will be found. In some cases, however,
the National Air and Space Museum has more machines than
floor space for their display, and the process of winnowing and
selecting will be accomplished with an eye toward displaying
only those machines of the greatest historic significance.

In all, the National Air and Space Museum has 250 airplanes,
and, of course, not all of them will fit into the new building at
once. For this reason, exhibits will be rotated as funds allow,

SCIENCE 69

Model of the new National Air and Space Museum.

and only a few of the very finest (such as the Wright Flyer) will
be on permanent display. The National Air and Space Museum
also has acquired a representative sampling of spacecraft,
supporting hardware, documentation, and photographs. An art
collection has been started, small at present, but one which will
grow, for frequently the artist’s eye has captured the flavor of
an important event with incomparable power and _ precision.
Also, from a practical standpoint, color photographs fade, but
oils have been known to retain their original color for 500
years. In the new building, one hall will be devoted to air and
space art; and in addition, paintings and three-dimensional art
objects will be added wherever they enhance other exhibits.

The Museum will have 26 exhibit halls as well as 2 special-
purpose chambers for education and entertainment. One will be
/an auditorium with a rather steeply slanted floor, seating 400
| persons. The front of this room will accommodate a curved 55’
x 75’ screen, while the projection booth will be capable of
handling the finest 70 mm projection equipment. With this
| potential for large-scale visual presentations of the highest
| possible fidelity, it will be possible to offer a dramatic substitute

70 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

View of the new National Air and Space Museum under construction. Work
goes forward in anticipation of a 4 July 1976 opening.

for viewing three-dimensional objects. The auditorium will, of
course, also be available for more conventional purposes, such
as various lecture series which are now presented in borrowed
auditoria.

The second special-purpose chamber, called the Spacearium,
will most closely resemble a planetarium. An audience of 300
persons will be seated under a pierced aluminum dome 70 feet
in diameter. Upon this dome, from the center of the room, can
be projected the night sky, including accurate simulations of any
part of the celestial sphere. Special-effects projectors also will be
used, both inside and outside the dome, to assist in creating the »
illusion that the spectator has left the surface of the planet and
has traveled out into space. In keeping with the Smithsonian’s
reputation for research and accuracy, every attempt will be
made to explain recent discoveries in the fields of astronomy
SCIENCE val

and astrophysics, such as pulsars, quasars, and black holes. On a
more frivolous, but entertaining level, the Spacearium can be
used as a backdrop for a variety of nonscientific productions. A
powerful teaching tool, it will be available to the District of
Columbia and neighboring school systems as special school
presentations are developed.

Another extremely valuable component of the.new National
Air and Space Museum will be the research library and
information center. Unlike most other libraries, which have
aerospace material diffused throughout their collections, the
visitor will find concentrated in one spot a wealth of material
relating to the history of flight. With over 20,000 bound
volumes and 200 periodicals, the library is today the broadest
and most accessible source of scholarly research in a variety of
aerospace fields.

In 1973, a 30-foot, domed planetarium was opened in the Air
and Space Building and daily shows are being given to the
visiting public. In addition to serving as an entertainment and
education tool, the planetarium will serve as a laboratory for the
experimentation and design of equipment and programs to be
used in the 70-foot, domed chamber of the new National Air
and Space Museum Building.

The National Air and Space Museum, in conjunction with the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, hosted a nine-lecture
series called, “Man and Cosmos.” During this series, some of the
finest astronomers in the country provided (to standing-room-
only crowds) a comprehensive and current survey of man’s past
and present concepts of the solar system, with particular
emphasis on the results of space science research during the
past decade. The lecture series is now being edited for
publication by the Norton Publishing Company.

The Roscoe Turner Aviation Collection, which includes the
aircraft, Turner Special, and the Thompson Trophy, was donated
to the Museum. A large number of artifacts also were added to
the astronautics collection, including several flown space suits
and spacecraft-recovery parachutes. Fifteen works of art were
acquired, including a large Aubusson tapestry, Aerosonique.

Restoration work is progressing on eight major artifacts: the
Douglas World Cruiser, Douglas D558-—2 Skyrocket, Mes-
serschmidt ME-109, Curtiss XF9C-2, Spitfire MK VII, Piper L4B,
the Curtiss VX engine, and the 1926 Goddard Rocket. The latter is
the first of a series of astronautic artifacts being restored for an

Apollo exhibit.
72 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

The past year at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
(SAO) saw the attainment of several major milestones, as long-
term research programs were brought to fruition and other
promising investigations aimed at extending the frontiers of
astronomy were begun. Although the Observatory has enjoyed a
position at the forefront of astrophysical research, the potential
for further contributions to man’s better understanding of the
physical universe are strengthened.

SPACE OBSERVATIONS

The results from sao’s Celescope experiment aboard the
Orbiting Astronomical Observatory (OAO-2) now appear in
published form as the Celescope Catalog of Ultraviolet Stellar
Observations. The catalogue is based on more than 8000 ultraviolet
television pictures taken by special Uvicon cameras and repre-
sents observations of approximately 10 percent of the entire
sky, including 20 percent of the region near the Milky Way,
where the majority of ultraviolet stars are found. The final
catalogue lists for each of 5068 stars, the magnitude, position,
spectral type, and other information, including cross references
to ground-based catalogues.

A companion volume, Blanketed Model Atmospheres for Early-
Type Stars, representing an analysis of the Celescope data as
applied to stellar theory, is in publication as well.

In collaboration with Harvard University and the University
of Arizona, sao flew two test flights of a 40-inch-aperture
balloonborne telescope designed to obtain far-infrared (100
micron) data from altitudes high above the obscuring effect of
the earth’s atmosphere. The experiment is expected to give new
insights into the structure and energetics of our own Milky Way
Galaxy, the processes of birth of stars and planetary systems,
and the structure of planetary atmospheres.

Using imagery of the African rift system provided by the
Earth Resources Technology Satellite (EF Ts), one scientist has
detected new structural features that indicate a direct relation
between the degree of obliquity in the pattern of recent faulting
and the older and underlying Precambrian structures. These
results could have important implications for mining interests
throughout East Africa.
SCIENCE 73

Work began on an experiment to test the equivalence
principle—the cornerstone of Einstein’s General Theory of
Relativity—by employing a master clock in a rocket probe. This
3.5-hour experiment will use the stability of the hydrogen maser
to measure the expected gravitational ‘redshift to an accuracy of
about 20 parts per million. The Nasa-supported experiment
employs a two-way doppler cancellation system that may be
useful for further experiments of this type.

sao staff members continued their deep involvement with
observations from the Orbiting Solar Observatories during
1972, with one scientist reducing spectra of solar prominences
and filaments obtained by the Harvard extreme ultraviolet (EUV)
spectrometer aboard oso 4 and 6. He is also involved in the
program of Euv solar observations conducted with the Harvard
experiment on the Apollo Telescope Mount (atm) aboard the
Skylab satellite.

EARTH PHYSICS

A new Earth Dynamics Program (EDP) combines many aspects
of sao’s highly successful satellite-tracking and geophysical
research programs in anticipation of NASsA’s proposed Earth and
Ocean Physics Applications Program. The program’s main
objectives are the following: (1) To develop theoretical models
and to improve understanding of the kinematics, internal
structure, and mechanics of the earth, particularly through the
mapping, with l- to 2-cm accuracy, of polar motion, rotation,
plate motion (continental drift), crustal motions in active regions
such as fault zones and rifts, and core-mantle interactions; and
(2) to use the results of this research in applications such as
earthquake predictions.

SAO’s own network of lasers and cameras produced data that,
when combined with other satellite and viBi data, formed the
foundation for the complex calculations culminating in the SAO
Standard Earth III. For these calculations, sao greatly extended
those computer programs treating lunar and solar perturba-
tions, air drag, tidal effects, radiation pressure, and other
effects to derive a highly significant model of the earth as a
whole with respect to gravitational variations and geodetic
positions and networks.

Satellite-tracking data were also used to produce models of
the earth’s atmosphere. The most important recent finding is a
variation, as a function of solar activity, in the coefficients
74 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

relating to the 27-day variation on the atmosphere to those in
decimetric solar flux.

EXTRATERRESTRIAL MATERIALS

The Observatory continues its analyses of lunar samples and
of meteors and meteorites. One group conducted petrographic
surveys of samples returned by both the Apollo and the Soviet
lunar missions, singling out for special study several materials,
including types of rock found at considerable depth under the
lunar terrae, a variety of green glass containing quenched
crystallites of a type not yet identified among other lunar rock
fragments, and a heretofore unrecognized iron-rich basalt that
apparently forms in the final stages of crystallization of certain
lunar magmas. A second group is making isotopic analyses of
lunar samples to learn about recent and ancient solar flares.
Solar flares occurring within months of the Apollo missions
were determined from the 35-day Ar?’ activity, and the values
agree witn satellite measures. Solar flares averaged over the past
thousand years were determined from the 300-year Ar?®
activity. A third group is studying the distribution of gases in
lunar samples to gain an understanding of how, when, and why
these constituents were implanted in the surface layers.

Statistical studies of fireball trajectories done in collaboration
with the Ondrejov Observatory in Czechoslovakia and based on
data obtained by sao’s Prairie Network led to better observa-
tional distinctions between ordinary stony meteorites and other
types that seldom, if ever, survive atmospheric entry. These
results have great relevance to evolutionary problems of the
solar system. :

Two scientists developed theories related to lunar evolution,
the first attempting to explain the apparent asymmetry of the
moon’s surface, the other developing a model for explaining the
extreme differences in the geochemical composition of the earth
and moon.

GROUND-BASED OBSERVATIONS

As part of a ground-based observation program conducted in
support of spacecraft observations, one SAO group continued its
acquisition and analysis of high-resolution spectra of absorption
lines on Mars, Venus, Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, using a 60-

SCIENCE 75

inch telescope and the three-etalon Fabry-Perot interferometer
at Mount Hopkins. They detected for the first time the
presence of HD molecules in the atmosphere of Jupiter. Aside
from having intrinsic interest, this measurement provides useful
information bearing on the evolution of the atmospheres of the
planets.

Using the pepsios high-resolution optical spectrometer, the
same group observed interstellar lithium in the spectrum of
Zeta Ophiuchi, a finding that has implications in support of the
“big-bang” theory of the universe.

An SAo scientist has developed a low-cost and simple device
for detecting muons and, by implication, neutrinos. Muons are
extremely unstable secondary particles produced by both cosmic
rays and neutrinos. According to theory, the number of muons
produced by cosmic rays should decrease the deeper one goes
into the earth. At a depth of some 2000 feet below sea level, the
only muons detectable would be those produced by the neutri-
nos. The sao muon detector, then, is a relatively small and
portable device that so far has been carried to locations in
Massachusetts railway tunnels and to a deep gold mine in India
to establish baseline levels.

In confirmation of results obtained on Apollo 15, scientists
again received radio signals from a lunar orbiting vehicle after
it had been occulted by the moon. On 15 December 1972, at
01:43:23 Gar, the Apollo 17 lunar ship America was occulted by
the moon; approximately 40 seconds later, its radio signal
reappeared, about 20 decibels above noise, and persisted for
about 42 seconds.

After having been lost since its first discovery 41 years ago,
the minor planet Apollo—the prototype for those crossing the
earth’s orbit—has been rediscovered by sao astronomers. The
asteroid was recovered on photographic plates taken 28 March
with a 61-inch reflector at Harvard’s Agassiz Station.

Joint Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory-Harvard efforts
in radio astronomy continued to produce new observations of
interstellar molecules, including silicon monoxide (SiO) and
cyanoacetylene (HC3N). One group, using the 36-foot radio
telescope at Kitt Peak National Observatory, successfully identi-
fied sulfur monoxide (SO). Another group determined the
correlation between long-period variables and the radial velocity
patterns of the hydroxyl (OH) molecule. Related efforts by this
group to observe quasars and to study the interstellar medium
in the millimeter-wave regions of the spectrum continued with
76 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

the cooperation of Bell Laboratories and the use of facilities at
the University of Texas.

At Mount Hopkins, construction of a road to the summit area
was completed in preparation for the installation of the large
Multiple-Mirror Telescope (MMT) being built by sao and the
University of Arizona for optical and infrared studies. The
design and early construction of this unique telescope are
progressing rapidly and smoothly.

PUBLIC SERVICE

In cooperation with the National Air and Space Museum, sao
sponsored a 9-week series of free lectures on astronomy in
Washington, D.C. The highly successful series, entitled “Man and
Cosmos,” will be published as a book by W. W. Norton.

sao hosted a 5-day symposium on “cosmochemistry” to discuss
topics such as the composition of the sun, meteorites, and
cosmic rays; the solar wind; the moon and planets; and the
interstellar medium; and the significance of these factors in
terms of origin and evolution.

A number of sao scientists and administrators played major
roles in preparation for the Polish and American celebrations
honoring the 500th anniversary of Nicholas Copernicus’ birth.

A combined group of sao and Harvard scientists was selected
to direct the instrument definition team for the low-dispersion
(faint object) spectrograph on the Large Space Telescope (LST).
Other sao scientists were asked to serve on the planning panel
for space missions to Jupiter and Saturn in 1976.

PERSONNEL

Dr. Fred L. Whipple, Director of SAO since 1956, announced
his retirement effective 1 July 1973. Dr. George Field, a
physicist and member of the Harvard College Observatory staff,
was named to succeed him.

Mr. Robert V. Bartnik, Assistant Director for Administration,
resigned, and Mr. John G. Gregory, formerly head of SAO’s
Systems Management Department, was named to succeed him.

Dr. Charles A. Lundquist, Assistant Director for Science,
resigned to take a position as Director of the Space Sciences
Laboratory, NAsA-Marshall Space Flight Center.

Drs. John Wood and Luigi Jacchia both received Nasa’s
SCIENCE ral

Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medals: Wood for his contri-
butions to the Apollo program, and Jacchia for his “unique dis-
coveries of the exosphere and the interactions of solar terrestrial
interactions.”

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

This year marked the fiftieth anniversary of the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute (stR1). It was on 17 April 1923 that
Governor Dwight Morrow issued the order setting aside Barro
Colorado Island as a nature preserve, the first step in the
development of the Institute which has now become active in
research and education as well as in conservation.

For the last decade, the research of the staff has been
primarily concerned with the behavior and ecology of the
organisms of two important series of tropical habitats: humid
forest (and related scrub and second growth), and inshore
marine environments, including coral and other reefs. Work in
these areas has continued in 1973. At the same time, sTRI has
begun on a small scale, several new programs in other fields,
and it is hoped that these programs will evolve and become
additional major foci of interest.

One of the new programs is concerned with human ecology
and paleoecology. Man himself is a species of tropical origin.
The human populations of the tropics have developed a wide
range of adaptations to their surroundings. The analysis of
these adaptations may have considerable scientific and intellec-
tual value; it is also of practical significance now, with the

accelerating changes of the so-called developing world. srri has
a further special interest in the subject. It is becoming evident
that tropical habitats have been continuously modified by man
for many thousands of years (even in the New World), long
_before the current population explosion. It must be assumed
that the distribution and behavior of most of the other
organisms that we are studying have been profoundly affected,
directly or indirectly, as a result of human intervention. The
' present situation can be understood only by placing it in
historical perspective.

One of the postdoctoral fellows, Dr. Anthony Ranere, has
been investigating preceramic sites in Panama in order to
determine the settlement patterns, migration routes, and tech-
nological apparatus of the earliest human inhabitants of the

78 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

area. An associate of the U.S. National Museum of Natural
History, Dr. Olga Linares, is conducting research on some of
the later Indian cultures, especially in the west of Panama, in
the provinces of Chiriqui and Bocas del Toro. This work is
providing new information on ecological changes correlated
with variations in human subsistence patterns and methods of
exploiting the environment. Some of the changes are proving to
be surprisingly large. Both Dr. Linares and Dr. Ranere, and
some of their collaborators have also prospected sites for future
paleoecological, archeological, and anthropological research in
Colombia.

Another relatively new program, devoted to the analysis of
tropical grasslands, is being carried out jointly with the Institute
of Ecology of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Two Polish
scientists, Dr. Lucyna Andrzejewska and Dr. Andrzej Myrcha,
have begun to study the roles and effects of small animals,
arthropods and certain vertebrates, in several different kinds of
grasslands in central Panama. This and subsequent studies
should bring our knowledge of savannah and related habitats,
both natural and artificial, up to the level of our understanding
of the forest ecosystems.

Comparative studies of different regions of the tropics are
continuing as planned. An associate of sTRI and previous
postdoctoral fellow, Mme. Annette Hladik, has been compiling ~
the results of her botanical studies in Gabon. Dr. Peter Glynn is
visiting Indonesia to investigate possibilities for marine research
there. Dr. and Mrs. Michael Robinson are returning to New
Guinea to resume their studies of orthopteroid insects and
spiders. Dr. Stanley Rand continued his studies of lizard
communication with two visits to different parts of the Lesser
Antilles. During the past year, however, special attention has
been paid to the fostering of research in northern South
America, most notably in Colombia. The Cali station is being
used by increasing numbers of visiting scientists and students as
well as staff. (Remarkably, it is also producing a small financial
profit. This enables us to give small grants-in-aid to support
specific research projects of modest scope in Colombia.) Dr.
Neal Smith traveled widely in Surinam and Venezuela pursuing
his interests in nest and brood parasitism in birds.

With the general expansion of sTRI activities, it has been
decided to seek closer and more regular connections with the
Panamanian and Colombian governments, to supplement our
existing arrangements with local universities, museums, and
SCIENCE

a rte recites eemeeonetne:

i

Coring of the coral reef at Galeta Island,
Atlantic Coast of Panama.

79
i

_ SCIENCE 81
other scientific organizations. Agreements with both govern-
ments have been drawn up and are expected to be signed
shortly. A new, additional, office is being prepared in Panama
City to facilitate contacts and cooperation with sTrRi’s Panama-
nian colleagues.

Research on coral continues to be an important focus of many
of our marine scientists. A drilling program was initiated on the
Galeta reef flat to determine the thickness and age of this
much-studied reef. With cores across only half of the reef, Drs.
MacIntyre and Glynn have determined that the corals are at
least 50 feet thick and are resting on a base of mudstone of the
miocene Gatun formation. All the species in the cores represent

modern classes of corals. They plan to continue the drilling
toward the reef crest where 60- to 70-foot depths are expected.
P. Glynn has also described a form of mobile spherical corals.
He believes that planula larvae settle on algae modules which
are continuously tumbled by the feeding action of certain fishes.
A nearly uniform radial growth results from periodic move-
ments, preventing prolonged growth on any particular axis.

__ Dr. Moynihan has continued studies of the behavior and
ecology of squids, especially Sepioteuthis sepioidea. Cephalopods
are interesting because they are molluscs but convergent to

Spherical growth form of Pavona gigantea.

Shown at left, Sepioteuthis sepioidea, squid behavior is
under study at the Islas San Blas on the Atlantic side of Panama.
82 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

- Cross section of spherical form

_—

Gerd “s® of Pavona clibosa showing the

og 2 : — algae growth nucleus.
oe i “3 =~
Bee FZ. . S

t hy F

ss 2 ‘lagna ‘

af et
o

vertebrates. They have become large and predatory, developed
large brains, good eyes, etc., but their social behavior has been
very little studied (essentially not at all in the field). S. sepiozdea,
at least, turns out to have a complex social structure, elaborate
and flexible organization of size (age), and sex classes. It has
evolved a complex visual signaling system.

The Environmental Science Program continued to develop —
and to implement monitoring techniques and procedures for
both physical and biological fluctuations. Work was largely done >
in the forest on Barro Colorado Island and on the coral reef
flat at Galeta. With the completion of 1973, data are beginning
to be accumulated to permit the comparison of successive years
both in terms of meteorological differences and in terms of the
responses of both animals and plants. It is already clear that —
even in the tropics the “typical year” is a rare event.

With the joint sponsorship of the Office of Academic Studies,
sTRI brought together five people from the United States and
the West Indies to discuss current studies of the display
behavior of Anoline lizards in a 4-day workshop on Barro
Colorado Island.

STRI was fortunate in obtaining five excellent postdoctoral
fellows during fiscal year 1973. In addition to their research,
several of these fellows and the srri staff taught formal courses —
at the University of Panama and in the Canal Zone Branch of —
Florida State University. These courses included “Analysis of
Archaeological Materials” for advanced training of local archeol-
ogists, “Marine Biology,” “Basic Biology,’ and an advanced
botany seminar.

Use of srri Facilities by visitors increased again after several
years of leveling off. str1 was host to 669 visitors representing
P

SCIENCE 83

Canopy catwalk under construction on Barro Colorado Island.

‘more than 60 universities and over 50 other organizations,
‘among these were marine biologists from the University of
Panama who are using sTri’s laboratory space at Naos Island as
well as the srri research vessels.

During the past year major changes were made in sTRI’s
facilities in Panama. An ideal site was obtained in Balboa
-convenent to Panama City. The site includes a concrete struc-
‘ture of 4680 square feet which was formerly part of the
facilities of the now-demolished Tivoli Guest House. Adjacent to
this building, which needs extensive renovation, are about 6
acres of land; ample space for future construction of offices and
laboratories, as well as cages and plant houses.
84 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973)

opposite Barro Colorado Island. These areas, totaling 2480!
acres, will enable certain sorts of destructive sampling and}
experimentation to be conducted which are not compatible with}
the policy of strict conservation on Barro Colorado Island. Parts!
of these areas are young second growth, a habitat lacking on}

Barro Colorado Island.

The central library, one of the most complete in the world inj
the field of tropical biology, was remodeled.

On Barro Colorado Island, gradual replacement of the)
original frame structures, most now badly infested with dry rot}
and termites, was continued. Kodak House was completed and
Chapman House is in process of reconstruction. Plans were
drawn up to replace the boathouse. A 45-foot launch was,
obtained surplus from the Panama Canal Company and after
major restoration it is now carrying passengers and materials to)
and from the Island.

During 1973 srri’s research vessel situation changed com-
pletely. The Institute received from the Navy a 65-foot surplus.
T-boat, which was named the Dos Mares. Conversion work 1s
being done at srri with the help of the University of Panama. |
The 65-foot Tethys, twice before declared surplus by other
agencies, was finally retired after 18,000 miles and 72 cruises
for 66 different scientists in sTRI’s service. STRI was fortunate in
obtaining as replacement a 42-foot boat that had been confis-
cated for drug running by the United States Coast Guard. The
craft was renamed Stenella, and its duties will be redefined as
well. |

Radiation Biology Laboratory
CARBON DATING

The measurement of time and the chronology of events has.
always fascinated man, and the natural production of radioac-
tive '*C in the atmosphere by cosmic rays provides a means of .|
dating those events. '*C, as '*COz, enters the carbon cycle ,
through photosynthesis and respiration, and all living organisms
are then in equilibrium with the environmental reservoir, since
the decay rate approximately equals the atmospheric production |
rate. On death of the organism, its '*C content decays with a |
half-life of nearly 5600 years. Therefore, the measurement of |
| &
|

4

SCIENCE 85

‘present '*C content of the sample permits calculation of the
‘time elapsed since the death of the organism over a span of
about 40,000 years.

| The Carbon Dating Laboratory has dated about 400 samples
| this year of interest to a wide variety of professionals, including
vanthropologists, sedimentologists, paleontologists, and marine
\biologists. For example, the chronology of development of the
\Chesapeake Bay is now being constructed. Marine flooding of

jthe Bay basin began about 10,000 years ago, and careful
sampling and dating of marine and freshwater peats and
‘sediments will provide a chronology of this flooding. In
addition to being of sedimentological and marine geological
interest, the chronology will provide archeologists with a meas-
ure of the reduction of habitable land available to early
occupants.

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

Flowering plants have evolved in such a way that those with a
time measuring system have had an advantage for survival. The
Radiation Biology Laboratory for a number of years has been
studying such time measuring processes. For example, three
representative species (Wintex barley, a long day plant; Biloxi
soybean, a short day plant; and Black Valentine, a day neutral
plant) have been found to utilize sunlight between 400 and 700
nm for photosynthesis with equal effectiveness. There is no
difference in the total dry weight produced in these three
species, even though grown in a greenhouse under natural
daylight or in growth rooms under artificial lighting conditions.

Differences, however, do occur in the manner in which the
dry weight is distributed morphologically. Wintex barley re-
sponded to changes in the red/far-red spectral regions by
changes in elongation. In Black Valentine an increase in stem
length is dependent upon increased levels of far-red; without
far-red the plant stems are considerably shortened over controls
grown in the greenhouse.

| Measurements of the ratios of total global irradiance at
several locations (Barrow, Alaska; Rockville, Maryland; and
Jerusalem, Israel) were continued. Sharp transitions in the ratio

00
of green to red Gen nm) occurred in April at all three

Stations. Similarly, the ratio blue to red Smee nm) reached a
86 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1978

maximum in the summertime around July and a minimum in|
winter. These ratio values are now being correlated with growth
measurements of biological material grown at the same time. In!
addition, a new station has been constructed and is operating in
the tropics at Flamenco Island, in the Canal Zone. |

Similarly, a prototype scanning radiometer for detailed meas-
urements in the ultraviolet has been completed. This instrument
has a maximum sensitivity at the 290 nm band of 1 mV equal to}
4 x 10-8Wcm “nm. Fluctuations in the solar ultraviolet energy}
are of great interest as man continues to affect the transmission}
properties of the atmosphere by his activities. |

REGULATORY BIOLOGY

As microorganisms evolved, it is believed that one of the}
protective mechanisms that evolved against intense or toxic
levels of sunlight was the formation of yellow pigments,}
carotenoids. A detailed action spectrum for the formation of}
these pigments by the fungus Neurospora crassa has been}
completed in the ultraviolet and visible spectral regions. Radiant!
energy at 280, 450, and 480 nm is most effective in inducing]
the biosynthesis of carotenoids. The action spectrum indicates]
that a carotenoid may itself be the photoreceptor for this
induction and suggests that the low levels of the pigment
present in dark grown cultures respond to sunlight signals fou
subsequent protection from harmful levels of sunlight.

National Zoological Park

Fiscal year 1973 has been exceedingly active and stimulating
at the National Zoological Park. Public interest in the giant
pandas, presented to the people of the United States by thel
people of The People’s Republic of China, continued to be.
intense. The lines of persons waiting to see Hsing-Hsing and
Ling-Ling were long, particularly on fair-weather Sundays and
holidays. The increased attendance at the Zoo brought about by
these two marvelous animals naturally has caused some prob- |
lems in parking and visitor trash, but the animals have brought
great happiness and pleasure to the millions of visitors who |
have paid their respects to our Chinese guests.

Scientific studies of the behavioral growth and developmen
of the animals have continued. Both animals have more than
SCIENCE 87

doubled body weight and are developing into young adults. In
the latter part of May, Ling-Ling came into estrus at an
estimated 30 months of age. This is the earliest age reported of
estrus occurring. The two animals were placed together al-
though it was recognized that Hsing-Hsing, who it is estimated
is 5 months younger and 15 pounds lighter, was probably
immature. The animals got on well, without serious fighting,
and with the expected semiserious mating play. Breeding did
not occur, but there is optimism concerning the next breeding
season, which may be next autumn or spring.

Many citizens in the Washington area have volunteered the
bamboo patches from their gardens so that, even though the
bamboo is being consumed at the rate of over 24 pounds a day,
the Zoo’s supply is not in danger of being overly utilized. Also,
additional bamboo has been planted.

On 29 May 1972, Femelle, the 12-year-old female gorilla,
_ gave birth to her first offspring, a male, who was named Mgeni
_Mopaya. Despite hopes that she would raise the baby herself,
Femelle showed little interest; so, the baby was taken to the
home of Headkeeper Bernard Gallagher, where his wife Louise
raised it for 7 months. Mgeni Mopaya has been sent to the New
York Zoo to keep company with a young female gorilla of
approximately the same age. Femelle is pregnant once again.

Orangutan Jennie gave birth to female Nancy on 2 March
1973. Jennie had great affection and concern for her baby but,
unfortunately, no milk. So, the little female had to be removed;
it was placed on loan with the Kansas City Zoo, where it is being
raised with a young male orangutan born about the same time.

Well over a year ago, the population of the eagle cage was
reduced to a trio of American bald eagles. Early this spring it
became evident that a pair was bonding and that the third bird
was an unwanted member of a marital triangle; so, it was
removed. The two remaining birds built their nest and an egg
was laid, which successfully hatched during the latter part of
_ May. It is rare to have a bald eagle hatch under captive
conditions, although at the time of this writing, the Miami Zoo

has also hatched a bald eagle chick. Both little chicks are

| growing nicely.
The lesser pandas, sometimes referred to as the little red
_ pandas, gave birth to two kits on 23 June 1972, during
hurricance Agnes. The animals were raised successfully by their
mother and provide an interesting show for our visitors.

As reported in previous years, the white tigers have been
88 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Top left: Moving day for the Komodo monitor lizard. He emerges out of the
transfer crate onto woven mesh. Top right: The lizard is then wrapped up in the
mesh. Bottom left: Dr. Bush and helpers trim the lizard’s claws. Bottom right: The
keepers and crate leave the yard and the Komodo lizard investigates his summer
quarters.

successfully breeding. The last two litters, however, have shown
signs of genetic weakness. It has become obvious that five
generations of direct inline breeding has weakened the strain.
Therefore, the loan of a male Bengal tiger, named Poona, was
secured from the Brookfield Zoo. Under the guidance of Dr. D.
G. Kleiman and the staff, he successfully bred with Kesari, the 7
year-old, yellow daughter of Mohini, and six cubs were delivered
on 30 April 1973. After two days, the mother picked up the last
born, which was the smallest, and carried him to the door of
her cage, thus signifying that she was abandoning this cub to
the care of humans. Keeper Art Cooper took this little
foundling into his home and heart, and has raised him. Kesari

SCIENCE 89

has performed the remarkable achievement of successfully
raising her first litter of the remaining five cubs. This coming
summer they will be a glorious show.

The majestic and awe-inspiring Indian rhinos, which have
thrilled visitors with their massive appearance for the past 10
years, decided that this was the year that they should set up
housekeeping. Rajkumari came into season in August. Because
of the danger of injury during the pre-mating “play,” a 24-hour
watch was kept on these animals with the assistance of the
Friends of the National Zoo (FoNz) under the guidance of Dr.
Helmut Buechner of the staff. After some rather earth-shaking
pre-mating roughhouse play, breeding was accomplished. Next
December or January Rajkumari should deliver, if conception
took place.

The golden lion marmoset project continues well. From 15-17
February 1972 a conference, sponsored jointly by the National
Zoological Park and Wild Animal Propagation Trust, convened
at the Zoo and those scientists in this country and Brazil who
are most knowledgeable and concerned about this animal
attended. All known facets of breeding and behavior of the
golden lion marmoset were reviewed and discussed. From this, a
cooperative breeding program was established. The National
Zoological Park was designated one of the breeding centers for
this beautiful, delicate, rare, South American primate. A build-
ing has been erected adjacent to the hospital-research building,
which is now occupied by marmosets. We hope that all of their
psychological and physiological needs have been met and that
they will, within the next several years, reproduce in sufficient
quantities to supply American zoos and return to the recently
established parks and reserves in Brazil. The National Zoo now
exhibits 15 of these animals, 2 of which are on breeding loan
from other zoos. Also, | is on loan to another zoo. Of these
animals, 11 were born here at the National Zoological Park.

In keeping with the Zoo’s program and objectives of breeding
rare and endangered animals for possible eventual return to
their native habitats, two Zoo-born scimitar-horned oryx were
donated to the Hai Bar Reserve is Israel. This species has been
extinct in that area for many centuries. The Israeli Government
is now establishing a program to reintroduce these and other
animals to their former habitats. It is most gratifying to
participate in the return of these beautiful animals to their
former range.
90 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

The study of sloth ecology and behavior in Panama continued

this year by Dr. G. G. Montgomery, with much valuable |

information being gained relative to the ecosystem of the

tropical rain forest. Within the next few months, the technical

papers resulting from this study will be published.

The veterinary staff of the National Zoological Park has |
developed techniques and skill to permit difficult, complicated, |

and esoteric surgical procedures, two examples of which follow.

The Zoo’s young West African bongo, L’Ehania, was unable |

to deliver her calf because of adhesions which, for some
unknown reason, had developed between the wall of the
abdomen and uterus. These adhesions prevented her from
having normal labor. This fact was unknown until a Caesarean
section was performed after she had passed her normal
gestation period. Unfortunately, the calf was not alive. However,
the female survived the surgery and is doing well.

The 15-year-old, male African forest elephant had developed
an infection at the base of his right tusk as a result of an injury
inflicted by the older and larger female elephant, Nancy. The

female had also bitten his tail, which resulted in severe necrosis. |

Dzimbo was operated on for what can be best described as a

“root canal” on the tusk to curette and drain the tusk cavity, |

and to amputate 6 inches of his tail. So far, the tusk seems to
be coming along fine.

The Master Plan for the complete renovation and moderniza-
tion of the National Zoological Park has been completed and

approved by all necessary reviewing bodies. Plans are now going |

forward on a new lion and tiger exhibit and the complete
renovation of the 1904 monkey house.

In April of this year a one-dollar parking fee was established.
FONZ are operating this program for us. Twenty-five percent
of the profits from this operation will be used by FONZ for
their educational programs at the Zoo, and the remaining 75
percent will be held in escrow by the Smithsonian Institution to

partially defray the cost of a new parking facility to be ©

constructed in conjunction with the Master Plan,

In summary, it can be said that the fiscal year of 1973, which
started with the disastrous flood caused by hurricane Agnes
(7 feet of water in the shop building) and has ended with
our first hatching of an American bald eagle chick, has been
exciting, stimulating, and portends well for the future years of
the National Zoological Park.

SCIENCE 9]

Office of Environmental Sciences

The Institution-wide conference on priorities in February
recommended that new ways be found to demonstrate the value
of the Smithsonian’s basic and traditional interests in the
environment. One such program initiated during the year was a
series of ecological assessment studies in Southeast Asia. Of
concern is the optimal future use of land and water resources in
this region for the most rapid and enormous change of a
tropical ecosystem in recorded history is taking place in
Southeast Asia. A program of environmental assessment is
necessary to better understand the impact of these changes
upon the postwar reconstruction and development of the
countries involved. Studies are continuing on offshore oil
pollution in Indonesia, and the control of schistosomiasis in the
Mekong River Basin, and new research is projected on the
environmental impact of man-made lakes in Laos and aquatic
weeds in freshwater impoundments throughout the region.

The Office of Environmental Sciences assists other Smithson-
ian bureaus and centers to carry on strategic and contemporary
research on environmental problems, making extensive use of
the national reference collections as an ecological data bank.
The Institution’s tradition of scientific research in the distribu-
tion and evolution of organisms is being applied in ecological
studies required by federal and private agencies to comply with
new legislation.

Staff members serve on a wide range of national and
international advisory committees and work with Smithsonian
scientists involved in biological monitoring and biological con-

trol, identification and conservation of natural areas, research
on marine and freshwater pollution, appraisals of research on
environmental problems, and studies of rare and endangered
species of plants and animals.

ECOLOGY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Center for Natural Areas provides ecological
competence in planning and setting priorities for selection and
preservation of ecologically significant areas. Natural areas
include habitats of rare and endangered animals, plants, and
communities; sites of unique research interests, important
breeding and over-wintering areas; archeological, paleontologi-

92 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

cal, and other locations which should be preserved. A quantita-
tive evaluation system of ecological indicators has been devel-
oped as a scientifically sound basis for selection of sites in
priority order for acquisition by procuring agencies to be set
aside as permanent reserves.

A 2-year, exhaustive natural areas study has been made of the
Chesapeake Bay region. All presently preserved land was
identified, and ecologically significant plants, animals, and
communities were plotted on a series of maps. Naturals areas
were rank ordered in terms of scientific criteria for recom-
mended procurement and designated as protected areas.

A comprehensive conservation plan has been developed for
the Coast of Maine involving more than 200,000 acres and
1100 miles of coastline, with support from the New England
Regional Commission and the Maine Coastal Foundation.

The Center for Natural Areas, in cooperation with the Nature
Conservancy, is developing a natural area registry. A current
inventory of approximately 15,000 natural areas in the United
States is being compiled and programmed for computer re-
trieval. Special emphasis is placed on endangered flora, fauna,
and ecosystems. The Center also is assessing environmental
inventory activities throughout the United States for the Army
Corps of Engineers. A comparative review is being conducted of
alternative methodologies employed in making environmental
inventories.

The Center is helping evaluate the ecological impact of
activities at U.S. Air Force Bases in the continental United States
in order to promote a basis to recommend improvements in the
conservation practices. A model is being constructed for the Air
Force to use in subsequent surveys.

The Smithsonian Peace Corps Environmental Program con-
tinues to provide assistance in two general areas: (1) develop-
ment of Peace Corps projects and volunteer assignments in
developing countries in the environmental and natural resource
fields, and (2) recruitment and placement of applicants skilled
in the environmental and biological sciences.

To date over 1000 applications have been received and of
these 480 volunteers with environmental skills have been
assigned to 34 countries. The program staff is in contact with
258 international and host-country scientific or conservation
organizations. Program development assistance will continue to
be emphasized in less advanced countries and through interna-
SCIENCE 93

tional organizations (IUCN, FAO, UNESCO, etc.) that cooperate in
placement of volunteers in environmental positions.

The first national list of rate and endangered higher plants of
the United States is being compiled by the Ecology Program and
the Botany Department of the U. S. National Museum of
Natural History with assistance from the Department of Agricul-
ture and other organizations. The list includes plant species of
the continental United States as well as Hawaii and Alaska.

OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY PROGRAM

During the past 10 years the Smithsonian’s 2 oceanographic
sorting centers have processed and distributed for scientific
study over 50 million specimens of marine organisms. This
achievement has resulted in recognition of the Centers as
leading institutions in the taxonomic sorting, community analy-
sis, and specimen and sample data management of marine
plants and animals.

The Oceanographic Sorting Center at the Navy Yard in
Washington processed nearly 9 million specimens in fiscal year
1973, distributing roughly 10 percent of the collections to
scientists in the United States and abroad for taxonomic,
distribution, and population studies. The Center also assisted a
number of national and international agencies in environmental
analysis programs, particularly the National Science Founda-
tion’s Antarctic Research Program (USARP) and the Marine
Resource Monitoring and Assessment Progam (MARMAP) of the
National Marine Fisheries Service.

The Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center (MMsc) in Tunisia
continued to participate in the UNESCO-FAO-sponsored Coopera-
tive Investigations of the Mediterranean and made available 2.5
million marine organisms to scientists, who depend upon these
research services. The mmsc also organized in cooperation with
the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization an
international workshop on the Identification of Fish Eggs and
Larvae of the Mediterranean. The purpose of this meeting was
to pull together and up-date all available information on this
increasingly significant subject area, compare criteria for identi-
fication, and develop illustrative materials for identification
purposes.

A report was completed and published on the “Existing
Conditions of the Biota of the Chesapeake Bay” for the Army
Corps of Engineers. It will be used to develop a broad-based
94 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

program on environmental management for this important
national estuarine system. The first nine volumes in a series of
identification manuals, The Biota of Freshwater Ecosystems of the
United States, were published this fiscal year under a contract
from the Environmental Protection Agency. Two additional
manuals were completed in manuscript and others are planned.
The biota selected for inclusion in this series are considered to
be water quality indicative organisms. Information on their
biology and ecology is included with the keys to enhance the
value of the manuals in environmental studies.

A preliminary study was completed on the levels of chlori-
nated hydrocarbons and heavy metals in the Caspian coastal
zone of Iran, where chemical contaminants appear to be
contributing to the decline of sturgeon and other commercial
fishes. Studies of Skadar Lake, the largest of the Balkan Lakes,
were continued in cooperation with the Institute for Biological
Research at Belgrade, Yugoslavia. The objectives of this 5-year
project are to describe the physical, chemical, biological, and
geological nature of this lake, to develop a capability for
management of the lake and its drainage basin as the regional
impact of man increases.

CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA

The Center operates the global environmental alert system
for rapid communication of scientific information on natural
phenomena of short duration. During the year, the Center
reported 142 short-lived events that occurred in 52 countries,
an increase of 43 percent over the number of significant
happenings described in the preceding year. The reporting |
network now consists of 2784 scientists, scientific institutions, |
and field stations located in 144 countries and covering every .
continent and ocean of the earth.

Scientific teams investigated nearly 90 percent (126) of the
events. Events included 57 in the earth sciences, 77 of biological |
interest, and 8 astrophysical phenomena. They included signifi-
cant modifications in biological and ecological systems, rare or .
unusual animal migrations, population explosions, major mor-
talities of plants and animals, volcanic eruptions, birth of new
islands, earthquakes, landslides, cyclonic storm surges, floods,
major fireball events and meteorite falls, and environmental ,
pollution of significant proportion and short duration, such as_

SCIENCE 95

major oil spills, wide ranging smoke, and herbicide contamina-
tions.

During fiscal year 1973, the Center formed a new National
Environmental Alert Network which mobilized more than
40,000 high school and university students in over 700 schools
and colleges as part of an International Environmental Alert
Program. The program will become part of the United Nations
Earthwatch Program, an international environmental monitor-
ing activity that will be administered by the United Nations
Environmental Program.

Contracts and grants were awarded by other organizations to
facilitate participation of the Center in support of their pro-
grams. These included the Earth Resources Technology Satellite
program and the Skylab Manned Orbital Workshop Program of
NASA, and the United Nations Natural Disaster Program. For
example, the Center alerted Skylab astronauts on short duration
natural events in progress that could be described from orbit. It
also asked its worldwide network of correspondents to identify
events observed from orbit but not fully understood by the
rapidly moving astronaut team.

The Center prepared publications on environmental monitor-
ing and science information communications under contract to
the United Nations Environmental Secretariat and the United
Nations Office of Science and Technology.

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies

The Center has become the focal point of a model watershed
program for the Rhode River, a sub-estuary of the Chesapeake
Bay, along which the Center has 14 miles of shoreline and
controls 2500 acres of land. This research is being conducted as
a part of the program of the Chesapeake Research Consortium,
an organization comprised of the Smithsonian Institution, the
Johns Hopkins University, the University of Maryland, and the
Virginia Institute of Marine Sciences, and is funded by the
National Science Foundation. This funding was renewed in
April 1973 to continue through September 1974.

The Center’s programs involve integration of intensive ecosys-
tem research with land use planning and the development of
public participation in environmental decision-making processes.
96 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

This integration is being realized in part through development
of a public information/education program utilizing data from
scientific research. The information-transfer program, funded
by the Noble Foundation, is intended to: (1) create a wide-
spread understanding of the functioning dynamics of a regional
ecosystem; (2) identify crucial problems affecting such a system;
and (3) develop linkages between scientists, planners, and
managers and the general public whereby solutions to these
problems can be identified and implemented. An education
center for workshops and seminars has been designed to carry
out this public information/education program and will be
constructed in the fall of 1973.

The potential of the Center for education in the environmen-
tal sciences has begun to be realized with the initiation of
several new programs. A pilot environmental education pro-
gram, designed to introduce concepts of ecology in urban and
natural settings to inner city and suburban tenth graders, was
conducted in May of 1972 in cooperation with Camp Letts, a
YMCA facility adjoining the Center. The Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare will provide funding for this program,

4

beginning in June of 1973 for 12 months. In the spring of |

1973, another educational program was begun that utilized the
Center as a research site by high schools. Under this program,
students and teachers have been afforded an opportunity to
design and carry out research projects in consultation with the
Center’s staff. This program provides students with the unusual
opportunity of working with practicing scientists and of utilizing

the background of information on environmental variables that —

are available in the Center’s data bank. An experimental
educational program in ecology, intended to emphasize affective
skills and focusing on interesting children in ecological relation-
ships, was also begun in 1973. Finally, the Center continued its
ongoing program of providing summer research opportunities
for undergraduate students, and cooperating with local elemen-
tary schools in environmental education field studies. In the
latter program, trips to the Center are arranged to illustrate
various aspects of the curriculum under study in the classroom.

Center for the Study of Man

The program initiated at the Cairo Conference last year has
grown according to expectation. Monographs are being pre-

ee
| SCIENCE 97

pared by 20 authors and 6 behavioral scientists are submitting
questions to them. Two monographs are completed and will be
submitted for publication. A direct outgrowth of this program
has been the organization of five fully funded conferences for
the forthcoming IXth International Congress of Anthropology
and Ethnological Sciences in Chicago from August 28 to
September 9. The pre-Congress conferences focus on the cross-
cultural uses of cannibus, of alcohol, on American Indian
economic development, on a general theory of cultural trans-
mission, and on the relationship between anthropology and
population studies. The results of these conferences will be
reported to the Congress and subsequently published in the
proceedings of that body. The effect of the Center’s efforts,
which have been occurring over the past year, should be some
noticeable shift of emphasis within the field of anthropology
from past-oriented static studies to a concentration on world
problems presently in need of solution.

_ The Urgent Anthropology Program continues to support,
with small grants, work which is pressing, immediate, and
scientifically valuable. During the past year, 11 final reports
have been received, including a detailed account of Japanese
_bear hunting and the adaptation of an outlawed caste to the
social structure of modern India.

The Center’s American Indian program remains concentrated
on the production of the encyclopedic Handbook of North
American Indians. Over a thousand manuscripts have now been
received and editing of them is a major preoccupation of the
/ Center.

_ A 2-year study of the relationship between economic develop-
ment and social organization has just been completed. The
study, directed by Dr. Sam Stanley, involves seven American
Indian communities, Navajo, Papago, Lummi, Pine Ridge Sioux,
_Oklahoma Cherokee, Morongo, and Passamaquoddy.

The Center also co-sponsored an Ethnographic Film Festival
-at the Smithsonian from May 10 to 12. This is a part of the
continuing effort to establish an ethnographic film archive in
the Center for the Study of Man.

Smithsonian Science Information
Exchange, Inc.

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange (ssi£E) contin-
-ues to expand its coverage and services as the nation’s major
98 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

source of information on research in progress. Efforts to
increase both the completness and timeliness of its data base
have met with success, and more potential users of the system
both in and out of government have been reached through an
improved educational program.

A number of accomplishments have been achieved in 1973 in
improving the system internally including the establishment of
an on-line retrieval system using video display terminals for
retrieval of information by ssir’s staff of professional scientists
and engineers. Initial plans have been developed for a com-
puter-assisted indexing system designed to improve the present
system of indexing projects from a scientific viewpoint, thus
saving the scientists’ time for more difficult conceptual indexing
which cannot be achieved by computer systems currently
available. Plans for remote on-line interrogation of the Ex-
change’s data base are also being developed in order to provide
wider and more rapid access to the material presently available.

The Exchange is currently carrying out, under a Food and
Agricultural Organization (FAO) contract, a pilot project which
will create a data base of ongoing research in agriculture in
some 14 African countries. In addition to the possible inclusion
of this information into ssiz’s own data base, the material will be
utilized to develop a catalogue of the research and provide
information and costs that might be expected in the develop-
ment of a broader base system. Preparation of a 12-volume
series of catalogues listing current research efforts by broad fields
of science was completed and published by a commercial
company during the year. Plans to supplement the volumes on a
regular basis are currently being developed. An agreement for
publication of information in the Exchange’s data base with
actual reprints of journal articles has also been negotiated, thus
making information in the Exchange available to more scientists
in a wider variety of forms.

Fort Pierce Bureau

The Fort Pierce Bureau, located at LINK PORT between Fort
Pierce and Vero Beach, Florida, has continued its basic mission
of research in marine biology and geology. Studies include life
histories of sipunculan worms, pressure physiology, analysis of
gases in submarine and decompression chambers, development
of artificial habitats for receiving sabellariid worm larvae or

SCIENCE 99

living worm-reef transplants, preliminary work on decapod
crustaceans and fishes of the Indian River region, and comple-
tion of a nine-month behavioral study of the American alligator.

Fifty-eight persons attended a national Submersible Safety
Seminar hosted at LINK PORT in September to identify problems
associated with submersibles and to make recommendations for
safe submarine usage. Diving and submarine personnel partici-
pated in a simulated 1000-foot dive at the Duke University
Hyperbaric Laboratory in January to test performance under
the stress of deep diving.

The conversion of the Bureau’s submarine tender, the R/V
Johnson, has been practically completed with such innovations as
an aluminum-alloy superstructure, an anti-roll tank located in
the pilot house and “flopper-stoppers” off the mast for stabiliza-
tion, and a recompression chamber below decks aft. Test dives
of the Smithsonian’s research submersible, the Johnson-Sea-Link,
have been successfully completed to below 1000 feet. An
aluminum-alloy crane, capable of launching and recovering the
submersible from the stern of the R/V Johnson, has been
developed and tested—and this machine completes the mother-
ship-submersible-diver system.

A floating laboratory barge obtained in early April from the
Environmental Protection Agency is undergoing renovation to
become self-contained. It will be used initially as a stationary
facility at LINK PorT from which to carry out a biological survey
of the Indian River lagoon. Conversion and outfitting of the
laboratory barge and the R/V Johnson have been made possible
by the generous support of Edwin A. Link and J. Seward
Johnson.

At the close of the fiscal year the submersible Johnson Sea-Link
suffered a tragic accident off the Florida Keys. The Smithsonian
convened an expert panel to investigate the circumstances which
surrounded the incident.

HISTORY AND ART

HE OBLIGATION OF A PUBLIC INSTITUTION to serve the

public is often viewed as simply an obligation to accom-
modate larger and larger numbers of people. Statistics reflecting
the sheer number of viewers, readers, and attenders are
proudly circulated as evidence of success in bringing culture and
enlightenment to “everyone.” But just as our political tradition
insists that the rule of the majority must be reconciled with the
rights of minorities and of individuals, so too the management
of cultural institutions must ever be mindful of the multiplicity
of audiences and the variety of tastes. The record of the
Smithsonian’s museums of art and history provides heartening
evidence that a great national institution, supported to a
substantial extent by funds appropriated by the Congress, can
serve both a mass audience and a number of specialized
audiences without developing schizophrenia and without com-
promising its high standards of scholarship and interpretation.
The key to the Institution’s success in this regard lies in its
encouragement of diversity.

The fiftieth anniversary of the Freer Gallery, which is being
appropriately celebrated in its own right by three special
exhibitions, catalogues, and symposia, serves to remind us of the
extraordinary variety and individuality of the Smithsonian’s
museums of art and history. On the occasion of the Freer
anniversary, the New York Times published an article by John
Canaday entitled, “The Aristocrat of American Museums Has A
Birthday”:

Born rich and beautiful just fifty years ago, the Freer Gallery of Art in
Washington is the aristocrat of American museums. Like all true
patricians who have neither lost their money nor gone to seed, the

Freer is so secure in its station that any hint of snobbism, the first
symptom of decline from high places, is out of the question.

Mr. Canaday goes on to praise the museum’s unfailing devotion
to the purpose enunciated by its founder: “the promotion of the
finest ideals of beauty as seen in the civilizations of the East.”
The Freer’s success in serving this. ideal is a tribute to its four
directors—John Ellerton Lodge, Archibald G. Wenley, John A.
Pope, and Harold P. Stern—to the successive Regents and

100
HISTORY AND ART 101

Secretaries of the Smithsonian, and not least to the successive
Congresses which have appropriated funds for the support of
the Freer without requiring that it depart in any way from its
lofty purposes.

If the Freer Gallery is a delight in itself, it is even more
remarkable as a counterpoint to its neighbor across the Mall, the
National Museum of History and Technology. A year ago we
reported here that attendance at the Museum of History and
Technology had reached the astonishing figure of 978,728
during a single month; attendance in the month of April 1973
exceeded one million. Drawn by the museum’s permanent
exhibitions and by the new third-floor galleries that were
opened during the year, as well as by a succession of special
exhibitions and lectures, visitors to the Museum of History and
Technology outnumbered those to any other museum in the
world. If they found little of the serenity of the Freer, the
exhibits they saw embodied the same high standards of scholar-
ship and excellence of display translated into terms appropriate
‘to the size and nature of a vast and vastly popular museum of
American history and technology.

_ One of the activities that has brought great credit to the
Museum of History and Technology is its program of concerts.
Making use of ancient instruments in the museum’s collection,
these concerts by the Division of Musical Instruments present
classical or little-known works to small audiences in an appropri-
ately intimate setting. The theme of variety and individuality is
again evident when we think of these performances in relation
to the enormously popular Festival of American Folklife held on
the Mall each year to the delight of hundreds of thousands of
visitors. A sampling of reviews of the past year’s concerts at the
‘Museum of History and Technology shows that here too the
Smithsonian succeeds in maintaining the highest standards of
/excellence:

Like a born aristocrat, everything Smithsonian’s Division of Musical
Instruments does is touched by elegance. In a city known for
wonderful chamber music, the Smithsonian’s offerings stand out
because of the unassuming, almost casual dignity of the performances,
and because the Smithsonian’s fine collection of playable old instru-
ments makes it possible for them to perform 18th-century music in its
own rather than in modern terms. (Joan Reinthaler, Washington Post.)

Leave it to the Smithsonian to treat us to one of the most unusual
cultural offerings of a half-decade, nothing less than a neglected slice
of musical and balletic history brought intriguingly to life. (Alan
Kriegsman, Washington Post.)
102 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Rarely has the art of music been more perfectly served than in last
night’s exquisite concert in the Smithsonian’s Hall of Musical Instru-
ments. (Paul Hume, Washington Post.)

The variety of subject, scope, and approach so vividly
illustrated by the contrasts between the Freer Gallery and the
National Museum of History and Technology, between chamber
music concerts and the Folklife Festival, is even more striking
when one looks at the full range of Smithsonian art and history
museums. The National Collection of Fine Arts, the successor to
the Institution’s original gallery of art, has now clearly come
into its own as the national museum of the history of American
art. It has developed an identity and a style of its own. Hilton
Kramer, writing in the New York Times on the occasion of a
major exhibition of the works of Alfred Maurer, recognized this
fact:

Under the directorship of Joshua C. Taylor, the National Collection has
emerged as our most responsible museological custodian of American
art, addressing itself to those disinterested tasks of scholarship and
connoisseurship that have been spurned by more fashion-conscious
museums elsewhere (particularly in New York). Certainly, it is difficult
to think of another institution that would have approached the
problems of a Maurer show with the same seriousness and devotion.

Similar enthusiasm was expressed by Paul Richard in his
Washington Post review of a National Collection of Fine Arts
show of religious art in America:

I have never seen a show like “The Hand and the Spirit,” now on
exhibition at the National Collection of Fine Arts. . . . Jane Dillenber-
ger and Joshua C. Taylor have produced a brilliant show, illuminating
the varying religious impulses that have fueled,this nation’s art... .
the great virtue of this exhibition is that it does not struggle to evade
[basic questions]. It is a patient show, so thoughtfully selected, so
intelligently conceived, that it allows us all our quibbles and then uses
them to teach us. In the end it points at truths that few of us have seen

. . Taylor’s [catalogue] essay is a classic, as fine a study of American
art as I have read in years.

With its brilliant permanent installations, its succession of
thoughtful and handsome temporary exhibitions, and its active
and imaginative educational programs, the National Collection
of Fine Arts meets in its own way the Smithsonian’s high
standards of excellence in scholarship and communication.

The National Portrait Gallery, which shares an _ historic
building with the National Collection of Fine Arts, has devel-
oped its own style during its relatively brief history, and
particularly during the last 4 years under the direction of
HISTORY AND ART 103

Marvin Sadik. As something of a hybrid—a history museum that
collects and displays works of art to tell the story of the
American people—the National Portrait Gallery has developed a
reputation for imaginatively conceived and impeccably mounted
exhibitions, accompanied by catalogues as handsome as they are
informative.

Anyone who has attended exhibition openings at both the
National Collection of Fine Arts and the National Portrait
Gallery will have sensed immediately that two quite different
spirits and philosophies are at work in these two museums.
Happily, the Smithsonian can embrace both and can take pride
in both.

Undoubtedly this same individuality will characterize two new
Smithsonian museums, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, when they open to the
public. Each has a role to play—one as a museum of modern
art, the other as a museum of design—and each is already
developing its own techniques and its own style.

Continuing delays in the construction of the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden have been a source of deep
concern and frustration, but there is now every reason to expect
that it will open to the public in 1974. The museum’s staff and
its distinguished Board of Trustees have meanwhile been busy
preparing for the opening exhibition of the museum’s own
collection, and charting the museum’s course in fulfillment of
the donor’s (and the Smithsonian’s) hope that it will “act as an
intermediary between the artist and the public, and that by
acquiring and showing what is new, significant, and vital, we will
be instrumental in helping to narrow the aesthetic and cultural
generation gap.” As for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the
acquisition of the Carnegie Mansion and the receipt of several
substantial grants for renovation and for an opening exhibition
give promise that the exciting plans of Lisa Taylor and her staff
for using the superb Cooper-Hewitt collections as the basis for a
new kind of museum of design will soon begin to be realized.

The separate reports that follow give further evidence of the
remarkable diversity and vitality of the Smithsonian. The
_ publication and the enthusiastic critical reception of Volume I

of the Papers of Joseph Henry is both a satisfying reward for the
past efforts of Nathan Reingold and his staff and a happy
_augury for the future of this great enterprise, undertaken by
the Smithsonian in cooperation with the National Academy of
Sciences and the American Philosophical Society. The Smithson-
104 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

ian’s collaboration with the National Academy of Sciences
extended also to the cosponsorship of a symposium on the
nature of scientific discovery in commemoration of the Coperni-
cus quinquecentennial, organized on the Smithsonian’s side by
the imaginative and indefatigable Office of Seminars. The
Board of Trustees of the Archives of American Art, which
manages to combine a strong sense of fiscal responsibility with a
clear vision of the national potentialities of the Archives,
continued to preside over the measured growth of the Archives
by authorizing the establishment of a small office in San
Francisco, which is already contributing substantially to the
study of American art on the West Coast.

Finally, we must sorrowfully record here the untimely death
of Colonel John Magruder of the National Armed Forces
Museum Advisory Board.

National Museum of History and
Technology

A most active and productive year at the National Museum of
of History and Technology, 1973 was highlighted by the
opening of five new exhibition halls and the detailed planning
for three more.

An exciting and educational challenge from U. S. Treasury
Secretary George P. Shultz, formerly Director of the President’s
Office of Management and Budget, provided an opportunity to
attempt to explain what productivity means and how it affects
all people, in a large special exhibition on American Productiv-
ity: “If We’re So Good, Why Aren’t We Better?’”. Utilizing a
wide range of exhibit techniques, plain words, striking graphics,
and workaday tools, the exhibition brought to focus the many
different meanings of productivity together with the advantages
and disadvantages, while permitting the visitor to develop his
own conclusions and make his own choices for the future of the
changing and complex American economy.

The restoration of the center section of the third floor of the
museum, a cooperative curatorial and exhibits staff accomplish-
ment of considerable dimension, provides the visitor with a
unique panorama of American communications history and new
insights into subject areas previously unexplored in the mu-
seum, among them a hall of News Reporting which was made
HISTORY AND ART

The new Hall of Money and Medals, which opened in July 1972 in the National
Museum of History and Technology, attracts many visitors.

106 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

possible with the generous support of Time-Life Inc. Included
in this area are the Hall of Stamps and the Mails, the Hall of
Printing and Graphic Arts, the Henry R. Luce Hall of News
Reporting, the Hall of Photography, and the Hall of Money and
Medals. These halls represent the first major renovation within
the museum since its opening in 1964, and with the publication
of descriptive guides of the exhibits, represent a major contribu-
tion by the staff of the Department of Applied Arts during the
past year.

The Hall of Money and Medals, which opened in July 1972,
emphasizes the evolution of the money economy as an integral
aspect of the cultural, economic, and social development of
human society. The various forms under which money ap-
peared, from primitive media of exchange to coins, tokens, and
paper money, or to deposit currencies are shown in their
general historical context.

Also opened in July, the new Hall of Printing and Graphic
Arts features period shops and significant machinery in the
history of printing and type-setting. Demonstrations are offered
4 days a week in the 18th-century printing shop-post office, a
19th-century job printing shop, a 19th-century newspaper shop

The Henry R. Luce Hall of News Reporting, which opened 1 May 1973 in the
National Museum of History and Technology, provides a colorful history of
American journalism.

|
|
|
HISTORY AND ART 107

The new Hall of Photography in the National Museum of History and
Technology, which opened in May 1973, illustrates the history of the art and
technology of photography.

and in a typefounder’s shop in which 18th-century hand molds
are employed.

Stamps and the Mails, while retaining many popular exhibits
from the previous hall, explores the search for speed in moving
our mail through the utilization of major national transportation
systems and improved mechanical mail-handling devices and
free city and rural deliveries. The reconstructed front of the
Dillsburg, Pennsylvania, post office of 1913 provides another
dimension of postal history.

The Henry R. Luce Hall of News Reporting, opened on 1
May 1973, provides a multimedia chronicle of the colorful
history, important personalities, and technological advances of
American journalism. The new gallery offers an informative
look at how news has been gathered and how it has reached
Americans from colonial times to our own days of instantaneous
satellite reporting.

The Hall of Photography, also opened to the public in April,
illustrates the history of the art and technology of photography,
108 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Sir Peter Medawar, distinguished guest speaker for the Frank Nelson Doubleday
Lecture Series receives congratulations from Daniel J. Boorstin, Director of the
National Museum of History and Technology, 15 February 1973.

including the invention of the earliest light sensitive black and
white and color systems. Period settings of the first photo-
graphic laboratory (1835), the first professional photojournalist
at work (Crimea, 1855), and explorer-photographers in the Far
West (about 1875) are among the important exhibit units.
Changing print shows, a silent film era nickelodeon theater, and
tintype photographs which are taken of visitors enhance the
visual and educational experiences available in the new hall.

——

HISTORY AND ART 109

Secretary S. Dillon Ripley addressing guests at the quinquecentennial celebration
of Copernicus at the Smithsonian Institution.

Significant progress has been made during the past year on
the Museum’s major exhibitions being prepared for the future.
A new hall of American political history, entitled “Of the
People, By the People, For the People,” which will occupy the
east half of the second floor, is scheduled for completion within
the following year. It will present a thematic exploration of how
Americans have shaped their government and, in turn, how the
American government has touched the lives of the American
people throughout their history.
110 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

The Museum’s major contribution to the Bicentennial, “A
Nation of Nations,” will be the largest single exhibition to be
produced by the Smithsonian Institution. It will occupy the west
side of the second floor of the National Museum of History and
Technology, nearly 30,000 square feet. The theme is the
contribution of varied streams of people to the making of a new
nation with a new identity. The exhibit will concentrate on the
formation of a new people and will express the idea that each
of these people has woven his own evolving uniqueness into the
fabric of a common nation. Experimental modular units of the
exhibit have been developed, some objects have been acquired,
and the final script is being completed.

When “Of the People” and “A Nation of Nations” are
completed, the entire second floor of the Museum will have a
thematic unity: the American Experience with the peopling of
America occupying the west end of the building; the center area
devoted to the fabric and texture of everyday life in the
American past; and the east end of the building treating the
formalized process of nationhood. The First Ladies Hall will
provide a personalized focus of the general themes treated in
these other exhibits.

Considerable research and discussion during the year by
members of the staff resulted in the furtherance of plans to
develop a reconstruction of portions of the 1876 Centennial
Exposition in Philadelphia, utilizing objects in the Smithsonian’s
collections that have been preserved since the closing of the
Centennial Exposition.

A new lecture series “Technology and the Frontiers of
Knowledge” was undertaken this past year with the sponsorship
of Doubleday and Company on the 75th anniversary of the
firm, as part of an effort to make the National Museum of
History and Technology an even more lively center for the
study of our civilization in its many dimensions. Concerned as a
whole with the relation between technology and experience in
our time, the 1972-1973 Frank Nelson Doubleday Lecture
Series presented five distinguished guest lecturers: Saul Bellow,
“Literature in the Age of Technology”; Daniel Bell, “Technol-
ogy, Nature and Society’; Edmundo O’Gorman, “Technology
and History”; Sir Peter Medawar, “Technology and Evolution”;
and Arthur C. Clark, “Technology and the Limits of Knowl-
edge.” The series will continue in the coming year. .

By action of the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory |
Board, the Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute of Historical Re-

HISTORY AND ART 1

Drawing by Leonard Baskin, an interpretation of Copernicus,
commissioned by the Smithsonian for the Copernican celebrations.

112 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973)

Representative of outstanding craftsmanship and mechanical ingenuity of the |
Old World, the Jagellonian Globe, ca. 1510, was one of thirty priceless objects

loaned to the National Museum of History and Technology from the University —
of Cracow, Poland, for The Copernican Century exhibition.

:
'
{
|
}
“4
|
a
{
1
t
f

|
|
|
{
|
}
HISTORY AND ART ts

search was established in the National Museum of History and
Technology. The Institute will concern itself with the “meaning
of war, its effect on civilization, and the role of the Armed
Forces in maintaining a just and lasting peace by providing a
powerful deterrent to war.” Dr. Forrest C. Pogue of the George
C. Marshall Research Foundation has been retained to assist 1n
planning and programming for the Institute’s early years.

The Copernican Century exhibit in April was one of a

continuing series of events held to mark the quinquecentennial
of Copernicus at the Smithsonian. A special seven-case exhibit
featured priceless 15th- and 16th-century astronomical instru-
ments, paintings, wood blocks and other memorabilia borrowed
from the Jagellonian University of Cracow, Poland, as well as
objects from the Museum’s collections to present the changing
European scene and view of the world.
The Museum was the site for the issuance of two first-day
commemorative stamps by the U.S. Postal Service with- appro-
priate ceremonies. On 23 April 1973 the 8-cent Copernicus
stamp was issued as part of the Copernicus celebration, followed
on 30 April with the release of 10 8-cent stamps honoring
“Postal People.” In cooperation with the U.S. Postal Service, the
Division of Postal History sponsored Philatelic Dedicatory lec-
tures in the auditorium on these occasions and a third lecture in
conjunction with the opening of the new Hall of Stamps and the
Mails.

The Division of Musical Instruments sustained an unusually
successful year of performances, highlighted by the assembling
of a baroque chamber orchestra of 18th-century instruments for
a May performance of cantatas of Handel and Rameau with

Carole Bogard, soprano. A “Record of the Year” award went to
the Division’s recording (released by Nonesuch Records) of
Songs of Stephen Foster with Jan de Gaetani.

The collections were enriched in many areas with the addition
of numerous significant gifts, such as Irving Berlin’s transposing
piano and a violin by Gagliano. The Division of Mechanical and
Civil Engineering was fortunate in acquiring a large Swiss-
‘American refrigeration compressor of 1884, believed to be the
earliest extant in the country, acquired from the American
Brewery in Baltimore, Maryland. Other acquisitions include a
\sundial made by Christopher Colles of New York, a prominent
‘early technologist and Revolutionary figure; a unique collection
of miniature firearms from the late Harry C. Knode of Dallas,
‘Texas; a collection of 300 political campaign objects donated by

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973
\

THE COPERNICAN CENTURY : 1450-15

‘

Renaissance music and dancing at the formal opening of The Copernican Century |
an exhibition of scientific instruments and art of Copernicus’ time. |

HISTORY AND ART PTS

former Governor Michael Di Salle of Ohio in memory of
Thomas Williams; and the bugle used to sound taps for the
funerals of Presidents Kennedy, Eisenhower and Truman from
the Secretary of the Army.

The Division of Medical Sciences acquired a large collection
of artifacts and instruments from the pioneer bronchoscopist,
Dr. Chevalier Jackson.

Numerous important pieces were added to the extensive
collections of Ceramics and Glass including Chinese porcelain of
the K’ang Hsi Period (1662-1722), gift of Mrs. Jean Mauze; a
rare Bow porcelain figure of Spring, c. 1770, gift of Mr. Hanns
Weinberg; an extremely fine pair of Meissen vases with
chinoiserie decoration, c. 1724, gift of Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Arnhold; eight pieces of late 19th-century “slag” glass (English
and American), gift of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur P. Coe; and a fine
collection of American glass of the 19th century, gift of Mrs.
Alma Duckworth.

A valuable addition to the reference collection of war-ship
plans in the Division of Naval History was the gift of 1100
‘copies of plans of 18th-century frigates, brigantines, brigs,
| schooners, sloops, and cutters by Historian Emeritus Howard I.
Chapelle.

With support from the Mary E. Maxwell Fund, the Division of
Pre-Industrial Cultural History acquired materials related to
Appalachian rural life, as well as ash-glazed stoneware pottery.
Mrs. Alma Duckworth donated 18th- and 19th-century pewter,
significantly enriching our collection of American-made metal-
wares.

Collecting and research by the Division of Ethnic and Western
Cultural History were focused on Poland and Polish-American
materials, resulting in a traveling exhibit, “The Persistent Crafts
of Poland,” supported by The Copernicus Society, and includ-
ing gifts from the Polish Peoples’ Republic.

C. Malcolm Watkins was appointed Senior Curator in January
after having served as a museum curator for 37 years, 24 of
them at the Smithsonian Institution. His distinguished career
-has included the formation of the Division of Cultural History
in 1957 of which he was the first curator and Chairman of the
Department of Cultural History, and the development of the
popular Hall of Everyday Life in the American Past.

In the Department of Science and Technology an important
vacancy in the Division of Electricity and Nuclear Energy was
filled with the appointment of Dr. Paul Forman, formerly with
116 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 _

the University of Rochester. He will continue his work in the —
field of modern physics. In a cooperative venture with the —
London Science Museum, Dr. Bernard S. Finn, Curator of —
Electricity, developed an extensive and comprehensive exhibit |
on the development of the Atlantic Cable while on sabbatical
leave.

Cooperative efforts with organizations dedicated to historic
preservation continued to be of major importance within the
museum. Robert M. Vogel represented the Smithsonian at the
First International Congress on the Conservation of Industrial
Monuments in Ironbridge, England, continuing at the same
time his role as editor of the International Society for Industrial
Archeology, producing the bimonthly newsletter and, recently, a
series of special publications.

Dr. John T. Schlebecker spent most of the year in England
conducting research on American agriculture during the Revo-_
lutionary War. While there, he lectured at the Museum of
English Rural Life and the Portsmouth City Museum.

The vacancy in the Division of Manufacturing, created by the —
retirement of Dr. Philip W. Bishop, was filled by Assistant |
Curator George T. Sharrer. Mr. Sharrer was formerly in the
Division of Agriculture and Mining. He is completing a history —
of the early flour milling industry and has published articles on
the indigo trade.

In October 1972 a new Registrar’s office within the Museum
was established with Miss Virginia Beets appointed Collections
Management Officer in charge. During the year Miss Beets and
her staff have surveyed registration needs within the Museum |
and in a number of other private and public museums. It is —
anticipated that this office will initiate the latest and most .
comprehensive registration and collection procedures by July |
1974. |

At the conclusion of this year two of the Museum’s senior |
curators retired. Mr. Mendel L. Peterson, Curator of the
Division of Historic Archeology, and Mr. Edgar M. Howell,
Curator of the Division of Military History, both in the |
Department of National and Military History.

Mr. Peterson was appointed as Curator of the Division of.
Military and Naval History in 1948. He served as Chairman of |
the Department of Armed Forces History from 1956 to 1969 }
and became Curator of Underwater Archeology in 1969. Mr.
Peterson is an established historian on breech-loading ordnance,
and his area of specialization is the systematization of techniques

HISTORY AND ART 117

in the rapidly developing field of underwater archeology. Since
1952 he has explored numerous underwater sites in the Florida
Straits, the West Indies, and Bermuda, serving as leader or
senior staff member on many underwater expeditions. Mr.
Peterson is the author of publications on naval and military
history and numismatics, and his work on History Under the Sea
has become a standard reference.

Mr. Howell came to the Museum in 1956 as Curator of the
Division of Military History and was appointed Chairman of the
Department of National and Military History in 1969. Previously
he had served as Historian in the U.S. Army’s Office of the
Chief of Military History and as Chief of the Organizational
History and Honors Branch of the Department of the Army.
Mr. Howell’s area of specialization are the uniforms and insignia
of the regular Army of the United States. Among his publica-
tions are Uniform Regulations for the Army of the United States 1861
and United States Army Headgear to 1854 which have become
standard references. A third catalogue, United States Army
Headgear 1854-1907, is presently in press.

Archives of American Art

Fiscal year 1973 was marked by sharply increased activity in
the Archives branch offices in Boston, New York, Detroit, and
on the West Coast. The appointment of directors for the
Midwest and California offices greatly stimulated the acquisition
of archival material from those areas. The establishment of the
West Coast office in particular will encourage an expansion of
research in American art on the part of students in the Western
states.

Among the more important collections received during the
year are the complete correspondence and business records of
two of New York’s most active galleries over the past forty
years—the Downtown Gallery and the Midtown Gallery—as well
as the business records of the American Art Association, New
York’s leading art auction house from 1885 to 1925. Personal
‘papers given or lent to the Archives for filming include those of
the 19th-century painters Jasper Cropsey, R. Swain Gifford,
John F. Weir, and Robert W. Weir, and of the 20th-century
artists Gaston Lachaise, Peggy Bacon, and Harold Weston. A
small group of early letters from Thomas Eakins to his sister
Frances is of much interest to scholars, and the extensive papers
118 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973_

of the sculptor Joseph Cornell and of the art writer Aline
Saarinen were particularly significant acquisitions.

This year the Archives has further implemented its policy of
microfilming papers owned by other institutions. The records of |
the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, and those of Isabella
Gardner and of the Isabella Gardner Museum were filmed. The-
filming of art-related papers at the New-York Historical Society.
was initiated during the year and a film of Charles Freer’s:
correspondence with artists was acquired.

The accelerated flow of new collections was matched by,
increased productivity in processing and cataloguing at the
Archives’ Washington office; 53 collections were thoroughly
organized and indexed and more than a hundred additional)
ones were briefly catalogued.

Archives of American Art, A Directory of Resources, compiled by
the staff and published by R.R. Bowker Company in the fall of”
1972, provides an easily accessible guide to the Archives’
holdings. It has been widely and favorably reviewed in profes-
sional journals and was chosen by the American Library
Association for its list of outstanding reference books of 1972.

Partly as a result of publication of the guide, use of the
Archives resources showed a substantial increase over the
previous year; 1200 visits were made by researchers in all
offices and 900 letters of inquiry were answered by the staff.

Books acknowledging assistance from the Archives during the:
year include Scribner Ames, Marsden Hartley in Maine; lan:
Dunlop, The Shock of the New; Arnold Glimcher, Louise Nevelson; }
Russel Lynes, Good Old Modern; Garnett McCoy, David Smith;
Richard McKenzie, New Deal for Artists; and Francis P.]
O’Connor, Art for the Millions. Among exhibition catalogues and- |
articles dependent on Archives material were Susan Macdowell’
Eakins (Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts); Alfred Maurer;
(National Collection of Fine Arts); Lily Martin Spencer (National
Collection of Fine Arts); George Luks (Munson-Williams-Proctor
Institute); Alice Trumbull Mason (Whitney Museum); and Abe
Ajay, “WPA Years” in Art in America (September 1972).

One of the most useful Archives activities is its oral history.
program. Taped interviews conducted during the year caught
the recollections of the artists Robert Motherwell, Zoltan Se-
peshy, and Saul Steinberg; the collectors Ben Heller, Raymond |;
Horowitz, Mrs. Vera List, and Mrs. Eloise Spaeth; the art}
writers John Rewald and Harold Rosenberg; and the dealers) ;
Clyde Newhouse and Sidney Janis.
HISTORY AND ART 119

Freer Gallery of Art

_ The fiftieth anniversary of the opening of the Freer Gallery
of Art to the public was celebrated on May 2. To commemorate
this auspicious Jubilee Year, three special events which highlight
the research, curatorial, and exhibition activities of the Gallery
have been planned. The first program took place on May 2. On
that date the Freer Medal “For distinguished contribution to the
knowledge and understanding of Oriental civilizations as re-
flected in their arts” was presented to Professor Tanaka
Ichimatsu of Tokyo, Japan, in recognition of his valuable
contributions to the study and protection of Japanese art and

‘|Detail from illustrations for traditional texts written by six Ming dynasty
i\calligraphers. By Ch’iu Ying (ca. 1510-1552). Ink on paper; handscroll. Height:
(230 (9") Width: 4.824 (15’ 10”); dimensions are “overall”; actual paintings and
inscriptions vary throughout entire length of scroll. Freer Gallery of Art.
120 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

that nation’s cultural heritage. That evening a dinner was held
in honor of the scholars, staff, and friends who have contrib-
uted immeasurably to the growth and stature of the Gallery.
Later in the evening there was a reception to celebrate the
anniversary and a special exhibition of Japanese ukiyoe painting
was formally opened. The exhibition marks the first time the
Freer has devoted approximately half of its exhibition space to a
single theme or school of art and placed on exhibition for the
first time large numbers of fine paintings never publicly
exhibited before either in the United States or abroad. A
handsome 320-page illustrated catalogue was prepared by the
Director, and on May 3 and 4 a symposium with scholars
attending from all parts of the United States and abroad was
organized to discuss ukiyoe painting.

The Director and staff of the Freer Gallery of Art wish to
salute all those who contributed with grants of funds enabling
the realization of this event.

The remaining two exhibitions and symposia planned for the
anniversary year are Chinese Figure Painting, scheduled to open
in September 1973, and Ceramics from the World of Islam, which will
begin in January 1974. Staff members are preparing catalogues for
each of these special exhibitions. In addition, the Freer Medal will
be awarded to distinguished scholars for their contribution to
Chinese and Near Eastern Art.

In the course of the year, the Study Collection grew
extensively with the addition of 13 items from the noted von
der Heydt Collection. Several fine objects from the estate of
Mrs. Agnes E. Meyer were transferred to the Collection and
have served to enrich it.

In addition to the usual programs, members of the staff |

produced a movie properly documenting, for the first time on
film, the restoration of three Far Eastern paintings by the hyo-
gushi of the Gallery: Takashi Sugiura, the master restorer, and
his two assistants, Shigero Mikkaichi and Makoto Souta. The

film was ably directed by Thomas Chase and filmed by James

Hayden, both members of the staff.

National Collection of Fine Arts

May 6 marked the fifth anniversary of the opening of the

National Collection of Fine Arts (NCFA) in the renovated Patent ©
Office Building. The permanent collection now occupies some |

HISTORY AND ART 121

The Goldfish Bowl (Mrs. Richard C. Morse and Family) by Samuel F. B. Morse, a
recent accession to the National Collection of Fine Arts.

50,317 square feet of gallery space, each curatorial department
has a temporary exhibition space for its own use aside from the
area for large temporary exhibitions, and that part of the
collection not on view is readily available for study by scholars.
A computerized listing of the collection has been made and,
apart from the decorative arts, includes more than 15,000
works. The Collection accessions, on an average, 525 works a
year. With the completion of two galleries now under construc-
tion, all space allotted to the NCFA in the building will be in
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

View of the Hiram Powers Gallery in the
National Collection of Fine Arts.

t
i

HISTORY AND ART 123

active use for exhibition, research, or administration, and some

activities have had to be located outside the building. Another
14,447 square feet of exhibition area was added with the

opening of the Renwick Gallery, which has completed an active
and successful first year of operation.

The program of studying and presenting the works of less
well known artists continued with exhibitions and thorough
publications on Alfred Maurer and Lilly Martin Spencer, with
smaller presentations of Solon Borglum and Johann Hermann
_Carmiencke. The Hand and the Spirit: The Religious Impulse in
American Art, produced in cooperation with the Museum of the
University of California at Berkeley, and the Print and Drawing
_Department’s Artist Naturalist and The Ways of Good and Evil
(early 19th century moral and religious prints) continued the
-museum’s investigation of little-explored themes in American
_art. In all, 33 exhibitions were presented in the Fine Arts
Building; of these only 5 were wholly prepared elsewhere. In
_addition, 9 NCFA exhibitions were maintained in circulation
abroad during the year.
| A museum training program under a staff committee had its
first full year of operation, and included a Master of Arts
_program with George Washington University and a year-long
intern program in museum practice and in conservation. Seven
resident scholars, both post-doctoral and doctoral, carried on
research in the museum during the year. The Bicentennial
Inventory of American Painting before 1914 now has computer
listings of 30,000 works, with 3,000 more to be filed.

The Department of Education’s Discover Graphics program
has expanded to include portable presses for use in the schools.
_A participatory exhibition for children produced by CEMREL, The
Five Sense Store, proved to be a useful and popular experiment.
An active complement of docents helped in this and the many
public activities of the Department, including Portfolio Day, in
which aspiring high school artists could discuss their work with
visiting art school representatives, and a successful Children’s
Day for some 3,000 children.

The Renwick Gallery’s special opening exhibition, Wooden-
-works, was followed by the popular American Pieced Quilts
| (accompanied by a series of quilting bees); Objects for Preparing
Food, organized with the Museum of Contemporary Crafts, New
York; and The Arts and Crafts Movement in American 1876-1916.
Of the exhibitions originating abroad, Brazilian Baroque, with
objects from the 17th and 18th centuries, was particularly

124 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

noteworthy and was augmented by two concerts of Brazilian
music. Other concerts, lectures, and demonstrations, held for
capacity audiences in the Grand Salon, supplemented the
exhibition program.

National Portrait Gallery

The exhibition “Jf Elected . . .” Unsuccessful Candidates for the
Presidency, 1796-1968, which opened in early May 1972, contin-
ued through the end of the year. To celebrate the 139th
anniversary meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science held in Washington in late December,
the Gallery opened an exhibition about The Lazzaroni, a group
of 19th-century American scientists who banded together in an
effort to establish standards of excellence for an American
scientific community.

Lady Bird Johnson with sculpture of Sam Rayburn by Jimilu Mason. This bust
was presented to the National Portrait Gallery by Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Parten, at
which time Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson was the principal speaker.

HISTORY AND ART 125

An exceedingly rare acquisition to the collections of the National Portrait Gallery
in fiscal year 1973 was this bust of Winfield Scott, executed by William Rush in

painted terra cotta about 1814.

Several important portraits were displayed publicly for the
first time, and were generally shown with associative material
relating to the subjects portrayed. One of the most significant of
these occasions was the presentation to the Gallery by Mr. and
Mrs. J. R. Parten of a bust of Sam Rayburn by Jimilu Mason, at
which time Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson was the principal speaker.

A large share of the efforts of many members of the staff was
spent in the preparation of a book being published by the New
York Graphic Society to accompany a forthcoming exhibition, Jn
126 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

F. Scott Fitzgerald, oil painting from life by David Silvette, one of the 20th-century {
figures added to the National Portrait Gallery in fiscal 1973.

the Minds and Hearts of the People: Prologue to Revolution, 1760-
1774. The elaborate installation for The Black Presence in |
the Era of the American Revolution, 1770-1800 was performed in the
spring of 1973 in preparation for the exhibition’s opening on July |
4,

Seventy-seven portraits were acquired by purchase, and 40 by —
gift, during the year. Of special note among the portraits of the
18th and 19th centuries were a miniature of John Paul Jones —
painted in 1780 by Constance de Lowendal, Comtesse de |
HISTORY AND ART 7

Turpin de Crisse; an oil of Revolutionary War General Henry Knox
by Charles Peale Polk after Charles Willson Peale; one of only five
known casts of Peter Cardelli’s bust of Thomas Jefferson, done in
1819, when the former President was 76; and an exceedingly rare
work by William Rush, a bust of Winfield Scott as a young General
executed about 1814.

Among the 20th-century figures added to the collection were
the only known life portraits of composer Charles Ives (a
drawing by Raymond Crosby), the gift of George G. Tyler; and
an oil of writer F. Scott Fitzgerald by David Silvette. The Gallery
received a grant of $10,000 from the National Endowment for
the Arts which was matched by two private contributions of
$5,000 each from Lawrence Fleischman and Howard Garfinkle
for the purchase of 10 portraits of major figures of the Harlem
Renaissance by Winold Reiss.

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

Fiscal year 1973 was a period of transition and preparation
for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Construction
neared completion; plans for moving the Museum’s Collections
were accelerated; and temporary office quarters in Washington
were made available for a cadre professional staff. The public
opening of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden is
scheduled for 1974.

The manuscript for the book-catalogue of the inaugural
exhibition was completed. One thousand paintings and sculp-
tures will be documented and reproduced—approximately 300
in color—in this volume, which will serve as an introduction to
_the scope and variety of the Museum’s Collections. Essays by
outstanding scholars will contribute to a fuller understanding of
the works of art.

Further plans were developed for the inaugural exhibition
and future programs. Models, photographic aids, and full-scale
mock-ups were used to advance installation ideas and to help
determine placement of works in the building and sculpture
‘garden. A Building Manager, Mr. Keith Cumberland, was
appointed. Production was begun on postcards, reproductions,
and color slides illustrating outstanding works from the Collec-
tions which will be available to the public in the Museum shop.
Plans were also made for a flexible audio system in the galleries

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Monument to Balzac, 1898. By Auguste Rodin. Bronze, 8 feet 10 inches high.
The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
HISTORY AND ART 129

- Darabjerd III, 1967. By Frank Stella. Fluorescent acrylic on canvas, 10 by 15 feet.

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

to provide the visitor with a sophisticated individual listening
device.

A pilot computer program, incorporating data on the thou-
sand works in the inaugural catalogue, was completed during
fiscal year 1973. Documentation of remaining works in the

Collections will continue. In addition, research was begun on
future exhibitions, including participation in the Smithsonian
_celebration of the Bicentennial of the American Revolution.

The Board of Trustees met on 11 November 1972 and 12

April 1973. At the spring meeting, the Honorable Daniel P.

Moynihan was reelected Chairman and Dr. George Heard

| Hamilton was reelected Vice-Chairman. Dr. Brian O’Doherty
| and Dr. William C. Seitz were appointed Advisors to the

it

Committee on Collections.
During this period of transition and growth, the Museum has

continued to respond to requests and inquiries from scholars
and researchers and has maintained its policy of lending
‘outstanding works of art to national and international exhibi-
.tions. More than 125 requests for research information and

photographs were answered. Sixty-two paintings and sculpture
were loaned to 27 museums, galleries, and institutions. More

than 60 scholars, artists, and officials visited the Hirshhorn

Museum offices and warehouse. Approximately 1,370 people
130 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 —

ae

Head of a Woman (Tete de Femme), 1923. By Antoine Pevsner. Plastic construction
on wood panel, 14% inches high. The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden.

attended 33 tours of the Hirshhorn Sculpture Garden, Green-
wich, Connecticut, for the benefit of educational, cultural, and

philanthropic organizations.

HISTORY AND ART

Mrs. Kate A. Moore, 1884. By John Singer Sargent. Oil on canvas, 70 by 44 inches.
The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

132 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 _

Ratapoil, ca. 1850. By Honoré Daumier. Bronze, 17% inches high. The
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
_ HISTORY AND ART 2

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts
and Design

Architects and surveyors were a happy sight on the Carnegie
property as the first visible sign that planning for the
renovation of the Museum’s new home is far advanced. A
contribution of $400 thousand to underwrite the opening
exhibit for these new quarters was generously provided by S.C.
Johnson and Son, Inc. .
| Parts of the Cooper-Hewitt collections, lent to exhibitions
throughout the country, were shown in 33 institutions, includ-
ing the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Whitney Museum of
American Art, National Collection of Fine Arts, Art Institute of
Chicago, Worcester Art Museum, Munson-Williams-Proctor In-
stitute, and the M. H. deYoung Memorial Museum.

_ The collections also had exceptional exposure in London,
where they were included in the Age of Neo-Classicism show and
featured at the opening of the Heinz Gallery and as the major
summer exhibition at the Victoria & Albert Museum.

Ninety-six donors gave 3778 works of art. Among the most
notable were the entire collection of the Museum of Graphic
Arts, 438 prints by leading contemporary artists, including
Albers, Archipenko, Baskin, Buffet, Oldenberg, Rauschenberg,
Rivers, Shahn, and Warhol; and the Haines marionettes, over
500 items representing the life work of these puppeteers.

Other noteworthy gifts included two Queen Anne needlework
covered chairs, two 18th-century French lacquered chests, books
of 19th-century textile designs, stage and costume designs by
Ariel and by Simon Lissim, architectural designs by Otto
Gaertner, an important collectiom of early wallpapers, and
contemporary textiles by Dorothy Liebes.

The Library, too, has grown considerably in the past year.
The gift of 300 items (color charts, manuals, and portfolios) by
the color consultant, Walter Granville, has been a significant
addition to the Color Archive. A Symbols Archive was estab-
lished as the result of a major gift by Henry Dreyfuss, who also
left to the Museum his research files and examples of work
spanning his distinguished industrial design career.

The Giuliano & Castellani jewels acquired for resale were sold
at public auction after 15 of the best examples were retained for
the collection. A number of duplicate prints were sold at public
auction and several important fabrics were purchased for the
ollection.

eee = = Solinlieitets

“UInosny, NIMIF{-19do0o7) '
ay} 1OJ aWIOY SB 9AIAS 0} UONNINSUT URTUOSYMUIg 9YI 0} 1Y48INO UaAIs sem Aysadoid ay) ZL61 JO
. . ~

Arenigay UT "YOM [k1I90g JO JooYDS slay1 10J UONeIOdIO*D aiBouIeD dy) WOIy Aysadoid arsausrey

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

=e = on
4 Ey ee

f 1
by r

SS
et | = Sa Sas Se seas a See ee SSeS es Sae a ame

eo ao, I poet | maa | pet i ame am

HISTORY AND ART 135

he ~~

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum has acquired the important design collection of the
late Henry Dreyfuss, including drawings, correspondence, and speeches, and the
world’s largest data bank of symbols. This material will form the nucleus of the
Doris and Henry Dreyfuss Memorial Study Center. Mr. Dreyfuss is seen in this
photograph sketching the logo for his famous Symbol Sourcebook.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum organized a series of computer-run urban games in
conjunction with the Environmental Simulation Laboratory of the University of
Michigan. At this session of HOUSINGPLAN participants are discussing the
development of different kinds of urban construction and the consequences of
such construction over a 20-year period.

136 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Following last year’s successful conference in Paris, another
was organized involving the American design community. The
participants explored ways in which the Museum could heighten
public awareness of the design process. The Museum’s first
“Sidewalk Show,” sponsored by the National Endowment for the
Arts, featured interviews with several leading architects and city
planners.

A grant from the New York State Arts Council enabled the
Museum to sponsor a series of Urban Games for architects,
designers, city planners, politicians, developers, and others
influential in shaping the public environment. The purpose of
these simulation exercises was to probe various decision-making
processes involved in urban development. The Museums Collab-
orative provided funds to undertake a study on public housing
for the elderly.

The Carnegie facilities were made available to a wide variety
of educational and professional organizations. Members of the
community were offered a program of events which included
lectures, tours, and children’s workshops. The Friends of the
Drawings Department established an acquisition fund to pur-
chase annually one fine drawing or print related to architecture
or ornament. In addition to the purchase of several textiles for
the collection, the Friends of Textiles have established a color
slide catalogue, which eventually will include the Museum’s
entire holdings.

Objects from the collection were reproduced in 171 cata-
logues, periodicals, and books. The Museum received considera-
ble and favorable publicity through major articles in the New
York Times, ‘Washington Post, Baltimore Sun, Christian Science
Monitor, Antiques, Antiques Monthly, Architectural Record, The
Designer, Harper's Bazaar, After Dark, and the Smithsonian Maga-
zine. The press set a very challenging goal by predicting that the
Cooper-Hewitt will become “one of the most significant mu-
seums to open in many years.”

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory
Board

The National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board contin-
ued to provide advice and assistance to the Board of Regents
regarding the portrayal of the historical contributions of the

HISTORY AND ART 137

Armed Forces to national development. The Advisory Board
continued its investigation of lands suitable for the site of the
proposed Bicentennial Park and commenced detailed planning
for a special “living history” activity to take place there in
observance of the Bicentennial of the American Revolution.

The Advisory Board approved establishment of the Dwight D.
Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research in the National
Museum of History and Technology. The Institute has as its
goal the advancement of knowledge concerning the “meaning of
war, its effect on civilization, and the role of the Armed Forces
in maintaining a just and lasting peace by providing a powerful
deterrent to war.”

All were saddened by the untimely death by drowning of
Colonel John H. Magruder III, Director of the staff of the
Advisory Board, on 2 September 1972. Mr. James S. Hutchins,
Assistant Director of the staff since 1963, was appointed
Director.

Joseph Henry Papers

The culmination of five years of preparatory work occurred
on 26 December 1972. In the Great Hall of the Smithsonian
Building staff members of the Institution and friends gathered
to celebrate the publication of the first volume of The Papers of
Joseph Henry. The handsome book, the first of a series of
fifteen, reflected more than favorably on its publisher, the
Smithsonian Institution Press. To the members of the Henry
Papers, the event was a reminder of the work still undone on
volume two and its fellows.

An exhibition of rare books, original manuscripts, photo-
graphs, and maps illustrating the career of Joseph Henry, the
first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, was opened on
the 26th of December and remained on display through April
1973. While concentrating on the Albany period of the first
volume (1797-1832), the exhibit’s coverage also included mate-
rials on Henry’s years of teaching at Princeton (1832-1846),
documents on his service at the Smithsonian (1846-1878), and
items illustrating his role as a leader in the American scientific
community.

The early reviews have been very gratifying. The Press has
received honors for its role in producing the first volume. The
Henry Papers staff is exploring the possibility of producing a
138 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

S. Dillon Ripley and Nathan Reingold viewing Volume I of The Papers of Joseph
Henry at the formal release ceremonies, 26 December 1972, Great Hall,
Smithsonian Institution.

special volume outside the main series. This would contain a
selection of unpublished essays and lectures, principally on the
nature of science and its social setting.

Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies conducts a formal graduate
program in material culture of the United States which is
directed to the original Smithsonian purpose: “the increase and
diffusion of knowledge.” Graduate students from area universi-
ties participated in the program, gaining academic credit toward
advanced degrees at those universities.

The course in “Material Aspects of American Civilization” was
taught by Dr. Washburn (with the assistance of curators and
others inside and outside the Smithsonian) to an overflow crowd
of 42 students. During the spring semester four seminars were
conducted. Cary Carson, Coordinator of Research of the St.
Mary’s City Commission and Honorary Visiting Research Associ-
HISTORY AND ART 139

ate of the Smithsonian, again gave his seminar in “Vernacular
Architecture for Historians.” The 14 students enrolled exam-
ined and prepared measured drawings of several colonial
Maryland houses. Arthur Townsend, Executive Secretary of the
Maryland Historical Trust and Honorary Visiting Research
Associate of the Smithsonian, gave a seminar to nine students
on “The Great Plains,” and to three students on “The Photo-
graph As An Historical Document.” A seminar on “Museum
Behavior” was conducted by Ross Loomis, Visiting Research
Psychologist; Robert Lakota, Research Psychologist; and Jean
Chen, Learning Research Specialist—all of the Office of Mu-
seum Programs. The three participating students were actively
involved in measuring visitor behavior in Smithsonian museums
as part of their work. A Work-Study Program in Historical
Archaeology, offered by the St. Mary’s City Commission in
cooperation with the American Studies Program of the Smith-
sonian, George Washington University, and St. Mary’s College
of Maryland, was held from 18 June to 24 August 1973, with
participation by graduate students and Smithsonian staff mem-
bers. In addition to these formal seminars, supervision of
individual reading and research projects, thesis direction, and
preparation of comprehensive examinations were undertaken by
the director and cooperating Smithsonian staff members.
Staff publications for 1972-1973 are listed in Appendix 8.

Office of Academic Studies

The Office of Academic Studies, under the direction of the
Board of Academic Studies, administers Smithsonian Institution
programs in higher education, including fellowship and admin-
istrative support for predoctoral and postdoctoral Fellows
engaged in independent research, for graduate and undergrad-
uate students in directed research and study assignments, for
short-term visitors studying in the Smithsonian’s collections, and
for departmental seminars.

For academic year 1973-1974, 20 predoctoral and 28 post-
‘doctoral fellowships were awarded. Two of these postdoctoral
fellowships were supported by a grant from the National
Endowment for the Humanities for research training in Ameri-
can Indian studies. For several years the Smithsonian has
cooperated with universities in jointly funding fellowships for
graduate students pursuing course work concurrently at their
!

Yi
140 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

home universities and at the Institution. This year two such —

fellowships were awarded in American History at Georgetown

University and one in American Civilization at The George |

Washington University. With the continued development of
conservation training programs, the Smithsonian is cooperating
in offering laboratory experience to advanced students in
conservation. This year three students were supported jointly
with the Cooperstown Graduate Programs, and one graduate of
the Institute of Archaeology of the University of London was
supported by the Smithsonian.

Appointments for directed research and training were
awarded to 31 graduate and undergraduate students during the
summer and the academic year, of which 8 were supported
under grants from the National Science Foundation. In addi-
tion, 28 students were appointed under the Museum Study

Program. Many of these students receive academic credit from |

their home institutions for studies conducted at the Smithson-
ian.

Two departmental seminars were supported. The number of |

short-term visitors to the Institution again increased, with 35
individuals receiving partial or full support.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Archives of the Smithsonian exist throughout the Institu-
tion—in the Office of the Registrar, in possession of curators, in
all the Museums, and in the central Smithsonian Archives.
Archival material not related to the Smithsonian has been
received over many years. For example, records related to
Indians collected by the Bureau of American Ethnology are
kept in the National Anthropological Archives and records
documenting the development of the computer are held by the
National Museum of History and Technology. The responsibil-
‘ity of the central Archives for these materials varies widely, but
given the diversity of the situation, a central source for
information about archives is imperative. The Smithsonian
Archives and the Smithsonian Information Systems Division
have developed a computer program for control of information
about archives which is. being submitted to curators for com-
ment. Comprehensive intellectual control of archives through-
out the Institution will benefit Smithsonian curators and the
wider scholarly community.

A
HISTORY AND ART 141

| During 1973, most of the Smithsonian Archives’ work oc-
curred in the National Museum of Natural History. One
department was completely surveyed, and many records were
accessioned to the central Archives; segments of several other
departments have been completed and yet others are underway.
A guide to archives and manuscript collections of this Museum,
including records held in the central Archives and those
retained in the Museum, is planned for 1976.

Office of Seminars

The chief contribution of the Office of Seminars during the
year was the Smithsonian’s fifth international symposium “The
Nature of Scientific Discovery,” April 22-26, organized jointly
with the National Academy of Sciences as the major American
tribute to Nicolaus Copernicus in the year of the quincentennial
of his birth. Invited to address the formal sessions of the
gathering of scientists, historians, philosophers, men of letters
and the arts, and other scholars were: Jacob Bronowski; Charles
Eames; Owen Gingerich; Janusz Groszkowski (honorary chair-
man); A. Rupert Hall; Werner Heisenberg; Gerald Holton;
Heiko Oberman; Maarten Schmidt; Owsei Temkin; Stephen
Toulmin; and John Archibald Wheeler. These presentations
were supplemented by collegia centering on “Science and
Society in the Sixteenth Century,” “Science, Philosophy, and
Religion in Historical Perspective,” “Interplay of Literature, Art,
and Science,” and “The Public Reception of Science: Its
Intellectual and Institutional Modalities.” Additional features of
the symposium comprised special exhibitions (including “The
Copernican Century,” scientific instruments and art objects of
the early Renaissance on loan from the Universitv of Cracow),
award of the Hodgkins Medal to Walter Orr Roberts and two
Copernicus Society of America Medals to Jerzy Neyman and
Edward Rosen, and presentation of the United States commem-
orative postal issue. Leonard Baskin was commissioned to do an
interpretation of Copernicus for the official poster and the
‘souvenir program of the observance. A concert with Leon
‘Kirchner conducting players of the Boston Symphony Orchestra
made possible through the support of Edward J. Piszek,
President of the Copernicus Society and a patron of the
symposium, concluded the formal program.

Carrying the theme, “The Call of Science,” 26 April was
142 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

designated Education Day to explore the educational implica-
tions of the Copernicus revolution. Speakers included S. P.
Marland, Jr., Gene Roddenberry (author and producer, “Star
Trek” and “Genesis II”), and Athelstan Spilhaus; also offered
for young students were a behind-the-scenes presentation on
“Scientific Discovery at the Smithsonian” by the Institution’s
professional staff, seminars, forums, and workshops, nearly all
designed to result in the future development of educational
audiovisual materials of various kinds. The U. S. National
Commission for UNESCO cosponsored Education Day with the
Smithsonian. Teachers College, Columbia University, helped
with the organization of a special seminar on “Human Re-
sources Planning,” dealing with various countries’ approaches to
scientific manpower. The Folger Shakespeare Library was
another collaborator in the symposium by helping assemble a
seminar on science and the liberal arts.

The Office of Seminars also conducted a series of regular
seminars on “Voluntarism and the Public Interest in American
Society” in joint association with the Smithsonian’s Office of
Development and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars. Audiences of about 40 persons representing the
executive and legislative branches of the Federal Government
and the foundation, academic, and cultural communities took
part in discussions on such diverse approaches as “The Third
Sector in American Society” (i.e., philanthropic endowments),
“Foundations and Governments: Enemies or Allies?” and “Citi-
zen Apathy and Initiative.” Other activities comprised hosting
the American Universities Field Staff documentary film confer-
ence, the visiting Chinese Medical Mission to the United States,
a seminar on the Yale University study of problems of private
intervention in a community conflict, and a seminar sponsored
jointly with the Hazen Foundation on the role of esthetic,
religious, and ethical values in development.

Wilton S. Dillon, Director, conducted an anthropology semi-
nar, “Human Universals and Particulars,” at the University of
Alabama in May 1973, and gave a public lecture on Copernicus
at the university's new student union. He also participated in
the September 1972 Pugwash conference at Oxford University
on science and world affairs. He continues to serve as President,
Board of Directors, Institute of Intercultural Studies, New York.
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

“5 ASSISTANT SECRETARY for Museum Programs has over-
all responsibility for the Smithsonian Institution Librar-
ies, the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory, the Traveling Exhi-
bition Service, the Office of the Registrar, the Office of
Exhibits, and the administration of the National Museum Act. A
detailed report concerning each of the divisions follows. In
addition, the Office of the Assistant Secretary is responsible for
coordinating Smithsonian-wide activities related to training in
museology and museography and the development of new
techniques relating to museum administration and procedures.
The Office administers workshops, seminars, and training
courses which are developed for the benefit of the Smithsonian
staff as well as for museum professionals and para-professionals
who come to the Smithsonian from museums and historical
societies across the United States.

The Office of Museum Programs has recently formed a
special Department of Psychological Studies, which is concerned
with developing methods to gauge the educational effectiveness
of exhibits and exhibit techniques as well as to develop
programs so that a larger segment of the visitor population can
be effectively enriched by participating in museum-related
activities.

With the cooperation of the curatorial and exhibit staffs of
the National Museum of History and Technology, the National
Museum of Natural History, and the Renwick Gallery, several
exhibits and educational programs will be studied and modified
to reflect the new knowledge gained from the studies of the
behavioral scientists in this office.

Other studies are being conducted, under the direction of the
Assistant Secretary, to determine ways by which exhibit design
and production activities of the Institution can be made more
responsive to the needs of each of the museums and to the
demands of an increasingly more aware museum audience.

Recognizing the vital need for increasing the profession’s
knowledge in conservation, both within and without the Smith-
sonian, a series of video-taped programs on specific conserva-
tion subjects has been initiated in cooperation with the Conver-

143
144 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

sation Analytical Laboratory. It is expected that these will be
available, probably in the form of cassettes, during the latter
part of next year. In addition, a series of slide lectures,
accompanied by taped commentaries on specific conservation
problems, will be available for distribution.

In realization that the Smithsonian’s growth over the last
decade has seriously stressed the various support activities which
are directed by this office, a series of studies have been
conducted so that they may become more responsive to the
needs of the Institution as a whole and to the requests for
advice or service which are coming from museums and museum
professionals from all parts of the country. It is planned by next
year that the results of these studies can be implemented and
that more responsive administrative structures can be estab-
lished to meet the challenge posed by the Bicentennial festivities
in which the Smithsonian, locally and nationally, will play a
primary role.

The interest in “Drugs: A Special Exhibition,” held in the Arts
and Industries Building in the summer and fall of 1972,
resulted in a major conference on “Altered States of Conscious-
ness,” jointly sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and the
Drug Abuse Council, in February 1973, and funded by the Drug
Abuse Council. This conference, attended by some 200 specialists,
will be summarized in a publication of the papers which are now
being edited under the auspices of the Drug Abuse Council.

Finally, the Office of Museum Programs has been closely
involved, through members of its staff and the Assistant
Secretary, in the activities of a number of professional organiza-
tions. Among them, the American Association of Museums, the
International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and the
Restoration of Cultural Property, and the Advisory Council for
Historic Preservation.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

A highlight of 1973 has been the opening of a Rare Book
Room in the Arts and Industries Building. The room is
furnished in 19th-century style but contains modern equipment
to insure maximum security and preservation for this valuable
collection. A number of Smithsonian Institution curators and
distinguished rare book authorities from outside of the Institu-
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 145

tion serve as Rare Book Consultants to advise on the acquisition,
preservation, and use of rare books.

The reorganization of the Libraries was completed. The
objective of the changes involved was to improve services to the
users by making the Libraries more responsive to the goals and
priorities of the Institution. The Libraries’ management staff
has established as its highest priority the improvement of direct
services to the bureaus of the Institution.

All aspects of the management of the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries are now being studied by a team of Smithsonian
Institution Libraries staff members. The purpose of this pro-
gram is to recommend changes which will result in improved
services to the users of the Libraries.

The Director of Smithsonian Institution Libraries has been
active in the Federal Library Committee’s study of potential
cooperative activities, particularly with respect to the automation
of shared cataloging. The Director of Libraries has also served
as President of the 12,000-member Association of College and
Research Libraries.

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

The Laboratory’s thrust toward greater etfort in conservation
has been increased this year by additional staff, made possible
by the borrowing of space in two other divisions. Here, one
extra permanent conservator and three temporary internes
from institutions in London and Cooperstown have helped
reduce the backlog. The Laboratory has continued advice, on
request, to 12 bureaus, other museums, and over 800 casual
inquirers concerning safe environments for many different
kinds of objects and on methods of mounting and cleaning.
Documents, graphics, and objects made of leather, metal, wood,
ceramics, and merely corrosion products, ranging in date from
prehistoric to the present and in culture from Ancient Greek to
aerospace, collected or excavated, have been cleaned, repaired,
and chemically stabilized. Basic needs have been served by
operation of a fumigation plant, installed in cooperation with
the National Museum of History and Technology.

Members of the staff have contributed to national and
international meetings on various conservation subjects includ-
ing: training, the 1com Working Group on metals, medieval
window-glass, treatment of paper, neutron-activation analysis,
146 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

historic buildings, and have been active in educating the
profession by facilitating courses in microscopy of pigments,
through the lectures of the Washington Region Conservation
Guild, and by collaboration in producing tape-slide lectures.

Analyses have been provided to curators on over 270 samples,
resulting in some 6000 elemental and other analyses, using the
techniques of ultra-violet emission spectrography, X-ray fluores-
cence and diffraction, electron-beam microprobe, infrared spec-
trophotometry, microscopy and neutron activation, applied to
resins, pigments, fur, and fibers on objects, such as an
Ecuadorian writing box, decorated leather saddles, pigments
for application to pottery, colors on a completely decayed
lacquer bowl, and stained glass.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) concluded its twenty-first year of operation increasing its
production of exhibitions that mirror the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. The year witnessed many efforts to improve SITES’
program, including the development of a computer listing of
institutional exhibit customers (some 2000 in all), the completion
of a survey of customer needs and views about sITEs’ program,
and the completion of a survey of the educational materials that
customers of the service want most to accompany traveling
shows. Gifts and contracts to develop traveling exhibitions
totaled nearly $100,000 during the 12-month period; and were
received from individuals, government agencies, corporations,
and private foundations interested in furthering sires’ efforts to
make the Smithsonian available regardless of place of residence.

After completing their tours, seven exhibitions were given to
museums in Alaska, Texas, Delaware, and Florida with the
proviso that the recipient museum recondition the show and
either circulate it locally or exhibit it periodically in their
permanent galleries.

SITES’ current catalog lists 102 shows covering a wide range of
subjects from art, history, and science to urban affairs, social,
and world problems.

Approximately 500 exhibit installations were viewed by
4,000,000 persons.
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 147

Forty-seven sITEs exhibits began their tours between July
1972 and June 1973. Seven exhibits were rebuilt for extended
tours. Five catalogues were published by sires for new exhibits;
in addition, 11 catalogues, originally done to accompany shows,
were accepted by sires for exhibitions that began their tours
under sITEs’ auspices during fiscal 1973.

Office of the Registrar

Registrarial activities throughout the Smithsonian have re-
ceived increased management attention this year. A Registrarial
Council was established, at the suggestion of the Assistant
Secretary for Museum Programs, to examine existing procedures
and to make recommendations for the development of an
improved system with a fully responsive registrar in each
museum.

While the above portends change, the Office of the Registrar
this year has continued its functions as in the past, serving the
public and the museums, staff in various ways.

As usual, more than two million pieces of mail were handled,
addressed to the Smithsonian “Institute” in general as well as to
individuals and offices in the various museum buildings. Public
inquiry mail continued unabated, much of it stimulated by
television programs, elementary school projects, and Smithsonian
magazine articles.

The Office of the Registrar processed 2681 accession memoranda,
covering the acquisition of a much greater number of items for
the collections. Museum objects flowed in and out on loan for
study by professional colleagues and for exhibit purposes, with
records of accountability handled by this office.

The shipping office had its normal busy year, processing over
21,000 shipments totaling more than 50,000 pieces. Inbound
shipments entailed the accomplishment of more than 140
entries through the United States Customs.

The microfilm project begun last year for the photographing
of the original accession records is proceeding on schedule with
a great deal of interesting information emerging during the
processing of the old papers.

Office of Exhibits Programs

During the past year, a thorough study of all exhibits
operations within the Smithsonian Institution was carried out to
148 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

review the processes by which exhibitions are created and
completed for public presentation. The result of these studies
was a recommendation to rearticulate certain resources of the
Office of Exhibits Programs to create individual exhibit design
and production components to work in closer relationship with
the bureaus that utilize the major amount of exhibit resources.
All administrative processes necessary to carry out the recom-
mendation have been completed and newly established exhibit
operations will be in effect at the beginning of fiscal year 1974.

Exhibits design and production laboratories at the National
Museum of Natural History will be supervised by Mr. Harry T.
Hart, at the National Museum of History and Technology by
Mr. Benjamin W. Lawless, and at the National Air and Space
Museum by Mr. Melvin B. Zisfein. Each of these operations will
respond to the Director of the respective bureau. An Office of
Exhibits Central (o£c), responsible to the Assistant Secretary for
Museum Programs, will be supervised by Mr. James A. Maho-
ney.
The Office of Exhibits Central will provide exhibit design and
production resources to all Smithsonian bureaus and offices that
do not have on-staff capabilities and will provide specialized
exhibit resources to all Smithsonian units. The orc will also
participate in international and intrabureau exhibits emanating
from the Secretariat, training programs in all aspects of exhibits,
in coordination with the Office of Museum Programs, and will
establish research, evaluation, and development programs in the
use and techniques of communication media in museum exhibi-
tions.

During the year and throughout the period of study and
reassignments, the Office of Exhibits Programs continued to
perform its assigned tasks in exhibits and exhibit-related activi-
ties for all Smithsonian units. The Office successfully completed
several major exhibitions: among them are the halls of Photog-
raphy, News Reporting, and Postal History for the NMHT; and
special exhibitions on Synthetic Crystals for the NMNH, and on
the Joseph Henry Papers presented in the Great Hall of the
Smithsonian Institution building. The Office also provided
assistance to many other public presentations.

National Museum Act Program

The National Museum Act, authorized in 1966, received an
appropriation of $800,000 in the fiscal year of 1973. In
SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS 149

accordance with the appropriation legislation, the National
Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the
Humanities each received $100,000 from the above sum.
Through the National Museum Act, the Smithsonian Institution
is able to provide technical aid and assistance to museums
throughout the United States and abroad. In addition, funds
may be granted for specific proposals that will advance the
museum profession at large, either through research, publica-
tion, or training. Every proposal funded must clearly describe
how it will upgrade the museum profession—its methods,
techniques, and approaches. Organizations, museums, universi-
ties, and colleges, who have the facilities and staff to undertake
programs, are eligible to apply.

Twenty-seven applications were funded including, for exam-
ple, support for the six Regional Conferences of the American
Association of Museums, research on the conservation of flood-
damaged books, professional assistance/consultation programs in
the states of Kansas, South Dakota, and Massachusetts, a
publication Craft Doumentation, internships in conservation, sup-
port for an international exchange program for museum
professionals, internships and graduate training for members of
minority groups. A full list of projects supported since the Act
was initially funded appears in Appendix 4.
PUBLIC SERVICE

ANY OF THE DIVISIONS within the Office of the
Mi ieiccant Secretary for Public Service have been engaged
in what can best be described as a “national outreach” program
this past year. There is a general feeling that the Smithsonian
should share its vast resources with audiences other than those
who can actually come to its museums, and that the Smithsonian
must even improve or enhance the quality of the museum
visitor’s experience.

Smithsonian magazine continues to be one of our prime
examples of national outreach. There are now some 450,000
subscribers who became National Associates of the Smithsonian,
and who in turn provide us with an expanded audience to relay
information about our exhibits, collections, and research.

Each year the Division of Performing Arts conducts extensive
field research in the state chosen to be featured in the annual
Festival of American Folklife. Through this research, which has
been undertaken for the past 6 years, the Division has compiled
a unique record of folk arts and crafts throughout our country,
and is frequently called upon for consultation—yet another way
to extend our knowledge and resources. Some 800,000 people
attended last year’s Festival, featuring the State of Maryland,
and following the Festival, the Division sent many of the
popular performances on tour to.colleges and universities in 23
states.

In other ways Washington, D.C., serves as a laboratory for
testing many of our outreach programs. The Office of Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education sends out trained docents to
schools in the area with objects from the collections and
specialized instruction in conjunction with existing curricula. We
hope ultimately to have kits of reproduced artifacts with
accompanying manuals or film strips that can be used through-
out school systems, nationwide. Local school children are taken
on personalized tours through the various museums under the
docent program of the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education (OESE), and more and more requests are coming in
from out-of-town schools to arrange such tours when they come
here. In order to reach the widest number of school children,
150
PUBLIC SERVICE 151

OESE has also sponsored teacher workshops here at the
Smithsonian.

With the realization that television continues to attract the
largest number of persons as a medium of communication, the
Smithsonian recently has signed a contract this year with a
major independent producer for a series of educational docu-
mentaries on various aspects of the Smithsonian. On other
communication fronts, the Smithsonian radio program and all
of the publications of the Press and the Office of Public Affairs
continue to bring to the public more than just a momentary
glimpse of an exhibit or a rapid walk-through of a hall.

Smithsonian Associates

The Associates enjoyed a burst of expansion during the past
year, with the introduction of new services:-and programs for a
rapidly growing membership.

Chairman Thomas J. Watson, Jr., convened the National
Board in November to consider corporate fund raising. The
members agreed to assist in the solicitation of additional
Corporate Members, and by the end of the year enrolled a total
of 33 companies. Income from 26 corporations was $67,115. In
February, the Secretary and six Board members and their
spouses met at the Tropical Research Institute for an intensive
introduction to the Smithsonian’s Panama Canal Zone scientific
program. In May, Regent Watson retired as chairman after two
years. He was succeeded by Lewis A. Lapham.

The Contributing Membership (persons making substantial
annual donations) grew to 168 members, contributing $32,966
for Smithsonian research and education as the Institution
introduced new membership benefits.

The Women’s Committee continued its valuable assistance to
several programs, including $12,000 in proceeds from the third
annual Christmas dance. Funds provided scholarships to Associ-
ates’ classes and supported an Insect Zoo and a student intern
at the Museum of Natural History. The Committee produced an
appointments calendar, operated the popular Free Film Thea-
ter, and assisted in organizing part of the Institution’s photo-
graphic files.

In July, Janet W. Solinger became director of the Resident
Associates’ Program. In the year, the area membership grew to
15,000 as an exciting program unfolded; 5,579 persons regis-

521-552 O- 74 - 11
152 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

tered for 171 classes, workshops, and seminars for adults and
children. An estimated 15,000 members enjoyed 30 free events.
Another 18,000 persons attended 125 subscription events.
Through the generosity of the Women’s Committee and the sale
of posters donated by the designer, Vera, 260 children were
awarded scholarships to Associates’ classes.

The Resident Associates drew heavily on the resources of the
Institution as 240 members of the staff taught classes or
conducted special events. All bureaus in Washington partici-
pated, including the Kennedy Center and the National Gallery
of Art. Members visited the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New
York. Other institutions cooperating with the Associates in-
cluded five Washington theaters; Metro; the British and Swed-
ish Embassies; Wolf Trap Foundation; Goddard Space Center;
Bethlehem Steel; comsat; the Museum of African Art; the
Phillips Gallery; the Textile Museum; the Metropolitan, Whit-
ney, and Guggenheim Museums; the American Federation of
Art; and Winterthur, and Longwood Gardens. Activities of
particular appeal included behind-the-scenes visits to four
museums, the Kennedy Center performance/discussion series,
“Collectors and Collections” classes which alternated discussions
of museum collections with visits to private collections in the
same genre, Zoo Night, the Kite Festival, the New American
Filmmakers Series, and a seminar on “What’s Washington
Supposed to Be?”

The Resident Program made a substantial contribution to the
unrestricted private funds of the Institution even after introduc-
ing Smithsonian magazine and a monthly newsletter, the Associate,
as new benefits at no increase in dues.

More than 550 Associates took advantage of 30 Domestic and
Foreign Study Tours to travel with Smithsonian scholars to such
places as the museums of the Soviet Union, the Atlas Moun-
tains, archeological sites in Greece and Yugoslavia, the whale-
breeding grounds off Baja California, the Apollo and Skylab
launches from Cape Kennedy, and Death Valley in the time of
flowering. Eighty-five members converged on Washington for
Christmas Weekend at the Smithsonian.

The Associates’ Reception Center, staffed and in full swing 7
days a week for fiscal 1973, provided over 2900 member
families with a cordial welcome and orientation to the Institu-
tion. Acting as the Smithsonian’s central information office, the
Center, with the able assistance of 146 volunteers, handled some
49,000 public and member telephone inquiries. This volunteer
PUBLIC SERVICE 153

cadre contributed over 12,000 hours of service staffing Center
and museum information desks for an 80 percent average
coverage rate. Volunteers working on independent projects
within various museum departments contributed another 20,300
service hours.

The Museum Reference Service was inaugurated in October,
its objective twofold: to provide an additional service for
Associate members and to encourage museum-going across the
country. Members traveling within the United States were
invited to request folders comprised of brochures and lists, by
state, of a cross-section of our country’s museums, galleries, and
historic sites.

The newest service to members and the public, the National
Speakers Bureau, has filled over 300 requests since its introduc-
tion in October.

Office of Public Affairs

The problems, potentials, and challenges of the telecommuni-
cations revolution for the Smithsonian, including those in the
fields of video cassettes, cable television, and audio cassettes
have been the subject of exhaustive study by the Office of
Public Affairs (OPA) in the past year, in cooperation with other
Smithsonian Institution divisions. The Office of Public Service,
working with the opa and other Smithsonian groups, has been
negotiating with experienced commercial film producer for joint
production of a series of video nature guides. OPA also has de-
veloped a contract with a major national television producer for a
series of prime-time commercial television programs which hope-
fully will begin in the 1974-1975 season.

The opa staff also cooperated in the production of numerous
television programs and films by major producers from
throughout the world. Work was completed on a half-hour
motion picture The Dilemma of the Modern Urban Museum, which
features discussions by Smithsonian officials of museum audi-
ences and tells how to reach them.

In the past year the opA news bureau wrote and distributed
325 news releases and 90 radio announcements. These releases,
as well as other activities by opa staff members, played major
roles in publicizing the numerous newsworthy events that took
place at the Institution. “Radio Smithsonian” began its fourth
154 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

year of programming in September 1972. The past year also
saw continued publication and expanded worldwide distribution
of Smithsonian Institution Research Reports, a quarterly launched
last year to publicize research work in all fields at the
Institution. Other opa activities included processing a number
of information leaflets for various Smithsonian Institution
divisions, publication of the Smithsonian Torch and Calendar of
Events, as well as the revision of guides to Smithsonian
museums. These included for the first time translations of three
guides into French, German, and Spanish. Visitors’ questions
were answered around the clock by the Dial-A-Museum and
Dial-A-Phenomenon answering services. Opa staff members also
handled thousands of other inquiries from visitors and media
representatives.

Office of International Activities

The Office of International Activities fosters new dimensions
to Smithsonian programs abroad. The Office has been giving
special attention to the development of cultural and scientific
exchanges with the People’s Republic of China and the Soviet
Union, and has been focusing as well on the development of —
support for American research centers abroad and UNESCO
programs for preservation of cultural monuments, notably
Philae in Egypt, Moenjodaro in Pakistan, Borobudur in Indone-
sia, and Carthage in Tunisia. The Office is continuing to work
with the United States Information Agency toward expanding
the exhibits support provided by the Smithsonian for American
cultural presentations abroad. With five currently scheduled
exhibitions, the Office has more than doubled its activity in
coordinating the presentation of foreign exhibitions in the
Smithsonian. With 95 visitors, the Office has also more than
doubled the programming of visits by foreign officials to the
Smithsonian. During the year, the Office absorbed from the
Office of the Registrar responsibility for visa and passport
services for Smithsonian staff.

The Office of International Activities administers the Smith-
sonian Foreign Currency Program, which received an appropri-
ation of $3.5 million in “excess” foreign currencies for fiscal
year 1973 for the support of grants to United States institutions
of higher learning for “museum programs, scientific and
cultural research, and related educational activities.” The pro-

PUBLIC SERVICE 155

gram has awarded more than $18 million in foreign currency
grants to more than 70 United States institutions of higher
learning over the past 8 years. This year the Program has added
support for Bicentennial-related exchanges of performing art-
ists and craftsmen to its major interests in archeology, anthro-
pology, geophysics and astrophysics, systematic and environ-
mental biology, and museum programs. In addition, the
Program has engaged in extensive negotiations with the Depart-
ment of State and with other Federal agencies to ensure
support for research in these major fields from the new United
States-Israel Binational Science Foundation and the United
States-Yugoslav Joint Fund for Scientific and Technological
Research, which are replacing U.S. Government excess currency
programs in the support of research.

Division of Performing Arts

The Festival of American Folklife, the Jazz Program, the
Puppet Theater, and the Smithsonian Touring Performance

One of the participants from
the International Ladies Gar-
ment Workers Union in the Un-
ion Workers Area of the Festi-
val of American Folklife 1972.

156 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

An Indian participant from the
State of New Mexico at a Pow-
Wow at the 1972 Festival of
American Folklife.

ORO i ys
ce e.
oa a 4
I, s 4J

Service were the major focal points of activity in the Division of
Performing Arts.

The sixth annual Festival of American Folklife featured the
State of Maryland and presented Indian tribes from the
Southwest. The Department of Labor joined the Smithsonian in
cosponsorship of the Union Workers exhibit, which was pre-
sented for the second year as a major theme of the Festival. In
1973 the Festival was expanded and evaluated as a base for an
extended festival to take place during the national Bicentennial in
1976.

The Jazz Program presented a series of highly successful
concerts together with workshops and master classes, which
provided a unique educational service to area colleges, universi-
ties, and schools. The development of a six-volume history of
jazz on recordings was completed with a publication date
scheduled for late 1973.

PUBLIC SERVICE 157

Calvin E. Crouch and Calvin E. Crouch, Jr., boatbuilders from Rock Hall.
Maryland, and participants in the Waterways presentation at Hains Point Festival
of American Folklife, 1972. Maryland was the featured State this year.
Photograph courtesy of Ralph Rinzler.

The Smithsonian Puppet Theater moved to a new location in
the Arts and Industries building. Expanded seating capacity and
increased technical flexibility for productions substantially in-
creased the audience appeal. The Puppet Theater continues as
the Smithsonian’s prime attraction for young visitors to the
museums and has successfully established a continuing audience
of area school children and visitors throughout the country.

The Smithsonian Touring Performance Service brought a
traveling company from the Folklife Festival, tours of Smithson-
ian Puppet Theater productions, and performances of unusual
music and theater presentation to audiences in 23 states. As
requests increased from state and local communities for Smith-
sonian aid in booking Bicentennial programs, the Touring
Performance Service entered a crucial period of expanded
‘national outreach.

The Division of Performing Arts again joined the John F.
Kennedy Center and the American Theater Association in the
production of the American College Theater Festival. The 10
158 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

First Annual Fiddlers Convention and Walt Koken,

a prize-winner, at the 1972 Festival of American Folklife.

productions selected for the Washington Festival were drawn
from more than 300 participating colleges and universities
throughout the nation.

The Indian Awareness Program contributed an important
portion of the Festival and began a coordinative role with other
Smithsonian bureaus to provide greater assistance and accessi-
bility for the national museums to the Native American Com-
munity.

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum celebrated its fifth

anniversary on 15 September 1972 with a re-creation of the
program and festivities which took place on the day the
PUBLIC SERVICE 159

te - E
Le be { < =
“a et
Ze yi | ——
Visitors watch the TV Monitor in the section on drugs during
The Evolution of a Community Part II exhibition.

Museum opened. Smithsonian officials and community leaders
addressed an audience of neighborhood residents and visitors
from all over the city.

The highlight of the celebration was the opening of the
exhibit “The Evolution of a Community Part II,” which brought
Anacostia’s history up to date and focused attention on the five
most serious problems plaguing this area of the city: crime,
drugs, unemployment, housing, and education. Individuals in
the community told how they felt about these problems during
sidewalk interviews which were video-taped and shown over
TV-Monitors throughout the exhibit.

To document the history of the Museum, a Fifth Anniversary
Book was published through a grant from the Hattie M. Strong
Foundation. Written by members of the staff, the book serves a
need that had become more and more apparent as the Museum
continued to expand its activities and requests for the story of
the Anacostia experience increased. Thousands of copies have
been distributed to schools, libraries, community agencies,
students, museum people, and visitors from near and far.
160 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum and the D. C. Art Association co-
sponsored the Fourth Annual Exhibit of painting and sculpture by members of the:
Association.

The Fourth Annual Exhibit of painting and sculpture by
members of the District of Columbia Art Association marked 4
years of cooperative effort and mutual support on the part of
the Association and the Museum.

Smithsonian

The past year was one of continued growth and acceptance
for Smithsonian, the Institution’s national magazine. Net paid
circulation has climbed above 450,000, an encouraging sign of
health at a time when many other magazines are faltering or
failing. Since these subscribers are National Members of the
Smithsonian Associates, they provide a nationwide constituency
to which the Institution may increasingly look for understand-
ing and support.

No mere “house organ,” the magazine from the beginning has i
reflected not only the interests of the Smithsonian but also of
the world community of museums and research institutions.
Nevertheless, a great deal of the editorial content is directly
PUBLIC SERVICE : 161

related to Institution activities. During the past year 21 major
articles were either written by Smithsonian staff members or
covered, with full-color illustrations, Smithsonian exhibitions,
collections, and research projects.

Among other important articles were three on various aspects
of the energy crisis (at a time when this subject had not yet
reached the front pages), two on the pros and cons of
methadone maintenance programs, two generated by the world-
wide observance of the 500th anniversary of Copernicus’ birth,
and virtually one every issue on endangered wildlife species or
threatened terrains. All were lavishly illustrated, and often by
such widely recognized photographers as Dimitri Kessel, Erich
Lessing, Terence Spencer, David Lees, Loomis Dean, Fritz
Goro, and two who tragically died during the year, Stan
Wayman and Eliot Elisofon.

In June the Institution’s highest honor, the Henry Medal, was
presented to the editor of Smithsonian, Edward K. Thompson,
“for distinguished achievements in the growth and prestige of
this Institution.”

Smithsonian Institution Press

A highlight of our publishing program this year was the
publication on 27 December of the first volume of a projected
15 volumes of The Papers of Joseph Henry. Volume 1, December
1797+-October 1832, The Albany Years, designed by Crimilda
Pontes, has been chosen by the Association of American
University Presses for excellence of design and production. It
will be on display at major universities throughout this country
and, under the sponsorship of the United States Information
Agency, in numerous countries overseas. Additionally, The
Papers of Joseph Henry won the design/production award of the
Printers Institute of America.

Members of the Press staff wrote and prepared Seeing the
Smithsonian: The Official Guidebook to the Smithsonian Institution—ts
Museums and Galleries (published by CBS Education & Publishing
Group), and so for the first time in many years our visitors have
an attractive, informative, and inexpensive guide to the richness
_and complexity of our offerings.

Two Press editors won Federal Editors Association Awards
for Outstanding Government Publications in 1972: Louise
Heskett a first award for “If Elected . . . ” Unsuccessful Candidates
162 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

for the Presidency 1796-1968; Nancy Link Powars a second award
for The Papers of Joseph Henry, volume 1, December 1797-October
1832, The Albany Years.

Three publications, two designed by Stephen Kraft and one
by Elizabeth Sur, have received Certificates of Merit in the Art
Directors Club of Metropolitan Washington 1973 competition |
and will be displayed in their exhibition: for the National |
Collection of Fine Arts, National Parks Centennial catalogue; for
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, Winslow Homer catalogue; for the |
National Portrait Gallery, If Elected. . . catalogue.

Production costs of 121 publications were funded by federal
appropriations in the amount of $301,369; nine were supported
wholly by Smithsonian Institution private funds in the amount
of $106,200. The publications list for 1973 is given in Appendix
9. The Press warehouse, the Superintendent of Documents, and
George Braziller, Inc. (the Press’ sales and distribution agent)
shipped, on order and subscription, a total of 161,634 publica-
tions during the year. In addition, 93 recordings were distrib-
uted by the Press.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

The National Reading Is Fundamental (RIF program is now in
its sixth year as an independent unit under Smithsonian
sponsorship. The purpose of Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., is
to promote the establishment of local RIF projects throughout
the country to give impetus to reading motivation at an early
age by making inexpensive books, particularly paperback, acces-
sible to children through ownership, loan, and purchase. More |
and more, RIF is moving toward a design as a dynamic evolving |
process—not merely giving books to children but moving from
that initial motivational factor to lending and selling, and to |
developing a variety of programs to use books in increasingly
more effective ways. RIF hopes this will lead to the increased use
of school and neighborhood libraries and to the acquisition of a —
personal home library by young people and their families.

The number of active RIF programs has grown from 55 in
1972 to 122 in 1973. Another 50 projects are in the developing °‘
stage. RIF programs distributed around 850,000 books to
250,000 children during the past year. To date one million
children have received over three million books.

PUBLIC SERVICE 163

The national RIF program sets goals and guidelines, provides
project development materials and technical assistance to local
RIF projects throughout the United States. But the strength of
RIF projects lies in their grass-roots involvements, for each
community organizes, develops, funds, and runs its own pro-
gram.

All of the projects, however, need help and guidance from
national RIF in various stages of their development and growth.
Therefore RIF is expanding and developing varieties of new
materials and services which only the national office can provide
to meet the needs of the rapidly growing number of local
programs. The Edna McConnell Clark Foundation grant of
$1,150,000, covering the period 1972-1975, is on a declining
scale annually. The grant gives riF the opportunity and time to
stabilize in its current period of rapid growth and to develop a
broad base of support for the future.

Policy direction is provided by a Board of Directors on which
the Secretary of the Smithsonian, S. Dillon Ripley, serves as an
ex-officio member. Mrs. Robert S. McNamara is Chairman of
the Board.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

An impressive 30 percent increase over last year in the number
of school children of the Washington metropolitan area who have
been served by the program offerings of this Office in the
Museums on the Mall is reflected in the totals of 100,200 students
served by 2996 tours plus 292 outreach presentations.

Four new lesson tours for the National Museum of History and
Technology and tour new lesson tours for the National Museum of
Natural History were developed and offered during the current
academic year.

An expanded force of Volunteer docents, now numbering
235, has been recognized for its important role in educational
programming at the Smithsonian by the receipt of a grant of
$10,000 from the Ambrose Monell Foundation awarded to the
Institution to be utilized specifically for docent training.

With a critical awareness of the impending need to vitalize the
lines of communication between the Smithsonian and the school
community it serves, as well as others concerned with museum
education, major developments have been undertaken to point
164 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

up the potential for using the Washington area in a more
effective fashion for education programming. The newsletter to
schools has been modified in format, given the new title Let’s Go,
and increased to six issues. A variety of subjects has been
treated in an endeavor to bring instant awareness to teachers of
on-going programs by way of this medium. Museum Education
Day at the Smithsonian was conducted this year in March, ,
utilizing the format of twelve workshops where invited partici-
pants dealt with problems and interests affecting museums as an)
educational resource. Additionally, separate workshop sessions;
for teachers have been conducted throughout the year both:
under the aegis of this Office as well as with our staff in:
conjunction with the Museum Education Roundtable of Wash-
ington.

Belmont Conference Center

The Belmont Conference Center, entering its seventh year of |
providing facilities for off-site meetings, finds itself increasingly in
demand.

Previous records have been exceeded in every facet of operations |
during fiscal year 1973: an increase to 1,730 guests, over 1,650 in
1972; a total of 88 conferences compared to 79 in 1972, and a
sizable rise in the number of days of occupancy. Representatives of
Federal agencies make up about 60 percent of Belmont’s schedule |
with the balance from universities and colleges, international study
groups, foundations and philanthropic agencies, and private in-
dustry.

The 240-year old manor house, renovated and modernized, can -
accommodate 24 residents with facilities for meetings of 30 people.
The rural atmosphere of the residence and 365 acres of fields and
forests are particularly productive and enjoyable for guests. The
existence of such an environment, together with the advantages of :
easy access to Washington and to Baltimore’s Friendship Airport |
continues to be most attractive and convenient to Belmont confer-
ences.
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

Support Activities

During the past year several support staff members actively
participated with the Smithsonian Agenda Working Group in
studying and helping to resolve serious, major management
issues. The individual and collective contributions they made
toward improved management are recognized and duly appreci-
ated.

Of the conclusions reached at the Belmont Priorities Confer-
ence in February 1973, the most significant decision with
respect to the support group units was: “Institutional manage-
ment will give high priority to obtaining a better funding
balance for support activities. . . for the coming year, in order
to bring them more nearly in line with program requirements.”
Significant in making this determination was the acknowledg-
ment that “In the face of less than satisfactory financial
resources, the support organizations have performed exception-
ally well.” These actions are gratifying indeed, but they do not
lessen, in fact, they reinforce the responsibility of each support
organization to continue efforts to improve its operations, to
examine its performance, to establish realistic goals, and to
assure that its program plans are designed to coincide with and
support enthusiastically the Smithsonian Institution’s goals and
priorities. Brief summaries of the major activities of the units in
this group are given below.

BUILDINGS MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT

The Buildings Management Department carried out its basic
responsibilities for the operation, maintenance, renovation, and
repair of Smithsonian buildings. Continuing efforts were made
‘to improve the effectiveness of these operations. This included
monitoring and updating standards for housekeeping and
maintenance; developing a centralized supply inventory; estab-
lishing a special unit to handle warehousing, moving, and
| 165

166 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

operation of outlying buildings; and expanding the landscaping
program. A professional horticulturist was employed to super-
vise the Landscaping and Grounds Section and to develop)
overall planting plans for the Institution, which includes an
indoor planting program for the museum buildings.

Major projects undertaken during the year included contin-
ued planning and assistance on the construction of the new
National Air and Space Museum; developing the design and
contract documents for the major restoration of the Arts and
Industries Building; designing and installing architectural exte-
rior lighting for the major museum buildings; and preparing
design work for alteration of the National Portrait Gallery’s area
on the third floor of the Fine Arts and Portrait Galleries.

In January 1973, the Protection Division, Safety Management
Office, and Health Services were transferred to the new Office
of Protection Services which reports to the Director of Support
Activities.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION

Information Systems Division develops and coordinates the,
use of automatic data processing support throughout the
Institution. Advances continued to be made through computer |
utilization in the areas of administration, management of
national collections, and scientific research, and most bureaus
increased their use of this support. Research was conducted to
enhance the ways of entering data into the computer and
methods of obtaining better output products, such as optical
character recognition for entering data directly from a printed |
page, terminal devices to enable telephone communication with |
the computer, and computer output to microfilm and micro-
fiche, as well as plotted maps and other graphic presentations. |

Individual research assistance to curators and scientists ex-
panded and broadened in scope as the Division made available |
additional mathematical techniques and software packages. New
developments and refinements enhanced support for the man-
agement of the national collections in history, art, and science. -
A recently developed, but not yet completed, generalized
information management package called sELGEM has aroused °
much attention within and outside the Institution because of its ,
potential as a standard for the computerized management of
collections.

Within the Institution, data from 85 various collections has:
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 167

been entered into the system. Outside of the Institution 7
university-museums are using it in their collections management
processes. As a service to the museum and university community
at large, the Division publishes information about the SELGEM
system in its technical bulletin, Smithsonian Institution Information
Systems Innovations. The “Innovations” series acquaints the
reader with automated systems and procedures specifically
designed to solve collection and research problems in museums
and herbaria.

Though no totally new systems evolved during the year, many
specialized systems for administration, curation, and analysis
were expanded to meet changing requirements.

MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS OFFICE

The Management Analysis Office continued to carry out its
major responsibilities for providing assistance to meet selected
administrative management issues and problems, administering
the Smithsonian’s management issuances system, and directing
the Institution’s active program for the efficient and economical
management of forms and. other formatted issuances. The
increasing importance of the analysis and solution of problems
was evidenced by the three large-scale studies made during the
year in conjunction with the Smithsonian Agenda Working
Group. Another survey, started in June, is expected to continue
for several months. In the spring, the Office made an intensive
review of its role, its functions, and its work performance,
status, and reporting. The visible results of this self-analysis
provided: a management report that summarized projects
completed over a 12-month period and the work status of other
projects on hand; a simple but comprehensive system designed
to categorize, assign, monitor, and report work projects; and a
statement for the Secretary’s signature describing the Office’s
several responsibilities and functions.

The Automatic Data Processing (ADP) program developed to
support forms management and control was placed in opera-
tion. It will be tested during the early part of fiscal year 1974
with full implementation anticipated some 6 months later.

OFFICE OF EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

The Office of Equal Opportunity, under the leadership of the
Secretary, continued the Smithsonian Institution’s affirmative
168 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

policy for the realization of equal opportunity objectives. This
year saw an acceleration of action plan goals by the training and
appointing of 19 part-time EEO Counselors and 2 part-time
Invstigators, the selecting and training of a part-time Coordina-
tor for the Sixteen-Point Program for Spanish-surnamed Ameri-
cans, and the augmenting of the Equal Opportunity staff by the
addition of a Women’s Program Coordinator and a Civil Rights
Specialist.

The bylaws of the Smithsonian’s Women’s Council have been
drawn up and early adoption is anticipated. Discussions concern-
ing a Day Care Center program generated much staff interest
and enthusiasm. Plans are being developed for museum exhibits
portraying the contributions women have made to American
history and to the work of the Smithsonian Institution.

Matters of personal concern to a number of employees were
reviewed, factual information developed, and necessary adjust-
ments made to the satisfaction of those involved. In three
instances, formal complaints were filed and investigatory steps
taken.

Four special training Work Shops were conducted for em-
ployees assigned to supervisory positions. These discussions
concerned all levels of supervision relating to the acceptance,
fulfillment, and continuing support of the equal employment
program philosophy.

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

Emphasis on responsiveness and positive assistance was com-
plemented by increased effort in human resources program
development. Workload volume expanded, but efforts to in-
crease productivity provided enough manhours to upgrade
some existing programs while establishing new ones. A Person-
nel Management Effectiveness Evaluation Program was estab-
lished that includes management participation, consultation,
formal surveys, feedback, and internal assessment. A survey was
conducted by the Office at the National Zoological Park, and
staff members participated on four management studies con-
ducted by the Smithsonian Agenda Working Group.

A goals document that encompassed the gamut of personnel
management programs was prepared as a first step toward
better program planning. This was one of the methods explored
in our desire to achieve maximum productivity without ad-
versely affecting service or quality. The document included

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 169

individual projects, names of responsible individuals, and target
dates. Some projects are aimed at improving existing services and
others represent new or innovative services.

This Office worked closely with the Equal Opportunity Office
to assure that all personnel management related projects and
activities were being accomplished. A new monitor system was
adopted.

Labor-Management Relations continued to be an active pro-
gram as one new contract was negotiated and two other contract
renegotiations commenced. There was marked improvement in
direct communications between union officials and supervisors.
The union was consulted step-by-step as two major reorganiza-
tions were accomplished. This process contributed to the fact
that no grievances or formal complaints emanated from these
reorganizations.

Training activities included a special program for supervisory
personnel in one bureau, Learning Lab programs, a course for
EEO Counselors, a new course entitled “The Supervisor’s Role
in EEO” and another new course called “Dealing Effectively
with People.”

A Handbook for Employees was distributed to all employees and
also is distributed during the orientation sessions for new
employees. A slide/tape presentation was developed for use
during these orientations.

An Employee Action Program that emphasizes the identifica-
tion of potential problems and the prevention of serious
problems in employee relations was developed to assist in the
area of discipline. The Awards Program was highlighted by a
second Annual Awards Day.

This was a year of complex major reorganizations, compli-
cated by conflicting priorities in average grade reduction,
upward mobility efforts, manpower and budget restrictions,
increasing productivity, more effective position management,
and equity in promotion actions. With the support of the
Executive Committee, Bureau Directors, supervisors, union
representatives, employees, and other staff offices we were able
to make significant progress toward more efficient and more
economical management of our human resources without com-
promising quality or human values.

In January, the Health Units were transferred to the new

Office of Protection Services which reports to the Director of
Support Activities.
170 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

OFFICE OF PROTECTION SERVICES

The Office of Protection Services was organized on 7 January
1973, and assigned the responsibility of directing the health,
safety, and security protection programs for the Institution.
Special emphasis placed on safety program goals resulted in the
Institution’s being nominated for and successfully winning the
President’s Safety Award for 1972.

The Protection Division stressed personalized assistance to
visitors in addition to its primary responsibility for the security
of the Smithsonian buildings and their occupants and contents.
Guards were furnished for 232 special events. Among the most
prominent activities in which the security guards participated
during the period were the two 1973 Presidential Inaugural
Balls held in the History and Technology Building and in the
Natural History Building, and the reception for Vice President
Spiro T. Agnew in the History and Technology Building. These
events were attended by members of the Executive, Judicial,
and Legislative branches of the government as well as the entire
Diplomatic Corps, and required extensive planning, coordina-
tion with other security officials, and the highest degree of
security. :

The basic guard school which must be completed satisfactorily
by newly employed permanent guards before they may be given
Special Police Commissions was increased from 40 hours to 80
hours of instruction. Refresher training classes were conducted
for guards and supervisors.

PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICES DIVISION

With receipt of its first major budget increase in October
1972, the Division hired some additional personnel, purchased
equipment, and improved production techniques. Production of
photographic services increased and much work formerly con-
tracted out to commercial sources was accomplished in-house. A
new ADP production reporting system was inaugurated and will
be implemented fully on 1 July 1973.

Assignment Section: Compared to last year, studio and
location photography increased approximately 20 percent and
microfilm photography increased by 470,000 frames. Over 30
million documents in various stages of deterioration must be
microfilmed soon.

Laboratory Section: Production increased 15 percent over last

Os rs a

ee
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT a

year, with the largest increases in copy work, slide duplication,
and microfilm processing. The laboratory processed 432 100-
foot rolls of microfilm representing 520,000 frames. Black and
white print production is expected to increase by 10,000 over
last year. Restoration was begun, by photographic processes, on
5,700 glass and nitrate negatives. Plans were initiated to
remodel the laboratory in the Arts and Industries Building for
color slide and transparency duplicating and processing.

Library Section: The Information Systems Division and Man-
agement Analysis Office programmers and analysts developed
an ADP program for cataloguing and retrieving data on all
negative holdings. Information about 200,000 Smithsonian pho-
tographs soon will be entered in this system.

Customer Service Section: The Customer Service Section,
formerly the Sales Section, received approximately 7,200 public
inquiries, involving over 1,800 orders for photographic mate-
rials, and sales receipts increased by 20 percent over last year.
The Section administers the color slide lecture program by
producing color slides with lectures on the Smithsonian’s many
subjects and objects. These materials, designed for every grade
level from kindergarten through college, including adult educa-
tion programs, will be available to every school library in the
country for use by teachers in classroom lectures. They also are
available to other interested groups. Sets on the First Ladies
Gowns and on Rare Stamps are available. Three sets on our Zoo
Animals, one on Air and Space, and two on American Indians
will be ready in January 1974. In June, 8,000 sleeves of 5 slides
each of Zoo animals and the Air and Space exhibits were
completed for sale in the Museum Shops.

SUPPLY DIVISION

The Supply Division again experienced an increased workload
in its procurement and contracting responsibilities primarily due
to the general expansion of the Smithsonian Institution, and all
indications point to continuing accelerated growth of both these
responsibilities. The successful accomplishment of this increas-
ing workload, with no additional personnel, is recognized as a
_ major contribution to the achievement of the program goals of
all Smithsonian organizations and a testimonial to the ingenuity,
resourcefulness, and dedication of all Division employees.

The initial major procurements for the new Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden will be finalized this fiscal year.
172 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Preliminary planning is underway for the Division’s involvement
in the opening of the new National Air and Space Museum.

The Division continues to be an active participant in the
acquisition of useful excess government property to satisfy the
needs of the Institution’s many organization units. Excess
property acquired this year is valued at $850,000.

TRAVEL SERVICES OFFICE

The Travel Services Office has experienced yearly increases in
all of its major activities since its first full year of operation in
1968. Factors responsible for this growth are twofold—as

Smithsonian programs have expanded and travel needs have ~

become more unusual, complex, and essential, Smithsonian
travelers concurrently developed complete confidence in the
Office’s ability to meet urgent and intricate requests on a timely
basis. The staff of only four employees has not increased since
1969 but, despite this, the high performance standards main-
tained by the Office have not deteriorated. Travel services are
provided efficiently, economically, and courteously. To cite only
one of many satisfied travelers, “rso delivers when the chips are
down.”

During the year, in addition to furnishing travel services,
program planning assistance, and technical guidance on a day-
to-day basis, travel arrangements, advisory services, and detailed
planning data were furnished for the Annual Folklife Festival;
for national and international conferences; and for meetings
and archeological expeditions in Yugoslavia, Israel, and Greece.
Of particular interest was the Fifth International Symposium
held in Washington, D. C., in observance of the 500th anniver-
sary of the birth of Nicolaus Copernicus. Closer liaision had to
be maintained this year with the airlines to accomplish increas-
ingly complicated travel performed under the Smithsonian’s
Special Foreign Currency Program.

International Exchange Service

The International Exchange Service is the one program
bureau included in the support group. During the year, the
Service received approximately 800,000 pounds of publications
from organizations in more than 100 countries. Approximately

| ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 173

100,000 pounds of publications were received from the foreign
exchange bureaus for distribution in the United States.

— Over 800,000 official United States documents weighing
_approximately 450,000 pounds were exchanged with 94 organi-
zations in 64 countries for their official publications.

The daily issues of the Congressional Record and the Federal
Register were exchanged with 132 foreign libraries for the
parliamentary journals of other countries.

Publications weighing approximately 530,000 pounds were
forwarded by ocean freight to 38 exchange bureaus in 32
/countries for distribution to the addressees. Over 250,000
pounds of publications were mailed to addressees in countries
'not having exchange bureaus.
| The number of medical and dental organizations in the
United States exchanging their duplicate journals and books
with medical and dental libraries in other countries has contin-
ued to increase.
| The Duplicating Section, administered by the Director of the
International Exchange Service, eliminated considerable backlog
}during the year. This was accomplished through recruitment of
one additional member as well as by adding some new equipment
to the Section.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

J. CARTER Brown, Director

Nae NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, although technically estab-
lished as a bureau ‘of the Smithsonian Institution, is an
autonomous and separately administered organization. It 1s
governed by its own Board of Trustees, the statutory members
of which are the Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman;
the Secretary of State; the Secretary of the Treasury; and the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, all ex officio; and five
general trustees. Paul Mellon continued as president of the
Gallery and John Hay Whitney as vice president. The other
general trustees continuing to serve were: Dr. Franklin D.
Murphy, Lessing J. Rosenwald, and Stoddard M. Stevens.

During the fiscal year 1973 the Gallery had 1,619,850 visitors.

A number of important paintings were acquired, among
them: Nude Woman (1910) by Pablo Picasso, Ailsa Mellon Bruce
Fund; Woman Ironing by Edgar Degas, from the Collection of Mr.
and Mrs. Paul Mellon; Italian Landscape by George Inness, Ailsa
Mellon Bruce Fund; and St. Matthew with an Angel, Simone Canta-
rini, gift of James O. Belden in memory of Evelyn Berry Belden.
Among the important drawings acquired during the year were:
Landscape with the Penitence of Saint Jerome by Pieter Bruegel; Head of
a Boy attributed to Lorenzo di Credi; Study for Two Stained Glass
Paintings, Hans von Kulmbach; Venus, and Adonis, by Pierre Paul
Prud’Hon; and St. Michael, Giulio Romano. In total,. the Gallery
acquired 25 paintings, 3 sculptures, 25 drawings and prints.

The most popular exhibition presented during the year was
Impressionist and Post-Impressionist Paintings from the U.S.S.R.,
which was attended by 316,408 persons during its four-week
showing. Other notable exhibitions held at the Gallery included:
Old Master Drawings from Christ Church, Oxford; Frederick Law
Olmsted/U.S.A. (1822-1903); A Survey of the Mezzotint Technique;
The Far North: 2000 Years of American Eskimo and Indian Art;
Etchings by Rembrandt and Prints of the Italian Renaissance.

174
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 175

The Gallery’s multimedia education program, Art and Man,
published in cooperation with Scholastic Magazines, Inc.,
reached 6750 classrooms in every state of the country. The
magazine Art and Man, an integral part of this program,
reached a circulation of over one and one-half million—the
largest of any art magazine in the country. Special color slide
collections along with 40,000 filmstrips and recordings also were
distributed as teaching components of the program.

The total number of bookings of Extension Service materials,
66 films, filmstrips, and slide lecture subjects was 29,432. The
total estimated attendance covering all 50 states and many
foreign countries and United States military installations abroad
was 4,356,814.

During the year the Gallery's new hour-long documentary

film, Leonardo: To Know How To See, was shown on national

television and through 308 bookings was viewed by approxi-
mately 33,880 people. The Gallery also began distributing

_ Kenneth Clark’s six-part film series, Pioneers of Modern Painting,

made possible by a grant from the National Endowment for
the Humanities. Three hundred and one small colleges re-
ceived these films free and showed them to audiences totaling
more than 300,000. To document the exhibition Impressionist and
Post-Impresstonist Paintings from the U.S.S.R., the Gallery, with

| funds from the National Endowment for the Humanities,
| produced a new film entitled On Loan from Russia: Forty-One
| French Masterpieces, which was initially aired by the Public
| Broadcasting Service.

Total attendance at talks given by the Gallery’s Education

| Department and at the programs presented in the auditorium
| was 148,933. These included the regularly scheduled Sunday

_ auditorium lectures and tilms, the Introduction to the Collection,
_ the Tour of the Week, and Painting of the Week. There were 33
_ guest lecturers including the twenty-second annual A. W. Mellon
_ Lecturer in the Fine Arts, Jacques Barzun, who gave a series of six
talks on The Use and Abuse of Art; and Carl Nordenfalk, the Kress
_ Professor in Residence.

The Gallery has begun the expansion of its Conservation

| Department with the appointment of a new staff of conserva-

tors, Victor C. B. Covey, Chief of Conservation; Kay Silberfeld, ©

Conservator of Paintings; John Krill, Conservator of Works of
} Art on Paper; and Eleanor Labaree, Conservator of Frames.
| Remodeling of laboratory facilities is now underway.
176 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

After the opening of the new building, the department will be
relocated in the area now occupied by the cafeteria and
adjoining offices. In the meantime, the conservators are survey-
ing objects in the collections as to condition, and are starting on
the necessary treatment.

Studies on various aspects of painting materials and materials
used in conservation continue with support from the Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation at the Gallery's Research Project at the
Carnegie-Mellon Institute under the direction of Dr. Robert L.
Feller.

The Library’s staff has been increased, a necessary step
towards the capability to serve the projected Center for
Advanced Studies in the Visual Arts. A new position, Chief
Librarian, was created and J. M. Edelstein was recruited from
the University of California at Los Angeles to fill it. The Library
added 7,743 publications to its collection and 160,782 photo-
graphs to its archives, more than half of which were turned
over by the Library of Congress.

Through its self-service sales facility, the Gallery made
available six special exhibition catalogs and five posters con-
nected with the exhibitions. Continued public interest in the
Gallery’s reproductions, postcards, and art books is evidenced
by the patronage of 264,104 people in person and 6,073 by
mail.

The Concert Programs continued with 40 Sunday evening
programs in the East Garden Court to which the public is
admitted without charge. All were well attended and were also
broadcast live on a local AM-FM station. The three opening
progams of the season, entitled A Festival of Symphonies, were the
Gallery’s welcome to the initial season of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts. Among the works offered were
eight world premieres.

Work continued on the new East Building during the year
with all basic construction below grade accomplished. This
addition is being built largely with funds donated by Mr. Paul
Mellon and his late sister, Ailsa Mellon Bruce. With its connecting
link under Fourth Street, it will nearly double the Gallery’s exhibi-
tion and auxiliary space when finished in 1976. By 30 June 1973,
the work was 20 percent completed.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS

ROGER L. STEVENS, Chairman

O THE PRACTICAL OBSERVER, there could be little doubt that

the Kennedy Center’s first season would be a success.
Years of anticipation, speculation, hope, and controversy would
make the new memorial an irresistible attraction—and indeed,
this proved to be the case. What doubts there were seemed to
be centered on prospects for sustained public interest during
future seasons. To the delight of all associated with the Center,
however, the second season was received with an enthusiasm
surpassing even the first. Over 1.6 million people attended
_ performances, and it is reasonable to conclude that the per-
forming arts themselves, presented in critically acclaimed facili-
ties, are, as they should be, the real attraction.

The season opened with a two-week festival of Twentieth-
Century and Italian baroque music. This festival of “The Old
and the New” included 100 works by 75 composers which were
presented in a total of 32 concerts—and over one-third of the
events were free. Programming was based to a significant extent
upon a survey sent by the Center to 500 music critics,
conductors, and publishers, which posed questions as to the
most significant contemporary works, the most influential com-
posers, those works which had been undeservedly neglected,
and composers whose works would be performed 50 years
hence.

In describing “The Old and the New,” Irving Lowens of the
Washington Star-News commented: “This festival, a prototype for
others to come, shows that the sum of what goes on in the
Kennedy Center’s individual auditoriums can add up to consid-
‘erably more than the arithmetical whole, given the will, the
intelligence and the imagination. In a way it is the most
significant thing that has yet happened at Kennedy Center. It
shows us a national center for the performing arts in opera-
tion.”

Lid
178 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

A performance by the American Brass Quintet in the Grand Foyer during the
Festival of the Old and the New. (Photograph courtesy of the City News Bureau,

Inc.)

In the months that followed, every aspect of the performing
arts was represented in an almost overwhelming program which
included 119 performances of dance by 15 companies from the
United States and abroad; 159 concerts by world-famous
orchestras, including 103 by the resident National Symphony
Orchestra; 36 performances of 12 different operas; 34 recitals;
41 performances of popular music, folk, jazz and rock; 23
choral concerts; 24 concerts of chamber music; and 538
performances of drama and musical comedy, with works of
| KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 179

Shakespeare, Shaw, Pirandello, Giraudoux, Lorca, Tennessee
Williams, Arthur Miller, James Prideaux, and Jean Kerr.

The Bernstein Film Festival, presented in September and
featuring films of concerts conducted by Leonard Bernstein,
added a new dimension to the Center’s programming and
demonstrated the adaptability of the Eisenhower Theater. The
Theater’s film role continued on Sundays during the fall and
winter months with a series of presentations by the American
Film Institute, (art) which operates within the Center while
remaining administratively separate. The completion in April of
the 224-seat art Theater made possible the scheduling of films
on a daily basis and thus expanded the variety of art forms
regularly available to Center patrons.

Among the responsibilities delegated by Congress to the
Center’s Board of Trustees is that of providing facilities for civic
functions. The fulfillment of this mandate was at no time more
clearly demonstrated than during the Presidential Inaugural,
18-20 January, when over 26,000 people attended special
functions in virtually every part of the building.

Throughout the year, the Center also played host to 74,000
schoolchildren who attended special concerts sponsored by the
wives of Cabinet members and performing arts groups within
the city.

The on-going Special Ticket Program, administered by the
Friends of. the Kennedy Center, enabled over 70,000 people to
attend regular performances at half-price. The program, which
is available to students, the handicapped, retired people, low-
income groups and military personnel in the lower grades, was
established to make the Center accessible to all, regardless of
economic circumstances.

In an effort to respond more fully to its educational
responsibilities, the Center joined with the Education Division of
the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare in establish-
ing an Alliance for Arts Education. The objectives of the
Alliance are increased participation by students throughout the
country in Kennedy Center activities and the establishment of
the Center as a focal point for strengthening the arts in
education at all levels. Directed by Forbes W. Rogers and with
‘the support of regional and state representatives of the Presi-
.dent’s Advisory Committee on the Arts and the Friends of the
Kennedy Center, the Office of Education and local school
officials, the program is designed to increase the Center’s
national orientation and catalytic potential. In launching the
180 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973}

Alliance, regional planning meetings were held in 10 major
cities across the country.

The fifth annual American College Theatre Festival, pre-
sented by the Center and the Smithsonian in association with},
the American National Theatre and Academy, brought 10 of!
the nation’s finest college productions to the Eisenhower
Theater during a two-week period in late spring. Produced by
the American Theatre Association, the Festival once again}
enjoyed the sponsorship of AmMoco Oil and American Airlines.
In keeping with a tradition established in 1972, the Festival also)
included performances by a foreign theater group, the Kabuki)
Apprentices of the National Theatre of Japan, and the Irene
Ryan Scholarship Awards.

In response to the enormous tourist interest demonstrated
during the first year of operation, Congress voted to transfer
responsibility for the Center’s memorial function to the National
Park Service (Nps) as of 1 July 1972. In addition to carrying out
vital security and maintenance functions, the Nps has worked |
closely with the Friends of the Kennedy Center in providing —
information services to more than 2.5 million visitors. During its —
first two years, the Center has witnessed a number of changes, |
but perhaps none has been more pleasant or welcome than the
transformation of its 17-acre site by Park Service landscape
personnel.

Although a Bureau of the Smithsonian, the Center is adminis-
tered separately by a 45-member Board of Trustees, composed
of 30 members appointed by the President to 10-year overlap-
ping terms, 9 members ex-officio from pertinent Federal and
District of Columbia agencies, 3 members appointed from the
Senate and 3 from the House of Representatives. Members of
the Board at the close of fiscal year 1973 are as follows:

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman H. R. Haldeman

Richard Adler Mrs. Rebekah Harkness

Ralph E. Becker Mrs. Paul H. Hatch

Mrs. Donna S. Bradshaw Frank N. Ikard

J. Carter Brown Senator, Edward M. Kennedy

Mrs. Edward F. Cox Thomas H. Kuchel

Ralph W. Ellison Gustave L. Levy

Mrs. J. Clifford Folger Mrs. Michael J. Mansfield

Abe Fortas Sidney P. Marland, Jr.

Representative Peter H. B. Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
Frelinghuysen Harry C. McPherson, Jr.

Senator J. William Fulbright George Meany

Mrs. George A. Garrett Robert I. Millonzi

Leonard H. Goldenson L. Quincy Mumford
181

J
| KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Representative Frank Thompson, Jr.
Benjamin Arthur Trustman
Senator, John V. Tunney

Jack Valenti

Ronald H. Walker

Senator Charles H. Percy
John Richardson, Jr.

S. Dillon Ripley II
Representative Teno Roncalio
Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Mrs. Stephen E. Smith
Henry Strong

William Hammond Thomas

Walter E. Washington
Lew R. Wasserman
Caspar W. Weinberger
Mrs. Jack Wrather

The 121-member Advisory Committee on the Arts, appointed
by the President, continues as the chief consultative body of the
Center, During the past year, the Committee has been particu-
larly active in fund-raising activities and the establishment of the
Alliance for Arts Education. The Executive Committee includes:

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott, Chairman

Robert S. Carter, Secretary

Vernon B. Stouffer, Chairman, Finance

Mrs. Donna S. Bradshaw, Vice-Chair-
man, Finance

Mrs. Jack Wrather, Chairman, Public
Relations

Harry L. Jackson, Vice-Chairman, Public
Relations

Mrs. Paul A. Clayton, Chairman, Educa-

tion and Program

Mrs. Benjamin C. Evans, Jr., Vice-
Chairman, Education and Program

Mrs. Arnold Schwartz, Director of Pub-
licity

Mrs. D. Eldredge Jackson, Jr., North-
east Regional Chairman

Harvey B. Cohen, Southern Regional
Chairman

Mrs. W. A. McKenzie, Western Regional
Chairman

John H. Myers, Midwestern Regional
Chairman

The Friends of the Kennedy Center, established as an
auxiliary organization in 1966, increased to 9750 members from
all parts of the country. Volunteers of the Friends have given
thousands of hours of time and effort, managing and manning
the public tours and souvenir stands and providing hospitality
and other services to Center operations and functions. Members
of the National Council include:

Mrs. Polk Guest, Chairman
Mrs. Eugene C. Carusi
Mrs. Emanuel Cohen

Abe Fortas

Mrs. George A. Garrett

Mrs. William R. Hyde
Mrs. Jed Pearson
Henry Strong

Stanley Woodward

Regional Chairmen of the Friends are as follows:

Mrs. Donald Lewis, West Coast
Mrs. David Roberts III, Gulf States
Mrs. Sarkes Tarzian, Central

Miss Marya Allen, New England
Mrs. John Braganza, South Atlantic
Mrs. Charles Engelhard, Mid-Atlantic
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL
CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

ALBERT MEISEL, Acting Director

HE WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL Center for Scholars

was founded in 1968 to be “a living institution express-
ing the ideals and concerns of Woodrow Wilson . . . symboliz-
ing and strengthening the fruitful relation between the world

of learning and the world of public affairs.” The general

theme of the fellowship program adopted by the Board of
Trustees reflects Woodrow Wilson’s broad ideals and concerns

as a scholar and statesman: emphasis is placed on studies of ,
fundamental political, social, and intellectual issues designed to |
illuminate man’s understanding of critical contemporary and |

emerging problems and to suggest means of resolving such
problems.

The Center reserves a significant portion of its fellowship
appointments for scholars pursuing individual studies of their
choice which fall within the context of the general theme. In
addition to this general fellowship category, however, the

trustees have designated specific areas for study, and applica- |

tions from scholars working in these areas are encouraged in
the interests of achieving a certain program coherence and
impact and of fostering a useful exchange of ideas and insights
among scholars with shared concerns. The areas of special
emphasis are international affairs, patterns of growth and the

human environment, studies relating to the development of 4
the law of the sea and to international cooperation in the uses —

of the oceans, and bicentennial studies concerning the period

of the enlightenment and the American revolution and the -

American system of government as it enters its third century.
Since its doors opened in October 1970, the Center has

approved 100 fellowship and 34 guest scholar appointments,

approximately half to scholars from the United States and half

to scholars from 24 other countries. As the program is #

182

ACen

se a
WOODROW WILSON CENTER 183

continuous and year-round, and appointments vary from a few
months to a year or more, its community is characterized by
_ both continuity and change, with departures and arrivals
~ usually numbering two or three each month. The men and
women participating in the Center programs have included
scholars in the social sciences, humanities, and natural sciences
as well as persons drawn from careers in law, diplomacy, the
ministry, journalism, governments, international organizations,
and other professions and occupations.

In addition to the support of research and writing, and in
response to its charter obligation to “strengthen the fruitful rela-
tion between the world of learning and the world of public af-
fairs,” the Center and Center scholars have sponsored and par-
ticipated in a wide-ranging series of conferences, seminars, and
symposia involving large numbers of persons from government,
academe, and the community at large.
- Appendix |

MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL
30 June 1973

Dr. RoGER ABRAHAMS. Director, African and Afro-American Research Insti-
tute, The University of Texas, Austin.

Mr. H. HARvARD ARNASON. New York City (Honorary Member).

Dr. MurieEt M. BERMAN. Allentown, Pennsylvania (Honorary Member).

Dr. HERMAN R. Branson. President, Lincoln University, Pennsylvania.

Mrs. CAMILLE W. Cook. Assistant Dean, University of Alabama School of
Law, Alabama.

PROFESSOR Cart W. Conpir. Center for Urban Affairs, Northwestern Univer-
sity, Evanston, Illinois.

ProFessoR Frep R. Eccan. Department of Anthropology, University of Chi-
cago, Illinois.

PROFESSOR DONALD S. FARNER. Seattle, Washington (Honorary Member).

PROFESSOR ANTHONY N.H. Garvan. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Honorary
Member).

Dr. Murray Gett-Mann. Robert Andrews Millikan Professor of Theoretical
Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena.

Dr. Frank B. Gottey. Executive Director, Institute of Ecology, University of |

Georgia, Athens, Georgia.

Dr. PHitie HANDLER. President, National Academy of Sciences, Washington,
D.C.

Dr. Davip HAwkKINS. Director, Mountain View Center for Environmental
Education, University of Colorado.

PROFESSOR JAN LA Rue. Department of Music, Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, New York University, New York City.

Dr. James L. LiverRMAN. Associate Director, Biology Division, Oak Ridge
National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.

Dr. Ciirrorp L. Lorp. Hempstead, New York (Honorary Member).

Dr. Gites W. Meap. Director, Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History,
Los Angeles, California.

PROFESSOR CHARLES D. MICHENER. Lawrence, Kansas (Honorary Member).

Dr Peter M. MILLMAN. Ontario, Canada (Honorary Member).

PROFESSOR NORMAN Homes PEARSON. Department of English and American
Studies, Yale University.

Dr. Gorpon N. Ray. President, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Founda-
tion, New York City.

Mr. Puitip C. RiTTeERBUSH. Chairman, ORGANIZATION: RESPONSE, Washington,
D.C.

Mr. HAROLD ROSENBERG. Art Critic, New Yorker Magazine.

Mr Georce C. SeyBoLt. President, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachu-
setts (Honorary Member).

184

APPENDIX 1. MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 185

Mr. ANDRE SCHIFFRIN. Managing Director, Pantheon Books, New York.

PROFESSOR CyRIL STANLEY SMITH. Institute Professor, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology.

PROFESSOR JOHN D. Spikes. Salt Lake City, Utah (Honorary Member).

PROFESSOR STEPHEN E. TOULMIN. Provost, Crown College, University of Califor-
nia.

Mrs. BarBARA W. TucHMAN. Author, New York City.

Dr. Witt1aM Von Arx. Senior Scientist, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institu-
tion, Massachusetts.

PROFESSOR WARREN H. WAGNER, JR. Ann Arbor, Michigan (Honorary Member).

‘Dr. RaAINER ZANGERL. Chairman, Department of Geology, Field Museum of

Natural History, Chicago, Illinois.

Appendix 2

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP, 1972-1973

Contributing Memberships

SPONSOR MEMBER
($10,000 and up)

Mr. Henry J. Heinz II

PATRON MEMBERS

($5000 and up)

Mr. William Blackie
Mr. Paul L. Davies

FOUNDER MEMBERS

($1000 and up)

Mrs. Charles Engelhard Mr. Merritt Kirk Ruddock
Mr. Donald A. Petrie Mr. Joseph A. Thomas

SUSTAINING MEMBERS

($500 and up)

Mrs. Paul Barham Mrs. Eugene O’Dunne
Mrs. Katherine H. Benedict Miss Eleanor L. Perry
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Clocker Mr. John Shedd Reed
Miss Mary Croyle Mr. and Mrs. Harry N. Stevens
Dr. Jo Ann Deatherage Mrs. Harry G. Wilson

Mrs. Thomas Dudley Joeck

186
APPENDIX 2. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 187

DONOR (FORMERLY CONTRIBUTING) MEMBERS

($100 and up)

Mrs. Howard Ahmanson Mrs. Pricilla Meek Christy
Mrs. Eben Alexander, Jr. Mrs. Henry Cobb
Miss Isabel Allen Mrs. Wilma U. Coggins
Mrs. Michael Alteri Mrs. B. S. Cole
Mrs. G. M. Anderson Mr. Henry E. Coleman, Jr.
Miss Helen M. Anderson Mr. Richard P. Cooley
Miss Maja C. Anderson Mrs. Laetitia K. Coolidge
Mr. Arthur R. Armstrong Mr. Peter Covel
Mr. and Mrs. J. Y. Arnold, Jr. Mr. Frederick C. Crawford
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Lee Bacon Miss Carol Culton
Miss Lois Bacon The Honorable and Mrs. Hugh S.
Mrs. Robert Low Bacon Cumming, Jr.
Mrs. Arthur B. Baer Mrs. Deborah L. Currier
Mr. Richard Brown Baker Miss Viola E. Cureton
Miss Amy Ballard Mrs. McCullough Darlington
Mrs. George E. Bates Mrs. Allan Dawson
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Beck Mr. and Mrs. Richmond A. Day
Mr. and Mrs. Roger K. Becker Mr. Kenneth Dearolf
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Benenson Dr. Lewis Hilliard Dennis
Mrs. Suzanne F. Bershad Mrs. Katherine P. Deutsch
Dr. and Mrs. James F. Bing General Jacob L. Devers
Miss Frid] M. Blumenthal Mr. and Mrs. Frederick C. Dirks
Miss Elisabeth H. Boeker Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Dominick
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Bogan Miss Julia Dorish
Mr. Maxwell Brace Miss Mary Dorsey
Mr. J. Bruce Bredin Captain and Mrs. Robert F. Doss
Mrs. Edwin T. Breed Mrs. Rockwell Drake
Mr. Carl A. Bretz Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eames
Mrs. George E. Brewer Mrs. Samuel N. Efron
Mr. Lloyd A. Breyer Miss Ann E. Erdman
Mr. and Mrs. Winthrop G. Brown Miss Selma Etter
Mrs. Evelyn M. Bryant Mrs. James Faircloth
Mr. and Mrs. C. Emery Buffum Mr. James E. Farrell
Mrs. Robert Buka Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Feffer
Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce Miss Judith R. Fetter
Mr. I. Townsend Burden III Mrs. Jeanette Findlay
The Honorable and Mrs. William A. Mrs. Richard B. Finn
M. Burden Mrs. John Gardiner Flint
Dr. Catherine A. Burham The Honorable and Mrs. Edward H.
Mr. and Mrs. Jackson Burke Foley
_ Mr. and Mrs. Edward Burling, Jr. Mrs. Sarah Ford
Mrs. James MacGregor Byrne Mrs. Trevor Ford
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Cade Mr. Richard B. Frachman
Mr. Carter Cafritz Mrs. Margaret Mary Frowe
Dr. and Mrs. George Carter Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Fuller III
Miss Alice C. Cartwright Mr. and Mrs. Charles Gamper
Mrs. James B. Cartwright Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

_ Mr. and Mrs. David G. Chapman Dr. and Mrs. Stanton Garfield

188 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Mr. T. Jack Gary, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. George E. Keeler

Mr. W. E. Gathright Mr. Walter Kidd

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Gaudin Mrs. Randolph Kidder

Miss Edith C. Gibney Mrs. O. W. Kirkpatrick

Mr. and Mrs. O. Rundle Gilbert Mrs. Catherine Klenert

Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan Mrs. L. B. Knight

Colonel and Mrs. Julius Goldstein Miss Ann Brewer Knox

Mr. Paul J. Good Mr. and Mrs. David Lloyd Kreeger

Mrs. J. L. Goodwin Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham

Miss Marion Gorrill Mrs. Ruth K. Larcom

Mr. Alan Gowans Mrs. Mortimer Lebowitz

Mrs. Katharine Graham Miss Mary Nelson Lee

Dr. Sheila H. Gray Miss Anna T. Lehlbach

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Greenberg Mr. John Leonard

Dr. and Mrs. John N. Grekin Mrs. A. Morris Levy

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Griffen Dr. and Mrs. Merrill D. Lipsey

Miss Keating Griffiss Mr. J. Victor Loewi

Miss Virginia H. Groomes Mrs. F. X. Lopez

Miss Margaret Gurney Mrs. Barbara Louden

Mr. Tom Hahs Mr. and Mrs. William T. Lusk

Mrs. Harold H. Hallock Mrs. Sherli W. Macht

Mr. and Mrs. Henry R. Hallowell Mrs. J. D. MacLauren

Mr. Courtnay C. Hamilton, Jr. Mr. Joe D. Manous

Miss Morella R. Hansen The Honorable and Mrs. Leonard H. |

Mr. and Mrs. F. Barton Harvey Marks ]

Mrs. Jack Hause Mr. and Mrs. Melvin E. Mather

Mr. and Mrs.-G. Frederick Hawkins Miss Grace E. Mattis

Mrs. Patrick Healy Mrs. Beatrice M. Mattison .

Mrs. Robert Heiderer Miss Eleanor Mawhinney

Mrs. Stephen W. Heller Miss Julia A. Maxwell

Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Henderson Mrs. David Mayer

Mrs. Kenner F. Hertford Mr. and Mrs. Devereaux F. McC-}

Mrs. Walter K. Higgins latchey

Mr. Walter J. Hodges The Honorable and Mrs. George C. |

Mrs. Martin E. Hogan, Jr. McGhee |

Mr. Pendleton Hogan Mr. and Mrs. John H. McLaren |

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay Miss Joanne McLellan

Mrs. Jane M. Holstein Mr. Frederick A. Melhado |

Mr. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Elwin A. Miller

Miss Elisabeth Houghton Mrs. Joseph C. Miller

Mrs. Oscar B. Huffman Miss Louise C. Millikan |

Mrs. F. R. Humphris Mr. Roger Milliken }

Miss L. Georgia Hundley Miss Eleanor S. Mohr |

Mrs. Lucy Huttrer Mrs. Margaret E. Moore |

The Honorable and Mrs. Frank N. Mrs. Elizabeth Montgomery |
Ikard Mrs. Louise E. Mora

Mrs. Philip S. Isaacs Mrs. Ann Moreton |

Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Janson Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr. |

Mrs. Ida Jaspan Mr. and Mrs. J. Duncan Munro |

Mr. and Mrs. Ray C. Johnson, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Clarence W. Nichols

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen Mr. and Mrs. Newton S. Nobel

Miss Helen S. Kainen Miss Lorene E. Norbeck
APPENDIX 2. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 189

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr. Mrs. William D. Suggs

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Nourse Mrs. Mary S. Sutcliffe

Mrs. Janet B. Nunnelly Mrs. Frederick Suydam

Miss Mollie Orshansky Mrs. Edward C. Sweeney

Miss Eugenia Ostopchuk Dr. W. B. Swift

Mrs. Leonid Ourusoff Mrs. Martha Frick Symington

Mrs. Paul O. Parramore Mr. and Mrs. Alfred E. Tarr

The Honorable and Mrs. Jefferson Dr. and Mrs. Maurice B. Tobin
Patterson Mr. and Mrs. David G. Townsend

Professor Norman H. Pearson Mrs. R. L. Tracy

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund E. Pendleton, Mr. and Mrs. A. Buel Trowbridge
Ji Mr. and Mrs. William Truesdale

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips Mr. and Mrs. Roy C. Turney

Miss Joane M. Picha Mrs. James R. Ullman

Miss Katherine Anne Porter Mrs. Thomas G. Vandever

Miss Jacqueline Preis Mr. G. Duane Vieth

Miss Evelyn Puffenberger Mr. and Mrs. Julius Wadsworth

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest Rafey Mrs. Alice L. Walker

Miss Ruth Raiguel Mrs. Clyde Ward

Miss Margaret Rathbone Mrs. Elmer E. M. Warner

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Rawlins Dr. W. L. Waskow

Miss Harriet D. Richmond Mrs. C. Law Watkins

Mr. James H. Ripley Miss Dorothy P. Watts

Mrs. William L. Ritchie Miss Peggy A. Watts

Mrs. Charlotte B. Rose Mrs. Velma P. Watts

Mrs. Howard F. Ross The Honorable and Mrs. James E.

Dr. and Mrs. David Sacks Webb

Mr. and Mrs. Bert Sager Mr. Jervis B. Webb

Mr. William R. Salomon Mr. and Mrs. William S. Weedon

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Salzberg Miss Hilde Werthauer

Miss Isabelle R. Schaffner Mr. and Mrs. Harold I. Westcott

Miss Zelda Schiffman Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Westreich

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Schopf Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

Mr. William Schultesis Mrs. Robert A. Williams

Miss Frances Scudder Miss Katherine H. Willis

Mr. Riley M. Sharp Mr. and Mrs. Luke W. Wilson

Miss Katherine Shilling Mrs. Richard T. Wilson, Jr.

Mrs. John Farr Simmons Mrs. Win E. Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. Montgomery M. Smith Mrs. Alice Wolfsohn

Mrs. Paul H. Speaker Mrs. P. M. Woods

Mrs. Charles Stelle Mr. Russell M. Woods

Mr. and Mrs. Harry N. Stevens Mr. Thomas O. Ziebold

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart
SUPPORTING MEMBERS
($50 and up)

The Reverend and Mrs. F. Everett Mr. and Mrs. Stanley N. Allan
Abbott Mr. and Mrs. David R. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Aitkin Mr. and Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
190

Mrs. Carol P. Banks

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard O. Bent

The Honorable Frances P. Bolton

The Honorable and Mrs. Philip W.
Bonsal

Mr. and Mrs. William Bowman

Mrs. Eugenie Rowe Bradford

Mrs. Royall Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant

Mr. Alvin J. Buchanan, Jr.

The Honorable and Mrs. Wiley T.
Buchanan, Jr.

Mrs. Linda C. Burgess

Mrs. Esther S. Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Charles M. Cabaniss

Mr. Terence L. Cahill

Mr. and Mrs. Dan P. Caulkins

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Chandler

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Mr. Robert M. Comly

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Conley

Mrs. Chester Dale

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Deevy

Mr. and Mrs. Ewen C. Dingwall

Mr. and Mrs. Allen T. Dittmann

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz

Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Epstein

Mrs. Ralph Falk

Dr. and Mrs. A. L. Fjordbotten

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mrs. Maury Forman

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Fribourg

Mrs. Edwin F. Fullinwider

Mr. John W. Galston

Miss Anne H. Goldfinch

Miss Donna M. Graif

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest C. Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Gray, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hagemeyer

Mrs. F. J. Hart

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Hart

Mr. and Mrs. Warren Hastings

Dr. and Mrs. L. M. Hellman

Mr. Frederick R. Henley

Mr. and Mrs. James Hughes

Mr. and Mrs. Claude Hurd

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph T. Jans

Mrs. Robert C. Johnston

Mr. John Marshall Jones

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Miss E. M. Kemer

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

»

Dr. Herbert H. Kersten

Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Knee

Mr. Bogumil Kosciesza

Miss S. Victoria Krusiewski

Mrs. Gertrude Leach

Mr. Howard R. Leederman

Mr. Andrew Leonard

Mr. Paul Lepage

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell B. Lewis

Mr. William C. Lewis

Mrs. Patric G. Link

The Honorable and Mrs. Sol M. Li-
nowitz

Mrs. Demarest Lloyd

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Low

Mr. Harry Lunn

Dr. and Mrs. E. Stuart Lyddane

Mrs. John F. Markham

Dr. and Mrs. Francis Mayle, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. McLaughlin

Mrs. R. B. Menapace

Mrs. Edward P. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Newly

Mr. and Mrs. J. Lloyd Niles

Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Norden and

Family

Mr. Robert O’Brien

Mr. Jerry O’Regan

Mr. Harry A. Paynter

Mr. William A. Paznekas

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Pence, Jr.

Ms Jo Perrill

Captain and Mrs. Charles Phillips

Mrs. Frank S. Phillips

Mr. Joseph B. Phillips

Mrs. William Pierce

Dr. and Mrs. Jorold J. Principato

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey

Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Reid

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Mrs. David Roberts III

Mrs. John Barry Ryan

Mr. David Sapadin

Mr. Michael F. Sawyer

Mrs. Francis B. Sayre, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer

Miss Josephine A. Sesi

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Slavin

Colonel and Mrs. C. Haskell Small

The Honorable and Mrs. Gerard C.
Smith

4
|
APPENDIX 2. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 191

Mr. and Mrs. Lamar A. Smith Mr. and Mrs. Richard Wainwright

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Snodgrass Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Watson
Commander and Mrs. Lane Spencer Mr. and Mrs. George Wheeler

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Sugarman Mr. and Mrs. William B. White

Mr. David A. Sutherlund Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Wilkinson, Jr.

Mrs. Joseph P. Sweeney Mr. and Mrs. Anthony T. Wilson

Mrs. Mary Davidson Swift The Honorable and Mrs. Edward F.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank B. Thomson Wilson

Mr. Robert Truland Mrs. Leslie H. Wyman

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Tuvin Mr. and Mrs. James R. Zuckerman

Dr. and Mrs. Philip Varner

LIFE MEMBERS

The Institution gratefully acknowledges the generosity and enthusiasm of the
following individuals who became Life Members during the years 1965 through
1971, when life memberships in Smithsonian Associates were available.

FOUNDER MEMBERS

($1000 and up)

Mr. Irwin Belk The Honorable and Mrs. John Clif-
The Honorable and Mrs. David K. E. ford Folger
Bruce Mr. Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt
Mrs. Morris Cafritz Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
The Honorable Douglas Dillon Mr. P. A. B. Widener
Mr. Charles E. Eckles Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

SUSTAINING MEMBERS

($500 and up)

Mrs. Anna Bing Arnold Mrs. Frances A. Davila

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt Mr. Newell W. Ellison

Mr. Joel Barlow Mr. and Mrs. Alfred U. Elser, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Barnes Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Friedman
Mr. William R. Biggs Mr. Richard E. Fuller

Mr. George A. Binney Mr. and Mrs. Hy Garfinkel

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Blatt Mr. George A. Garret

Miss Fay Boyle Mr. Carl S. Gewirz

Mrs. L. Roosevelt Bramwell Mr. and Mrs. Crawford Greenewalt
Mr. A. Marvin Braverman Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mr. and Mrs. John Nicholas Brown Mr. William H. Greer, Jr.

Mr. Bertram F. Brummer Mr. Melville B. Grosvenor

Mrs. Leon Campbell, Jr. Mr. and Mrs. Homer Gudelsky
Mrs. Leonard Carmichael Mr. Gilbert Hahn

Dr. Rita Chow Mr. Laurence Harrison

Clarke and Rapuano Foundation Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

(Mr. Gilmore D. Clarke) Mr. and Mrs. Christian Hohenlohe
192

Mr. Philip Johnson

Miss Brenda Kuhn

Mr. Harold F. Linder

Colonel and Mrs. Leon Mandel

Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

The Honorable William McC. Martin,
Jr.

Lieutenant Commander and Mrs. P. J.
Maveety

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Miss Katerine A. A. Murphy

Neuberger Foundation Incorporated
(Roy R. and Marie S. Neuberger)

Duke of Northumberland

Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne

Miss Lucy M. Pollio

Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Powers

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour J. Rubin
Mr. H. C. Seherr-Thoss

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Swan Shultz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. Robert T. Smith

Miss Sally Sweetland

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III
Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mrs. Carll Tucker

Mr. Alexander O. Vietor

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Warner
Dr. Alexander Wetmore

Mr. and Mrs. W. Bradley Willard
Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

Corporate Memberships

The Smithsonian Institution thanks the following business organizations for
their understanding and generous support of the Institution’s research and
education programs through membership in the Smithsonian Associates.

American Metal Climax Foundation,
Inc.

Arthur Andersen and Company

AVCO Corporation

Badger Meter, Inc.

Burlington Industries, Inc.

Caterpillar Tractor Co.

Celanese Corporation

The Coca Cola Company

Dana Corporation

Dart Industries Inc.

Deere & Company

El] Paso Natural Gas Company

The First National Bank of Miami

The B. F. Goodrich Company

International Business Machines Cor-
poration

International Telephone and Tele-
graph Corporation

S. S. Kresge Company

The Magnavox Company

Melville Shoe Corporation

Mobil Oil Corporation

Philip Morris Incorporated

National Bank of Detroit

Northwest Industries, Inc.

Olin Corporation

PACCAR Inc.

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

J. K. Smit and Sons, Inc.

Levi Strauss & Co.

TRW Inc.

Texas Instruments Incorporated

Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Cor-
poration

Hiram Walker & Sons Inc.

Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc.
APPENDIX 2. SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES MEMBERSHIP 193

National Board

This body was created in October 1971 to assist the Institution in the pursuit of
certain of its aims for the decade of the 1970s, particularly in the development of
its relations with industry. While the Institution hopes to advance its goals in
public education and environmental studies through increased private support, it
seeks, in turn, to serve the educational and community interests of its Corporate
Members. We are grateful for the energy and concern shown by the members of
the Board.

Lewis A. Lapham, Chairman Henry J. Heinz II

Harry Hood Bassett William A. Hewitt

William Blackie Frank Y. Larkin

John W. Brooks The Honorable George C. McGhee
Richard P. Cooley Mrs. Robert S. McNamara

Joseph F. Cullman 3rd Ruben F. Mettler

Harry B. Cunningham
Paul L. Davies
Leonard K. Firestone
Charles T. Fisher, III
G. Keith Funston
Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mrs. David L. Guyer
Ben W. Heineman

Roger Milliken
Charles M. Pigott
Mrs. Malcolm Price
Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Merritt Kirk Ruddock
Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
James O. Wright
ones

Appendix 3

ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS, 1972-1973 |

Smithsonian Postdoctoral Fellows

Smithsonian Fellows pursue research problems in Smithsonian facilities”
and collections in collaboration with professional staff members. Asterisks —
indicate Fellows whose research was supported through a grant for American |
Indian Studies awarded by the National Endowment for the Humanities for
tenure at the Smithsonian Institution.

|
Program in American and Cultural History |
James E. Brittain. A biography of Ernst F. W. Alexanderson, with Dr. Otto

Mayr and Mr. Elliot N. Sivowitch, National Museum of History and Technol-_

ogy, from July 1972 to July 1973. |
EuGENE J. Enrico. Edition and performance of 18th-century chamber music —
with instruments from the Smithsonian collection, with Mr. James M. :

National Museum of History and Technology, from January 1973 to Septem-
ber 1973.

HELEN L. Horowitz. American zoos as cultural institutions, with Dr. Lillian B.
Miller, National Portrait Gallery, from September 1972 to January 1974.

NEAL SALIsBuRY. A study of the history of the Algonquins of southern New
England and their relations with the Puritans in the 17th century, with Dr. _
Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies, from September 1972 to |
September 1973. {

ALLISON W. SaviLLteE. American submarine technological development, 1915—
1942, with Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg, National Museum of History and
Technology, from September 1972 to March 1973.

Program in Anthropology

CurisTIAN FeEst. Ethnohistory of Indians of Tidewater Virginia, with Dr. —
William C. Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural History, from December —
1972 to December 1973. |

MICHAEL J. FINNEGAN. Nonmetric variation in the human infra-cranial skeleton,
with Dr. Donald J. Ortner, National Museum of Natural History, from August .
1972 to August 1973.

*Marcor P. Liserty. Changing Indian law in the Great Plains, with Dr. John
C. Ewers, National Museum of Natural History, from December 1972 to
September 1973.

Owen S. Rye. Traditional pottery of West Pakistan, with Dr. Clifford Evans,
National Museum of Natural History, from July 1972 to July 1973. |

194

APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 195

* PETER STONE. Historical background of the fourteen Tlingit sub-tribes, with
Dr. William C. Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural History from October
1972 to July 1973.

_ Program in Environmental Sciences

_ Ricwarp C. Honeycutr. A developmental approach to photosystem II photo-

synthesis, with Dr. Maurice M. Margulies, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from
July 1972 to July 1973.

MicHaet R. MurpHy. Comparative study of the behavior of three species of
hamsters, with Dr. John F. Eisenberg, National Zoological Park, from July
1972 to July 1973.

_ Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

_ AnniE V. J. DHonpr. Evolution, paleoecology, functional morphology, and
biostratigraphy of Atlantic realm Cretaceous bivalves, with Dr. Erle G.
Kauffman, National Museum of Natural History, from October 1972 to
October 1973.

| Jerzy A. FepEROwskI. Permian Tetracoralla of the Glass Mountains, Texas, with
Dr. William A. Oliver, National Museum of Natural History, from August
1972 to August 1973.

| JEFFERY W. FROEHLICH. A systematic evaluation of Ateles, with Dr. Richard W.

| Thorington, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1972 to
September 1973.

| JiRi KRiZ. Muscle systems of recent bivalves showing morphologic relations to

Paleozoic bivalves, with Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, National Museum of Natural

History, from September 1972 to September 1973.

|
|

Frank K. McKinney. Zooecial packing models, budding patterns, and initial

_ colony development in the order Trepostomata, with Dr. Richard S. Board-
man, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1972 to Septem-
ber 1973.

Minoru NakanisHt. A revision of lichens of southern Asia, with Dr. Mason E.
Hale, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1972 to
September 1973.

Dian J. TerGier. Ultrastructure of trilobite cuticle, with Dr. Kenneth M. Towe,

National Museum of Natural History, from September 1972 to September

E973:

Program in the History of Art

Davip Setuin. Paris and the Philadelphia school of painting and sculpture,
1855-1876, with Dr. Lois M. Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from
November 1972 to November 1973.

_ Program in the History of Science and Technology

SHARON L. Gisss. Computer techniques applied to the study of antique

astrolabes, with Mr. Silvio A. Bedini and Dr. Uta C. Merzbach, National
_ Museum of History and Technology, from September 1972 to September
me 1973.
196 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Program in the Physical Sciences

Marie E. Hattam. Theoretical investigation of lunar thermal history with
special emphasis on the accurate determination of the lunar formational
interval, with Dr. John A. Wood, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
September 1972 to September 1973.

Ropert L. Kurucz. Research for a computer program for calculating model
stellar atmospheres, with Dr. Eugene H. Avrett, Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory, from July 1972 to July 1973.

ROLAND C. Rouse. The crystal chemistry of the Terlinguaite-Eglestonite group,
with Dr. Joel E. Arem, National Museum of Natural History, from July 1972
to July 1973.

Nicotaas A. Rupke. Slumping, sliding, and sediment dispersal in Recent
marine flyschoid basins and their relation to the milieu of deposition, with Dr.
Daniel J. Stanley, National Museum of Natural History, from July 1972 to July
LOTS.

Program in Tropial Biology

LAWRENCE ABELE. Species equilibrium number in shallow water marine habitats, —

with Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from
September 1972 to September 1973.

PauL J. CAMPANELLA. Evolution and diversity of mating strategies in the New
World tropical odonates, with Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, from September 1972 to September 1973.

YaEL D. Lupin. Behavior and ecology of web-building spiders in a tropical
monsoon forest, with Dr. Michael H. Robinson, Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute, from September 1972 to September 1973.

ANTHONY J. RANERE. Early human adaptation to the American tropics and the

origins of tropical agricultural systems, with Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, ~

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from July 1972 to July 1973.

James N. M. Situ. Experimental and observational studies on the survival —

value of flocking in birds, with Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, from October 1972 to October 1973.

Smithsonian Predoctoral Fellows

Program in American and Cultural History

Patrick H. BuTLer. The implications of death in Colonial Chesapeake society, —
with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies, from June 1972 _

to June 1973.

Program in Anthropology

RoBERT J. BiGart. An ethnohistory of the Salish Flathead Indians of Montana,
with Dr. John C. Ewers, from September 1972 to September 1973.

Joun E. YELLEN. A study of selected aspects of hunter-gatherer culture past and
present in western Ngamiland, Botswana, with Dr. Clifford Evans, from
October 1972 to October 1973.

APPENDIX 3. ACA.J)EMIC APPOINTMENTS 197

Program in E nvironmental Sciences

BonniE B. DatzeELL. Horn morphology in ungulates in relation to the intraspe-
cific and extraspecific weapon problem, with Dr. Nicholas Hotton, National
Museum of Natural History, from September 1972 to September 1973.

Epwarp C. DeFaso. An action spectrum determination of the biosynthesis of
carotenoid in Neurospora crassa as determined by in vivo spectrophotometry,
with Dr. Walter A. Shropshire, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from October
1972 to October 1973.

VERNA R. Lawson. Complex phytochrome responses in coleoptiles, with Dr.
Robert L. Weintraub, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from April 1972 to April
E73:

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Davip D. Gittetre. A reevaluation of North American Glyptodonts, with Dr.
Clayton E. Ray, National Museum of Natural History, from September 1972
to September 1973.

Joun H. Hantey. Paleoecology of molluscs of the Green River and Wasatch
formations, with Dr. Erle G. Kauffman, National Museum of Natural History,
from September 1972 to September 1973.

JosHua LaerM. The evolution and functional analysis of the vertebral column in
fossil amphibia, with Dr. Nicholas Hotton, National Museum of Natural
History, from July 1972 to July 1973.

Program in the History of Art

Susan Hosss. The ‘Genteel Tradition’ in late 19th-century painting and its
counterpart in popular magazine illustration, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor,
National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1972 to September 1973.

| Jupiry O’SuLtivan. Winsor McCay and aspects of American art nouveau, with
Mrs. Janet L. Flint, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1972 to
September 1973.

RoserTaA K. TarBELL. Catalogue raisonné of the carved sculpture of William
Zorach, with Dr. Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of Fine Arts, from July
1972 to July 1973.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

| Saroy K. Guosr. The advent of the electric telegraph in India, with Dr.
Bernard S. Finn, National Museum of History and Technology, from July
1972 to July 1973.

Joun Douc.as Hes. The influence of the boll weevil in southern agriculture,
with Dr. Jon B. Eklund, National Museum of History and Technology, from
September 1972 to September 1973.

' ARTHUR L. NorBerG. Some aspects of the career of Simon Newcomb, a 19th-

century American astronomer, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, The Joseph Henry

Papers, from September 1972 to September 1973.

Program in Physical Sciences

» WitiiaM R. Forman. Study of data from the X-ray satellite, UHURU, with

198 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 19738

optical observations of these sources, with Dr. Rudolph E. Schild, Smithsonian —

Astrophysical Observatory, from July 1972 to July 1973.

Jean W. Goap. A spectroscopic study of the dynamics in the central bulge of
M81, with Dr. Rudolph E. Schild, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory,
from October 1972 to July 1973.

RicHarD I. KLEIN. Investigation of the interaction of radiative transfer and

hydrodynamic shock wave phenomena in astrophysical situations with particu-

lar application to the theoretical study of spectral line transfer in pulsating
variable stars, with Dr. Wolfgang Kalkofen, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observ-
atory, from July 1972 to July 1973.

CuarLes J. Lapa. Astrophysical research with Dr. Douglas Kleinmann, Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from June 1972 to June 1973.

Wituiam T. Potts. Basic petrographic and mineralogical analytic techniques
and their application to specific archeological problems, with Dr. William G.
Melson, National Museum of Natural History, from August 1972 to August
S73:

Smithsonian Conservation Fellows

STEPHEN W. Brooke. Advanced conservation techniques, with Mr. Anton J. —

Konrad, National Collection of Fine Arts-National Portrait Gallery Conserva-
tion Laboratory, from September 1972 to September 1973.

Susan S. Brooke. Advanced conservation techniques, with Mr. Anton J.
Konrad, National Collection of Fine Arts-National Portrait Gallery Conserva-
tion Laboratory, from September 1972 to September 1973.

D. Eric D. Lawson. Methods of treating archeological finds from underwater,

ane

ven

with Mr. Robert M. Organ, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, from July

1972 to July 1973.

Betrina A. RAPHAEL. Practical application of conservation techniques and
research methods, with Mr. Robert M. Organ, Conservation Analytical
Laboratory, from September 1972 to September 1973.

HENRIETTE WIELANDT. Conservation and examination of metals, ceramics, and
organic materials, with Mr. Robert M. Organ, Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory, from September 1972 to March 1973.

Smithsonian Art Museum Fellow

THomas W. Bower. Museum professions and operations, with Mr. Robert T.
Davis, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September 1972 to June 1973.

Smithsonian Cooperative Fellows

Program in American and Cultural History

BretH M. Grosvenor. George Washington University. Studies in American
material culture, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies,
from September 1972 to July 1973.

Cueryt D. Hayes. Georgetown University. Studies in American material

2 i Bp

ie

APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 199

culture, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies, from
September 1972 to June 1973.

JupitH G. JosepH. Georgetown University. Studies in American material cul-
ture, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies, from
September 1972 to July 1973.

Graduate and Undergraduate Research and Study
Appointments

Asterisks indicate students whose research was supported through grants from
the National Science Foundation’s Undergraduate Research Participation
Program, Grants GY9729: Social Sciences and GY9734: Geological Sciences.

Program in American and Cultural History

SHERIDAN GERMANN. Boston University. Study and research on full scale plans
and sections of old keyboard instruments, with Mr. John Fesperman, National
Museum of History and Technology.

Venita Lutes. Gallaudet College. Study of the principles and the techniques of
archival administration, with Mr. Richard Lytle, Smithsonian Archives.

KENNETH RoTH. Gallaudet College. Study of the principles and the techniques
of archival administration, with Mr. Richard Lytle, Smithsonian Archives.

Program in Anthropology

* JupiTtH Bercin. University of California. Research on Indians east of the
Mississippi River, with Dr. Sam Stanley, Center for the Study of Man.

* ELIZABETH Capps. Pomona College. Studies in anthropological conservation,
with Mrs. Bethune Gibson, National Museum of Natural History.

Hyop Cuor. University of Cincinnati. A study of Korean cultural change, with
Dr. Eugene Knez, National Museum of Natural History.

Witi1aM Cosy. University of Wisconsin. Research on the biography of James
Mooney and the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1885-1921, with Mrs.
Margaret Blaker, National Museum of Natural History.

*Ira JAcKNis. Yale University. Research into illustrations of early museum
exhibitions, with Dr. William Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural History.

LENT JOHNSON. Bowdoin College. A study of skeletal biology of the Arkansas
Indians, with Dr. Donald Ortner, National Museum of Natural History.

RoBert Korver. University of Colorado. Study and research into Indian peace
medals of the Lewis and Clark and the Pike expeditions, with Dr. Vladimir
Clain-Stefanelli, National Museum of History and Technology.

* CLARK LarRSEN. Kansas State University. Research and analysis of a skeletal
population from Mobridge, South Dakota, with Dr. Douglas Ubelaker,
National Museum of Natural History.

* Bruce LouTHAN. University of Utah. Analysis and classification of trans-Pecos
basketry from Texas and Coahuila, Mexico, with Dr. James Adovasio, National
Museum of Natural History.

* WILLIAM MERRILL. University of North Carolina. Comparative ethnology of
the Black Drink, with Dr. William Sturtevant, National Museum of Natural
History.
200 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

* Davip SHAUL. University of Arizona. Research, description, and classifica-
tion of Uto-Aztecan and Shoshonean language documents, with Mrs. Margaret
Blaker, National Museum of Natural History.

* NaoMI SMITH. University of Chiago. Research on Indians east of the
Mississippi River, with Dr. Sam Stanley, Center for the Study of Man.

Program in Environmental Sciences

KarEN NorDELL. George Washington University. Research on photomorphogen-
esis in plants, with Dr. Robert Weintraub, Radiation Biology Laboratory.

Jean Scumipt. Carleton College. Studies in economics and biology centered
around the problem of man’s utilization of resources, with Dr. Kevin Sullivan,
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies.

Leste ToOLBERT. Radcliffe College. A literature survey of Spartina marsh grass,
with Dr. Bert Drake, Radiation Biology Laboratory.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

SusaAN Cummincs. American University. A revision of cheilostome bryozoan
taxonomy, with Dr. Alan Cheetham, National Museum of Natural History.

Juan Dex Rosario. University of Panama. Research and study of the biological
collection from Panama, with Dr. Meredith Jones, National Museum of
Natural History.

TIMOTHY FRIEDLANDER. Oberlin College. Study of mimicry aspects of certain
microlepidoptera (Aegeriidae), with Dr. Donald Duckworth, National Museum
of Natural History.

* JAMES KALTENBACH. George Washington University. Study of a fossil sperm
whale from the Miocene Yorktown Formation of North Carolina, with Dr.
Clayton Ray, National Museum of Natural History.

* LYNNE KELLER. American University. Study of a molluscan family over the
Cenozoic boundary, with Dr. Erle Kauffman, National Museum of Natural
History.

* ELIZABETH Knicut. Mt. Holyoke College. Research into the discoloration of
carbonate skeletal material in anaerobic environments, with Dr. Ian Macintyre,
National Museum of Natural History.

* ANDREW SALSBERY. University of Cincinnati. Research on taxonomic and
nomenclatural problems involving invertebrates, with Mr. Frederick Collier,
National Museum of Natural History.

BARBARA SULLIVAN. Oregon State University. Preliminary studies on the feeding
habits of predatory oceanic copepods, with Dr. Thomas Bowman, National
Museum of Natural History.

LAURALEE THOMPSON. Florida Presbyterian College. Research in behavioral and
ethnological studies, with Dr. Sam Weeks, National Zoological Park.

* James WesTGATE. College of William and Mary. A study of the Right Whale
from the Yorktown Formation of Hampton, Virginia, with Dr. Clayton Ray,
National Museum of Natural History.

DanieEL Wo.rr. George Washington University. Research into the relationship
of bone length in primates to arboreal, walking, and climbing locomotion, with
Dr. Richard Thorington, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in the History of Art

THERESA CARROLL. Mary Washington College. Research and study on prints

APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 201

and drawings in the collections, with Mrs. Patricia Chieffo, National Collection
of Fine Arts.

RICHARD DIEKMANN. University of Maryland. Research for preparation of
exhibitions and catalogs, with Mr. Dennis Gould, National Collection of Fine
Arts.

Jan THorMan. Yale University. Research on contemporary painting and sculp-
ture, with Mrs. Patricia Chieffo, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Nancy Bioom. George Washington University. Searching for Joseph Henry
documents in collections at the Museum of History and Technology, with Dr.
Nathan Reingold, The Joseph Henry Papers.

* RotHA Housert. Federal City College. Research in alchemy and philosophy
of the Renaissance, with Dr. Jon Eklund, National Museum of History and
Technology.

Bonniz Kaptan. University of Chicago. Work on the Computer History Project,
with Dr. Henry Tropp, National Museum of History and Technology.

* EpDwaARD Korn. University of Maryland. A study into the development of
algebra during the first half of the 19th century, with Dr. Henry Tropp,
National Museum of History and Technology.

* ELIZABETH LUEBBERT. Wellesley College. Research into early computer history,
with Dr. Henry Tropp, National Museum of History and Technology.

* KaTE Moore. Yale University. Research and study on the papers of Joseph
Henry, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, The Joseph Henry Papers.

* James Morriss. Southern Methodist University. Research into the life of
William Thornton, the history of the early patent office, and the general
subject of America patent law, with Mr. Robert Vogel, National Museum of
History and Technology.

Witiiam Wess. Harvard University. Study into the development of the
recording spectrophotometer and other photometric devices, with Dr. Jon
Eklund, National Museum of History and Technology.

ELLEN York. University of California. Research and study involving the papers

of Joseph Henry, with Dr. Nathan Reingold, Joseph Henry Papers.
*

Program in Physical Sciences

Joun Batpwin. Harvard University. Debugging cool star model atmosphere
computer program, with Dr. Owen Gingerich, Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory.

Dennis BaLopimMos. National Technical University, Athens, Greece. Working on
plans for upgrading the Athens Satellite Tracking Station instrumentation and
operation, with Dr. George Veis, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Grecory BEARMAN. Brandeis University. Investigation of nuclear rater involved
in stellar energy sources, with Dr. Henri Mitler, Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory.

CHARLES BEICHMAN. Harvard University. Design, development, and construc-
tion of Far-IR polarimeter for second series of IR balloon flights, with Dr.
Robert Noyes, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Ronatp BrenreK. Harvard University. Quantal calculations of Penning and
associative ionization for a thermal He*+H colliding systems, with Dr.
Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

* JoHN Darasaris. University of Illinois. Study of the Catoctin Basalts in
Maryland, with Mr. Harold Banks, National Museum of Natural History.

CLARENCE GERDES. University of Arizona. Reduction of observational data, with —

Dr. Trevor Weekes, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

SETHANNE Hayes. Rennselaer Polytechnic Institute. Astrophysical research on
absolute calibration of energy flux of standard stars, with Dr. David Latham,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

* Jo DENAL JOHNSON. University of Michigan. Research and study on sediments
in the Rhode River estuary, with Dr. Jack Pierce, National Museum of Natural
History.

DanteL Keiiey. Harvard University. Reanalysing three years of Mt. Hopkins
gamma ray data and computer programming, with Dr. Henry Helmken,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Nancy Ler. University of Illinois. Description and interpretation of Mediterra-
nean sea cores with specific emphasis on clay sedimentation and sedimentation
processes, with Dr. Daniel Stanley, National Museum of Natural History.

EVANGELOS LIvVIERATOS. National Technical University, Athens, Greece. Assist-
ing on calculations for the Standard Earth, with Dr. George Veis, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory.

* Bonnie RosBinson. Oberlin College. Analysis of deep sea basalts using X-ray
diffraction methods, with Mr. Harold Banks, National Museum of Natural
History.

WiLuiAM Wyatt. Harvard University. Study of the effects of various exposures
and developing time on the noise content of photographic plates, with Dr.
David Latham, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

MICHAEL ZEILIK. Harvard University. Photometry and spectroscopy of HII
regions in the infrared region of the spectrum from a forty inch balloon-borne
telescope, with Dr. G. G. Fazio, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

*BetH Z1GMONT. Smith College. A study of some aspects of the geology of
the Galapagos Islands, with Dr. Thomas Simkin, National Museum of Natural
History.

Program in Museum Study

Jor BENTLEY. A photographic study of outside sculpture and art in Washington,
D.C., with Mr. James Goode, Smithsonian Institution Building.

JEAN BERMAN. New College. Studies in the Renwick Gallery, with Mr. Arthur
Feldman, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Mary Brapy. The State University of New York at Oswego. Studies of color
slides relating to the Smithsonian’s collection of antique furniture and
Washington, D.C., architecture and sculpture, with Mr. James Goode, Smith-
sonian Institution Building.

RussEL CHAMBERLAYNE. George Washington University. Studies in accessioning,
cataloguing, and research in material culture, with Mr. Donald Kloster, National
Museum of History and Technology.

WILLIAM Conner. Grinnell College. General assistance with maintenance of
archival resources and with interpretive programs related to the collection,
with Mr. John Fesperman, National Museum of History and Technology.

CynTHIA CummincGs. College of Notre Dame of Maryland. Studies in the
Division of Military History, with Mr. Donald Kloster, National Museum of
History and: Technology.

APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 203

CONSTANCE Foarp. Elizabethtown College. Studies in the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Archives, with Mr. William Deiss, Smithsonian Institution Archives.

CAROLINE GILES. Princeton University. Studies in the Division of Military
History, with Mr. Donald Kloster, National Museum of History and Technol-
ogy.

BARBARA HEFFERNAN. Dunbarton College. Training in the duties of a museum
technician in the Department of Invertebrate Zoology, with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler,
National Museum of Natural History.

SANDRA HENNING. University of Maryland. Studies in styles of women’s head-
dress, 1800-1870, with Mrs. Claudia Kidwell, National Museum of History and
Technology.

KATHERINE MENz. Vassar College. Study of 19th century American furnishings
through the reorganization and recataloguing of the Smithsonian’s collection of
Victorian furnishing, with Mr. James Goode, Smithsonian Institution Building.

Martin McGee. Point Park College. Research into the logistic supply of
Benedict Arnold’s squadron on Lake Champlain in 1776, with Dr. Philip
Lundeberg, National Museum of History and Technology.

Rosina McGee. Bennington College. Studies in the Renwick Gallery, with Mr.
Lloyd Herman, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Paut MELLonr. Studies in exhibits and modeling, with Mr. John Widener,
National Museum of Natural History.

HEATHER Nosie. Bennington College. Studies in photography, with Mr. Lowell
Kenyon, National Collection of Fine Arts.

SHARON RENKOSIAK. Loyola University of Chicago. Inventory of U.S. industrial
archaeological sites, with Mr. Robert Vogel, National Museum of History and
Technology.

Joyce Stoner. New York University. Studies in conservation with Mr. Anton
Konrad, National Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait Gallery.

Repecca Ticer. George Washington University. Studies in museum planning,
with Gilbert Wright, Office of Museum Programs.

THomas TruMPLER. University of California at Berkeley. Studies in scientific
illustration, with Mr. Lawrence Isham, National Museum of Natural History.
SusaN VorHEES. Ohio Wesleyan University. Research and writing on works of
art in preparation for educational materials to be used on the high school

level, with Mr. Darrel Sewell, National Collection of Fine Arts.

Susan Wuite. Sweet Briar College. Cataloguing naval uniforms of the 19th and
20th centuries, with Dr. Harold Langley, National Museum of History and
Technology.
Appendix 4

NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT GRANTS, 1972-1973

1972

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MusEUMS, WASHINGTON, D.C. Proposal to develop a
curriculum in museology; three workshops in museum administration; Na-
tional Museum Act/American Association of Museums Day at the Regional
Museum Conferences; the development of an international exchange program
for museum professionals.

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR STATE AND LOCAL History, NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE.
A program of consultant services to small history museums; a proposal for the
preparation of a book on “The Interpretation of Historic House Museums”; a
program of training workshops for historical museum personnel.

AMERICAN Museum OF NaTurAL History, NEw York, NEw York. Support for
Curator, a journal for the museum profession.

COOPERSTOWN GRADUATE PROGRAM, COOPERSTOWN, NEw York. Internship
program in conservation; twenty summer work projects in conservation.

Fisk UNIVERSITY, DEPARTMENT OF ART, NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. Extension ser-
vices in museum training.

ICOM-U.S. NaTIONAL COMMITTEE, WASHINGTON, D.C. US-ICOM-(Support
Grant).

Kansas STATE HistoricAL Museum, Topeka, Kansas. Mobile training labora-
tory for museum personnel.

MAINE STATE Museum, AuGustTa, MAINE. Museum apprentice program.

MILWAUKEE ART CENTER AND THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN AT MILWAUKEE,
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN. Museum education research.

NaTIONAL Museum or NaATuRAL History, WASHINGTON, D.C. Systematic Biol-
ogy: The development of a national program on resources and resource-
management.

204
APPENDIX 4. NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT GRANTS 205

NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION, WASHINGTON, D.C. Seminar for
historical administrators.

New York STATE HIsTORICAL ASSOCIATION, COOPERSTOWN, NEw York. Publica-
tion: Guide to Historic Preservation Historical Agencies, and Museum Practices: A
Selective Bibliography.

UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE, NEWARK, DELAWARE. Advanced museum studies
program.

1973

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR STATE AND LocaL Histr «y, NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE.
Specialized seminars for history museum personnel; consultant services to
history museums; development of a low cost tape cassette training program
for historical museums and society personnel.

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MusEuMS, WASHINGTON, D.C. AAM/NMA Day:
1973; support for research of AAM 1973; museum and financial salary
survey; the development of an international exchange program for museum
professionals.

AMERICAN MusEuM OF NaTuRAL History, New York, New York. A special
session at the regional conferences on urban issues and urban museums.

CONSERVATION CENTER OF THE INSTITUTE OF FINE ARTS, NEw York, NEw York.
Internships for conservation program.

COOPERSTOWN GRADUATE PROGRAM, Cooperstown, NEw York. Internship
support in conservation.

THE Corninc Museum or Grass, CorNING, New York. Scientific research on
the conservation of flood-damaged books in a museum library.

INDIANA UNiveRsITY MusEuM, BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA. Polyethylene glycol
consolidation of cracked wooden ethnographic artifacts: a research project in
conservation techniques.

ICOM-U.S. NaTIonAL COMMITTEE, WASHINGTON, D.C. US-ICOM-Committee
program support.

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR CONSERVATION OF HISTORIC AND ARTISTIC WorkKS.
Seminar on the scientific approach to the preservation of paper artifacts.
206 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Kansas StaTE Historica Museum, Topeka, Kansas. Mobile training labora-
tory for museum personnel.

Mapison County Historica Society, ONEIDA, NEw York. Publication: The
Craft Documentation Field Report.

MERRIMACK VALLEY TEXTILE MusSEUM, ANDOVER, MASSACHUSETTS. Professional
assistance to museums and historical agencies in the Merrimack Valley.

Missourt STATE COUNCIL ON THE Arts, ST. Louis, Missourr. Museum training
program.

NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION, WASHINGTON, D.C. Seminar for
historical administrators.

New York STATE HisToRICAL ASSOCIATION, COOPERSTOWN, NEw York. Publica-
tion: Guide to Historic Preservation Historical Agencies and Museum Practices: A
Selective Bibliography.

SHELDON JACKSON COLLEGE, SITKA, ALASKA. Museum training program.

Texas STATE HIsTORICAL SURVEY COMMITTEE, AUSTIN, TExAs. Museum admin-
istration training seminar; one-day museum training workshop.

UNIVERSITY MusEUM, UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS, FAYETTEVILLE, ARKANSAS. Mu-
seum data bank coordinating committee.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA MUSEUM OF CULTURAL HisTorRY, LOs ANGELES,
CALIFORNIA. Museum training program for minority personnel.

W. H. Over Dakota MuseEuM, UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH DAKOTA, VERMILLION,
SouTH Dakota. South Dakota museologist consultant program.

WASHINGTON REGION CONSERVATION GUILD, WASHINGTON, D.C. Microscopy for
conservators: a workshop.

q

Appendix 5

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM
GRANTS AWARDED IN FISCAL YEAR 1973

Archeology and Related Disciplines

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF INDIAN STUDIES, PHILADELPHIA PENNSYLVANIA.
Continued support for Poona Center, Benares Center for South Asian Art and
Archaeology, and American Institute of Indian Studies research fellowships.

AMERICAN NuMISMATIC SocieTy, NEw York, New York Participation of Polish
scholars in the International Numismatic Congress.

AMERICAN RESEARCH CENTER IN EGypT, PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY. Continued
support for a program of research and excavation in Egypt: support for
operation of Cairo Center, fellowship activities, study of the early history of
Biblical themes in Coptic art, preparation for manuscript publication, excava-
tions in the pyramid area at Giza, maintenance of the site of Hierakonpolis
(Nekhen), maintenance of a stratified pharonic site at Mendes, the Akhenaten
Temple project, study of the decorative arts of ancient Egypt, a program to
conserve, record, analyze and publish four Old Kingdom mastabas, epigraphi~
survey and maintenance of Chicago House at Luxor.

BROOKLYN COLLEGE, Ciry UNIveRsITy OF NEW YorK, BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.
Study of excavated material from the early Neolithic site of Starcevo,
Yugoslavia.

DUMBARTON Oaks CENTER FOR BYZANTINE STUDIES, WASHINGTON, D.C. Excava-
tions leading to the publication of a corpus of the ancient mosaics of Tunisia.
New York University, New York, New York. Ksar es-Seghir: an investigation

in Islamic archeology and history (Morocco).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Helmand-Sistan project: studies of historical ecology.

SOUTHERN MeETHOpDIsT UNIversiTy, DALLas, TExAsS. Prehistory of the western
desert, Egypt.

STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YorK, BuFFALO, NEw York. Archeological investiga-
tions on the Neolithic and Early Bronze Ages in southeastern Poland.

STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW York, BuFFALO, NEW York. Participation of Polish
archeologists in International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological
Sciences.

_ UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA, MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA. Excavations at the Palace
of Diocletian at Split, Yugoslavia.

UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, UNIVERSITY MUSEUM, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVA-
NIA. Excavations within the town and harbor site of Malkata, Western
Thebes, Egypt.

University oF Texas, Austin, Texas. Archeological excavations at Stobi,

Yugoslavia.

| 9207
208 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Systematic and Environmental Biology
(Including Paleobiology)

ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. A _ biochemical
investigation of Rana esculenta, a bisexual frog of possible hybrid origin
(Poland).

CoLorabo STATE UNIveRSITY, BOULDER, CoLorADO. Conducting a workshop on
ecosystem modelling (India).

CoRNELL UNIverRsITY, ITHACA, NEW York. Studies on the evolution and
adaptation of the pan-tropical teleost genus Thalassoma (Tunisia).

DuKkE UNIversity, DuRHAM, NorTH Caro.Lina. The role of environmental
factors in modifying the effect of pollutants on larval development of marine
Brachyura (Poland).

HARVARD UNIVERSITY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. Study of the postcranial
anatomy of Cretaceous mammals from Mongolia (Poland).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY, WASHINGTON, D.C. Contin-
ued revision of Trimens’ Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Publication of two entomological manuscripts (Egypt).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY, WASHING-
TON, D.C. Marine decapod Crustaceans of North Africa (Tunisia).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Study of ultrastructure, systematics and zoological affinities of Paleozoic)
graptolites and related fossils (Poland).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY, WASHINGTON, D.C. |
The effect of the salinity crisis on Miocene Tethys microfauna (Tunisia).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES, WASHINGTON,
D.C. Limnological investigations of Lake Skadar, Yugoslavia.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES, WASHINGTON,
D.C. Support for Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center (Tunisia).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, BALBOA, CANAL ZONE.
Ecology of small animals of tropical grasslands (Poland). |

SOUTHERN MeTHOpIsT UNIveRsITy, DALLas, TEXAS. Processing of additional |
sediments from the Gebel el Muluk Pliocene locality at Wadi Natrum (Egypt) |
for recovery of vertebrate fossils. |

UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, TuCSON, ARIZONA. Mammalian studies in Tunisia.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA. Pollen flow in Lythrum ;

jJunceum (Tunisia). !
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO, BOULDER, COLORADO. Late Tertiary biochronology of |
mammalian faunas in the western Mediterranean area, Tunisia.

Universiry OF MAINE, Orono, Maine. The use of entomogenous fungi to’
control insects (Poland).

University OF MicHi1GAN, ANN ARBor, MICHIGAN. Biological studies of Indian’
mollusks. |

‘

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON. Endocrine basis of bird
migration (India).

Yate University, New Haven, Connecticut. Excavation of quarriable locali--
ties in the Siwaliks of the Potwar region, Pakistan. |
APPENDIX 5. SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 209
Astrophysics and Earth Sciences

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, Massa-
cHusETTS. Establishing the location of the Polish Latitude Observatory at
Borowiec by artificial-satellite observations for inclusion in the Smithsonian
observing network.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, Massa-

_ CHUSETTS. International colloquium on reference coordinate systems for

| earth dynamics (Poland).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSA-

CHUSETTS. Muon-neutrino investigations and geophysical studies involving

low-level counting (India).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, Massa-

- CHUSETTS. Support of Smithsonian astrophysical observing station at Naini
Tal, India.

University OF Texas, Austin, TExas. Heavy element synthesis by the R-process
(Poland).

Museum Programs

NATIONAL TRuST FOR HisTORIC PRESERVATION, WASHINGTON, D.C. Advanced
study of conservation and restoration methods applied to historic monuments
and sites in Poland.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DIVISION OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Examination of Arabic opthalmological and optical manuscripts (Egypt).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DivisiION OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Studies of Arabic manuscripts of medicine and pharmacy as well as libraries,
museums, and medico-pharmaceutical collections in India.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS, WASHINGTON, D.C. A

- study in cultural cognates and living museology (Tunisia, Egypt, Yugoslavia,
Poland).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, DivisION OF TEXTILES, WASHINGTON, D.C. A survey
of Polish textiles, past and present.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, OFFICE OF EXHIBITS PROGRAMS, WASHINGTON, D.C. It
All Depends: Two films depicting how man affects and is affected by the natural
environment (Poland).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, OFFICE OF EXHIBITS PROGRAMS, WASHINGTON, D.C.
Power in Numbers: An animated film exploring the U.S. Census as a basic
inventory of American life (Poland).

THEATER IN THE STREET, NEW York, NEw York. Study of street theater in
India.
Appendix 6

LIST OF PUBLICATIONS PRODUCED WITH
SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY SUPPORT SINCE
THE INCEPTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN
CURRENCY PROGRAM

|
Archeology and Related Disciplines |

Aleksova, Blaga. “Bargla-Bregalnica in the Light of the New Archaeological |
Discoveries,” [/[ACHIIK, volume XI, number 3 (1967).
Aleksova, Blaga, and Cyril Mango. “Bargala A Preliminary Report.” Dumbarton»
Oaks Papers, No. 25. Washington, D.C. 1971.
Alvarez, Luis W., Jared A. Anderson, F. El Bedwei, James Burkhard, Ahmed |
Fakhry, Adib Girgis, Amr Goneid, Fikhry Hassan, Dennis Iverson, Gerald |
Lynch, Miligy, Zemh, Meussa, Ali Hilmy; Mohammed-Sharkawi; Lauren'|
Yazolino. “Search for Hidden Chambers in the Pyramids,” Science, volume 167,
(6 February 1970), pages 832-839.
American Academy of Benares. Bulletin of the American Academy of Benares. |
volume 1, November 1967. |
American Institute of Indian Studies. American Institute of Indian Studies Annual |
Report, 1966-1967. Philadelphia: American Institute of Indian Studies, Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania.
American Institute of Indian Studies. American Institute of Indian Studies Annual |
Report, 1967-1968. Philadelphia: American Institute of Indian Studies, Univer-|
sity of Pennsylvania.
“Arheoloski Projekt u Sloveniji,” Pregled, God. XI, Broj. 10, (Oktobar 1968), pages}
4 alle
Baumgartel, Elise J. “About Some Ivory Statuettes from the ‘Main Deposit’ ati}
Hierakonopolis,” Journal of the American Research Center in Egypt, volume VII
(1968), pages 7-14. i
Bell, Lanny. “Provisional Report on Third Season, Dra Abu el-Naga Project,!}
University Museum, Philadelphia,” American Research Center in Egypt Newsletter,
No. 74 (July 1970), pages 21-22. |
. “Return to Dra Abu el Naga,” Expedition: Bulletin of the University
Museum, University of Pennsylvania, volume 11, number 3 (Spring 1969), pages)
26-37. :
. “The Work of the University Museum at Thebes,” Expedition:|
Bulletin of the University Museum, University of Pennsylvania, volume 10, number

2 (Winter 1968), pages 38-47.
Biggerstaff, Robert H. “An Atypical Bronze Age Mandible from Zerniki Gorne,
Poland,” American Journal of Physical Anthropology, volume 35, number 2}
(September 1971). j

210

| APPENDIX 6. FOREIGN CURRENCY SUPPORT OF PUBLICATIONS 211

/Breternitz, David A. “Interim Report of the University of Colorado-Kainji
| Rescue Archeology Project, 1968,” West African Archeological Newsletter, No. 10
(October 1968), pages 31-42.

———. “Rescue Archeology at the Kainji Dam Northern Nigeria,”

| Current Anthropology, volume 10, number | (February 1969), page 136.

Brill, Robert H. “A Great Glass Slab,” Archeology, volume 20, number 2 (April

1967), pages 88-95.

. “Beth Shearim” and “Beth Shean,” Israel Exploration Journal, volume

15, number 4 (1965), pages 261-262.

Brill, Robert H., and John F. Wosinski. “A Huge Slab of Glass in the Ancient

_ Necropolis of Beth She’Arim,” CDU/UDC/DK, 666.1, (091), (569.4).

‘Callaway, Joseph A. “The 1968-1969 ‘Ai (et-Tell) Excavations,” Bulletin of the

American Schools of Oriental Research, No. 198 (April 1970), pages 7-31.

/Campbell, Edward F., Jr., James F. Ross, and Lawrence E. Toombs. “The Eighth
Campaign at Baldtah (She’chem),” Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental
Research, number 204 (December 1971), pages 2-17.

Chandra, Pramod. Stone Sculpture in the Allahabad Museum. American Institute of
Indian Studies Publication No. 2. Poona: 1970.

Dever, William G. “Archeology and the Bible,” Wizo, number 144 (November-

December 1968), pages 12-13.

. “Excavations at Gezer, 1964-1967,” Jerusalem Through the Ages:

Report of the Twenty-Fifth Archaeological Conventions, Israel Exploration Society

| Jerusalem, (1968), pages 26-32.

\——. “Gezer,” Revue Biblique, volume LXXV (1968), pages 381-387.

—————.. “Gezer, A City Coming to Life,” Qadmoniot: Quarterly of the

Israel Exploration Society, volume 3, number 2 (10), (1970), pages 57-62.

—. “Gezer—A Palestinian Mound Re-excavated,” Journal of Art

History and Archeology, volume 8, number 3 (1968), pages 65-74.

Dever, William G., Darrell H. Lance, Reuben G. Bullard, Dan P. Cole, Anita M.

| Furshpan, John Holladay, Jr., Joe D. Seger, and Robert B. Wright. “Further

Excavations at Gezor 1967-71,” The Biblical Archeologist, volume 34, number 4

(December 1971), pages 94-131.

Dothan, M. “Notes and News-Tel Ashdod,” Jsrael Exploration Journal, volume 18,
number 4 (1968), pages 253-254.

. “Notes and News, Tel Ashdod,” Israel Exploration Journal, (1970),
pages 119-120.

Dothan, M., and D.N. Freedman. “Ashdod I, The First Season of Excavations,
1962.” "Antigot: Publication of Hebrew University and Ministry of Education and
Culture, Jerusalem, volume VII (1967).

“Excavations at Jalome, 1964-67,” Muse: Annual of the Museum of Art and
Archeology, University of Missourt, number 2 (1968), page 13.

Foltiny, Stephan. “Ein Griffangelschwert der Urnenfelderzeit aus Este,” Adriatica,
(1970), pages 153-160.

—————. “Ein Vogelanhanger aus ‘Siebenbirgen’ im Burgenlandischen
Landesmuseum,” Apulum IX: Acta Musei Apulensis, (1971), pages 65-70.

. “Eine Vierpassfibel mit goldener Schmuckplatte aus Nieder-
breisig und einige verwandte Stiicke aus Nordfrankreich im Metropolitan
Museum of Art in New York,” Bonner Hefte zur Vorgeschichte, number 3 (1972),
pages 53-59.

“Einige Spatbronzezeitliche Goldfunde aus Siebenbriigen im
Naturhistorischen Museum,” Ann. Naturhistor. Mus. Wein, (November 1968),
pages 703-711.

212 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Interessante Vorges-chichtliche und romerzeitliche Funde im
Museum der Stadt Villach,” Neues Aus Ait-Villach: Bulletin of Museum der Stadt
Villach, 5 Jahrbuch (1968), pages 9-17.

ee “Neue Angaben zur Kenntnis der Urnenfelderzeitlichen
Keramik im Stdlichen Teile des Karpatenbeckens,” APVLVM VI:. Acta Mvsei
Apvlensis, (1967), pages 49-71.

. RAD VOJVODJANSKIH MUZEJA, volumes 15-17, 1966-1968,
(published in 1971).
The Hungarian Archeological Collection of the American Museum of
Natural History in New York. Bloomington: Indiana University Publications,
Uralic and Ataic Series (volume 77), 1969.
. “The Ivory Horse Bits of Homer and the Bone Horse Bits of
Reality,” Bonner Jahrbuchen Band 167, (1967), pages 11-37.

————— “Urnen felderzeitliche Funde aus Sopron (Odenburg) im
Burgenlandischen Landesmuseum und ihre Ostlichen Beziehungen,” Burgen-
landische Hematblatter (Eisenstadt), (1969), pages 97-107.

. “Zum Problem der Sogennannten Pseudo-Protovillanovaurnen,”
Origini IT, (1968), pages 333-356.

—. “Zur Frage der Mitteldonaulandischen Hugelgraberkultur in
Nordostjugoslavien,” (VIII) Musaica, Zbornik Filozoficke) Fakulty Univerzity Komen-
skeho, (1968).

. “Zwei Feuerbécke aus dem Ringwall von Stitna in Slowenien,”
Muttedlungen der Anthropologischen Gesellschaftin Wien, (1970), pages 158-161.

. “Zwei Prachtgeflisse der Osthall Staltkultur in Westungarn.” A
Janus Pannonius Miizeum Evkonyve (Pecs), 1966, (1967), pages 57-61.

Frey, Otto-Herman. “Der Furstensitz von Sti¢na in Slowenien,’ Alma Mater
Philippina, Marburger Universitatsbund E.V., Marburg-Wintersemester (1968/
69), pages 10-13.

. “Zur Latenezeitlechen Besiedlung Unterkrains,” Fundberichte
aus Hessen, Beiheft 1, Festschrift Dehn (1969), pages 7-20.

Gabrovec, Stan, Otto-Herman Frey, and Stephen Foltiny. “A Fortified Settlement
and Tumulus Cemetery of the Iron Age at Stitna in Slovenia,” Etruscans;
Bulletin of the Etruscan Foundation, No. 2 (1970-1972), pages 24-30.

——_—_—.. “Erster Vorbericht Uber die Ausgrabungen im Ringwall von Stitna
(Slowenien),” Germania, 1-2. Halbband, (1970), pages 12-33.

. “Prvo Porotilo o Naselbinskih Izopavanjih V_ Stitni,” Arheoloski
Vestruk XX, Ljubljana, (1969), pages 177-196.

“Gezer,” Bible, No. 116 (December 1969).

Gimbutas, Marija. “Excavation at Anza, Macedonia,” Archaeology, volume 25,
number 2 (April 1972), pages 112-123.

“Obre, Yugoslavia, Two Neolithic Sites,” Archaeology, volume 23,
number 4 (October 1970), pages 287-297.

“Glass Factories in Western Galilee,’ Israel Exploration Journal, volume 14,
number 4 (1964), pages 286-288.

Glock, Albert E. “A New Ta’annek Tablet,” Bulletin of the American Schools of
Oriental Research, No. 204 (December 1971), pages 17-30.

Halpern, Jeanne W. “Studying Skulls in Egypt, UAR,” Research News: Bulletin of
the Office of Research Administration, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, volume
XXII, number | (July 1971).

Hansen, Donald. “Mendes, 1964,” Journal of the American Research Center in Egypt,
volume IV (1965), pages 31-38.

APPENDIX 6. FOREIGN CURRENCY SUPPORT OF PUBLICATIONS 213

Hansen, Donald P., Christine L. Soghor, and Edward L. Ochsenschlager.
“Mendes, 1965 and 1966,” Journal of the American Research Center in Egypt,
volume VI (1967), pages 5-51.

Harris, James E. “The U-M’s 1969 Expedition to Egypt,” Journal of the Michigan
Dental Association, volume 51 (July-August, 1969).

Hestrin, Ruth. The Philistines and the Other Sea Peoples. Catalog of the Israel
Museum, No. 68. Jerusalem: winter 1970.

“Jelemiye, Beth-She’arim, Kafr Yasif,” Israel Exploration Journal, volume 16,
number 4 (1966), pages 283-284.

Kessler, Christel. Survey &* Documentation of the Domed Mausoleums of Mamluk
Cairo-Final Report. Center for Arabic Studies, American University in Cairo,
March 1971.

. “The Decorated Domes of Cairo,” Fikrun Wa Fann. (October
1969).

Kubiak, Wladyslaw B. “Crusaders’ Pottery of Al-Mina Found at Fustat,” Folia
Orientalia, volume XII (1970), pages 113-123.

. “Medieval Ceramic Oil Lamps from Fustat,” in Ars Orientalis
VIII. 1970.

Lapp, Paul W. “The 1968 Excavations at Tell Ta’annek,” Bulletin of the American
Schools of Oriental Research, No. 195 (October 1969), pages 2-49.

McPherron, Alan, and Elizabeth K. Ralph. “Magnetometer Location of Neolithic
Houses in Yugoslavia,” Expedition: Bulletin of the University Museum, University of
Pennsylvania, volume 12, number 2 (Winter 1970), pages 10-17.

McPherron, Alan, and D. Srejovic. Early Farming Cultures in Central Serbia,
National Museum of Kragujevac: September 1971.

Meyers, Eric M., A. Thomas K. Raable, and James F. Strange. “Archeology and
Ribbinic Tradition at Khirbet Shema‘, 1970 and 1971 Campaigns,” The Biblical
Archeologist, volume XXXV, number | (February 1972), pages 1-31.

Milisauskas, Sarunas. “An Analysis of Linear Culture Longhouses at Olzanica B
1, Poland,” World Archaeology, volume IV, number | (June 1972), pages 57-74.

Millet, Nicholas B. “Gebel Adda: Preliminary Report, 1965-66,” Journal of the
American Research Center in Egypt, volume VI (1967), pages 53-63.

Nims, Charles F. “The Eastern Temple at Karnak,” Beztrage zur Agyptischen
Bauforschung und Alterumskunde: Schweizerisches Institut fiir Agyptische Baufor-
schung u Altertumskunde in Kairo, Heft 12 (1971), pages 107-111.

Ochsenschlager, Edward L. “The Cosmic Significance of the Plemochoe,” in
History of Religions, volume 9, number 4, Chicago: University of Chicago, 1970,
pages 316-336.

—————.. “The Plemochoe, A Vessel from Thmuis,” Journal of the American
Research Center in Egypt, volume VII (1968), pages 55-71.

“Olives for Breakfast,” Gulf Oilmanac, volume 37, number 12 (December 1968),
pages 10-11.

Perrot, P. N. “The Excavation of Two Glass Factory Sites in Western Israel,”
CDU/UDCIDK, 666.1, (091), (569.4), 111.2.1, 258-258.4.

Popovic, Vladislav, and Edward L. Ochsenschlager, editors. Sirmium IT, Beograd:
Archeology Institute of Beograd, Denison University, City University of New
York, 1971.

Popovic, Vladislav, and Edward Ochsenschlager. “Sremska Mitrovica-Sirmium,”
Arheoloski Pregled II, (1969), pages 186-190.

Robinson, Peter, and Craig C. Black. “Notes Preliminaire sur les Vertebres
Fossiles du Vindobonlen,” Notes Service Géologique Tuniste, No. 31, (1969), pages
67-70.
214 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Said, Rushdi, Claude Albritton, Fredi Wendorf, Romuald Schild, and Michael
Kobusiewicz. “A Preliminary Report on the Holocene Geology and Archaeol-
ogy of the Northern Fayum Desert,” Playa Lake Symposium, ICASALS
Publication No. 4 (1972), pages 41-61.

Scanlon, George T. “Ancillary Dating Materials from Fustat,” in Ars Orientalis
VII. 1968.

. “Egypt and China: Trade and Imitation,” in Islam and the Trade of
Asia (edited by D. S. Richards. Oxford and Philadelphia: 1971), pages 81-95.

. “Fatimid Filters: Archaeology and Olmer’s Typology,” Annales
islamologiques, volume IX (1970), pages 37-51.

. “Fustat and the Islamic Art of Egypt,” Archeology, volume 21, number
3 (June 1968), pages 188-195.

. “Fustat Expedition: Preliminary Report 1965, Part I,” Journal of the
American Research Center in Egypt, volume 5 (1966), pages 83-112.

. “Fustat Expedition: Preliminary Report, 1965: Part II,” Journal of the
American Research Center in Egypt, volume VI (1967), pages 65-86.

. “Housing and Sanitation,” in The Islamic City. Edited by A.H.
Houvani and S.M. Steow. Oxford: 1970.

. “Preliminary Report: Excavations at Fustat, 1964,” Journal of the
American Research Center in Egypt, volume IV (1965), pages 7-30.

. “The Fustat Mounds—A Shard Count, 1968,” Archeology, volume 24,
number 3 (June 1971), pages 220-233.

Seger, Joe D. Tomb Offerings from Gezer. Catalogue No. 94. Jerusalem: The
Rockefeller Museum, Summer 1972.

Simons, Elwyn L. “Fossil Primates and the Evolution of Some Primate Locomotor
Systems,” American Journal of Physical Anthropology, volume 26, number 2
(March 1967), pages 241-253.

“The Earliest Apes,” Scientific American, volume 217, number 6,
(December 1967), pages 28-35.

. “The Significance of Primate Paleontology for Anthropological
Studies,” American Journal of Physical Anthropology, volume 27, number 3
(November 1967), pages 307-332.

. “Unraveling the Age of Earth and Man,” Natural History, (February
1967), pages 53-59.

Simons, E.L., and David Pilbeam. “A Gorilla-Sized Ape from the Miocene of
India,” Science, volume 173, number 3991 (2 July 1971), pages 23-27.

Smith, Ray Winfield. “Akhenaten Temple Project,” Expedition, volume 10,
number | (Fall 1967), pages 24-32.

. “Computer Helps Scholars Re-create an Egyptian Temple,” National
Geographic, volume 138, number 5 (November 1970), pages 634-655.

Solheim, Wilhelm G., II, and S. Deraniyagala. “Archeological Survey to
Investigate Southeast Asian Prehistoric Presence in Ceylon,” Ancient Ceylon:
Journal of the Archaeological Survey Department of Ceylon, No. 1 (August 1972).

Swauger, James L. “American Onslaught at Ashdod 1968,” Carnegie Magazine,
volume XLIIJ, number 2 (February 1969), pages 41-47.

. “Getting to Know the Philistines,” Carnegie Magazine, volume XLIV,
number 2 (February 1970), pages 49-56.

. “Its the People You Remember,” Carnegie Magazine, volume XL,
number | (January 1966), pages 15-16, 19 (cont.).

. “John and the Philistines,’ Youth, volume 16, number 23 (19
December 1965).

:
|
APPFNDIX 6. FOREIGN CURRENCY SUPPORT OF PUBLICATIONS 215

. “Of Digging, Publication and Tell Ashdod,” Carnegie Magazine,
volume XLV, number 8 (October 1971), pages 331-339.
. “The Puzzle of the Philistines,” Carnegie Magazine, volume XXXIX,
number | (January 1965), pages 5-9.
Tel Anafa: The Hellenistic Town. Catalog of the exhibition, No. 1. Jerusalem: The
Israel Museum, 1970.
“Tell Ashdod, 1962,” Archeology, volume 16, number | (March 1963), pages 61—
62.
“Tel Gamma,” Israel Exploration Journal, volume 22 (1972), pages 245-246.
“Tell Gemmeh,” Revue Biblique, volume LX XIX (1972), pages 596-599.
“Tel Gezer,” Israel Exploration Journal, volume 22, number 4 (1972), pages 241-242.
The Biblical Archeologist: Journal of the American Schools of Oriental Research, volume

XXXIV, number 3. (September 1971).

Wade, William D. “The Skeletal Biology of Human Remains from Sites in the
Lake Kainji Area of Nigeria,” West African Journal of Archeology, volume 1
(January 1971), pages 61-85.

Weinberg, Gladys D. “Hellenistic Glass from Tel Anafa in Upper Galilee,”
Journal of Glass Studies, volume XII (1970), pages 17-27.

. “Jalamet el Asafna,” Revue Biblique, volume LXXIV (1967), pages
88-90.

Weinberg, Gladys, and Paul N. Perrot. “Jalamet el Asafna,” Revue Biblique,
volume LXXII (1965), pages 577-579.
Weinberg, Saul S. “Tel Anafa-A Problem-Oriented Excavation,” Muse: Annual of
Museum of Art and Archeology, University of Missouri, No. 3 (1969), pages 16-23.
. “Tel Anafa: The Second Season,” Muse: Annual of Museum of Art and
Archaeology, University of Missouri, No. 4 (1970), pages 15-24.
“Tel Anafa: The Third Season,” Muse: Annual of the Museum of Art
and Archaeology, University of Missouri, No. 5 (1970), pages 8-16.
. “Tel Anafa—1972: The Fourth Season,” Muse: Annual of the Museum
of Art and Archaeology, University of Missouri, No. 6 (1972), pages 8-18.

“Tel Anafa: The Hellenistic Town,” The Israel Exploration Journal,
volume 21 (1971), pages 86-109.

Weinberg, Saul S., and Gladys D. Weinberg. “Further Investigation of Glass
Factories in Western Galilee,” American Journal of Archeology, volume 70 (1966),
pages 196-197.

- “Glass Factories in Western Galilee: Third Campaign,” American
Journal of Archeology, volume 71 (1967), pages 195-196.

————. “Roman Glass Factories in Western Galilee,” American Journal of
Archeology, volume 69 (1965), pages 177-178.

Wendorf, Fred. The Prehistory of Nubia. 2 vols. Dallas: Fort Burgwin Research
Center and Southern University Press, 1968.

Wendorf, Fred, Rushdi Said, and Romuald Schild. “Egyptian Prehistory: Some
New Concepts,” Science, volume 169 (September 1970), pages 1161-1171.

Wiseman, James. Stobi: A Guide to the Excavations. Beograd: University of Texas at
Austin and National Museum of Titov Veles, 1973.

Wiseman, James, and Djordje Mano-Zissi. “Excavations at Stobi, 1970,” American
Journal of Archeology, volume 75, number 4 (October 1971), pages 395-411.

———. “Excavations at Stobi, 1971,” American Journal of
Archeology, volume 76 (1972), pages 407-424.

Wright, Robert B. “Archeologists Uncover Splomon’s Gate,” Gettysburg College
Bulletin, pages 29-31.

216 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Astrophysics and Earth Sciences

Bahcall, John N., and Neta A. Bahcall. “The Period and Light Curve of HZ
Herculis,” Astrophysical Journal, volume 178 (15 November 1972), pages L1-L4.

Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams, International Astronomical Union.
Circular No. 2427. Cambridge: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 28 July,
1972;

Cuperman, S., and A. Harten. “The Evolution of a Multi-Phase Space Density
Collisionless One-Dimensional Stellar System,” Astronomy and Astrophysics,
volume 16 (1972), pages 13-20.

Cuperman, S., A. Harten, and Myron Lecar. “A Phase-Space Boundary
Integration of the Ulasov Equation for Collisionless One-Dimensional Stellar
Systems,” Astrophysics and Space Science, volume 13 (1971), pages 411-424.

Cuperman, S., S. Goldstein, and Myron Lecar. “Numerical Experimental Check
of Lynden-Bell Statistics—II,” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society,
volume 146 (1969), pages 161-169.

Cuperman, S., A. Harten, and Myron Lecar. “The Collective Relaxation of Two-
Phase-Space-Density Collisionless One-Dimensional Selfgravitating Systems,”
Astrophysics and Space Science, volume 13 (1971), pages 425-445.

Davies, R.A. The 1970 Eruption of Mt. Ulaurin, New Britain. Smithsonian
Institution Center for Short-Lived Phenomena, May 1970.

Goldstein, S. “On the Stability of an Encounterless Self-Gravitating Constant
Density System,” Astrophysics and Space Science, volume 13 (1971), pages 387-
396.

Goldstein, S., S. Cuperman, and Myron Lecar. “Numerical Experimental Check ©
of Lynden-Bell Statistics for a Collisionless One-Dimensional Stellar System,”
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, volume 143 (1969), pages 209- —
221.

International Astronomical Union, Commission 27. Information Bulletin on
Variable Stars, No. 750. Budapest: Konkoly Observatory, 30 December, 1972.
International Astronomical Union, Commission 27. Information Bulletin on |

Variable Stars, No. 758, Budapest: Konkoly Observatory, 25 January 1973. |

Kalnajs, Agris. “The Equilibria and Oscillations of a Family of Uniformily |
Rotating Stellar Disks,” Astrophysical Journal, volume 175 (1 July 1972), pages |
63-76.

Smithsonian Institution Center for Short-Lived Phenomena. Center for Short-Lived
Phenomena, Annual Report, 1970. Cambridge, Massachusetts, May 1971.

“The Wise Observatory in Israel,” Sky and Telescope, volume 43, number 2 ]
(February 1972), pages 72-73. i

Watkins, Jeffrey A., and Orrin H. Pilkey. “Le sable des plages Tunisiennes,” q
Notes du Service Geologique, volume 39 (1972), pages 3-41.

Biological Sciences

Aron, W., and R.H. Goodyear. “Fishes Collected during a Midwater Traweling ,
Survey of the Gulf of Elat and the Red Sea,” Israel Journal of Zoology, volume |
XVIII (1969), pages 237-244.

Ben-Tuvia, A. “Revised List of the Mediterranean Fishes of Israel,” Israel Journal
of Zoology, volume XX (1971), pages 1-39.

|
\
|
i!
APPENDIX 6. FOREIGN CURRENCY SUPPORT OF PUBLICATIONS 217

Ben-Tuvia, A., and A. Lourie. “A Red Sea Grouper Epinephelus Tauvina Caught
on the Mediterranean Coast of Israel,” Israel Journal of Zoology, volume XVIII
(1969), pages 245-247.

Berwick, S. H., and P. A. Jordan. “First Report of the Yale-Bombay Natural
History Society Studies of Wild Ungulates at the Gir Forest, Gujarat, India.”

Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society, volume 68, number 2 (August
1971), pages 412-423.

Biely, A., M. Rakus, P. Robinson, and J. Salaj. “Essai de correlation des
formations miocenes au sud de la dorsale Tunisienne,” Notes du Service
Géologique, volume 38 (1972), pages 73-92.

Black, Craig C. “A New Species of Merycopotamus (Artiodatyla: Anthracotheri-
idae) from the Late Miocene of Tunisia,” Travaux de Geologie Tunisienne:
Formation Beglia No. 6, Fascicule 2, pages 5-39.

Bonaduce, Gioacchino, and Masoli, Mario. “Marine Ostracods of Tunisia,” Publ.
Stazione Zoologica di Napoli, volume 36 (1968), pages 458-470.

Burch, J.B. “Cytological Studies of Pacific Land Snails,” Proceedings of the
Symposium on Mollusca, Part II, (1969), pages 616-625.

. “The Chromosome Number of Bulinus sericnus from Ethiopia,”
Malacological Review, volume 2 (1969), pages 113-114.

Burch, J.B., and G.K. Lindsay. “Taxonomic Groupings in the Lymnaeidae,”
Bulletin of the American Malacological Union, Inc., March 1973, page 15.

Burch, J.B., and P.T. LoVerde. “The Systematic Position of Radix luteola and Its
Significance in Lymnaeid Systematics,” Bulletin of the American Malacological
Union, Inc., March 1973, page 42.

Burch, J.B., and C.M. Patterson. “The Systematic Position of the Athoracophori-
dae (Gastropoda: Euthyneura),” Malacologia: Proceedings of 3rd European
Malacological Congress, volume IX, number 1 (1969), pages 259-260.

Calderon, Cleofé E., and Thomas R. Soderstrom. “Morphological and Anatomi-
cal Considerations of the Grass Subfamily Bambusoideae Based on the New
Genus Maclurolyra.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 11. Washing-
ton: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1973.

Conservation in Tropical South East Asia. Proceedings of the Conference on
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources in Tropical South East Asia,
Bangkok, Thailand, 29 November—4 December 1965. (IUCN Publications
new series No. 10, edited by Lee M. Talbot and Martha H. Talbot). Morges:
IUCN with assistance of UNESCO and van Tienhoven Foundation, 1968.

‘Dawson, Mary R. “Paleontology and Geology of the Badwater Creek Area,
| Central Wyoming,” Annals of Carnegie Museum, volume 41, Article 7 (25
| September 1970), pages 215-230.

‘Desai, J.R. “The Gir Forest Reserve: Its Habitats, Faunal and Social Problems.”
_ An unpublished background paper for Second World Conference on National
| Parks, Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks, 18-27 September 1972.
Eisenberg, John F., and Melvyn Lockhart. “An Ecological Reconnaissance of
Wilpattu National Park, Ceylon.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, No. 101.

|
.
1

Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1972.

Zisenberg, John F., and George M. McKay. “An Annotated Checklist of the
Recent Mammals of Ceylon with Keys to the Species,” The Ceylon Journal of
Science (Biological Sciences), volume 8, number 2 (February 1970), pages 69-99.
tisenberg, J.F., N.A. Muckenhirn, and R. Rudran. “The Relationship between
_ Ecology and Social Structure in Primates,” Science, volume 176, (26 May,

1972), pages 863-874.
218 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Eisenberg, John F., Charles Santiapilai, and Melvyn Lockhart. “The Study of
Wildlife Populations by Indirect Methods,” The Ceylon Journal of Science
(Biological Sciences), volume 8, number 2 (February 1970), pages 53-62.

Fishelson, Lev. “Ecology of Coral Reefs in the Gulf of Aqaba (Red Sea)
Influenced by Pollution,” Oecologia, volume 12 (1973), pages 55-67.

Fosberg, F.R. “Emilia (Compositae) in Ceylon,” Ceylon Journal of Science, Biological
Sciences, volume X, number | (April 1972), pages 61-69.

Freitas, Y. M., and F. Fernandes, editors. Global Impacts of Applied Microbiology,
Third International Conference. Bombay: University of Bombay, 1971.

Gorman, G. C., V. Jovanovic, E., Nevo, and F.C. McCollum. “Conservative
Karyotypes Among Lizards of the Genus Lacerta from the Adriatic Islands,”
Genetika, volume 2, number 2 (1970), pages 149-154.

Govindan, K., and R. Natarajan. “Studies on some Neritidae (Neritacea:
Archaeogastropoda) of the Coleroon Estuary, South India,” Malacological
Review Proceedings Soc. Exp. and Descr. Malacol., volume II (1969), page 133.

Gray, C.W., and A.P.W. Nettashinghe. “A Preliminary Study on the Immobiliza-
tion of the Asiatic Elephant (Elephas maximus) Utilizing Etorphine (M-99),”
Zoologia: New York Zoological Society, volume 55, number 3 (1970), pages 51-
54.

Greenwood, P.H. “Fish Fossils from the Late Miocene of Tunisia,” Travaux de
Geologie Tunisienne: Formation Beglia No. 6, Fascicule 2, pages 41-72.

Grierson, A.J.C. “Critical Notes on the Compositae of Ceylon,” Ceylon Journal of
Science, Biological Sciences, volume X, number | (April 1972), pages 42-60.

Guiglia, Delfa. “Sul genere Myzinella Guiglia (1959) Descriaione della femmina
(Hymenoptera: Tiphiidae),” Bulletin de la Societe Entomologique Suisse, Band ,
XLI, Heft 1, 2, 3 u.4 (November 20, 1968), pages 171-174.

Halberg, Francine E., Franz Halberg, and Arthur C. Giese. “Estimation of
Objective Parameters for Circannual Rhythms in Marine Invertebrates,” Rass. —
Neur. Veg., volume 23 (1969), pages 173-186.

Halberg, Franz. “Physiologic Considerations Underlying Rhythmometry, with
Special Reference to Emotional Illness,” Cycles Biologiques et Psychiatrie, Sympos- |
ium Bel-Air III, Geneve, Septembre 1967, (1968), pages 73-126. |

Hughes, G.M., and B.N. Singh. “Gas Exchange with Air and Water in an Air- |
Breathing Catfish, Saccobranchus (=Heteropneustes) fossilis,” Journal of
Experimental Biology, volume 55 (1971), pages 667-682. |

Hulings, Neil C., editor. “Proceedings of the First International Conference on |
Meiofauna.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 76. Washington:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1971. )

Hulings, Neil C., and John S. Gray. “A Manual for the Study of Meiofauna.” |
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 78. Washington: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1971. |

IUCN Eleventh Technical Meeting. Papers and Proceedings, New Delhi, 25-28,
November 1969. Vol 3. (IUCN Publications new series No. 19, edited by Fred |
M. Packard and Hugh F. I. Elliott) Morges: IUCN with the assistance of |
UNESCO, 1971.

IUCN Eleventh Technical Meeting. Papers and Proceedings, New Delhi, 25- 28
November 1969. Vol IV. (IUCN Publications new series No. 20, edited by J.
Cerovsky & T. Pritchard) Morges: IUCN with the assistance of UNESCO ,
1971.

Jainudeen, M.R., J.F. Eisenberg, and J.B. Jayasinghe. “Semen of the Ceylon |
Elephant, Elephas maximus,” Journal of Reproductive Fertility, volume 24 (1971),
pages 213-217. |

APPENDIX 6. FOREIGN CURRENCY SUPPORT OF PUBLICATIONS 219

Kasinathan, R., and R. Natarajan. “Studies on Four Species of Theobaldius
(Cyclophoridae: Mesogastropoda) from South India,” Malacological Review,
volume II (1969), pages 133-134.

Kohn, Alan J. “A Visit to Okha,” Bios, volume XL, number 1 (March 1969),
pages 3-9.

Kostermans, A.J.G.H. “A New Ceylonese Species of Abarema Pitt,” The Ceylon
Journal of Science, Biological Sciences, volume IX, number 2 (August 1971),
pages 61-63.

—. “Novelties in Ceylonese Lauraceae,” Ceylon Journal of

Science, Biological Sciences, volume IX, number 2 (August 1971), pages 50-57.

Kurt, Fred. “Elephant Survey in Ceylon,” Oryx, Journal of the Fauna Preservation
Society, volume IX, number 5 (September 1968), pages 364-365.

“Little Spiderhunter, Arachnothera longirostris (Latham) in the Eastern Ghats,”
Journal of Bombay Natural History Society, volume 68, number 2 (29-11-1971),
pages 454-455.

Lourie, A., and A. Ben-Tuvia. ‘““Two Red Sea Fishes, Pelates Quadrilineatus
(Bloch) and Crenidens Crenidens (Forsskal) in the Eastern Mediterranean,”
Israel Journal of Zoology, volume XIX, number 4 (1970), pages 203-207.

Love, Askell. “IOPB Chromosome Number Reports XXXIV,” Taxon, volume
XX (November 1), pages 785-797.

-. “IOPB Chromosome Number Reports XXXVI,” Taxon, volume
XXI (May 1972), pages 333-346.

Love, Askell, and Doris Léve. “Favargera and Gentianodes, Two New Genera of
Alpine Gentianaceae,” Botaniska Notiser, volume 125 (1972), pages 255-258.

. “Vermeulenia—a New Genus of Orchids,” Acta. Bot. Neerl., volume
XXI, number 5 (October 1972), pages 553-554.

MacArthur, Robert H., Jared M. Diamond, and James R- Karr. “Density
Compensation in Island Faunas,” Ecology, volume 53, number 2 (1972), pages
330-342.

Mathew, D.N. “A Review of the Recovery Data Obtained by the Bombay Natural
History Society’s Bird Migration Project,” Journal of Bombay Natural History
Society, volume 68, number 1 (15—9-1971), pages 1-21.

. “A Review of the Recovery Data Obtained by the Bombay Natural
History Society’s Bird Migration Study Project,” Journal of Bombay Natural
History Society, volume 68, number | (15—9-71), pages 65-85.
Meijer, Willem. “The Genus Axinandra-Melastomataceae: A Missing Link in
_ Myrtales?” Ceylon Journal of Science, Biological Sciences, volume X, number 1
(April 1972), pages 72-74.
» ————.. “Some Taxonomic and Nomenclatural Notes on Vateria copallifera
_ (Retz.) Alston,” Ceylon Journal of Science, Biological Sciences, volume X, number
| 1 (April 1972), pages 76-79.
|Mueller-Dombois, Dieter. “Crown Distortion and Elephant Distribution in the
Woody Vegetations of Ruhana National Park, Ceylon,” Ecology, volume 53,
number 2 (1972), pages 208-226.
i . “Ecogeographic Analysis of a Climate Map of Ceylon with Particular
Reference to Vegetation,” The Ceylon Forester, (April 1969).
t

Mueller-Dombois, D., and Malini Perera. “Ecological Differentiation and Soil
Fungal Distribution in the Montane Grasslands of Ceylon,” Ceylon Journal of
Science, volume IX, number 1 (February 1971), pages 2-41.

Munasinghe, N.L.R. “Seasonal Variation in the Distribution and Availability of
Carangids (“Paraw” & “Parati”) in the Wadge Bank,” Bulletin of the Fisheries
220 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Research Station, Ceylon, volume 20, number 2 (December 1969), pages 191-
200.

Natarajan, R. “Cytological Studies of Indian Mollusks: A Karyotype Study of
Three Species of Paludomus (Cerithiacea: Mesogastropods),” Malacological
Review, volume 2 (1969), page 13.

——. “Cytological Studies of Indian Mollusks (Archaeogastropoda:
Nerihdae),” Malacologia: Proceedings of 3rd European Malacological Congress,
volume IX, number | (1969), pages 279-281.

. “Cytological Studies of Indian Mollusks: Chromosomes of Some
Opisthobranchs from Porto Novo, South India,” Malacological Review, volume 3
(1970), pages 19-23.

National Academy of Sciences. Research Programs Constituting U.S. Participation in
the International Biological Program. Annual Report FY 1970, Report No. 4 of
the U.S. National Committee for the IBP-Division of Biology and Agriculture,
National Research Council, National Academy of Sciences. Washington, D.C.:
1971.

Nevo, Eviator, George Gorman, Michael Soule, Yung Yang Suh, Robert Clover,
and Vojislav Jovanovic. “Competitive Exclusion between Insular Lacerta Species
(Sauria, Lacertidae): Notes on Experimental Introductions,” Oecologia, volume
X (1972), pages 183-190.

Osborn, Dale F., and Karl V. Krombein. “Habitats, Flora, Mammals, and Wasps
of Gebel ’Uweinat, Libyan Desert.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number
11, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1969.

Patterson, C.M. “Chromosomes of Molluscs,” Proceedings of Sympostum on Mol-
lusca—Part II, (1969), pages 635-686.

. “Morphological and Cytological Studies of the Succineid Genus
Quickia from India,” Malacological Review, volume 3 (1970), pages 25-36.

. “Parallel Evolution of Shell Characters in Succineids Inhabiting |
Waterfalls,” Bulletin of the American Malacological Union, Inc., March 1973, page |
28.

——. “Taxonomic Studies of the Land Snail Family Succineidae,”
Malacological Review, volume 4 (1971), pages 131-202.

. “Taxonomic Studies of the Succineidae (Gastropoda, Stylomma-
tophora),” Proceedings of Symposium on Mollusca—Part I, (January 1968), pages
46-50.

Por, F.D. “Limnology of the Heliothermal Solar Lake on the Coast of Sinai (Gulf
of Eilat),” Verh. Internat. Verein. Limnol., volume 17 (1969), pages 1031-1034. |

. “One Hundred Years of Suez Canal—A Century of Lessepsian
Migration: Retrospect and Viewpoints,” Systematic Zoology, (1969), pages 138- |
159. |

. “The Canuellidae (Copepoda, Harpacticoida) in the Waters Around
the Sinai Peninsula and the Problem of “Lessepsian” Migration of this Family,” |
Israel Journal of Zoology, volume XVIII, (1969), pages 169-178. |

————.. “The Zoobenthos of the Sirbonian Lagoons,” Rapp. Comm. int. Mer |
Medit., volume 20, number 3 (1971), pages 247-249.

Museum Programs

Hamarneh, Sami. “A History of Arabic Pharmacy,” Physis, Anno XIV, Fascicule I
(1972), pages 5-54. 5
————— . “Pharmacy in Medieval Islam and the History of Drug
7 |

1
i

APPENDIX 6. FOREIGN CURRENCY SUPPORT OF PUBLICATIONS 221

Addiction,” Medical History, volume XVI, number 3 (July 1972), pages 226-
Bal.

—————. “Some Aspects of Medical Practice and Institutions in
Medieval Islam,” Episteme, volume VII, number | (January, February, March
1973), pages 15-31.

Powell, N.A. “Indo-Pacific Bryozoa New to the Mediterranean Coast of Israel,”
Israel Journal of Zoology, volume XVIII, (1969), pages 157-168.

Pulawski, Wojciech. “Miscophus heliophilus sp. n. (Hym., Sphecidae),” Bulletin
Entomologique de Pologne, volume XXXVIII/2, (30 June 1968), pages 285-287.

“Recovery of a Spotbill Duck (Anas Poecilorhyncha) in U.S.S.R.,” Journal of
Bombay Natural History Society, volume 68, number | (15—-9-1971), pages 244—
246.

“Recovery of Ringed Birds,” Journal of Bombay Natural History Society, volume 66,
number 3 (20-6—-70), pages 625-632.

“Recovery of Ringed Birds,” Journal of Bombay Natural History Society, volume 68,
number 1 (15-9-1971), pages 249-273.

Robyns, A. “Un Botaniste a Ceylon,” Les Naturalistes Belges, (1970), pages 170-
202.

Said, Ruchdi, Claude Albritton, Fredi Wendorf, Romuald Schild, and Michael
Kobusiewicz. “A Preliminary Report on the Holocene Geology and Archaeol-
ogy of the Northern Fayum Desert.”

Sohn, I. G. Triassic Ostracodes from Makhtesh Ramon, Israel. Ministry of Develop-
ment, Geological Survey Bulletin No. 44. Jerusalem: Ministry of Development,
Geological Survey. April 1968.

Springer, Victor G., and William F. Smith-Vaniz. ‘““Mimetic Relationships
Involving Fishes of the Family Blenniidae.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
No. 112. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1972.

Steinitz, Heinz. “Remarks on the Suez Canal as Pathway and as Habitat,” Rapp.
Comm. int. Mer. Médit., volume XIX, number 2 (1968), pages 139-141.

Sturn, J., editor. Marine Fauna of the North Adriatic: Catalogue No. 1. Scientific
Works and Reports of the University of Ljubljana. Marine Biological Station,
Portoroz, No. 7. Portoroz: 1971. (Mimeographed).

“Tel Gamma,” Israel Exploration Journal, volume 22 (1972), pages 245-246.

“Tel Gezer,” Israel Exploration Journal, volume 22, number 4 (1972), pages 241-
242.

“Tell Gemmeh,” Revue Biblique, volume LXXIX (1972), pages 596-599.

Theobald, William L. “Notes on the Bignoniaceae,” Ceylon Journal of Science,
Boological Sciences, volume X, number 1 (April 1972), page 75.

Theobald, William L., and Donald A. Grupe. “A New Name and Combinations
in the Gesneriaceae,” Ceylon Journal of Sciences, Biological Sciences, volume X,
number | (April 1972), pages 70-71.

Tirmigi, Nasima M., and Raymond B. Manning. “Stomatopod Crustacea from
West Pakistan,” volume 125, number 3666 of Proceedings of the United States
National Museum. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

| Travaux de Geologie Tunisienne: Formation Beglia No. 5, Fascicule 1. Tunis: Notes

| du Service Géologique, No. 37, April 1972.

, Tsurnamal, M. “Sponges of Red Sea Origin on the Mediterranean Coast of
Israel,” Israel Journal of Zoology, volume XVIII (1969), pages 157-168.

Westheide, Wilfried. “Apharyngtus punicus nov. gen. noy. spec., ein aberranter

Archiannelide aus dem Mesopsammel der tunesischen Mittelmeerktste,”

Mikrofauna des Meeresbodens, volume VI (1971), pages 233-249.

222 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

a . “Spermatodesmen,” Die Naturwissenschaften, Heft 12, (1969
[56. Jahrgang]), pages 641-642.

Westheide, W., and D. Bunke. “‘Aeolosoma maritimum nov. spec., die erste
Salzwasserart aus der Familie Aeolosomatidae (Annelida: Oligochaeta),” Helgo-
lander wiss. Meeresunters, volume 21 (1970), pages 134-142.

Wiseman, James. Stobi: A Guide to the Excavations. Beograd: University of Texas at
Austin and National Museum of Titov Veles, 1973.

Appendix 7

PUBLIC AFFAIRS

News Releases Issued

Smithsonian Drug Exhibit Honored as “Pacesetter”
Dazzling Money Display on View at Smithsonian
Historic Presses Roll at Smithsonian

Statement on the Death of the King of Bhutan
Archeologist Wendell Phillips Will Lecture
Survey of American Portraiture

Exhibit Shows New England Textile Mills
Abundant Hydrogen May Provide Fuel
Appointments of Two Educators to NPG
Photography for Teenagers

Parisian Playbills from 1890’s at Renwick Gallery

Naughty Movies—History Museum Shows “Peepshows”

Notice To Calendar Editors

Animal, Human Sculptures By Austrian

Stamp and Lecture Mark Century of Mail-Order
‘Underdrawing For Ben Shahn on View

Portrait of Black American Tragedian Acquired
Popular Exhibition of Political Also-Rans Extended
‘Special to Virginia Cardinal

Special to the Washingtonian Magazine

‘Olympic Stamps in Smithsonian Show

National Portrait Gallery Announces Future Schedule
Smithsonian Seeks Volunteer Teachers

Special Exhibition of Women’s Portraits Displayed
Discussions of Drug Use in Non-Western Cultures
Booklet Tells Story of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Wilson Center Sets Oct. 1 Deadline for Applications
Election Show at Puppet Theater Is Fall Offering
‘Shadow” of Stone Age Man on Display

‘Event of the Century” From Fiasco to Triumph
Parlor Pieces of Stephen Foster

Anacostia Museum Marks 5th Birthday

sampling Indicates Oyster Kill Over

Jlass on International Filmmakers

Associates to Present Improvisational Theater
Associates Offer D.C. Premiere of Whitney Film Series

Associates Will Show “New American Filmmakers Series”

10 July 72
11 July 72
13 July 72
24 July 72
25 July 72
26 July 72
26 July 72
27 July 72
27 July 72
28 July 72
28 July 72
28 July 72
1 Aug. 72
2 Aug. 72
3 Aug. 72
3 Aug. 72
4 Aug. 72
4 Aug. 72
7 Aug. 72
9 Aug. 72
9 Aug. 72
10 Aug. 72
11 Aug. 72
14 Aug. 72
15 Aug. 72
17 Aug. 72
18 Aug. 72
21 Aug. 72
21 Aug. 72
25 Aug. 72
2h Aug. 72
28 Aug. 72
28 Aug. 72
29 Aug. 72
31 Aug. 72
31 Aug. 72
31 Aug. 72

Pa
224 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Smithsonian Returns to 5:30 Closing Time

Associates Offer Performance, Lecture Series

John Magruder, SI Official, Drowns in Massachusetts
Visit to Goddard Space Center

Photo Show Contrasts Inner City With Rural Vermont Images
“The Hand and the Spirit” Religious Theme in American Art
1870’s Not Good Old Days

Classes for Fall Have New Early Starting Time
Construction to Start on National Air and Space Museum
19th C. Religious Lithographs on View

Smithsonian Ups Volume on FM Radio Pioneer

Air Force Art on Exhibition

Associates to Present “Women at Work” Lectures

Series of Lectures on Man and Cosmos to be Presented
Wilson Center Names Dozen New Fellows

Dr. Monroe E. Freeman—Obituary

Portraits of Black Americans Loaned to Push Expo ’72
Balasaraswati, India’s Greatest Dancer will Perform

Doc & Merle Watson to Inaugurate Guitar Concert Series
Smithsonian Will Present Marlboro Concert Oct. 28
Advance Calendar of Concerts To Be Presented

Lecture, Quilting Bees Scheduled—Antique Quilts

New Pompeiian Frescoe Discoveries

Smithsonian Recalls Long Battle for Vote

News Hall Named for Henry Luce of Time Inc.

Weekly Art Program on WGMS

Smithsonian To Present Jazz Heritage Concerts

Vera Posters on Sale

Bust of Martin Luther King, Jr. Owned by NPG

Freer Lecturer to Focus on Shrine at Samarkand

Viola Anthropology Archivist

Young People’s Tour of Chesapeake Bay Research
Photos of Indonesia To Be Shown at Smithsonian
Kinematic Sculptures Show Extended at Smithsonian

SI, Tonka Sign Contract for Line of Educational Products
Doubleday Lectures To Examine Effects of Technology
Benefit “Darwin Adventure” Premiere

First Showing of World’s Third Largest Diamond
Associates Offering Children’s Programs

Anniversary Exhibit Honors American Sculptor Solon Borglum
Hall and Lecture Mark 125 Years of U.S. Stamps

Abigail McCarthy to Address Associates Luncheon
Smithsonian To Present Camerata Chorus Concert

Free Film Theatre—Nov. Schedule

Ornette Coleman Performs in 2nd Jazz Heritage Concert
Exhibition of “The Lazzaroni,” 19th Century Scientists
Exhibition Revives “Pop” Hart Art

Highlights of Articles in ‘Smithsonian Research Reports’
Freer Lecturer To Discuss Japanese Woodblock Art

Get to Know an Oriental Rug

Science Information Exchange Produces Two Volumes
Poet Allen Ginsberg To Read

31 Aug.
31 Aug.
3 Sept.
6 Sept.
7 Sept.
7 Sept.
7 Sept.
7 Sept.
11 Sept.
11 Sept.
11 Sept.
12 Sept.
12 Sept.
12 Sept.
18 Sept.
18 Sept.
19 Sept.
20 Sept.
20 Sept.
20 Sept.
20 Sept.
20 Sept.
20 Sept.
20 Sept.
21 Sept.
21 Sept.
21 Sept.
21 Sept.
25 Sept.
25 Sept.
25 Sept.
26 Sept.
- 27 Sept.
29 Sept.
2 Oct.
10 Oct.
12 Oct.
13 Oct.
18 Oct.
18 Oct.
19) Oct:
20 Oct.
20 Oct.
26 Oct.
26 Oct.
27 Oct.
27 Oct.
27 Oct.
27 Oct.
27 Oct.
27 Oct.
30 Oct.

(2
72
72
n-
72
72
72
72
iP
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
we
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
72
de
v2
72
72
72
72
a2
72
72
72
is
72
72
72
.

APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Revival of 18th Century Opera-Ballet

Fact Book Puts Drugs in Perspective

SAO Director to Retire, Field Named as Successor
Writer Details Iks’ Loss of Humanity

Gregg Smith Singers To Perform at Renwick

Chinese Shadow Puppets

Relics and Tunes of 1776

NPG Announces Additions to Exhibition Schedule
Prince Diskul to Lecture on Ancient Thai Sculpture
Portraits of Harlem Renaissance Figures

NCFA to Show Recent Print

Air Museum Groundbreaking

Bust of Poet Ezra Pound, Dead at Eighty-seven
“Character of Old West”

Philately Lecture to Accompany Slides

Art Exhibition Traces Book’s Creation

Smithsonian Breaks Ground for Air and Space Museum
Background National Air and Space Museum

Fact Sheet National Air and Space Museum

Annual Archeological Lecture Focus on Greek Sculpture
Animal Welfare Institute Medal to Russell Train

Postal Hall, Marks 125 Years of U.S. Stamps

Music of Romanian Composer to Have U.S. Premiere
Modern Jazz Quartet to Perform—Jazz Heritage Series
250-Million-Year-Old Pest

Smithsonian Expert Wins Stamp Award

Medieval European Tower Clock Installed

Associates Offer Bach and Brunch

The Washington Dance Theater—Erika Thimey, Director

Dr. Paul B. Sears Receives Browning Award at Smithsonian

First Daguerreotype Taken of Thoreau Given to NPG

100 Brazilian Baroque Art Objects To Be Exhibited at Renwick

Gallery

Reception, Films, Lecture, Concert to Celebrate Exhibit of Brazilian

Baroque Art at Renwick Gallery

1973 Festival of American Folklife To Be Along Greensward of the

Lincoln Memorial
India Provides Theme for Smithsonian Ball
Smithsonian Displaying Watercolor Butterflies

Associates Offer 2nd Series of Kennedy Center Shows, Talks
Associates Course To Take Participants “Inside Museums”
NCFA Will Mount Installation of Modern Paintings, Sculptures

Caroling at Smithsonian

Exhibit Traces Remarkable Career of Smithsonian’s First Secretary

Associates Offer Wide Variety of Winter Courses

“If We’re So Good, Why Aren’t We Better”: Smithsonian Exhibition

Defines Productivity

Puppet Theatre To Open New Stage Dec. 20 With Russian Fairy

Tales
19th Century Scientists Faced Challenge of a New Era
Contract Signing Ceremony December 18 at the SI
Associates Plan Wide Range of Activities for Children

225

30 Oct.
31 Oct.
1 Nov.
3 Nov.
6 Nov.
6 Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
9 Nov.
13 Nov.
13 Nov.
14 Nov.
14 Nov.
14 Nov.
15 Nov.
16 Nov.
17 Nov.
21 Nov.
21 Nov.
21 Nov.
21 Nov.
24 Nov.
24 Nov.
24 Nov.
29 Nov.

Dec

4 Dec.

oownrrn ~I

5 Dee:

5 Dec.

6 Dec.
6 Dec.
6 Dec.
6 Dec.
7 Dec.
8 Dec.
8 Dec.
12) Dec:
12 Dec.

13 Dec.

13) Dee.
I'3 Dee.
i3Dec:
13 Dec.

72
HZ
72
72
s2

72

72
296 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Walter Hopps Named Visiting Curator by NCFA

Smithsonian, AAAS Cooperation

Dr. Kier Named Director of Natural History Museum

Associates Offer Ten Views of Nation’s Capital

Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Quintet to Perform

Anacostia Museum to Show Works by D.C. Art Association
Members

Unknown 19th Century Artist Being Accorded Ist U.S. Exhibition
by National Collection

Four Students Tour Poland

Irving Berlin Gives “White Christmas” Piano to SI

Jimmy Dawkins To Perform in American Guitar Series

President Harry S. Truman

Freer Lecturer To Discuss Chinese “Boundary Painting”

Little Known of Sea Cow, Huge Now-Extinct Mammal

Experimental Theatre Group to Perform

“Inauguration Story” To Open Saturday Series at MHT

Marlboro Musicians To Appear at Smithsonian February 3

505 Historic, Modern Objects for Preparing Food at Renwick
Gallery

Smithsonian To Present Concert of Orchestrated Ragtime

NCFA To Present 4 Free Lectures on 19th Century American Art

Art from New York Prison To Be Exhibited at NCFA

Jack Johnson Film—New Filmmakers Series

Women in the Arts, Government, Sciences-Luncheons

New Tour Program Set by National Portrait Gallery

Senator Jackson Named to Board of Regents

Free Lecture on Brazilian Baroque Art To Be Given at Renwick
Gallery January 10

Neurobiology Topic of Lecture Series

2 Leading Brazilian Musicians To Give Recital at Renwick Gallery
February |

Orchestra, Choir Will Present Concert of 18th Century Brazilian
Church Music

Smithsonian Marks Centennial of Grant’s 2nd Inaugural

Five Food Lectures To Be Given at Renwick Gallery

Smithsonian Seeks Names for Indian Biographical Dictionary

Woodrow Wilson Center Appoints New Scholars

Wilson Center Sets New Schedule for Applications, Appointments

Smithsonian Offers Two Views of Graffiti

Smithsonian Official Receives ASCAP Award for Music Criticism

President Johnson’s Favorite Portrait of Himself Is Placed on
Display in National Portrait Gallery

Environmental Law Conference To Be Held at Smithsonian

Rep. Minshall Named To Board of Regents

Freer Lecturer To Discuss Ottoman Book of Festivals

American Indian Theatre Ensemble To Perform 2 Plays

British Biologist Medawar To Speak on Technology and Evolution
Feb. 15

S. Dillon Ripley—Biography

Al Carmines Will Perform His Music at Smithsonian

14 Dec. 72
15 Dec. 72
15 Dec. 72 [|
18 Dec. 72 |
21 Dec. 72 |

21 Dec.

21 Dec:
21 Dec.
22 DEE:
26 Dec.
27 Dec.
29 Dec.
3 Jan.
3 Jan.
4 Jan.
5 Jan.

9 Jan.

9 Jan.
10 Jan.
10 Jan.
10 Jan.
11 Jan.
11 Jan.
12 Jan.

15 Jan.
16 Jan.

16 Jan.

16 Jan.

16 Jan. 73
16 Jan. 73
19 Jan. 73
21 Jan. 73 ©
22 Jan. 73 jj
22 Jan. 73 |
22 Jan. 73 |

23 Jan. 73
26 Jan. 73 |
30 Jan. 73 |
31 Jan. 73 ©

5 Feb. 73
APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Smithsonian Scientists Begin Analysis of Samples From Final Apollo
Mission

Smithsonian, Drug Abuse Council To Sponsor “Altered States of
Consciousness” Conference

Smithsonian Names James Mello Assistant Director of Museum

International Symposium To Mark 500th Birthday of Copernicus

Trial of John Brown Presented by NPG Education Staff in Schools

Docent Training Program Underway at NPG

Smithsonian Associates Coming To Howard County

NCFA Will Survey Career of Pioneer Modern Artist Maurer

Polish Art Historian To Speak at Natural History Museum

Smithsonian Puts First Ruling Engine by Physicist Henry Rowland
on Display

Anacostia Museum To Present Young People’s Arts Festival

Films on Middle East To Be Shown at Freer

Associates Offer Antiquing Tours

Associates Presenting Lecture Series on African Sculpture, Music &
Dance

Sonny Rollins To Perform in Smithsonian Concert

Contemporary Japanese Dancers Will Perform at SI

Smithsonian Mall Museums Add Summer Evening Hours

Hirshhorn Staff Using Unusual Approach to Design Opening
Exhibit Installation

Chaim Goldberg Lends Works for Exhibit at Smithsonian

Freer Lecturer Will Discuss “Tales of Ise” Illustrations

James Beard, Joyce Chem, 3 Other Food Experts Will Present Free
Lectures at Renwick Gallery

Portrait of F. Scott Fitzgerald Added to NPG

_ Smithsonian Receives Model of EXXon Tanker Manhattan
Legendary Passionflower Offers Religious Symbol, Food
Tiny Grimes, Jim Hall Will Close SI Guitar Concert Series
Daniel Boorstin Will Give Up Directorship of Museum To Devote

| More Time To Writing

| Arthur Clarke Final Speaker in Doubleday Lecture Series
; Last Series of Bonestell Space Paintings on Display

_ Annual Kite Contest March 24 at Monument

Chaplin Bust Added to NPG Collections

| Marlboro Musicians Will Present Chamber Concert at SI

_ Day of Free Talks and Demonstrations on Food Scheduled at

_ Renwick Gallery

Renwick Gallery Exhibition To Survey Contemporary Painting

, Scene in India

To: Washington Area Film Critics

Photos of Tropical Blossoms on Exhibit at Smithsonian
Smithsonian Preparing Educational Slide Sets

Freer Gallery To Celebrate 50th Anniversary of Opening
Portrait of Girl Scout Founder Given to NPG

‘Smithsonian Exhibits Drawings of Coal Breakers, Train Depots
Paper Bag Players To Perform at Smithsonian April 11-15

Top Entries in National Print, Drawing Contest To Be Shown at
; NCFA

Get Acquainted With Associates” Program in Columbia March 26

224

9 Feb. 73
12 Feb.
13 Feb.
13 Feb.
14 Feb.
14 Feb.
15 Feb.
16 Feb.
20 Feb.

73
73
a3
73
73
73
is
73

22 Feb.
22 feb:
22 Feb.
22 Feb.

73
ie
w3
73

22 Feb.
22 Feb.
22 Feb.
23 Feb.

73
73
73
73

26 Feb.
27 Feb.
28 Feb.

73
73
73

28 Feb. 73
28 Feb. 73
1 March 73
1 March 73
5 March 73

8 March 73
9 March 73
9 March 73
12 March 73
12 March 73
12 March 73

13 March 73

14 March 73
15 March 73
16 March 73
16 March 73
19 March 73
20 March 73
21 March 73
21 March 73

21 March 73
21 March 73
228 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Memo to Editors: Art Work by Foster Children 22 March 73
“Copernican Century” Exhibit To Feature Renaissance Treasures of

Science and Art 22 March 73
Listen My Children and You Shall Hear the Truth of the Ride of

Paul Revere 23 March 73 |
Associates Theater Series Offers Performances, Meetings with Casts 23 March 73
Associates Spring Courses Range from Art to Altered Consciousness 23 March 73 |

Alice in Wonderland To Open at Puppet Theatre 23 March 73 |
New Search Service Makes Available Reports on 400,000 Research

Projects 23 March 73 {
Wilson Center Conference May 2 Will Consider “New Federalism” 27 March 73 |
Poets To Read Their Works in New Associates Series 29 March 73
NPG Unveils Comprehensive Pictorial Display of Black History in

Revolutionary War Period 2 Apr. 72
Turkish Humanist Poetry of Yunus Emre Will Be Discussed at

Freer 3 Apr. 73
Air Museum Exhibit To Honor Champion U.S. Aerobatic Team 3 Apr.ifa
“American Authors” Exhibition Displays Portraits of Literary

Figures from 18th Century To Present 3 Apr. 73
Freer Lecturer Will Discuss Chinese Painting Composition 4 Apr. 74
Film on Nez Perce Indians in First Public Showing 5 Apr. 7a
Henry R. Luce Hall of News Reporting Opens May 1| in

Smithsonian’s Museum of History and Technology 9 Apr. 73)}
Smithsonian Exhibit Shows Role, Production of Synthetic Crystals 9 Apr. 73
Book Suggests Tropical Rain Forests Can Never Support Large

Populations 9 Apr. 73 }
Portrait Bust of Sam Rayburn Presented in Special Ceremony 12 Apr. 7@
Copernicus Stamp To Be Released in Ceremonies at SI 16 Apr. 7
Demonstration of Project Seed Will Highlight Education Day 17 Apr. 73m
Press Conference: Werner Heisenberg 17 Apr. 73 |
International Symposium on Scientific Discovery Opens April 22 at

Smithsonian, National Academy 17 Apr. 731
Smithsonian Touring Performances Offer Insight and

Entertainment 18 Apr. 73°
New Frontiers in Science Communications 18 Apr. 73 |
Smithsonian Will Circulate 14 New Exhibits this Spring 19 Apr. 73
Copernicus Telescope on Display April 22-26 for Copernicus Week 19 Apr. 73 |
Designer of Wall-Coverings To Present Two Free Lectures at

Renwick Gallery 20 Apr. 73 :
Dusseldorf Academy Art Is Subject of NCFA Exhibition 20 Apr. 73
Sculptor George Rickey Will Lecture at NCFA 20 Apr. 73 |
Actress Eugenia Rawls To Present Solo Dramatic Portrait of

Tallulah Bankhead 20 Apr. 73 |
Note to Editors and Writers: Japanese Ukiyoe Paintings 23 Apr. 7m
Fashion Writer Eleni Epstein Will Give Luncheon Lecture 23 Apr. 734
Top D.C. Public High School Prints To Be Shown at NCFA 23 Apr. 73 |
Renwick Gallery To Exhibit Antique American Coverlets 23 Apr. 73 |
Ralston Crawford Exhibition Planned at NCFA 24 Apr. 73 |
About American Coverlets 24 Apr. 73 |
NCFA Plans See-and-Do Day for Children on May 19 26 Apr. 73 |
The Freer Gallery of Art 27 Apr. 73°

Wilson Center Annual Report Reveals Bicentennial Plans 27 Apr. 73

APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Renwick Becomes Historic Landmark in Ceremonies May 4
Smithsonian Will Stage First Anthropological Film Conference
Four Panelists To Share Views on What Washington Should Be
New National Portrait Gallery Fellowship Program Announced
NCFA Will Exhibit 20 Aerial Blow-ups by Los Angeles
Photographer
NCFA To Show Exploratory Prints by Three
Decorative Arts from Period 1876-1916 Will Be Exhibited at
Renwick Gallery
Botanist W. Andrew Archer Dies, Worked for Agriculture,
Smithsonian
July Fourth Set as Date for Opening of Exhibition Titled: The
Black Presence in the Era of the American Revolution 1770-1800
Beware of Frog Legs with Extra “Kick”
Smithsonian Conference Considers Long-Range Goals for
Institution
Boomerangs Make Annual Return to Smithsonian
Gregg Smith Singers Will Perform Music of “Sentimental Ages” at
Renwick June 5
Live Ants, Cockroaches, Termites, Spiders Among Delights of
Smithsonian Insect Zoo
Smithsonian Receives $50,000 in Gifts for Maritime Hall
Editors Advisory: Zoo Press Conference
Hugo Black’s Effects Join Supreme Court Memorabilia
Smithsonian Institution Adopts Policy of Museum Acquisitions
Press Preview: Arts and Crafts Movement in America
Princeton Scholar To Give Illustrated Talk at Renwick Gallery on
Prairie Architecture
National Zoological Park—Master Plan Components
National Zoological Park—Master Plan Design Concepts
1973 Festival of American Folklife Scheduled for Lincoln Memorial
Site
Statement by George Meany, President, AFL-CIO
Statement by Paul J. Fasser, Department of Labor
Press Conference—1973 Festival of American Folklife
Smithsonian Guidebook To Go on Sale June |
Kentuckians To Bring Traditions of Bluegrass State To Mall July
4-8
Chicago’s Museum of Contemporary Art Organizes Exhibit for
Tour of Key Latin American Cities
Summer Associates Series To Feature Wolf Trap Performances,
Discussions
Editors Advisory: 101st Birthday Party
_ Edward K Thompson, Smithsonian Editor, To Receive Henry Medal
_ Major NCFA Exhibition Being Accorded Forgotten 19th Century
Woman Artist
' Lewis A. Lapham Named Chairman of Smithsonian Associates
Board
Smithsonian and Harvard To Establish Center for Astrophysics July
Gal
ance Theatre To Perform “Aesop’s Fables” June 16
, Exhibit Shows Memorabilia of Presidential Funerals

229

1 May 73
1 May 73
2 May 73
7 May 73

7 May 73
8 May 73

8 May 73
10 May 73

10 May 73
10 May 73

11 May 73
14 May 73

14 May 73

14 May 73
14 May 73
14 May 73
14 May 73
16 May 73
16 May 73

17 May 73
18 May 73
18 May 73

18 May 73
18 May 73
18 May 73
18 May 73
21 May 73

23 May 73
24 May 73
24 May 7
25 May 7
29 May 7
29 May 73
30 May 73
31 May 73

31 May 73
5 June 73
230

Smithsonian Publishes Catalog of Ultraviolet Stars

Concerts Will Present 18th Century Italian Music in Modern
Premieres

Freer Gallery Will Open Exhibition on Chinese Figure Painting
Sept. 12

Numismatists Receive Smithsonian’s Gold Medal for Exceptional
Service

Freer Gallery To Show Turkish Art Exhibition

Editor’s Advisory: Indian Pottery Demonstrations

Workers Who Build Our Shelters Will Show How on National Mall

NSF Grant Will Support Study of Bay’s Rhode River Watershed

Federal City College Will Present Anniversary Exhibit at NCFA

Yugoslavs, Serbian & Croatian-Americans Will Present “Tribute to
Tamburashi”

NCFA Exhibition Organized by Walter Hopps Surveys Directions in
Representational Art

Thursday Evening Hours Are Added by Smithsonian’s Renwick
Gallery

Folklife Festival To Feature Three Days of Gospel Music

Statement by Dr. Robert A. Brooks—Johnson-Sea-Link

Associates Offer Wide Range of Summer Class Subjects

Wilson Center Board Selects 10 Fellows

Smithsonian Names Review Panel to Investigate Sea-Link Tragedy

Johnson-Sea-Link

Northern Plains Indians Will Be Featured “Native Americans” at
Folklife Festival

Smithsonian Adds Two Members to Panel Probing Sea-Link
Tragedy in Florida

Robert S. Burke Jr. Will Direct Smithsonian Protection Services

Editors Advisory: Press Preview—Folklife Festival

2,500 Parking Spaces Made Available for Festival of American
Folklife

Smithsonian, Wolper Sign Agreement for Series of Television
Specials

Grant From ARBC Will Help Promote Foreign Participation in
Festival

“Radio Smithsonian” Programs

JULY 1972

“The World of Ants.” Ronald Goor of the National Museum of Natural History —
describes the complex lifestyle of ants. “Exploring Oriental Art,” with Harold

Stern, Director of the Freer Gallery of Art.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

5 June 73
5 June 73
5 June 73

7 June 73
7 June 73
8 June 73
12 June 73
14 June 73
14 June 73

14 June 73
15 June 73

18 June 73
18 June 73
20 June 73
20 June 73 ¥
20 June 73
20 June 73
21 June 73

21 June 73 |

22 June 73 >
26 June 73
26 June 73

27 June 73

27 June 73

:

29 June 73.

|

|
|

*

i ; {

“Concert,” featuring Sebastian Kelber, recorder; Lane Anderson, cello; and |
4

|

James Weaver, harpsichord.

“The Megastates of America.” Journalist Neal Peirce, a fellow of the Woodrow
. . . ‘
Wilson International Center for Scholars, discusses our ten most populous _

states—their similarities and differences.

“Folk Concert,” featuring British singers David and Toni Arthur and John

Harrison.

1
)
_APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS 231

“Understanding Drugs.” A look at the drug scene today, as reflected in the
Smithsonian’s newest exhibit on drugs.

AUGUST 1972

“The New Deal Art Projects.” A look at one of the most important influences on
20th century American art. The history of the projects is explored by Francis
O'Connor and Jacob Kainen of the NCFA. Then Karel Yasko, Director of the
Fine Arts Preservation Office, General Services Administration, and Joshua
Taylor, Director of the NCFA, discuss plans for preserving New Deal art.

“Around the Blues.” Martin Williams, Director of the Smithsonian’s Jazz
Program, explores the influence of the blues on American music.

“70 Years at the Smithsonian.” Dr. Charles Greeley Abbot, former Secretary of
the Smithsonian who recently celebrated his 100th birthday, recalls some of his
experiences at “the nation’s attic.”

“The Right to Vote.” A look at voting rights in the United States since the
country’s early years, “What Can Fossils Tell Us?” with Dr. Frank Whitmore, a
paleontologist at the National Museum of Natural History who specializes in
whale fossils.

SEPTEMBER 1972

“The Importance of Continental Drift.” Nicholas Hotton and Erle Kauffman,
paleontologists at the National Museum of Natural History, discuss the effects
which continental drift might have had on living things.

“Exploring Queen of Sheba Land.” Archeologist Wendell Phillips tells of his
adventurous expeditions to the sand-covered Old Testament cities of Southern
Arabia. “Too Busy Having Fun,” Mrs. Alice Roosevelt Longworth, daughter of
Theodore Roosevelt, reminisces about her days in the White House.

“The 1972 Festival of American Folklife, Part I.” A sampling of the people and
music that make the Folklife Festival one of the Smithsonian’s most popular
events.

“The 1973 Festival of American Folklife, Part IT.”

OCTOBER 1972

“Anniversary in Anacostia,” John Kinard, Director of the Anacostia Neighbor-
hood Museum in Washington, talks about the Museum’s first five years and
the prospects for neighborhood museums in other cities, “The Expanding
National Gallery,” Director Carter Brown and Melvin Edelstein, its Chief
Librarian, discuss plans for the gallery’s growth. |

_ “Drilling for the Past.” A look at the earth’s past, as revealed by core samples
from below the ocean floor.

_ “Songs of Stephen Foster.” Some familiar, and some that are not so familiar,
from an album recorded at the Smithsonian.

, “Reading is FUNdamental.” A look at the program designed to bring books to all

people, with its founder, Mrs. Robert McNamara. “Counterfeiting in History,”

with Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, Curator of Numismatics at the Smithsonian.

“Recent Developments in Jazz,” with Martin Williams, noted jazz critic and

_ Director of the Smithsonian’s Jazz Program.

521-552 O- 74 - 16
252 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

NOVEMBER 1972

“First Through the Sound Barrier.” A conversation with General Charles Yeager,
pilot of the first supersonic flight in 1947. “Copernicus and the Sun.” Dr.
Owen Gingerich of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory talks about the
great Polish astronomer, whose 500th birthday will be celebrated in 1973.

“Concert,” featuring earthy and romantic music of the Middle Ages, performed
by Les Menestriers, a young group which recently won the French grand prize
for recording.

“The Military Today and Tomorrow.” A discussion featuring Albert Meisel,
Deputy Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
and Stuart Loory and Lieutenant Colonel William Houser, both Fellows at the
Center.

“The Secrets of Mars,” discussed by Dr. Carl Sagan of Cornell University and
Dr. Brian Mason of the National Museum of Natural History. “The Good Side
of Bats.” Dr. Edward Ayensu of the Museum of Natural History explains some
positive functions performed by bats.

DECEMBER 1972

“The American Novel Today.” A discussion with Saul Bellow, author of Herzog
and The Adventures of Augie March.

“A New Air and Space Museum.” A preview of the new home for the National
Air and Space Museum, now being erected in Washington. “A Nostalgic Look
at Carousels,” with Barbara Charles, an expert on the history of merry-go-
rounds.

“Concert,” featuring the music of Washington composer Robert Evett, per-
formed by the Madison Madrigal Singers.

“Remembering the Flying Tigers.” Four former members of the Flying Tigers,
famed flying group of World War II, recall some of their outstanding
experiences. “Primitive Life Close-Up.” Dr. and Mrs. William Crocker talk
about living with the Canela Indians, a remote tribe of central Brazil.

“Portrait of a Singer.” Martin Williams, Director of the Smithsonian’s Jazz
Program, illustrates why he calls Sarah Vaughan “today’s greatest singer.”

JANUARY 1973

“Post-Industrial America.” A discussion featuring Daniel Bell, Harvard Univer-
sity sociologist and author of Capitalism Today, and Chester Cooper, a Fellow of
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

“When the British Burned the White House.” Author Walter Lord and Margaret
Klapthor, Curator of Political History at the Smithsonian, talk about the
British invasion of Washington during the War of 1812. “Beyond the Pearl.” “

look at semiprecious gems, with Smithsonian Curator Paul Desautels.

“The Character of the Old West,” with Malcolm Watkins and Richard Ahiborsilll
cultural historians at the Smithsonian. “The Laws of the Sea.” A discussion |

featuring Arvid Pardo, Minister of Ocean Affairs of Malta, and George,
Robinson, Assistant Counsel of the Smithsonian.

“A Pioneer in Ecology.” Dr. Dale Jenkins of the Smithsonian’s Ecology Program
talks with Dr. Paul Sears, winner of the 1972 Browning Award for Conserving

the Environment. “Man-Made Crystals.” Joel Arem of the National Museum of

Natural History sheds some light on the uses of synthetic crystals.

|
|
|
i)

i

}

|
APPENDIX 7. PUBLIC AFFAIRS 233

FEBRUARY 1973

“The Lazzaroni.” Lillian Miller, historian at the National Portrait Gallery, talks
about the small group of intellectuals who dominated American science in the
mid-19th century. “A Look at the Stars and Stripes,” with Smithsonian Curator
Grace Cooper.

“Music of the Cajuns.” Ralph Rinzler of the Smithsonian’s Division of Perform-
ing Arts spotlights the unique and fascinating music of the Cajun people of
Louisiana.

“The Coming of Steamboats,” with Melvin Jackson, Curator of Maritime
Transportation at the Smithsonian. “Soundings Then and Now.” A look at
instruments and methods that have been used to deal with hearing problems.

“Concert,” featuring Sour Cream, a trio of young recorder players from
Holland.

MARCH 1973

“Who Really Discovered America?” A discussion featuring Mexican historian
Edmundo O’Gorman and Smithsonian staff members Wilcomb Washburn and
Melvin Jackson.

“Duke Ellington: The Great American Composer,” with Martin Williams,
Director of the Smithsonian’s Jazz Studies Program.

“Citizen Apathy and Initiative.” A discussion featuring Albert Gollin, Research
Associate of the Bureau of Social Science Research; David Sills, author of The
Volunteers; Ben Wattenberg, coauthor of The Real Majority; and John Dixon,
Director of the Center for a Voluntary Society.

“Baroque Art of Brazil,” with Dr. Robert C. Smith, an art historian at the
University of Pennsylvania. “Is the Chesapeake in Danger?” A talk with Dr.
Francis Williamson, Director of the Smithsonian’s Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies.

APRIL 1973

“Concert,” featuring Joel Berman, violin, performing music of J. S. Bach and
Heinrich von Biber.

“Technology and Understanding.” A discussion with science-fiction writer Arthur
C. Clarke.

“Folk Concert.” Jean Redpath performs Scottish ballads.

“The Earliest Americans.” Dr. Dennis Stanford describes the Smithsonian’s new
PaleoIndian Program, aimed at gathering evidence of early man in America.
“The True Epicure.” A talk with James Beard, internationally known expert
on food.

“The Nature of Scientific Discovery.” Highlights from the symposium held in
Washington this year to commemorate the 500th birthday of Nicolaus
Copernicus.

MAY 1973

“The Energy Crisis: Is There One?” A discussion featuring Roger Carlsmith,
Director of the Program in Energy Studies at the Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Dr. George Szego, President of InterTechnology Corporation, and
William Eilers, Director of the Smithsonian’s Office of Environmental Sciences.
234 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

“In the Wake of ‘Star Trek’.” Gene Roddenberry, creator of the TV series, “Star
Trek,” talks about his aims in that series and his plans for the future. “Project
SEED.” A look at a highly successful program for teaching mathematics to
disadvantaged children.

“Concert.” Harpsichordist James Weaver performs music by J. S. Bach and Louis
Couperin.

“Dissecting a Mummy.” Dr. T. Aidan Cockburn, Research Associate at the
Smithsonian, and Dr. J. Lawrence Angel, of the National Museum of Natural
History, describe what they learned by opening up an Egyptian mummy. “The
Smithsonian’s Gunboat.” Philip Lundeberg and Howard Hoffman tell the story
of the “Philadelphia,” the only surviving man-of-war of the American
Revolution.

JUNE 1973

“The Museum as an Iceberg.” Paul Perrot, Assistant Secretary of the Smithson-
ian for Museum Programs, talks about the role of a museum—beyond
exhibiting objects.

“The New Federalism.” Highlights from a conference held at the Smithsonian by
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Among the partici-
pants are Governors Nelson Rockefeller of New York and Jimmy Carter of
Georgia.

“The History of News Reporting.” A look at the growth of American journalism,
from the earliest colonial newspapers to “live” pictures from the moon.

“A Trip to Northern Africa.” Jim Cornell, of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory, and his wife, Carol, talk about Smithsonian studies in Egypt and
Tunisia, against a background of music from both countries.
Appendix 8

PUBLICATIONS AND SELECTED CONTRIBUTIONS OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION STAFF IN FISCAL
YEAR 1973

National Museum of Natural History

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY

Angel, J. Lawrence. “A Middle Paleolithic temporal bone from Darra-i-Kur,
Afghanistan.” Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, volume 62,
number 4, pages 54-56, 1972.

. “Ecology and population in the Eastern Mediterranean.” World
Archaeology, volume 4, number 1, pages 87-105, 1972.

. “Human skeletal material from the Church.” Appendix, pages 30-31
in Alison Frantz, the Church of the Holy Apostles. The Athenian Agora, volume
XX, ASCS, Princeton, 1971.

Crocker, William H. “The non-adaptation of a savanna Indian tribe (Canela,
Brazil) to forced forest relocation: an analysis of ecological factors.” In Anais (I
Seminario de Estudos Brasileiros, 1971, Universidade de Sao Paulo), volume 1,
pages 213-281.

John C. Ewers. “A Unique Pictorial Interpretation of Blackfoot Indian Religion,
1846-1847.” Ethnohistory, volume 18, number 3, pages 231-238, 1 plate, 1971
(publ. in 1972).

——_———. “The Influence of the Fur Trade Upon the Indians of the Northern
Plains.” In People and Pelts. Selected Papers of the Second North American Fur Trade
Conference. Edited by Malvina Bolus, pages 1-26. Peguis Publishers, Winnipeg,
Manitoba, 1972.

. “Indians as Warriors” (pp. 37-44), and “The Static Images” (pp.
107-109) in Look to the Mountain Top. Edited by Bernard L. Fontana. Gousha
Publications, San Jose, Calif., 1972.

. “Blackfoot or Blackfeet? ” Lore. Milwaukee Public Museum. Summer,
1972, pages 113-114.

. Introduction to The Gilcrease-Hargrett Catalogue of Imprints, page vii.
Compiled by Lester Hargrett. University of Oklahoma Press. Norman, Okla.,
1972.

. Introduction to exhibition catalog, Winold Reiss: Plains Portraits, pages
4-6. Kennedy Galleries Inc., New York City, 1972.

. Report on the Indian Tribes of Texas in 1828 by Jose Francisco Ruiz.
Translated by Georgette Dorn. Edited and with an Introduction (pages 1—5) by
John C. Ewers. Yale University Library. New Haven, 1972.

. “Climate, Acculturation and Costume, a History of Women’s

209
236 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Clothing Among the Indians of the Southern Plains.” Delivered as Anthropol-
ogical Society of Washington Lecture March 1973; to be published by
Anthropological Society of Washington, 31 typed pages).

. “The Nomadic Plains Indians’ Image of Their Environment.”
Lecture delivered at Images of the Plains Conference, University of Nebraska,
April 1973.

. “George Catlin—His Accomplishments and Influences.” Cooke-
Daniels Lecture delivered at Denver Art Museum, March 1973.

. “Intertribal Warfare as the Precursor of Indian-White Warfare on
the Northern Plains. Lecture delivered at the Pacific Northwest History
Conference, March 1973.

. “Problems and Procedures in Developing Small Museums.” Lecture
delivered to Montana Museums Assn., Helena, Montana, May 1973.

. “Friendly Enemies: Army Officers’ Studies of Plains Indians—since
Lewis and Clark.” Lecture delivered to The Westerners, Billings, Montana,
May 1973.

Fitzhugh, William W. “Environmental Archeology and Cultural Systems in
Hamilton Inlet, Labrador.” Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology, number
16, WO72:

. “The Eastern Archaic: commentary and northern perspective.”
Pennsylvania Archaeologist, Spring, 1972.

. “A Re-Analysis of the Shoop site,” by Steven Cox, Department of
Anthropology, Smithsonian Institution, 1972—edited by W. Fitzhugh.

—————. “Environmental approaches to the prehistory of the North.”
Washington Academy of Sciences, Bulletin, June 1972.

Koritzer, Richard T. “Dental Pathology in a Sample of 101 Jersey County,
Illinois, Indians.”

Koritzer, Richard T., and Daniel Roth. “Applications of Statistical Analysis to
Scientific Dental Studies.” Georgetown Dental Journal, volume 38, number 1,
pages 27-30.

Laughlin, Robert M., and W.S. Merwin. “Two Zinacantec Poems.” Review, winter,
pages 48-49.

Meggers, Betty J., and Clifford Evans. “Some Problems of Cultural Adaptation in
Amazonia with Emphasis on the Pre-European Period.” In Tropical Forest
Ecosystems in Africa and South America: A Comparative Review, edited by Betty J.
Meggers, Edward S. Ayensu, and W. Donald Duckworth, pages 311-320,
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1973.

. “A reconstituicao da pré-historia amazonica. Algumas consideracoes
teoricas.” In O Museu Goeldi no Ano do Sesquicentenario, pages 51-69. Museu
paraense Emilio Goeldi, Avulsas 20, Belem, 1973.

. “Site Survey at the Mouth of the Amazon.” Reprint from Bureau of
American Ethnology Bulletin 167, pages 6-11 in Jn Search of Man, Ernestene
L. Green, editor, pages 43-48, Little, Brown and Co., New York, 1973.

Milanich, Jerald T., and William C. Sturtevant, ‘“Franciscon Pareja’s 1613
Confessionario: A Documentary Source for Timucuan Ethnography.” Tallahas-

see: Division of Archives, History, and Records Management, Florida Depart- :

ment of State. Pages vi, 121, 1973.

Ortner, Donald J., David W. Von Endt, and Mary S. Robinson. “The Effect of
temperature on protein decay in bone: its significance in nitrogen dating of
archeological specimens.” American Antiquity, 37:514-520, 1972.

Phebus, George E. “Archeology: Western Hemisphere.” Americana Annual, New
York, 1973.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 237

Riesenberg, Saul H. “The Organization of Navigational Knowledge on Puluwat.”
The Journal of the Polynesian Society, volume 8, pages 19-56, 1972.

. Foreword, pages vii-ix., to David Lewis, We, the Navigators, Canberra,
1972.

Stewart, T. D. “Wilton Marion Krogman: A resumé.” American Journal of Physical
Anthropology, volume 38, number 1, pages 53-55, 1973.

. “Recent Improvements in Estimating Stature, Sex, Age and Race
from Skeletal Remains.” Chapter 9 (pages 193-211) in Modern Trends in
Forensic Medicine, edited by A. Keith Mant. London: Butterworths, 1973.

. The People of America. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson; New York:
Scribners, pages xiv-261, 1973.

Sturtevant, William C. “American Indian Religions,” pages 45-51 in Look to the
Mountain Top, edited by Robert L. lacopi, Bernard L. Fontana, and Charles
Jones. San Jose: Gousha Publications, 1972.

—_______. “Museums as Anthropological Data Banks,” pages 40-55 in Anthro-
pology Beyond the University, edited by Alden Redfield, Southern Anthropologi-
cal Society Proceedings No. 7, Athens, Georgia, 1973.

Sturtevant, William C., and Samuel Stanley. “Linguistics in the Smithsonian,”
pages 14-18 in Themes in Linguistics: the 1970's, edited by Eric P. Hamp. Janua
Linguarum, Series Minor, 172. The Hague, Mouton, 1973.

_ Trousdale, William. “The Crenelated Mane: New Materials and Speculations,”
East and West, New Series, volume 21, numbers 3-4 (1971), pages 341-344.
Rome, December 1972.

DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY

Ayensu, Edward S. “Phytogeography and Evolution of the Velloziaceae.” Pages
105-119 in Comparative Evolution of Tropwal Forest Ecosystems in Africa and South
Ameria, by various authors, edited by B. Meggers, E. S. Ayensu, and W. D.
Duckworth. Washington: Smithsonian Press, 1973.

. “The Religious, ‘Stupendous’ Passionflowers.” Smithsonian, volume 3,
number 12 (1973), pages 56-61.

. “Studies on Pollen Morphology in the Velloziaceae.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 85 (1972), pages 467-478.

Ayensu, Edward S., and D. G. Coursey. “Guinea Yams: The Botany, Ethnobo-
tany, Use and Possible Future of Yams in West Africa.” Economic Botany,
volume 26, number 4 (1972), pages 301-318.

| Ayensu, Edward S., and N. H. Williams. “Leaf Anatomy of Palumbina and
Odontoglossum Subgenus Osmoglossum.” American Orchid Society Bulletin, volume
41, number 8 (1972), pages 687-696.

| Conger, Paul S., G. A. Fryxell, and S. Z. El-Sayed. “Diatom Species Reported

from the Gulf of Mexico.” Pages 18-29 in “Chemistry, Primary Productivity,

and Benthic Algae of the Gulf of Mexico, Appendix 1, List of Species.” Serial

_ Atlas of the Marine Environment, Folio 22. New York: American Geographical

. Society, 1972.

Cowan, R. S. “Museum as Environmental Data-Banks: Curatorial Problems Posed

‘by Extensive Biological Surveys.” In “The Panamic Biota—Some Observations
Prior to a Sea-Level Canal.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington,

_ number 2 (1972), pages 59-68.
| Cuatrecasas, J. “Algo sobre Compositae en la Flora de Colombia.” Memorias I

Congreso Latinoamericano de Botanica (1972), pages 157-166.
238 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Armando Dugand.” Taxon, volume 21, numbers 2-3 (1972), pages
377-378.
. “Miscelanea sobre Flora Neotropica III.” Ciencia (Mexico), volume
27, number 6 (1972), pages 171-184.
“Miscellaneous notes on Neotropical Flora III.” Phytologia, volume
25, number 4 (1973), pages 249-256.

Dahl, Arthur L. “(Review of) Ecological Consequences of Immoderation.” World
Order, volume 6, number 4 (1972), pages 61-62.

“Ecology and Community Structure of Some Tropical Reef Algae in
Samoa.” Proceedings of the International Seaweed Symposium, volume 7 (1972),
pages 34-39.

Darling, Thomas, Jr., and Stanwyn G. Shetler. “Sarracenia X catesbaei Elliott (pro
sp.) in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania.” Castanea, volume 37, number 2
(June 1972), pages 133-137. [Not previously reported.]

Dennis, J. V., and C. R. Gunn. “Sea Beans.” Florida Naturalist, volume 45,
number | (1972), pages 11-14.

Eyde, R. H. “Pollen of Alangium: Toward a More Satisfactory Synthesis.” Taxon,
volume 21, number 4 (1972), pages 471-477.

Fosberg, F. R. “Caesalpinia Major a Legitimate Name.” Taxon, volume 22 (1973),
pages 162-163.

“Emilia (Compositae) in Ceylon.” Ceylon Journal of Science, volume 10
(1972), pages 61-69.

. Field Guide to Excursion III, Tenth Pacific Science Congress. Revised

Edition. Honolulu: University of Hawaii, 1972.

“On the Importance of Preserving Diversity in Ecosystems,” (riumber
36 in Publications UICN Nouvelle Series: Comptes Rendus de la Conference
Internationale sur la Conservation de la Nature et de ses Ressources a Madagascar,
Morges, Switzerland: Union Internationale pour la Conservation de la Nature
et de ses Resources, 1972), pages 81-84.

“Our Native Plants—a Look to the Future.” National Parks and
Conservation Magazine, volume 46, number 11 (1972), pages 17-21.

“Plants of Southeastern Polynesia, 2.” Micronesica, volume 8, numbers
1 and 2 (1972), pages 43-49.

“Reflections after the Symposium on Systematic Biological Collec-
tions, July 6-8, 1972.” Plant Science Bulletin, volume 19, number 1 (1973),
pages 4-6.

“Temperate Zone Influence on Tropical Forest Land Use: A Plea

for Sanity.” Pages 345-350 in Tropical Forest Ecosystems in Africa and South ©

America, by various authors, edited by B. Meggers, E. S. Ayensu and W. D.
Duckworth. Washington: Smithsonian Press, 1973.

“The Value of Systematics in the Environmental Crisis.” Taxon,
volume 21, numbers 5-6 (1972), pages 631-634.

Fosberg, F. R., and M.-H. Sachet. “Status of Flora of Western Indian Ocean |
Islands,” (number 36 in Publications UICN Nouvelle Series: Comptes Rendus de la |
Conference Internationale sur la Conservation de la Nature et de ses Ressources a |
Madagascar, Morges, Switzerland: Union Internationale pour la Conservation ‘

de la Nature et de ses Resources, 1972), pages 152-155.

Goldberg, Aaron. “Relationship of Dose and Period of Administration of Larvae {

to Gastrointestinal Nematode Burden in Calves.” American Journal of Veterinary |
Research, volume 34 (1973), pages 345-352.

Gunn, C. R., and J. V. Dennis. “An Ancient Import: Sea Hearts from the
Tropics.” Yankee (August 1972), pages 168-169.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 239

. “Stranded Tropical Seeds and Fruits Collected from Carolina
Beaches.” Castanea, volume 37, number 2 (1972), pages 195-200.

Hale, Mason E. “Fine Structure of the Cortex in the Lichen Family Parmeliaceae
Viewed with the Scanning-electron Microscope.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Botany, number 10 (1973), pages 1-92.

. “Natural History of Plummers Island, Maryland. XXI. Infesta-
tion of the Lichen Parmelia baltimorensis Gyel. and For. by Hypogastrura packardi
Folsom (Collembola).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume
85 (1972), pages 287-295.

——————.. “New Species of Parmelia Section Cyclocheila in Southern Africa.”
Bryologist, volume 75 (1972), pages 343-347.

. “Six New Species of Parmelia (Lichenes) from Africa.” Phytologia,
volume 23 (1972), pages 343-349.

. “Typification of Species in the Lichen Family Thelotremataceae.
Described by Acharius.” Botaniska Notiser, volume 125 (1972), pages 186-198.

Hall, John W., and D. H. Nicolson. ‘“Paxillitriletes,; A New Name for Fossil
Megaspores Hitherto Named Thomsonia.” Taxon, volume 22 (1973), pages 319-
320.

King, R. M., and H. Robinson. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LX XIV.
New Species of Critonia, Fleischmannia and Hebeclinium.” Phytologia, volume 23
(1972), pages 405-408.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXV. A New Genus,
Cronquistianthus.” Phytologia, volume 23 (1972), pages 409-412.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXVI. Additions to the
Genus Kysteiopsis.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 57-59.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXVII. Additions to the
Genus Steviopsis.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 60-62.

King, R. M., and H. Robinson. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae).
LXXVIII. A New Genus, Brickelliastrum.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages
63-64. :

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXIX. A New Genus,
Asanthus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 65-66.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXX. A New Genus,

_ Flyriella.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 67-69.

——. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXI. The Genus,

Phanerostylis.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 70-71.

im. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXII. A New Genus,

__ Austrobrickellia.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 72-73.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXIII. A New Genus,

Pseudobrickellia.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 74-76.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXIV. A New Genus,

Crossothamnus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 77-78.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXV. Additions to the

| Genus Ageratina with a Key to the Costa Rican Species.” Phytologia, volume 24

_ (1972), pages 79-104.

———. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXVI. Additions to the

Genus, Neocuatrecasia.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 105-107.

\———. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXVII. The Genus,

Alomia.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 108-111.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXVIII. Additions to

the Genus, Ageratum.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 112-117.

240 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). LXXXIX. A New Genus,
Blakeanthus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 118-119.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XC. The Genus, Campulo-
clinium.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 170-172.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCI. A New Genus,
Macropodina.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 173-175.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCII. The Genus, Tricho-
gonia.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 176-179. |
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCIII. A New Genus,
Trichogoniopsis.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 180-181.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCIV. A New Genus, |
Platypodanthera.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 182-183. |
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCV. Additions to the
Genus Barrosoa.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), page 184. |
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCVI. A New Genus,
Lasiolaena.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 185-186. |
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCVII. A New Genus,
Dasycondylus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 187-191.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCVIII. A New Genus,
Diacranthera.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 192-194. i
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). XCIX. A New Genus, |
Amolinia, and a New Combination in Bartlettina.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), |
pages 265-266. |
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). C. A. Key to the Genera of!
Nueva Galicia, Mexico.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 267-280. i
—————. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CI. New Species of}
Fleischmannia and Neomirandea.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 281-284.
————. studies’ m the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). Cll. A New Genus,
Condylidium.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 380-381.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CIII. A New Genus,
Ayapanopsis.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 382-386.
—————.. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CIV. A New Genus,j
Gongrostylus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 387-388.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CV. A New Genus,
Heterocondulus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 389-392.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CVI. A New Genus, |
Gymnocondylus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 393-394. |
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CVII. A New Genus,
Alomiella.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 395-396. )
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CVIII. A New Genus/
Condylopodium.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 397-400. |
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CIX. A New Genus,|
Acnitopappus.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 401-403.
. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CX. Additions to the
Genus, Campuloclinium.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 404-406.
Kral, R., and Lyman B. Smith. “Typification of Xyris macrocephala Vahl.” Taxons
volume 21 (1972), pages 651-652. |
Krauss, Harriet Meadow. “The Use of Generalized Information Processing
Systems in the Biological Sciences.” Taxon, volume 22, number | (1973), pages
3-18.
Lellinger, David B. “Five New Species of Polybotrya.” American Fern Journal;
volume 62, number 2 (1972), pages 49-56.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 241

“Polypodiaceae Subfam Adiantoideae.” In Bassett Maguire and
Collaborators, “The Botany of the Guayana Highland—Part IX.” Memoirs of the
New York Botanical Garden, volume 23 (1972), pages 1-15.

“Polypodiaceae Subfam Vittarioideae.” In Bassett Maguire and
Collaborators, “The Botany of the Guayana Highland—Part IX.” Memoirs of the
New York Botanical Garden, volume 23 (1972), pages 15-23.

. “A Revision of the Fern Genus Niphidium.” American Fern Journal,
volume 62, number 4 (1972), pages 101-120.

McClure, F. A. “Genera of Bamboos Native to the New World.” T. R.
Soderstrom, editor. Smithsonian Contributors to Botany, number 9 (1973), pages
1-148.

Morton, C. V. “Date of Publication of Sodiro’s Cryptogamae Vasculares
Quitenses.” American Fern Journal, volume 62, number 2 (1972), pages 57-64.

“Some Overlooked Combinations for Eastern North American
Ferns.” American Fern Journal, volume 62, number | (1972), page 30.

“A New Species of Besleria from Venezuela.” Acta Botanica
Venezuelica, volume 6, numbers 1-4 (1972), pages 95-97.

Morton, C. V., and D. Denham. “Lectotypifications of Some Generic Names of
Gesneriaceae.” Taxon, volume 21, numbers 5-6 (1972), pages 669-678.

Morton, C. V., and D. B. Lellinger. “Pteridophyta.” In Julian A. Steyermark,
Bassett Maguire and Collaborators, “The Flora of the Meseta del Cerro Jaua.”
Memonrs of the New York Botanical Garden, volume 23 (1972), pages 845-846.

Nowicke, J. W. “Rhamnaceae.” In Robert E. Woodson, Jr., Robert W. Schery and
Collaborators, “Flora of Panama.” Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden,
volume 58 (1971), pages 267-283.

Nowicke, J. W., and J. E. Ridgway. ‘Pollen Studies in the Genus Cordia
(Boraginaceae).” American Journal of Botany, volume 60, number 6 (1973),
pages 584-591.

Porter, Duncan M. “The Genera of Zygophyllaceae in the Southeastern United
States.” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum, volume 53, number 4 (October 1972),

pages 531-552.

——. “Geranium potentilloides in California.” Madrono, volume 21, number 6
(April 1972), page 449.

_—————.. “Three New Species of Zanthoxylum (Rutaceae) from Darién Prov-

ince, Panama.” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum, volume 53, number 3 (July

1972), pages 403-408.

————.. “Three New Species of Picramnia (Simaroubaceae) from Central

America.” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum, volume 54, number 2 (April 1973),

pages 315-321.

| a Duncan M., Robert W. Kiger, and Judith E. Monahan. “A Guide for
Contributors to Flora North America, Part II: An Outline and Glossary of

! Terms for Morphological and Habitat Description (Provisional Edition).” Flora

_ North America Report, number 66 (March 1973), x + 154 pages.

Reed, C. F., and H. Robinson. Index to Die Natiirlichen Pflanzenfamilien (Musci—

| Hepaticae) Editions 1 and 2. Baltimore: C. F. Reed, 1972, xxii + 336 pages.

Richardson, James W., and Lyman B. Smith. “Canaceas.” Flora Ilustrada

= Catarinense, — fascicle CANA (July 1972), pages 1-39.

obinson, H. “Observations on the Origin and Taxonomy of the Antarctic Moss
Flora.” Antarctic Research Series, volume 20 (1972), pages 163-177.
“Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). I. A New Species of
Rheysolepis.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 209-210.
Robinson, H., and R. D. Brettell. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). II. A
2492 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Survey of the Mexican and Central American Species of Simsia.” Phytologia,
volume 24 (1972), pages 361-377.
. “Tribal Revisions in the Asteraceae. I. The Relationship of Geissole-
pis.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 299-301.
—. “Tribal Revisions in the Asteraceae. II. The Relationship of
Trichospira.” Phytologia, volume 25 (1973), pages 259-261.

. “Tribal Revisions in the Asteraceae. III. A New Tribe, Liabeae.”
Phytologia, volume 25 (1973), pages 404-407.

. “Tribal Revisions in the Asteraceae. IV. The Relationships of
Neurolaena, Schistocarpha and Alepidocline.” Phytologia, volume 25 (1973), pages
439-445.

Rudd, Velva E. “Leguminosae-Faboideae-Sophoreae.” North American Flora Re-
port, series 2, part 7 (August 1972), pages 1-50.

. “A New Species of Myrocarpus (Leguminosae) and a Brief Resumé of
the Genus.” Phytologia, volume 23 (July 1972), pages 401-404.

. “New Taxa and Combinations in Machaerium (Leguminosae) II.”
Phytologia, volume 24 (September 1972), pages 121-125.

. “Studies in Coursetia (Leguminosae) I.” Phytologia, volume 25
(February 1973), pages 257-258.

. “Supplementary Studies in Chaetocalyx I. (Leguminosae) Including a
New Species from Brazil.” Phytologia, volume 24 (November 1972), pages 295—
29.

. “Two New Species of Ateleia (Leguminosae) New to North America.”
Phytologia, volume 24, (September 1972), page 120.

Sachet, M.-H. “Atoll News and Comment.” Atoll Research Bulletin, volume 162
(1972), pages 1-26.

Sachet, M.-H., and F. R. Fosberg. “Plants of Southeastern Polynesia. II.”
Micronesia, volume 8, numbers 1-2 (1972), pages 43-50.

. “Status of Flora of Western Indian Ocean Islands,’ (number 36 in
Publications UICN Nouvelle Series: Comptes Rendus de la Conference Internationale
sur la Conservation de la Nature et de ses Ressources a Madagascar, Morges,
Switzerland: Union Internationale pour la Conservation de la Nature et de ses
Resources, 1972), pages 152-155.

Shetler, Stanwyn G. “Information Systems and Data Banking.” Pages 469-497 in
Vascular Plant Systematics by A. E. Radford, W. C. Dickison, C. R. Bell, and
Contributors. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Student Stores, 1972.

Shetler, Stanwyn G., and Harriet R. Meadow. “Flora North America: A
Comprehensive Program of Biological Research, Information Systems Devel-
opment, and Data Banking Concerned with the Vascular Plants of North
America North of Mexico.” Flora North America Report, number 61 (July 1971),
pages 1-126 and appendices A-I. [Not previously reported.]

Shetler, Stanwyn G., and others. “An Introduction to the Botanical Type
Specimen Register.” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, number 12 (1973), viii
+ 186 pages, frontispiece and 3 figures.

. “A Guide for Contributors to Flora North America (FNA) (Provi-
sional Edition).” Flora North America Report, number 65 (March 1973), ix + 28
pages and appendices A-E.

Shetler, Stanwyn G., Harriet R. Meadow and compilers. “A Provisional Checklist
of Species for Flora North America.” Flora North America Report, number 64
(September 1972), x + 648 pages.

Simpson (Vuilleumier), B. “The Lactuceae of the Southeastern United States.”
Journal of the Arnold Arboretum, volume 54, number | (1973), pages 42-93.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 243

Smith, Lyman B. “Bromeliaceae.” Flora del Uruguay IV (1972), pages 1-31.

—————.. “Bromeliaceae.” In Julian A. Steyermark, Bassett Maguire and
Collaborators, “The Flora of the Meseta del Cerro Jaua.” Memoirs of the New
York Botanical Garden, volume 23 (November 1972), page 854.

. “Herbarium Notes, IV.” Phytologia, volume 25, number 6 (March
1973), pages 418-419.

—————.. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXXIV.” Phytologia, volume 24, number

5 (December 1972), pages 419-453.

. “Ronnbergia petersi.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society, volume 23,
number 2 (March 1973), pages 46-48, 1 figure.

. “Vriesea duarteana.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society, volume 23,
number | (February 1973), pages 16-17, 1 figure.

. “Xyridaceae.” In Julian A. Steyermark, Bassett Maguire and
Collaborators, “The Flora of the Meseta del Cerro Jaua.” Memoirs of the New
York Botanical Garden, volume 23 (November 1972), page 847.

Smith, Lyman B., and Robert J. Downs. “Amarantaceas.” Flora Ilustrada
Catarinense, part 1, fascicle AMARA (December 1972), pages 1-110.

Smith, Lyman B., and Ruth C. Smith. “Bromeliads of the Lost World.” Journal of
the Bromeliad Society, volume 22, number 6 (November 1972), pages 139-143.
Soderstrom, T. R., and C. E. Calderon. “Morphological and Anatomical
Considerations of the Subfamily Bambusoideae, Based on the New Genus
Maclurolyra.” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, number 11 (1973), iii + 55

pages, 24 figures.

Soderstrom, T. R., and F. A. McClure. “The Agrostological Term, antheciwn.”
Taxon, volume 21, number | (1973), pages 153-154.

Wasshausen, D. C. “New Species of Aphelandra (Acanthaceae).” Phytologia, volume
25 (1973), pages 465-502.

Wasshausen, D. C., and D. F. Austin. “A Ruellia (Acanthaceae) Species in
Exogonium (Convolvulaceae).” Phytologia, volume 25 (1973), pages 433-437.

Wurdack, J. J. “Certamen Melastomataceis XXI.” Phytologia, volume 26, number
1 (1973), pages 3-11.

——————. “Certamen Melastomataceis XX.” Phytologia, volume 24, number 3
(1972), pages 195-208.

—————. “Certamen Melastomataceis XIX.” Phytologia, volume 23, number 5
(1972), pages 474-502.

——————.. “Melastomataceae.” In Bassett Maguire and Collaborators, “The
Botany of the Guayana Highland—Part IX.” Memoirs of the New York Botanical
Garden, volume 23 (1972), pages 197-199.

. “Melastomataceae.” In Julian A. Steyermark, Bassett Maguire and
Collaborators, “The Flora of the Meseta del Cerro Jaua.” Memoirs of the New
York Botanical Garden, volume 23 (1973), pages 872-875.

. “A New Henriettella from Venezuela.” Phytologia, volume 24, num-

ber 4 (1972), pages 293-294.

. “Polygalaceae.” In Bassett Maguire and Collaborators, “The Botany
of the Guayana Highland—Part IX.” Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden,
volume 23 (1972), pages 120-126.

Wurdack, J. J., and J. A. Steyermark. “Notes on the Genus Perama (Rubiaceae).”
Bradea, volume 1, number 16 (1972), pages 151-152.

Lectures and Seminars

Eyde, Richard H. “The Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy of Flowering Plants.”
Franklin & Marshall College, October 1972.
244 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Distinguishing Ancestral Features from Derived Features in Flower-
ing Plants.” Ohio State University, March 1973.

. “A Tribute to John Price,” Curator Emeritus of the North Museum
in Lancaster, Exchange Club, Lancaster, Pa., May 1973.

Lellinger, David B. “Phytogeography of the Ferns of the Choco, Colombia.”
American Fern Society Session, AIBS Meetings, Minneapolis, Minn., August
1972.

Read, Robert W. “Ecology of Palms.” Annual meeting of the Society of Economic
Botany at Cornell University, June 1973.

Shetler, Stanwyn G. “Early Pennsylvania Botanists.” Monthly meeting of Pennsyl-
vania Historical Junto, Washington, D.C., February 1973.

. “Plant Exploration in Alaska.” Howard County (Md.) Chapter of
Smithsonian Associates, Columbia, Md., March 1973.

. “Computers in Systematics.” Department of Biology, Towson State
College, Towson, Md., April 1973.

. “250 Years of Russian Botanical Research.” Department of Biology,
Towson State College, Towson, Md., April 1973.

. “Enhancing the Role of the Local or Regional Herbarium.” Meeting
of Association of Southeastern Biologists, Western Kentucky University,
Bowling Green, April 1973 (with James F. Matthews).

Simpson, Beryl. “Desert Scrub Program of the Origin and Structure of
Ecosystems Program of the IBP. Its Goals, Research, and Results to Date.”
International Arid Lands Workshop in Tucson, Arizona, September 1972.

. “Energetic Relationships of Plants and their Pollinators .. .”
Workshop on Energy Flow in Ecosystems at Harvard University, October
LO2.

. “Speciation Patterns in South America.” Duke University, February
LOS:

Smith, Lyman B. “Bromeliaceae or Something for Everyone.” Kansas State
University, March 1973.

Wurdack, John J. “Flora of the Venezuelan Andes.” Philadelphia Botanical Club,
March 1973.

DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY

Baumann, Richard W. “Book Review: The Classification, Evolution, and Disper-
sal of the Winter Stonefly Genus Allocapnia.” Bulletin of the Entomological Society
of America, volume 18 (1972), pages 191-192.

Baumann, Richard W., and Arden R. Gaufin. “The Amphinemura venusta
Complex of Western North America (Plecoptera: Nemouridae).” Natural
History Museum Los Angeles County, Contribution in Science, number 226 (1972),
pages 1-16.

Blake, Doris H. “Colaspis fulvotestacea Lefevre and Its Close Relatives (Coleoptera:
Chrysomelidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume
75 (1973), pages 84-88.

Cartwright, Oscar L. “A key to the Crassulus Group of Aphodius with Descriptions
of New Species from Texas and Maryland (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodi-
inae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 85 (1972), pages
57-62.

. “Additional Lectotype Designations in the Aphodiinae (Coleoptera:
Scarabaeidae).” Coleopterists Bulletin, volume 27 (1973), pages 41-43.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 245

Clarke, J. F. Gates. “Two Pests of Beans from Tropical America.” Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 74 (1972), pages 467-471.

Davis, D. R. “Vespina, a New Name to Replace the Genus Homonym Careospina
Davis (Lepidoptera: Incurvariidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington, volume 74 (1972), page 472.

Duckworth, W. Donald. “Old World Stenomidae: A Preliminary Survey of the
Fauna, Notes on Relationships, and A Revision of the Genus Eriogenes
(Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 147
(1973), pages 1-21.

——————. “Distribution Patterns and Species Diversity in the Microlepidopter-
ous Family Stenomidae (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidae).” Contributed paper. 14th
International Congress of Entomology, Canberra, Australia, 29 August 1972.

. “The Type-Material of North American Clearwing Moths (Lepidop-
tera: Sesiidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 148 (1973), pages
1-34.

Emerson, K. C. Checklist of the Mallophaga of North America (North of Mexico) Part I.
Suborder Ischnocera. 200 pages. Dugway, Utah: Deseret Test Center, 1972.

. “New Records of Mallophaga from Nepalese Mammals.” Journal of
Medical Entomology, volume 8 (1972), page 622.

. “Mallophaga.” Page 360, in Zinderen Bakker, Winterbottom and
Dyer, editors, “Marion and Prince Edward Islands.” South African Biological-
Geological Expedition 1965-6, Balkema, Cape Town, 1972.

. Checklist of the Mallophaga of North America (North of Mexico) Part III.
Mammal Host List. 28 pages. Dugway, Utah: Deseret Test Center, 1972.

. Checklist of the Mallophaga of North America (North of Mexico) Part II.
Suborder Amblycera. 118 pages. Dugway, Utah: Deseret Test Center, 1972.

. Checklist of the Mallophaga of North America (North of Mexico) Part IV.
Bird Host List. 216 pages. Dugway, Utah: Deseret Test Center, 1972.

Emerson, K. C., and Roger D. Price. “A New Genus and Species of Mallophaga
rom a New Guinea Bush Fowl.” Pacific Insects, volume 14 (1972), pages 77-81.

. “A New Species of Felicola (Mallophaga: Trichodectidae) from the
Liberidan Mongoose (Liberictis kuhni).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, volume 85 (1972), pages 399-404.

Erwin, Terry L. “Scientific Note——The Lost Type of Brachinus sallei Chaudoir
(Coleoptera: Carabidae).” Pan-Pacific Entomologist, volume 48 (1972), pages 63—
64.

. “Scientific Note.—Observations on the Life History of Bombardier
Beetles: Mechanism of Egg-Hatching (Coleoptera: Carabidae).” Pan-Pacific
Entomologist, volume 48 (1972), page 64.

. “Trechus obtusus Erichson in California (Coleoptera: Carabidae).” The
Coleopterists Bulletin, volume 26 (1972), page 42.

. “Om biologien hos bombarderbiller (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Brachin-
ida).” Entomologiske Meddelelser, volume 40 (1972), pages 65-71.

——.. “Book Review: The Carabid Beetles of New Guinea by Philip J.
Darlington, Jr.” Systematic Zoology, volume 21 (1972), pages 343-347.

—————. “Nomenclatorial notes on the Tachyini (Coleoptera: Carabidae).”
Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 75 (1973), page
125.

Erwin, Terry L., and G. E. Ball. “Classification of Ovipennis and Trifaria Groups
of Nebria Latreille (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Nebriini).” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington, volume 85 (1972), pages 77-108.

Field, William D., and J. F. Gates Clarke. “Introduction.” Pages i, ii, in Harrison
246 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Morton Tietz, An Index to the Described Life Histories, Early Stages and Hosts of the
Macrolepidoptera of the Continental United States and Canada, 1041 pages.
Sarasota, Florida: The Allyn Museum of Entomology, 1973.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Book Review: The Classification, Evolution, and Dispersal of
the Winter Sonefly Genus Allocapnia.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington, volume 74 (1972), pages 131-132.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XIV: On a Collection from
Northern Argentina.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume
85 (1972), pages 223-248.

Harrison, Bruce A. “A New Interpretation of Affinities within the Anopheles
hyrcanus Complex of Southeast Asia.” Mosquito Systematics, volume 4 (1972),
pages 73-83.

. “A Lectotype Designation and Description for Anopheles (An.) sinensis
Wiedemann 1828, with a Discussion of the Classification and Vector Status of
this and some Other Oriental Anopheles.” Mosquito Systematics, volume 5 (1973),
pages 1-13.

Huang, Yiau-Min. “Lectotype Designation for Aedes (Stegomyia) galloisi Yamada
with a Note on its Assignment to the scutellaris Group of Species.” Proceedings
of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 74 (1972), pages 253-256.

. “Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia. XIV. The
Subgenus Stegomyia of Aedes in Southeast Asia. I—The scutellaris Group of
Species.” Contributions of the American Entomological Institute, volume 9 (1972),
pages 1-108.

. “A New Record of Aedes (Stegomyia) alcasidi Huang (Diptera:
Culicidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington, volume 75
(1973), page 125.

Hurd, P. D., Jr. “A New Edition of the Catalog of North American Hymenop-
tera.” Taxon, volume 21 (1973), pages 361-362.

. “Biology of carpenter bees (Xylocopini).” Invitational lecture at
symposium, “Perspectives on the Biology of the Hymenoptera.” Entomological
Society of America, Annual Meeting, 27 November 1972.

. “Larrea bees of the southwestern United States and Argentina.” °

Seminar. IBP Origin and Structure of Ecosystems, Integrated Research
Program, 20 March 1973.

Krombein, K. V. “Monograph of the Madagascan Mutillidae (Hymenoptera).
Part I: Myrmillini, Mutillini and Smicromyrmini.” Annales du Musee Royal de
l'Afrique Centrale, Sciences Zoologiques, number 199 (1972), pages 1-61.

. “Miscellaneous Prey Records of Solitary Wasps. VI. Notes on Some
Species from Greece (Hymenoptera Aculeata).” Proceedings of the Entomological
Socvety of Washington, volume 74 (1972), pages 383-385.

. “Computerization of the Synoptic Catalog of North American
Hymenoptera.” Contributed paper. 14th International Congress of Entomol-
ogy, Canberra, Australia, 29 August 1972.

. “Biology of stem- and twig-nesting wasps and bees.” Invitational
lecture at symposium, “Perspectives on the Biology of the Hymenoptera.”
Entomological Society of America, Annual Meeting, 27 November 1972.

. “Nesting Habits of Wasps.” Invitational seminar. To faculty and
students at Department of Entomology, Virginia Polytechnic University, 11
May 1973.

Laffoon, J. L., and K. L. Knight. “A Mosquito Taxonomic Glossary. IX. The
Larval Cranium.” Mosquito Systematics, volume 5 (1973), pages 31-96.

Manning, G. S., B. A. Harrison, W. L. Wooding, and M. Subhakul. “Studies on

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 247

Brugia tupaiae in Thailand.” Annals of Tropical Medicine and Parasitology, volume
66 (1972), pages 497-503.

Meggers, Betty L., Edward S. Ayensu, and W. Donald Duckworth, editors.
Tropical Forest Ecosystems in Africa and South America: A Comparative Review. vi-
350 pages. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1973.

Muesebeck, C. F. W. “Nearctic Species of Scelionidae (Hymenoptera: Proctotru-
poidea) that Parasitize the Eggs of Grasshoppers.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 122 (1972), pages 1-33.

. “A New Reared Species of Trichopria (Proctotrupoidea: Diapriidae).”
Entomological News, volume 83 (1972), pages 141-143.

Peyton, E. L. “A Subgeneric Classification of the Genus Uranotaenia Lynch
Arribalzaga, with a Historical Review and Notes on Other Categories.”
Mosquito Systematics, volume 4 (1972), pages 16-40.

Price, Roger D., and K. C. Emerson. “A New Subgenus and Three New Species
of Geomydoecus (Mallophaga: Trichodectidae) from Thomomys (Rodentia: Geo-
myidae).” Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 9 (1972), pages 463-467.

Reinert, John F. “Description of the Egg of Aedes (Aedimorphus) domesticus
(Theobald) (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, volume 4 (1972), pages
60-62.

. “Description of the Egg of Aedes (Diceromyia) furcifer Edwards
(Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, volume 4 (1972), pages 87-89.

. “Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia. XV. Genus
Aedes Meigen, Subgenus Ayurakitia Thurman.” Contributions of the American
Entomological Institute, volume 9 (1972), pages 1-42.

. “Aedes gouldi, a New Species of the Subgenus Aedimorphus Theobald
from West Pakistan (Diptera: Culicidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society
of Washington, volume 74 (1972), pages 357-362.

——_.. “Description of the Egg of Aedes (Levua) swvae Stone and Bohart
(Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, volume 4 (1972) pages 128-130.

. “Notes on the Genus Heizmannia and the Inclusion in Subgenus
Mattinglyia of Two Species Placed in Aedes Subgenus Uncertain (Diptera:
Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, volume 5 (1973), pages 14-23.

. “Aedes wainwrighti Baisas, a Synonym of Aedes (Stegomyia) meronephada
(Dyar and Shannon), with Notes on the Subgenus Stegomyia Theobald
(Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics, volume 5 (1973), pages 27-30.

. “Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia XVI. Genus
Aedes Meigen, Subgenus Aedimorphus Theobald in Southeast Asia.” Contributions
of the American Entomological Institute, volume 9 (1973), pages 1-218.

Sirivanakarn, S. “Contributions to the Mosquito Fauna of Southeast Asia. XIII.
The Genus Culex, Subgenus Ewmelanomyia Theobald in Southeast Asia and
Adjacent Areas.” Contributions of the American Entomological Institute, volume 8
(1972), pages 1-86.

——_—.. “Three New Species of Culex Subgenus Culiciomyia Theobald from
Southeast Asia and a Redescription of the Type of C. tricuspis Edwards from
Alor, Lesser Sunda Islands, Indonesia (Diptera: Culicidae).” Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington, volume 75 (1973), pages 112-124.

Spangler, Paul J., and Jarrett L. Cross. “A Description of the Egg Case and
Larva of the Water Scavenger Beetle, Helobata striata (Coleoptera: Hydrophili-
dae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 85 (1972), pages
413-418.

Spangler, Paul J., and Janice M. Gillespie. “The Larva and Pupa of the
248 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Predaceous Water Beetle, Hygrotus say: (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae).” Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington, volume 86 (1973), pages 143-152.

Traub, R. “Notes on Zoogeography, Convergent Evolution and Taxonomy of
Fleas (Siphonaptera), Based on Collections from Gunong Benom and Else-
where in South-east Asia. I. New Taxa (Pygiopsyllidae, Pygiopsyllinae).”
Bulletin of the British Museum (Natural History), Zoology, volume 23, number 9
(1972), pages 201-305.

———. “Notes on Zoogeography, Convergent Evolution and Taxonomy of
Fleas (Siphonaptera), Based on Collections from Gunong Benom and Else-
where in South-east Asia. Il. Convergent Evolution.” Bulletin of the British
Museum (Natural History), Zoology, volume 23, number 10 (1972), pages 307-
387.

. “Notes on Zoogeography, Convergent Evolution and Taxonomy of
Fleas (Siphonaptera), Based on Collections from Gunong Benom and Else-
where in South-east Asia. III]. Zoogeography.” Bulletin of the British Museum
(Natural History), Zoology, volume 23, number 11 (1972), pages 389-450.

. “The Colloquium on the Zoogeography and Ecology of Ectoparas-
ites, Their Hosts and Related Infections at the Second International Congress
of Parasitology, Washington, D.C., 1970. 2. The Zoogeography of Fleas
(Siphonaptera) as Supporting the Theory of Continental Drift.” Journal of |
Medical Entomology, volume 9 (1972), pages 584-589.

. “The Colloquium on the Zoogeography and Ecology of Ectoparas-
ites, Their Hosts and Related Infections at the Second International Congress
of Parasitology, Washington, D.C., 1970. 23. The Relationship Between the
Spines, Combs and Other Skeletal Features of Fleas (Siphonaptera) and the ’
Vestiture, Affinities and Habits of Their Hosts.” Journal of Medical Entomology, |
volume 9 (1972), page 601.

. “The Colloquium on the Zoogeography and Ecology of Ectoparas-
ites, Their Hosts and Related Infections at the Second International Congress
of Parasitology, Washington, D.C., 1970. 27. Notes on Fleas and the Ecology
of Plague.” Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 9 (1972), page 603.

Traub, R., and B. L. Elisberg, editors. “The Colloquium on the Zoogeography
and Ecology of Ectoparasites, Their Hosts and Related Infections at the |
Second International Congress of Parasitology, Washington, D.C., 1970.” |
Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 9 (1972), pages 583-605. ;

. “The Colloquium on the Zoogeography and Ecology of Ectoparas-
ites, Their Hosts and Related Infections at the Second International Congress 4
of Parasitology, Washington, D.C., 1970. 1. Introductory Remarks by the »
Editors.” Journal of Medical Entomology, volume 9 (1972), page 584. {

Traub, R., and C. L. Wisseman, Jr. “The Colloquium on the Zoogeography and 4)
Ecology of Ectoparasites, Their Hosts and Related Infections at the Second }
International Congress of Parasitology, Washington, D.C., 1970. 5. Diminution |
in the Endemicity of Scrub Typhus with the Passage of Time.” Journal of ik
Medical Entomology, volume 9 (1972), pages 590-591.

Traub, R., C. L. Wisseman, Jr., and M. Nadchatram. “The Colloquium on the ©
Zoogeography and Ecology of Ectoparasites, Their Hosts and Related Infec- -
tions at the Second International Congress of Parasitology, Washington, D.C., -
1970. 4. The Zoogeography and Ecology of Scrub Typhus.” Journal of Medical’
Entomology, volume 9 (1972), pages 589-590.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY if

Barnard, J. Laurens. “The Marine Fauna of New Zealand: Algae-Living Littoral |
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 249

Gamaridea (Crustacea Amphipoda).” New Zealand Department of Scientific and
Industrial Research Bulletin, number 210 (1972), 215 pages, 109 figures.

. “A Review of the Family Synopiidae (=Tironiidae), Mainly Distrib-
uted in the Deep-Sea.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 124 (1972),
94 pages, 46 figures.

. “Deep-Sea Amphipoda of the Genus Lepechinella (Crustacea)
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 133 (1973), 31 pages, 12 figures.
Bowman, Thomas E. “‘Cithadius cyathurae, a New Genus and Species of

Tachidiidae (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) Associated with the Estuarine Isopod,
Cyathura polita.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 85,
number 18 (1972), pages 249-254.

, and R. B. Manning. “Two Arctic Bathyal Crustaceans: the Shrimp
Bythocaris cryonesus, New Species, and the Amphipod Eurythenes gryllus, with In
Situ Photographs from Ice Island T-3.” Crustaceana, volume 23, part 2 (1972),
pages 187-201, plate 1.

. “Pelagic Amphipods of the Genus Hyperia and Closely Related
Genera. (Hyperiidea: Hyperiidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number
136 (1972), 76 pages.

Bradford, Janet M. “Systematics and Ecology of New Zealand Central East Coast
Plankton Sampled at Kaikoura.” New Zealand Department of Scientific and
Industrial Research Bulletin, number 207 (1972), 89 pages.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. “Longevity of the West Indian Terrestrial Hermit Crab,
Coenobita clypeatus (Herbst, 1791) (Decapoda, Anomura).” Crustaceana, volume

_ 22, part 3 (1972), page 320.

——. “Palaemon debilis from Hawaii and the Status of the Genus
Palaemonetes (Decapoda, Palaemonidae).” Crustaceana, volume 23, part 1 (1972),
pages 12-19, 4 figures.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. and Raymond B. Manning. “Two New Caridean Shrimps,

_ One Representing a New Family, from Marine Pools on Ascension Island

| (Crustacea: Decapoda: Natantia).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number

131 (1972), pages 1-18, 11 figures.

Cressey, Roger F. “Therodamas dawsoni, a New Species of Parasitic Copepod

_ (Cyclopoida: Ergasilidae) from the West Coast of Panama.” Proceedings of the

Biological Society of Washington, volume 85, number 20 (1972), pages 265-270.

. “The Genus Argulus (Crustacea: Branchiura) of the United States.”

Biota of Freshwater Ecosystems. Identification Manual 2. United States Environ-

| mental Protection Agency, Water Pollution Control Research Servs (1972), pages

1-14.

Downey, Maureen E. “Starfishes from the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico.”

_ Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 126 (1973), pages 1-158, 48 plates.

obbs, Horton H., Jr. “Biota of Freshwater Ecosystems. Identification Manual Number

9. Crayfishes (Astacidae) of North and Middle America.” United States Environ-

mental Protection Agency, Water Pollution Control Research Series, (1972) pages

Seely, 115 figures.

‘Hobbs, Horton H., and Rudolph Prins. “A New Crayfish of the Subgenus

' Puncticambarus from the Savannah River Drainage with Notes on Cambarus (P.)

reburrus Prins (Decapoda, Astacidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of

Washington, volume 84, number 47 (1972), pages 411-420, 1| figure.

Hobbs, Horton H., and Martha R. Cooper. “A New Troglobitic Crayfish from

Oklahoma (Decapoda: Astacidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of

_ Washington, volume 85, number 3 (1972), pages 49-56, 1 figure.

obbs, Horton H., and Edward T. Hall, Jr. “A New Crayfish from the

”

L

\

Tallapoosa River in Georgia (Decapoda: Astacidae).” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington, volume 85, number 3 (1972), pages 151-161, 1 figure.
Holsinger, John R. “The Freshwater Amphipod Crustaceans (Gammaridae) of
North America.” Biota of Freshwater Ecosystems, Identification Manual 5. United |
States Enyironmental Protection Agency, Water Pollution Research Serves (1972), |
pages 1-89.

250 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Hope, W. D. Review of “The Structure of Nematodes.” Transactions of the |
American Microscopical Society, volume 92, number 2, pages 328-329. |
Hope, W. D., and D. G. Murphy. “A Taxonomic Hierarchy and Checklist of the
Genera and Higher Taxa of Marine Nematodes.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, number 137 (1972), pages 1-101.

Jones, Meredith L. “Preliminary Investigations of Related Species of Inverte- ;
brates from the Two Coasts of Panama, Using Electrophoretic Techniques.”
Ninth Meeting, Association of Island Marine Laboratories of the Caribbean,
(1972), page 26.
. Introduction. In Jones, Meredith L., editor, “The Panamic Biota:
Some Observations Prior to a Sea-Level Canal,” Bulletin of the Biological Society
of Washington, number 2 (1972), pages vi-vili.
. Editor “The Panamic Biota: Some Observations Prior to a Sea-Level
Canal.” Ibid, 270 pages.
. Statement before the Subcommittee on Panama Canal of the
Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, House of Representatives, |
92nd Congress, on Treaties Affecting the Operations of the Panama Canal. |
Serial Number 92-30 (1972), pages 252-259. ‘
. Comparisons of Electrophoretic Patterns of Littorine Snails of |
Panama. An Attempt to Define Geminate Species. XVII“ Congres Interna- |
tional de Zoologie, Theme Number 3, Les consequences biologiques des canaux |
inter-oceans, number 7 (1972), pages 1-10.
. Flowers of the Sea. Natural History (Magazine), volume 82, number 3 /
(1973), pages 40-45. !
Kenk, Roman. Freshwater Planarians (Turbellaria) of North America. Biota of
Freshwater Ecosystems, Identification Manual No. 1. United States Environmental :!
Protection Agency, Water Pollution Control Research Series (1972), pages ix +H
81. 7 !

. Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America. V. The Genus I
Polycelis. iaeora Contributions to Zoology, number 135 (1973), pages 1-15.

. Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America. VI. The Genus)
Dendrocoelopsis. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 138 (1973), pages:
1-16. i
Kornicker, Louis S., and I. G. Sohn. Cypretta kawatai, a New Species of Freshwater)
Ostracoda (Crustacea). Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume)
85, number 26 (1972), pages 313-316.

. Morphology of Cypretta kawatat Sohn and Kornicker, 1972 (Crustacea, \
Genitalia) with Discussion of the Genus. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
number 141 (1972), pages 1-28.

Manning, Raymond B. Notes on Some Stomatopod Crustaceans from Peru.’
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 85, number 24 (1972),
pages 297-308.

. Three New Stomatopod Crustaceans of the Family Lysiosquillidae,
from the Eastern Pacific Region. [bid., volume 85, number 21 (1972), pages’
271-278.

v
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF Zoi

. Gonodactylus spinulosus Schmitt, a West Indian Stomatopod New to
Bermuda. Crustaceana, volume 23, number 3 (1973), page

. Preliminary Definition of a New Genus of Stomatopoda. Jbid.,
volume 23, number 3 (1973), page

Morrison, J. P. E. Mediterranean Siphonaria West and East, Old and New.

Argamon, volume 3 (1972), pages 51-62.

. New Name for a Texan Hydrobia. The Nautilus, volume 87 (1973),
page 28.

. Sympatric Species of Elliptio Living in the St. John’s River, Florida.
Bulletin of the American Malacological Union, number (1973), pages

. The Families of the Pearly Freshwater Mussels. /bid., number

| (1973), pages

_ Pawson, David L. Class Rotifera. Pages 268-275 in A. J. Marshall and W. D.

Williams, editor, Textbook of Zoology Invertebrates. MacMillan: London, 1972.

| . Class Gastrotricha. [bid., pages 275-277.

| Rehder, Harald A. “Some Notes on the Genus Teramachia (Volutidae: Calliotec-

| tinae).” The Veliger, volume 15, number | (1973), pages 7-10, 1 plate.

. “Further Comments on Deepwater Volutidae from Off Southeast

Africa, with Descriptions of Two New Species of Volutocorbis.” The Veliger,

' volume 15, number 1 (1973), pages 11-14, 1 plate.

' Rehder, Harald A., and Harry S. Ladd. “Deep and Shallow-Water Mollusks from

the Central Pacific.” Festschrift for Prof. Hatai. Pub. Sendai University,

, Sendai, Japan, 37 ms pages. Tohoku University Science Reprints, 2nd Series

(Geology). Special volume number 6 (Hatai Memorial Volume) (1973), pages 37-

| 49, 2 figures, plate 3.

Rice, Mary E., and I. G. MacIntyre. “A Preliminary Study of Sipunculan Burrows

in Rock Thin Sections.” Caribbean Journal of Science, volume 12, numbers 1-2

(1972), ee 41-44.

| Rice, Mary E., and D. Putnam. ““A Comparative Study of the Functional

| Morphology of Some Pelagosphaera Larvae (Sipuncula).” American Zoologist,

volume 12, number 4 (1972), page 723.

| Roper, Clyde F. E. “Ecology and Vertical Distribution of Mediterranean Pelagic

| Cephalopods.” In Mediterranean Biological Studies, Final Report, volume 1 (1973),

| pages 282-346. Smithsonian Institution.

. “Life Span of Mollusca (numbers 43—-54).” In Altman, P. L. and D. S.

Dittmer, Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. Biological
Data Book, Edition 2, volume 1 (1972), pages 234-235.

Roper, Clyde F. E., and R. E. Young. “First Records of Juvenile Giant Squid,
Architeuthis (Cephalopoda: Oegopsida).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, volume 85, number 16 (1973), pages 205-222.

Roper, Clyde F. E., and W. L. Brundage, Jr. “Cirrate Octopods with Associated

Deep-Sea Organisms: New Biological Data Based on Deep Benthic Photo-

graphs (Cephalopoda).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, number 121 (1973),

pages 1-46.

Rosewater, Joseph. “The Amphi-Atlantic Distribution of Littorina meleagris.” The

» Nautilus, volume 86, numbers 2-4 (1972) pages 67-69, 1 plate, 1 map, | table.

“Teratological Littorina scabra angulifera.” The Nautilus, volume 86,
numbers 2—4 (1972), pages 70-71, 1 plate.
“Life Span of Mollusca (numbers 55-74).” In Altman, P. L. and D. S.

Dittmer, Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology, Be-

thesda, Maryland, 1972. Biology Data Book, edition 2, volume 1 (1972), pages

234-235.

|
f
252 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Class Kinorhyncha.” /bid., pages 277-280.
“Phylum Priapuloidea.” Jbid., pages 737-739.

Ruetzler, Klaus. “Principles of Sponge Distribution in Indo-Pacific Coral Reefs.
Results of the Austrian Indo-West Pacific Expedition 1959/60.” Proceedings of
the Symposium on Corals and Coral Reefs, January 1969.

Williams, Austin B. “A Ten-Year Study of Meroplankton in North Carolina
Estuaries: Mysid Shrimps.” Chesapeake Science, volume 13, number 4 (1972),
pages 254-262.

—————. “Decapod Crustaceans of Chesapeake Bay.” [bid., volume 13
(Supplement) (1972), pages 5119-5121.

———.. Review. Guide to Identification of Marine and Estuarine Inverte-
brates, Cape Hatteras to the Bay of Fundy, by Kenneth L. Gosner 1971.
Wiley-Interscience, N.Y. xix + 693 pages. Transactions of the American Fisheries
Society, volume 101, part 3 (1972), pages 570-571.

William, Austin B., and H. Bynum. “A Ten-Year Study of Meroplankton in
North Carolina Estuaries: Amphipods.” Chesapeake Science, volume 13, part 3,
(1972), pages 175-192.

Wright, K. A., W. D. Hope, and N. O. Jones. “The Ultra-Structure of the Sperm
of Deontostoma californicum, A Free-Living Marine Nematode.” Proceedings of the
Helminthological Society of Washington, volume 40, part 1, (1972), pages 30-36.

Lectures and seminars

Bowman, Thomas E. Discussant at symposium “Biology of Appalachian Caverni-
coles.” AAAS Meetings, December 1972. |
Hobbs, Horton H. “Cave Crayfishes of North America.” University of Richmond, ~
November 1972.
Holsinger, John R. “Cave Biology.” D.C. Chapter, National Speleological Society |
and to Potomac Speleological Club, Spring, 1973.
. Organizer of symposium “Biology of Appalachian Cavernicoles.”
AAAS Meetings, December 1972.
Jones, Meredith L. “Observations on the Acmaeidae: Electrophoretical and
NODA eee ” Bodega Marine Laboratory, August 1972.
“Comparisons of Electrophoretic Patterns of Littorine Snails of I
Panama: an Attempt to Define Species.” 17th International Congress of ||
Zoology, Monaco, September 1972.
. Panelist in “On the Nature of Scientific Discovery.” National i
Museum of Natural History, April 1973. |
Kornicker, Louis S. “Transport of ostracods to exotic environs by oysters.”
Ostracoda Symposium, Delaware, DEES LO72:
Kornicker, Louis S., and I. G. Sohn. “Rates of predation of snails by ostracod —
species.” Ostracoda Symposium, Delaware, August 1972.
Rice, Mary L. “Reproductive biology and ecology of Sipuncula.” Harbor Branch |
Foundation, November 1972.
——. “A comparative study of the functional morphology of some”
pelagosphaera larvae (Sipuncula).”” AAAS Meetings, December 1972.
Roper, Clyde F. E. “Vertical and seasonal distribution of Mediterranean pelagic. (
cephalopods.” Annual Meeting, American Malacological Union, Delaware, |
junes1'9'73:
Rosewater, Joseph. “Mollusks of Ascension Island.” Annual Meeting, American’
Malacological Union, Delaware, June 1973.

ee ee
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 253

DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL SCIENCES

Arem, J. E. Rocks and Minerals, Bantam Books, 160 pages, 1973.

Banks, H. H., Jr. “Iron-rich Saponite: Additional Data on Samples Dredged
from the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, 22° N. Latitude.” Smithsonian Contributions to the
Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 39-42, 1972.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr. (editor). “The Meteoritical Bulletin No. 51.” Meteoritics, pages

| 215-232, 1972.

| Clarke, Roy S., Jr., and E. Jarosewich. “Iron Meteorite Compositions.” Smithson-

| ian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 65-66, 1972.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr., E. Jarosewich, and J. Nelen. “The Nejo, Ethiopia, Meteorite.”

Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 67-68, 1972.

| Finkelman, R., J. Matzko, C. C. Woo, J. White, and W. Brown. “A Scanning

_ Electron Microscopy Study of Minerals in Geodes from Chihuahua, Mexico.”

| Mineralogical Record, volume 3, pages 205-212, 1972.

1 Fodor, R. V., K. Keil, and E. Jarosewich. “The Orogrande, New Mexico,

| Chondrite and Its Lithic Inclusions.” Meteoritics, volume 4, pages 341-352,

| 1972.

iaeedriksson, K., A. Dube, D. Milton, and M. S. Balasundaram. “The Lonar

} Meteorite Crater, India.” Meteoritics, volume 8, page 35, 1973.

Fredriksson K., D. Milton, and A. Dube. “Microbreccias, Impact Glasses and
Spherules from Lonar Crater, India: Lunar Analogs.” Meteoritics, volume 8,
page 34, 1973.

Fredriksson, K., J. Nelen, and A. Noonan. “Lunar Chondrules.” Meteorttics,

volume 6, pages 270-271, 1971 [not previously reported].

_———.. “Lunar, Terrestrial and Meteoritic Impact Breccias.” Lunar Science

IV, pages 263-265, 1973.

, Fudali, R. F. “Experimental Data Bearing on the Paragenesis of Two Hawaiian

_ Basalts from Kilauea Volcano.” Smithsonian Conttributions to Earth Sciences,

number 9, pages 33-38, 1972.

| ———. “Roter Kamm: Evidence for an Impact Origin.” Meteoritics, volume
8, number 2, 1973.

jFudali, R. F., and D. P. Gold. ‘‘The Pretoria Salt Pan: Astrobleme or

| Cryptovolcano?” Meteoritics, volume 8, number 1, page 36, 1972.

|}Graham, A. L., and B. Mason. “Niobium in Meteorites.” Geochimica et Cosmochim-
ica Acta, volume 36, pages 917-922, 1972.
| Jarosewich, E. “Chemical Analysis of Five Minerals for Microprobe Standards.”
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 83-84, 1972.
Kraut, F., and K. Fredriksson. “Hedjaz, an L-3, L-4, L-5 and L-6 Chondrite.”
Meteoritics, volume 6, page 384, 1971 [not previously reported].

. “Impactites. Milieu et Morphologies des “Shatter Cones” dans la
Region de Rochechouart (Haute-Vienne et Charent).” Comptes Rendu, Acad. Sci.
Paris, volume 274, pages 2560-2562, 1972.

Levi-Donati, G. “Mineralogical and Chemical Researches on L Chondrites:
Girgenti.” Meteoritics, volume 4, pages 109-125, 1972.

Lovering, J. F., B. Mason, G. E. Williams, and D. H. McColl. “Stratigraphical
Evidence for the Terrestrial Age of Australites.” Journal of the Geological Society
of Australia, volume 18, pages 409-418, 1972.

‘Mason, B. “Lunar Tridymite and Cristobalite.” American Mineralogist, volume 57,

pages 1530-1535, 1972.

- “The Mineralogy of Meteorites.” Meteoritics, volume 7, pages 309-
326, 1972.

254 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Tocornalite.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number
9, pages 79-80, 1972.

—————. Hammond Downs, a new Chondrite from the Tenham area,
Queensland, Australia. Meteoritics, volume 8, number 1, pages 1-7, 1973.

. “Mineralogy and Petrology of Lunar Samples 15264,19, 15274,12,
and 15314,59.” The Apollo 15 Lunar Samples, (J. W. Chamberlain and C.
Watkins, editors), pages 135-136, 1972.

. “Mineralogy and Petrology of Polymict Breccia 15498.” The Apollo 15
“Lunar Samples (J. W. Chamberlain and C. Watkins, editors), pages 137-139,
1972.

. “Minor and Trace Element Distribution in Minerals of the Muzzle
Riber Gabbro.” New Zealand Journal of Geology and Geophysics, volume 15, pages
465-475, 1972.

Mason, B., E. Jarosewich, W. G. Melson, and G. Thompson. “Mineralogy,
Petrology, and Chemical Composition of Lunar Samples 15085, 15256, 15271,
15471, 15475, 15476, 15535, 15555, and 15556.” Proceedings of the Third Lunar
Science Conference, volume 1, pages 785-796, 1972.

Mason, B., and W. G. Melson. The Lunar Rocks (Russian Translation). Moscow:
Mir., 165 pages, 1973.

Mason, B., W. G. Melson, E. P. Henderson, E. Jarosewich, and J. Nelen.
Mineralogy and Petrology of Some Apollo 12 Samples. Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 1-4, 1972.

Mason, B., T. Simkin, A. F. Noonan, G. S. Switzer, J. A. Nelen, G. Thompson,
and W. G. Melson. “Composition of Apollo 16 Fines 60051, 60052, 64811,
64812, 67711, 67712, 58821, and 68822.” Lunar Science IV, pages 505-507,
1973.

Melson, W. (editor). “Mineral Sciences Investigations, 1969-1971.” Smithsonian
Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, 94 pages, 1972.

Melson, W., S. Hart, and G. Thompson. “St. Paul’s Rocks, Equatorial Atlantic:
Petrogenesis, Radiometric Ages, and Implications on Sea-Floor Spreading.”
Geological Society of America Memoir, volume 132, pages 241-272, 1972.

Melson, W., E. Jarosewich, G. Switzer, and G. Thompson. “Basaltic Nuées
Ardentes of the 1970 Eruption of Ulawun Volcano, New Britain.” Smithsonian
Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 15-32, 1972.

Melson, W., and G. Thompson. “Glassy Abyssal Basalts, Atlantic Sea-Floor near
St. Paul’s Rocks: Petrography and Composition of Secondary Clay Minerals.”
Geological Society of America Bulletin, volume 84, pages 703-716, 1973.

Moreland, G., F. Ingram, and H. H. Banks, Jr. “Preparation of Doubly Polished
Thin Sections.” Smithsonian Gontributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages
93-94, 1972.

Nelen, Jr., and K. Fredriksson. “The Nakhon Pathon Meteorite.” First Annual .

Report of the Department of Mineral Sciences. Smithsonian Contributions to the
Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 69-74, 1972.

Nelen, J., and B. Mason. “The Estherville Meteorite.” Smithsonian Contributions to
the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 55-56, 1972.

“Nelen, J.. A. Noonan, and K. Frediksson. ‘““Lunar Glasses, Breccias, and
Chondrules.” Proceedings of the Third Lunar Science Conference, volume 1, pages
123-13 121972:

Noonan, A. F., E. Jarosewich, and R. S. Clarke, Jr. “The St. Mary’s County,
Maryland, LL3 Chondrite.” (Abstract). Meteoritics, volume 8, pages 61-62,
L972:

Noonan, A. F., J. Nelen, and K. Fredriksson. “The Forest Vale Meteorite.”
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 57-64, 1972.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 255

Simkin, T. “Origin of Some Flat-Topped Volcanoes and Guyots.” Geological
Society of America Memoir, volume 132, pages 183-193, 1972.

Switzer, G. “The Diamond Industry in 1972.” Jeweler’s Circular Keystone, October
1972, page 6.

Switzer, G., and J. Gurney. “The Discovery of Garnets Closely Related to
Diamonds in the Finsch Pipe, South Africa.” Contributions to Mineralogy and
Petrology, volume 39, pages 103-116, 1973.

Switzer, G., and W. Melson. “Origin and Composition of Rock Fulgurite Glass.”
Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 47-51, 1972.

Switzer, G., W. Melson, and G. Thompson. “Olivine Crystals from the Floor of
the Mid-Atlantic Ridge near 22° N Latitude.” Smzthsonian Contributions to the
Earth Sciences, number 9, pages 43-46, 1972.

Wintesa|-.°b- Bs Leavens, |. E. Arem, J. A. Nelen, and R. W- Thomssen.
“Brannockite, a New Tin Silicate. Mineralogical Record, volume 4, pages 73-76,
1973.

White, J., and J. Nelen. “Tetrawickmanite, Tetragonal MnSn(OH)e6, a New
Mineral from North Carolina, and the Stottite Group.” Mineralogical Record,
volume 4, pages 24-30, 1973.

Ziegler, C., T. Simkin, and J. M. Brinkerhoff. “Portable X-ray Spectrometer:
Applications to Field Geology in the Galapagos Islands.” Isotopes and Radiation
Technology, volume 9, pages 434-443, 1972.

DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY

Adegoke, O. S., and Daniel J. Stanley. “Mica and Shell as Indicators of Energy
Level and Depositional Regime on the Nigerian Shelf.” Marine Geology (1972),
volume 13, pages 61-66.

Adey, Walter H., and Ian G. Macintyre. “Crustose Coralline Algae: A Re-
evaluation in the Geological Sciences.” Geological Society of America Bulletin
(March 1973), volume 84, pages 883-904, 31 figures.

Batolini, C., C. Gehin, and Daniel J. Stanley. “Morphology and Recent Sediments
of the Western Alboran Basin in the Mediterranean Sea.” Marine Geology
(1972), volume 13, pages 159-224.

Benson, Richard H. “Preliminary report on the Ostracods of DSDP Leg 12, Sites
117 and 117A.” Initial Reports of the Deep-Sea Drilling Project (NSF), (1972),
volume XII, pages 427-432.

. “Psychrospheric and Continental Ostracoda from Ancient Sediments
in the Floor of the Mediterranean.” Initial Reports of the Deep-Sea Drilling Project
(1972), volume XIII, part 2, pages 1002-1008.

. “The Bradleya Problem with Descriptions of Two New Ostracode
Genera, Agrenocythere and Poseidonamicus.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Paleobiology (1972), number 140 pages, 14 plates, 67 text-figures.

. “Ostracodes as Indicators of Threshold Depth in the Mediterranean
During the Pliocene.” In D. J. Stanley, editor, The Mediterranean Sea, pages 47—
ay

. “On Bythoceratna scaberrima (Brady).” Stero Atlas of Ostracod Shells
(1973), number 1, part 3, pages 23-30, 4 plates.

Boardman, Richard S. “Body Walls and Attachment Organs in Some Recent
Cyclostomes and Paleozoic Trepostomes.” In G. P. Larwood, editor, Proceedings
of the Second International Conference on Bryozoa, 1.B.A. pages 231-246, 3 plates,
4 text figures, I.B.A., Durham, England.
256 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

, Alan H. Cheetham, and W. A. Oliver, Jr. “Introducing Coloniality.”
In R. S. Boardman, A. H. Cheetham, and W. A. Oliver, editors, Animal
Colonies: Their Development and Function Through Time, 544 pages.

, and Alan H. Cheetham. “Degrees of Colony Dominance in Stenolae-
mate and Gymnolaemate Bryozoa.” /bid., 100 pages, 40 figures. j

Cheetham, Alan H. “Study of Cheilostome Polymorphism Using Principal
Components Analysis.” In G. P. Larwood, editor, Proceedings of the Second
International Conference on Bryozoa, pages 385-409, I.B.A., Durham, England.

, and E. Hakansson. “Preliminary Report on Bryozoa (Site 117).” In
A. S. Laughton, W. A. Berggren, et al., editors, Initial Reports of the Deep Sea
Drilling Project, volume XII, pages 432-440, plates 13-28, figure 29.

Emry, Robert J., and M. R. Dawson. “A Unique Cricetid (Rodentia, Mammalia)
from the Early Oligocene of Natrona County, Wyoming.” American Museum
Novitates, (November 29, 1972), number 2508.

Hickey, Leo J. “Stratigraphic Summary of the Golden Valley Formation
(Paleocene-Eocene) of Western North Dakota. Guidebook, Coal Geology Division,
Geological Society of America (11/10-11/72); North Dakota Geological Survey,
Miscellaneous Series, number 50, pages 105-122.

. “Classification of the Architecture of Dicotyledonous Leaves.”
American Journal of Botany, volume 60, part 1, pages 17-33.

Hotton, Nicholas III. “Kombuisia frerensis, a New Dicynodont (Reptilia, Therap-
sida) from Cynognathus Zone Deposits of South Africa. In Festschrift for L. D.
Boonstra. Annals of the South African Museum, Cape Town.

. “Origin and Radiation of the Classes of Poikilothermous Vertebrates.
Proceedings of the Conference on the Evolution of Brain and Behavior. (February 24—
March 1, 1973), Florida State University, ‘Tallahassee, Florida.

Huang, T.-C., Daniel J. Stanley, and R. Stuckenrath. “Sedimentological. Evidence
for Current Reversal at the Strait of Gibraltar.” Marine Technology Journal
(1972), volume 6, pages 25-33.

, and Daniel J. Stanley. “Western Alboran Sea: Sediment Dispersal,
Ponding and_Reversal of Currents. In D. J. Stanley, editor, The Mediterranean
Sea: A Natural Sedimentation Laboratory (1972), pages 521-560.

Kelling, G., and Daniel J. Stanley. “Sedimentary Evidence of Bottom Current
Activity, Strait of Gibraltar Region.” Marine Geology (1972), volume 13, pages
51-60.

. “Sedimentation in the Vicinity of the Strait of Gibraltar.” In D. J.
Stanley, editor, The Mediterranean Sea: A Natural Sedimentation Laboratory (1972),
pages 489-520.

Macintyre, Ian G. “Submerged Reefs of Eastern Caribbean.” The American
Association of Petroleum Geologists Bulletin, (April 1972), volume 56, number 4,
pages 720-738.

. “Submerged Reefs of Eastern Caribbean: Reply.” The American
Association of Petroleum Geologists Bulletin, (February 1973), volume 57, number
2, pages 407-411.

Milliman, J. D., Y. Weiler, and Daniel J. Stanley. “Morphology and Carbonate

_ Sedimentation on Shallow Banks in the Alboran Sea.” In D. J. Stanley, editor,
The Mediterranean Sea: A Natural Sedimentation Laboratory (1972), pages 241-260.

Rice, M. E., and Ian G. Macintyre. “A Preliminary Study of Sipunculan Burrows
in Rock Thin Sections.” Caribbean Journal of Science, volume 12, parts 1-2,
pages 41-44.

Scott. Re Ae Pe. Walliams: aC; Craig, E. S. Barghoorn, Leo J. Hickey, and H.
D. MacGinitie. “ ‘Pre-Cretaceous’ Angiosperms from Utah: Evidence for

EEE
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 257

Tertiary Age of the Palm Wood and Roots.” American Journal of Botany, volume
59, part 9, pages 886-896.

Stanley, Daniel J., editor. The Mediterranean Sea: A Natural Sedimentation Labora-
tory, (1972), 765 pages.

Stanley, Daniel J., M. B. Cita, N. C. Flemming, et al. “Guidelines for Future
Sediment-related Research in the Mediterranean Sea.” In D. J. Stanley, editor,
The Mediterranean Sea: A Natural Sedimentation Laboratory, (1972), pages 723—
741.

Stanley, Daniel J., P. Finner, and G. Kelling. “Currents and Sediment Transport
at the Wilmington Canyon Shelfbreak, as Observed by Underwater Televi-
sion.” In D. J. P. Swife, D. B. Duane, and O. H. Pilkey, editors, Shelf Sediment
Transport: Process and Pattern, (1972), pages 621-644.

Stanley, Daniel J., H. Sheng, and C. P. Pedraza. “Lower Continental Rise East of
the Middle Atlantic States: Predominant Sediment Dispersal Perpendicular to
Isobaths: Reply.” Geological Society of America Bulletin, (1972), volume 83, pages
3539-3540.

Waller, Thomas R. “The Functional Significance of Some Shell Microstructures
in the Pectinacea (Mollusca: Bivalvia).” International Geological Congress, 24th
Session, Montreal, Canada. Paleontology, Section 7, (August 1972), pages 48-56,
3 figures, 1 table.

. “The Habits and Habitats of Some Bermudian Marine Mollusks.”
The Nautilus, (April 1973), volume 87, number 2, pages 31-52, 33 figures, 2
tables.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

| Aldrich, J. W. [Review of] A Field Guide to the Birds of Mexico and Central America,

by L. Irby Davis. 282 pages. Austin and London: University of Texas Press.
1972. Atlantic Naturalist, volume 27, number 4 (1972), pages 195-196.
———. “A New Subspecies of Sandhill Crane from Mississippi.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 85, number 5 (1972), pages 63-70.
Ali, Salim, and S. Dillon Ripley. Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan,
volume 8: Warblers to Redstarts. XIV + 277 pages, 8 plates, 66 maps,
numberous line drawings. Bombay: Oxford University Press. 1973.
Ash, John S. “Six Species of Birds New to Ethiopia.” Bulletin of the British
Ornithologists’ Club, volume 93, number 1 (March 1973), pages 3-6.
. “Charadriiform Birds in the Ethiopian Rift Valley.” Walia, volume 4
(1972), pages 14-18.
———.. “Distribution Map Scheme for Ethiopia.” Jbzs, volume 114 (1972),
page 109.
. “Luscinia luscinia and L. megarhynchos in Ethiopia.” Ibis, volume 115,

number 2 (April 1973), pages 267-269.

| Banks, Richard C. “A Systematist’s View.” In Role of Hand-reared Ducks in

Waterfowl Management: A Symposium, pages 117-120. Bureau of Sport Fisheries
and Wildlife and Max McGraw Foundation. 1972.

Banks, R. C., M. H. Clench, and J. C. Barlow. “Bird Collections in the United
States and Canada.” Auk, volume 90, number | (1973), pages 136-170.

Belton, William. “Some Additional Birds for the State of Rio Grande Do Sul,
Brazil.” Auk, volume 90, number | (5 January 1973), pages 94-99.

_ Booth, Julie, and James A. Peters. “Behavioral Studies on the Green Turtle,

Chelonia mydas, in the Sea.” Animal Behavior, volume 20 (1973), pages 808-813.
258 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 ,

Brownell, R. L., Jr., and Earl S. Herald. “Lipotes vexillifer.”. American Society of |
Mammalogists, Mammalian Species, number 10 (1972), pages 1-4.

Brownell, R. L., Jr., J. Olazarri, and F. Achaval. “Marine Mammal and Bird
Observations and Trawling off Uruguay: R/V Hero Cruise 72-3.” Antarctic
Journal of the U. S., volume 8, number | (January-February 1973), pages 8-9. |

Bury, R. Bruce. “The Effects of Diesel Fuel on a Stream Fauna.” California Fish |
and Game Quarterly, volume 58, number 4 (1972), pages 291-295. |

“Small Mammals and Other Prey in the Diet of the Pacific Giant |
Salamander, Cicamptodon ensatus.” American Midland Naturalist, volume 87,
number 2 (1972), pages 524-526. |

“Status Report on California’s Threatened Amphibians and Rep- |
tiles.” California Fish and Game, Inland Fisheries Administration Report, number |
72-2 (1972), 31 pages. |

. “Aggressive Behavior in the Pacific Pond Turtle, Clemmys marmorata.” |
Lecture given at the meetings of the Herpetologists’ League and Society for |
the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles, August 1972.

“Federal Regulations on Reptile and Amphibian Importation and |
Exportation.” Lecture given at the Eastern Seaboard Herpetological League
meetings, October 1972. |

“The Role of Basking in the Pond Turtle, Clemmys marmorata.” |
Lecture given at the meetings of the Herpetologists’ League, December 1972. |

Bury, R. Bruce, and S. B. Ruth. “Santa Cruz Long-Toed Salamander: Survival in
Doubt.” Herpetologists’ Review, volume 4, number | (1972), pages 20-22.

Bury, R. Bruce, and Glenn R. Stewart. “California Protects Its Herpetofauna.” |
HISS News-Journal, volume 1, number 2 (1973), pages 43-47.

Chapman, Joseph A., and John L. Paradiso. “First Records of the New England |
Cottontail (Syluvilagus transitionalis) from Maryland.” Chesapeake Science, volume ||
13, number 2 (1972), page 149. |

Clapp, Roger B., and R. C. Banks. “Birds Imported into the United States in |
1970.” U. S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Sport Fisheries and |
Wildlife, Special Scientific Report—Wildlife, number 148 (1973), 102 pages.

Cohen, D. M. “Summary im The Panamic Biota: Some Observation Prior to a |
Sea-Level Canal.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington, number 2 |
(1972), pages 261-266. ‘|

Cohen, D. M., and J. G. Nielsen, “A Review of the Viviparous Ophidioid Fishes
of the Genus Saccogaster.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, }
volume 85 (1972), pages 445-468.

Collette, Bruce B. “Conclusions,” in Results of the Tektite Program: Ecology of Coral | \
Reef Fishes. Science Bulletin number 14 (1972), pages 171-174. Natural History ©
Museum Los Angeles County. i

Collette, Bruce B., Daniel M. Cohen, and James A. Peters. “Stability in Zoological }
Nomenclature.” Science, volume 177 (1972), pages 452-453. 1

Collette, Bruce B., and Sylvia A. EArle, editors, Results of the Tektite Program: —
Ecology of Coral Reef Fishes. Science Bulletin number 14 (1972), pages 1-180.
Natural History Museum Los Angeles County. |

Collette, Bruce B., and Frank H. Talbot. “Activity Patterns of Coral Reef Fishes *,
with Emphasis on Nocturnal-Diurnal Changeover,” in Results of the Tektite « |
Program: Ecology of Coral Reef Fishes, Science Bulletin number 14 (1972), pages
98-124. Natural History Museum Los Angeles County.

Collette, Bruce B., and Teruya Uyeno. “Pontinus niger, a Synonym of the}
Scorpionfish Ectreposebastes imus, with Extension of its Range to Japan.” ”)
Japanese Journal of Ichthyology, volume 19, number | (1972), pages 26-28.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 259

Findley, J. S., E. H. Studier, and Don E. Wilson. “Morphologic Properties of Bat
Wings,” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 53, number 3 (1972), pages 429-444.

Fleming, T. H., E. T. Hooper, and Don E. Wilson. “Three Central American Bat
Communities: Structure, Reproductive Cycles, and Movement Patterns,”
Ecology, volume 53, number 4 (1972), pages 555-569.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. “Gear, Sampling Methods, and Biological Sample Process-
ing,” in Mediterranean Biological Studies, Report to Office of Naval Research
(1972), Contract No. N00014—67—A—0399-0007, processed, pages 5-25.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr., and James E. Craddock. “Eustomias crucis (Stomiatoidei,
Melanostomiatidae). A New Species of Deepsea Fish From the Eastern South
Pacific, and Contributions to the Knowledge of Eustomias trewavasae Norman.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 86, number 13 (1973),
pages 153-162.

Goodyear, Richard H., Bernard J. Zahuranec, W. Lawrence Pugh, and Robert H.
Gibbs, Jr. “Ecology and Vertical Distribution of Mediterranean Midwater
Fishes,” in Mediterranean Biological Studies, Report to Office of Naval Research
(1972), Contract No. N00014—67—A-0399-0007, processed, pages 91-299,
appendix tables 47-474.

Handley, C. O., Jr. “Mammalogy in Panama.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of

Washington, volume 2 (1972), pages 217-228.

Harrison, R. J., R. L. Brownell, Jr., and R. C. Boice. “Reproduction and Gonadal
Appearances in Some Odontocetes,” in Functional Anatomy of Marine Mammals,
__R. J. Harrison, editor, pages 361-429. Academic Press. 1972.

- Jones, Clyde. “Body Temperatures of Manis gigantea and Manis tricuspis.” Journal
| of Mammalogy, volume 54 (1973), pages 263-266.

. “Comparative Ecology of Three Pteropid Bats in Rio Muni, West
Africa.” Journal of Zoology, volume 167 (1972), pages 353-370.
| Jones, T. C., R. W. Thorington, Jr.. M. M. Hu, E. Adams, and R. W. Cooper.
“Karyotypes of Squirrel Monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) from Different Geographic
| Regions.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology, volume 38 (1973), pages
269-277.

'Karnella, Charles. “The Systematic Status of Merluccius in the Tropical Western
_ Atlantic Ocean Including the Gulf of Mexico.” Fishery Bulletin, volume 71,
number | (1973), pages 83-91.

'Kleckner, Robert C., and Robert H. Gibbs, Jr. “Swimbladder Structure of
Mediterranean Midwater Fishes and a Method of Comparing Swimbladder
Data with Acoustic Profiles,’ in Mediterranean Biological Studies, Report to
' Office of Naval Research (1972), Contract No. N00014-67—A-—0399-0007,
| processed, pages 230-281, appendix tables 475-613.

Manville, R., and C. Jones. “Life Spans: Mammals,” in Biology Data Book, P.

Altman and D. Dittmer, editors, volume 1, 606 pages. Bethesda, Maryland:
Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. 1972.

Olson, Storrs L. “Paleornithology of St. Helena Island.” Lecture delivered at the
- American Ornithologists’ Union, Grand Forks, North Dakota, August 1972.

. “A Whooping Crane from the Pleistocene of North Florida.” Condor,
volume 74, number 3 (Autumn 1972), page 341.

. “The Generic Distinction of the Hispaniolan Woodpecker, Chryserpes
striatus, (Aves: Picidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington,
volume 85, number 44 (30 December 1972), pages 499-508.

. “The American Purple Gallinule, Prophyrula martinica, on Ascension
and St. Helena Islands.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club, volume 92,
numbers 3 and 4 (June, August 1972), pages 92-93.

1

i

260 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Paradiso, John L., and Robert D. Fisher. “Mammals Imported into the United
States in 1970.” Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, Special Scientific
Report—Wildlife, number 161 (1972), 11 + 62 pages.

Paradiso, John L., and R. Nowak. “Red Wolf, Canis rufus.” Mammalian Species,
number 22 (1972), pages 1-4. American Society of Mammalogists.

Peters, J. A. “The Time-Shared Computer as an Adjunct to Museum Exhibits.”
Museum Journal, volume 72 (1973), pages 143-145.

—————. “On the Use of Cluster Analysis in Biogeography: A Reply.”
Systematic Zoology, volume 21, number 2 (1972), pages 242-244.

Peters, James A., and B. Orejas-Miranda. “The Taxonomic Validity of Apostolepis
tenuis Ruthven and Apostolepis vittata (Cope) (Serpentes: Colubridae).” Copeia
(1972), pages 588-590.

Pine, Ronald H. “A New Subgenus and Species of Murine Opossum (genus
Marmosa) from Peru.” Journal of Mammalogy, volume 53, number 2 (June
1972), pages 279-282.

. “The Bats of the Genus Carollia.” Technical Monograph of the Texas
Agricultural Experiment Station, number 8 (September 1972), pages 1-125.

Ripley, S. Dillon. [Review of] “Birds of North America.” Atlantic Naturalist,
volume 27, number | (1972), page 47.

. “Hunting the Wren.” Atlantic Naturalist, volume 27, number 4 (1972),
pages 154-157.

. “Museums in North America.” Journal of World History, UNESCO,
volume XIV, number | (1972), pages 176-186.

. [Review of] “Tibet and Its Birds.” The Wilson Bulletin, volume 85,
number | (1973), pages 108-109.

————— . “The Fragile Sea.” The Lamp (house organ of the EXXON
Corporation), volume 55, number | (Spring 1973), pages 2-5.

. “Saving the Wood Duck Aw sponsa, Through Captive Breeding.” —

International Zoo Yearbook, volume 13 (1973), pages 55-58.
Skaar, P. D., R. B. Clapp, and R. C. Banks. “Re-evaluation of Some Montana
Bird Records.” Condor, volume 75, number | (1973), pages 132-133.

Springer, V. G. “Synopsis of the Tribe Omobranchini with Descriptions of Three +
New Genera and Two New Species (Pisces: Blenniidae).” Smithsonian Contribu- ~

tions to Zoology, number 130 (1972), pages 1-31.

. “Additions to Revisions of the Blenniid Fish Genera Ecsenius and |

Entomacrodus, with Descriptions of Three New Species of Ecsenius.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, number 134 (1972), pages 1-13.

. “Career Opportunities in Ichthyology.” American Society of Ichth- -

yologists and Herpetologists special publication. 1973.

Terborgh, J. W., and J. S. Weske. “Rediscovery of the Imperial Snipe in Peru.” i
i

Auk, volume 89, number 3 (1972), pages 497-505.

Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Proportions and Allometry in the Gray Squirrel, Sciurus |

carolinensis.” Nemouria, number 8 (1972), pages 1-17.

Vaurie, C., J. S. Weske, and J. W. Terborgh. “Taxonomy of Schizoeaca fuliginosa

(Furnariidae) with Description of Two New Subspecies.” Bulletin of the British
Ornithologists’ Club, volume 92, number 5 (1972), pages 142-144.

Watson, George E. “Snipe,” in Encyclopedia Americana, volume 25 (1973), page ~

107.
. “Skua,” in Encyclopedia Americana, volume 25 (1973), page 10.
. “Loon,” in Encyclopedia Americana, volume 17 (1973), page 735.

Watson, George E., and George J. Divoky. “Pelagic Bird and —

-_

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 261

Observations in the Eastern Chukchi Sea, Early Fall 1970.” United States Coast
Guard Oceanographic Report, number 50, pages 111-172, 6 tables, 40 figures.

Watson, George E., Robert E. Shope, and Makram N. Kaiser. “A Ectoparasite
and Virus Survey of Migratory Birds in the Eastern Mediterranean,” in
Cherepanov et al., Transcontinental Connections of Migratory Birds and Their Role
in the Distribution of Arboviruses, pages 176-180. Nauka, Novosibirska, 1972.

Wetmore, Alexander. “Additions to the Birds Recorded in Panama” (in
cooperation with Pedro Galindo of the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory). Proceed-
ings of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 85, (August 20, 1972), pages
309-312.

. “The Birds of the Isthmus of Panama,” in a Symposium on the
Panama Canal. Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington, number 2
(September 28, 1972), pages 211-216.

. [Review of] “Alexander Skutch, A Naturalist in Costa Rica.” Auk,
volume 89, number 4 (October 20, 1972), pages 911-912.

. “The Birds of the Republic of Panama, Part 3. Passeriformes:
Dendrocolaptidae (Woodcreepers) to Oxyruncidae (Sharpbills).” Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, volume 150, part 3 (December 12, 1972), pages i-iv, 1—
631, frontispiece (color), 48 figures.

. [Review of] Edwards, E. P., “Field Guide to the Birds of Mexico,”
Atlantic Naturalist, volume 27, number 4 (Winter 1972), page 196.

Wilson, Don E. “Bat Faunas: A Trophic Comparison.” Systematic Zoology, volume
22 (1973), pages 14-29.

. [Review of] “About Bats.” Southwestern Naturalist, volume 17 number

1 (1972), pages 109-111.
| Wilson, Don E., and J. S. Findley. “Randomness in Bat Homing.” American
| Naturalist, volume 106, number 3 (1972), pages 418-424.
Wilson, Don E., and D. H. Janzen. “Predation of Scheelea Palm Seeds by Bruchid
| Beetles: Seed Density and Distance from the Parent Palm.” Ecology, volume 53,
number 5 (1972), pages 954-959.
Zug, George R. “Walk Pattern Analysis of Cryptodiran Turtle Gaits.” Animal
_ Behavior, volume 20 (1973), pages 439-443.

. “A Critique of the Walk Pattern Analysis of Symmetrical Quadrupe-
dal Gaits.” Animal Behavior, volume 20 (1973), pages 436-438.

. “Anuran Locomotion: Structure and Function. I. Preliminary
Observations on Relation Between Jumping and Osteometrics of Appendicular
and Postaxial Skeleton.” Copeia, number 4 (1972), pages 613-624.

. “Observations on the Ecology of the Marine Toad, Bufo marinus, in
Papua New Guinea.” Lecture given at the Herpetologists’ League and Society
for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles meeting, August 1972.

National Air and Space Museum

Byttebier, Hugo T. “The Curtiss D-12 Aero Engine.” Smithsonian Annals of Flight,
number 7, (1972), vii + 109 pages, 46 figures.

£l-Baz, Farouk. “Al-Khwarizmi: A New-Found Basin on the Lunar Far Side.”

_ Science, volume 180, number 4091 (1973), pages 1173-1176.

. “Apollo 16 and 17 Lunar Orbital Photography.” Lunar Science IV:
Abstracts of Papers Presented at Fourth Lunar Science Conference, Lunar

Science Institute (1973), pages 215-216.

. “The Lunar Dark Mantle: Its Distribution and Geologic Signifi-

262 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

cance.” Lunar Science IV: Abstracts of Papers Presented at Fourth Lunar
Science Conference, Lunar Science Institute (1973), pages 217-218.

. “The Later History of the Moon.” Paper presented by title at the
Annual Meeting of the Committee on Space Research, Konstanz, 1973.

. “Apollo Lunar Explorations Uncover Secrets of Earth’s Geology.”
Interview published in Elements of Dames and Moore, volume 2, number 2
(1973), pages 3-9.

————.. “Award of Appreciation to R. A. Petrone.” Presented at Fourth
Lunar Science Conference, Houston, Texas, 5 March 1973.

. “Astrogeology,” in A Special Issue: Earth Science in Geotimes, volume
18, number 1, pages 16-17 and 34, 1972.

. “Apollo Lunar Site Selection.” Sigma Xi Lecture, University of
Indiana, Bloomington, March 1973.

. “Apollo 17 Preliminary Results.” Seminar, National Air and Space
Museum, Washington, D.C., March 1973.

. “Lunar Stratigraphy.” Seminar, Distinguished Lecture Series, Uni-
versity of Utah, Salt Lake City, June 1973.

Evans, R. E., and Farouk El-Baz. ‘Visual Observations from Lunar Orbit on
Apollo 17.” Lunar Science IV: Abstracts of Papers Presented at Fourth Lunar
Science Conference, Lunar Science Institute (1973), pages 231-232.

. “Geologic Significance of Observations from Orbit on Apollo 17.”
Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Committee on Space Research,
Konstanz, 1973.

Mattingly, T. K., and Farouk El-Baz. “Impressions of the Lunar Highlands from
the Apollo 16 Command Module.” Lunar Science IV: Abstracts of Papers
Presented at Fourth Lunar Science Conference, Lunar Science Institute |
(1973), pages 513-514.

Mikesh, Robert C. “Japan’s World War II Balloon Bomb Attacks on North
America.” Smithsonian Annals of Flight, number 9, (1973), vi + 85 pages, 90
figures.

Mikesh, Robert C., and Claudia M. Oakes. The National Air and Space Museum
Official Souvenir Book, (1973), 31 pages, 35 figures.

”

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Ahmad, I. A., and W. A. Deutschman. “Ultraviolet Photometry of the Moon with |
the Celescope Experiment on the OAO-II.” Astronomical Journal, volume 77 |
(1972), pages 692-694.

Aksnes, K. “On the Use of the Hill Variables in Artificial Satellite Theory:
Brouwer’s Theory.” Astronomy and Astrophysics, volume 17 (1972), pages 70-75.

. “Position and Velocity Components for Jupiter VIII-XII.” Astronome- 4
cal Journal, volume 78 (1973), page 121.

Allison, A. C. “Viscosity of Atomic Hydrogen.” Journal of Chemical Physics, volume \
56 (1972), pages 6266-6267.

Avrett, E. H. “Stellar Chromospheric Models.” Pages 27-41, in S. D. Jordan and |
E. H. Avrett, editors, Stellar Chromospheres, Proceedings of the International —
Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 19. NASA SP-317, 1973.

Avrett, E. H., and J. R. Baldwin. “Free-Free and Balmer Line Emission from |
Optically Thick Stellar Shells.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the
Pacific, volume 84 (1972), pages 633-634.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 263

Avrett, E. H., R. J. Davis, W. A. Deutschman, K. L. Haramundanis, C. Payne-
Gaposchkin, R. L. Kurucz, E. Peytremann, and R. E. Schild. “Report on the
Celescope Ultraviolet Observations from the OAO-2 Satellite and Associated
Research at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.” Presented at the 16th
International COSPAR Meeting, Konstanz, Germany, May 1973.

Bottcher, C., A. Dalgarno, and E. L. Wright. “Collision-Induced Absorption in
Alkali-Metal-Atom-Inert-Gas Mixtures.” Physical Review A, volume 7 (1973),
pages 1606-1609.

Brace, L. H., R. F. Theis, and A. Dalgarno. “The Cylindrical Electrostatic Probes
for Atmosphere Explorer #—C, #—D, and #—E.” Radio Science, volume 8
(1973), pages 341-348.

Brownlee, D. E., and P. W. Hodge. “Interplanetary Dust: A Source of Primitive
Matter.” Presented at the Symposium on Cosmochemistry, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts, August 1972.

Brownlee, D. E., W. Bucher, and P. W. Hodge. “Primary and Secondary
Micrometeoroid Impact Rate on the Lunar Surface: A Direct Measurement.”
Pages 143-151, in Analysis of Surveyor 3 Material and Photographs Returned by
Apollo 12. NASA AP-284, 1972.

. “Whiskers on the Moon.” Pages 236-238, in Analysis of Surveyor 3
Material and Photographs Returned by Apollo 12. NASA SP-284, 1972.

Carleton, N. P., and W. Traub. “Detection of Molecular Oxygen on Mars.”
Science, volume 177 (1972), pages 988-992.

. “A Search for Interstellar Lithium.” Presented at the Symposium on
Cosmochemistry, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts, August 1972.

Caves, T. C., and A. Dalgarno. “Model Potential Calculations of Lithium
Transitions.” Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer, volume
12 (1972), pages 1539-1552.

Chaisson, E. J. “Microwave Spectroscopic Mapping of Gaseous Nebulae. I.
Excited Hydrogen, Helium, and Carbon.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 182
(1973), pages 767-780.

Chaisson, E. J., and D. F. Dickinson. “OH in the Hoffman Infrared Sources.”
Astrophysical Letters, volume 12 (1972), pages 119-122.

Chebotarev, G. A., E. I. Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G. Marsden, editors.
The Motion, Evolution of Orbits, and Origin of Comets, Proceedings of the
International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

Cherniack, J. R. “A More General System for Poisson Series Manipulation.”
Celestial Mechanics, volume 7 (1973), pages 107-121.

Cook, A. F. “Discrete Levels of Beginning Height of Meteors in Streams.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics, number 14 (1973), 10 pages.

Cook, A. F., F. A. Franklin, and F. D. Palluconi. “Saturn’s Rings — A Survey.”
Icarus, volume 18 (1973), pages 317-337.

Cook, A. F., B.-A. Lindblad, B. G. Marsden, R. E. McCrosky, and A. Posen. “Yet
Another Stream Search among 2401 Photographic Meteors.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Astrophysics, number 15 (1973), 5 pages.

Dalgarno, A. “Applications in Aeronomy.” Pages 381-398, in Physics of Electronics
and Atomic Collisions, VII ICPEAC. Amsterdam, Holland: North-Holland
Publishing Company, 1972.

————.. “Atomic Processes in Astrophysics.” Pages 287-337, in M. Chretien
and E. Lipworth, editors, Brandeis University Summer Institute in Theoretical
Physics 1969, volume II. New York: Gordon & Breach, 1972.

521-552 O - 74 - 18
264 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Dalgarno, A., H. Doyle, and M. Oppenheimer. “Calculation of Photoabsorption
Processes in Helium.” Physical Review Letters, volume 29 (1972), pages 1051—

1052.
Dalgarno, A., W. B. Hanson, N. W. Spencer, and E. R. Schmerling. “The

Atmosphere Explorer Mission.” Radio Science, volume 8 (1973), pages 263-266.

Dalgarno, A., and R. A. McCray. “The Formation of Interstellar Molecules from
Negative Ions.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 181 (1973), pages 95-100.

. “Heating and Ionization of HI Regions.” Annual Reviews of Astronomy
and Astrophysics, volume 10 (1972), pages 375-426.

Davis, R. J.. W. A. Deutschman, and K. L. Haramundanis. Celescope Catalog of
Ultraviolet Stellar Observations. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1973.

Deutschman, W. A. “Orbital Operation and Calibration of SEC-Vidicons in the
Celescope Experiment.” Advances in Electronic and Electron Physics, volume 33
(1973), pages 925-935.

Dickinson, D. F. “Detection of Cyanoacetylene at 18 GHz.” Astrophysical Letters,
volume 12 (1972), pages 235-236.

. “Detection of Silicon Monoxide at 87 GHz.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters), volume 175 (1972), pages L43-L46.

Dickinson, D. F., D. P. Bechis, and A. H. Barrett. “New HzO Sources Associated
with Infrared Stars.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 180 (1973), pages 831-844.
Dickinson, D. F., and E. Chaisson. “Long-Period Variables: Correlation of Stellar
Period with OH Radial Velocity Pattern.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume

181 (1973), pages L135-L138.

Dickinson, D. F., and B. E. Turner. “Classification of New OH Sources.”
Astrophysical Letters, volume 11 (1972), pages 1-5.

Drake, M. J., G. J. Taylor, U. B. Marvin, J. A. Wood, and M. E. Hallam.
“Preliminary Data and Speculation on Taurus-Littrow.” Transactions of the
American Geophysical Union, volume 54 (1973), pages 584-585.

Fazio, G. G. “High-Energy Discrete Sources.” Pages 303-323, in H. Bradt and R.
Giacconi, editors, X- and Gamma-Ray Astronomy, Proceedings of the International
Astronomical Union Symposium No. 55. Dordrecht-Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1973.

Fazio, G. G., H. F. Helmken, E. O’Mongain, and T. C. Weekes. “Detection of
High-Energy Gamma Rays from Crab Nebula.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters),
volume 175 (1972), pages L117-L122.

Fireman, E. L. “Solar Flares During the Past 1000 Years as Revealed by Lunar
Studies.” Presented at the First European Astronomical Meeting, Heidelberg,
Germany, October 1972.

Fireman, E. L., and G. Spannagel. “Argon-37, Argon-39, and Tritium Radioac-
tivities in the Haver6 Meteorite.” Meteoritics, volume 7 (1972), pages 559-564.
Flannery, M. R. “Three-Body Recombination of Positive and Negative Ions.”
Pages 1-90, in E. W. McDaniel and M. R. C. McDowell, editors, Case Studies in
Atomic Collision Physics, volume II. Amsterdam, Holland: North-Holland

Publishing Company, 1972.

Frogel, J. A., D. E. Kleinmann, W. Kunkel, E. P. Ney, and D. W. Strecker.
“Multicolor Photometry of the M Dwarf Proxima Centauri.” Publications of the
Astronomical Society of the Pacific, volume 84 (1972), pages 581-582.

Gaposchkin, E. M. “Analysis of Pole Position from 1846 to 1970.” Pages 19-32,
in P. Melchior and S. Yumi, editors, Rotation of the Earth, Proceedings of the
International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 48. Dordrecht-Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

. “Pole Position Studied with Artificial Earth Satellites.” Pages 128—
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 265

130, in P. Melchior and S. Yumi, editors, Rotation of the Earth, Proceedings of the
International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 48. Dordrecht-Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

. “Smithsonian Institution Standard Earth III.” Presented at the
American Geophysical Union Meeting, Washington, D.C., April 1973.

Gaposchkin, E. M., J. Latimer, and G. Veis. “Smithsonian Institution Standard
Earth III (Coordinates).” Presented at the Ist International Symposium on the
Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy and Geodynamics, Athens, Greece, May
1973.

Gingerich, O. “Johannes Kepler and the New Astronomy.” Quarterly Journal of the
Royal Astronomical Society, volume 13 (1972), pages 346-360.

. “Amerykanskie Copernicana (in Polish and Russian).” Ameryka,
number 170 (1973), pages 34-36.

. “The Foundation of Modern Science (in fourteen different language
editions).” UNESCO Courer, April (1973), pages 10-13.

. “Harlow Shapley and Mt. Wilson.” Bulletin of the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences, volume 26, number 7 (1973), pages 10-24.

. “The Role of Erasmus Reinhold and the Prutenic Tables in the
Dissemination of the Copernican Theory.” Studia Copernicana, Polska Akade-
mia Nauk, Wroctaw, volume 6 (1973), pages 43-62 and 123-125.

. “Kepler’s Treatment of Redundant Observations or, the Computer
versus Kepler Revisited.” Pages 307-314, in F. Krafft, K. Meyer, and B.
Sticker, editors, Proceedings of the Internationales Kepler-Symposium, Weil der Stadt
1971. Hildesheim, Germany: Gerstenberg Verlag, 1973.

. “Johannes Kepler.” Pages 289-312, in Dictionary of Scientific Biog-
raphy, volume 7. New York: Scribner’s, 1973.

. “N.-L. Lacaille.” Pages 542-545, in Dictionary of Scientific Biography,
volume 7. New York: Scvibner’s, 1973.

Gingerich, O., D. King, and G. Saliba. “The ’Abd al-A’imma astrolabe forgeries.”
Journal of the History of Astronomy, volume 3 (1972), pages 188-199.

Gingerich, O., and W. Walderman, translators. “Johannes Kepler: Preface to the
Rudolphine Tables.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society, volume 13
(1972), pages 360-373.

Glass, I., and J. L. Elliot. “An Interferometric Seeing Test on Mt. Wilson.”
Astronomical Journal, volume 77 (1972), page 523.

Grossi, M. D., R. B. Southworth, and S. K. Rosenthal. “Radar Observations of
Meteor Winds above Illinois.” Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, volume
27 (1972), pages 205-248.

Grindlay, J. E. “Detection of Pulsed Gamma Rays of ~ 10!” eV from the Pulsar
in the Crab Nebula.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 174 (1972), pages
L9-L17.

Hallam, M. “Heat Sources for Early Differentiation of the Lunar Interior
(abstract).” Transactions of the American Geophysical Union, volume 54 (1973),
page 344.

. “Initial Lunar Temperature Profiles and the Accumulation Time of
the Proto-Moon (abstract).” Meteoritics, volume 8 (1973), page 43.

Haramundanis, K., and C. Payne-Gaposchkin. “Intrinsic Ultraviolet Colors from
OAO-2 Celescope Observations for Stars on the Main Sequence.” Astronomical
Journal, volume 78 (1973), pages 395-400.

Hawkins, G. S. “Preliminary Results of an Investigation of Astronomical
Alignments of Structural Antiquities in Egypt.” Presented at the Institute
d’Egypte, Cairo, December 1972.
266 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Astronomical Alignments in Britain, Egypt, and Peru.” Presented at
the Royal Society Meeting, London, December 1972.

. Beyond Stonehenge. New York: Harper & Row, 1973.

“Astro-Archaeology—The Unwritten Evidence.” Presented at the
American Association for the Advancement of Science Meeting, Mexico City,
Mexico, June 1973.

Hegyi, D. J.. W. A. Traub, and N. P. Carleton. “The Cosmic Background
Radiation at 1.32mm.” Presented at the American Astronomical Society
Meeting, Las Cruces, New Mexico, January 1973.

Helmken, H. F., and J. A. Hoffman. “Gamma-Ray Observations of the Galactic
Center.” Nature (Physical Science), volume 243 (1973), pages 6-8.

Hodge, P. W. “Some Current Studies of Galaxies.” Sky and Telescope, volume 44
(1972), pages 23-27.

. Astronomy Study Guide. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 88 pages,
1973.

. Slides for Astronomy. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 255 slides,
1973.

. “New Members of the Local Group Galaxies.” Pages 198-201, in
McGraw-Hill Yearbook of Science and Technology. New York: McGraw-Hill Book
Co., 1973.

. “The Structure and Content of NGC 205.” Astrophysical Journal,
volume 182 (1973), pages 671-696.

. “On the (U-B) Color Indices and Hydrogen Line Strengths of |
Elliptical Galaxies.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, volume |
85 (1973), pages 286-288.

——_—_——.. “Lunar and Terrestrial Impact Crater Spherules.” The Moon, volume |
7 (1973), pages 483-486. |

Hodge, P. W., and N. Laulainen. “Transparenz und Triibung der Atmosphare.”
Umschau in Wissenschaft und Technik, volume 73 (1973), pages 325-331.

Hodge, P. W., N. Laulainen, and R. Charlson. “Astronomy and Air Pollution.”
Science, volume 178 (1972), pages 1123-1124.

Jacchia, L. G. “Comments on the Paper, ‘On Empirical Models of the Upper
Atmosphere in the Polar Regions.’ ” Planetary and Space Science, volume 21
(1973), pages 883-884.

“Atmospheric Models in the Region from 110 to 2000 km.” Pages — |
297-338, i in COSPAR International Reference Atmosphere 1972, compiled by COs
PAR Working Group IV. Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 1973.

Jacchia, L. G., I. G. Campbell, and J. W. Slowey. “A Study of the Diurnal
Variation in the Thermosphere as Derived by Satellite Drag.” Presented at the
16th International COSPAR Meeting, Konstanz, Germany, May 1973.

Jacchia, L. G., and J. W. Slowey. “Atmospheric Densities at Heights between 300 '
and 900 km Obtained from the Drag of 5 Satellites during the Interval 22 July |
to 16 August 1972.” Pages 784-791, in H. E. Coffey, editor, Collected Data |
Reports on August 1972 Solar Terrestrial Events, Report UAG—28, Part T
Boulder, Colorado: WDC-A for Solar Terrestrial Physics, 1973.

Jacchia, L. G., J. W. Slowey, and I. G. Campbell. “An Analysis of the Solana
Activity Effects in the Upper Atmosphere.” Presented at the 16th Interna-’
tional COSPAR Meeting, Konstanz, Germany, May 1973.

Jordan, S. D., and E. H. Avrett, editors. Stellar Chromospheres, Proceedings of the
Intemational Astronomical Union Colloquium No. 19. NASA SP-317, 318 pages,
1973.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 267

Jura, M., and A. Dalgarno. “Time-Dependent Models of the Interstellar Gas.”
Astrophysical Journal, volume 174 (1972), pages 365-376.

Kleinmann, D. E. “Bright Infrared Sources in M17.” Astrophysical Letters, volume
13 (1973), pages 49-54.

Koch, D., S. E. Ball, Jr., M. Campbell, J. P. Delvaille, K. Greisen, B. McBreen, D.
R. Hearn, H. F. Helmken, and G. G. Fazio. “Performance of a Gas-Cherenkov
Gamma-Ray Telescope.” Nuclear Instruments and Methods, volume 108 (1973),
pages 349-353.

Kozai, Y., and H. Kinoshita. “Effects of Motion of the Equatorial Plane on the
Orbital Elements of an Earth Satellite.” Celestial Mechanics, volume 7 (1973),
pages 356-366.

Latham, D. W. “Report on the Cambridge Meeting of the AAS Working Group
on Photographic Materials in Astronomy. Part I.” American Astronomical Society
Photo-Bulletin, volume 4, number 1 (1972), pages 17-21.

. “Report on the Cambridge Meeting of the AAS Working Group on
Photographic Materials in Astronomy. Part II.” American Astronomical Society
Photo-Bulletin, volume 4, number 2 (1972), pages 6-15.

Laughlin, C., and G. A. Victor. “Model Potential Calculations for Two-Valence
Electron Systems.” Pages 247-255, in S. J. Smith and G. K. Walters, editors,
Atomic Physics, volume 3. New York: Plenum Press, 1973.

Laulainen, N., and P. W. Hodge. “World-Wide Atmospheric Extinction Data; A
Summary of Sources.” Project ASTRA Publication Number 24 (1972), 9 pages.

Lecar, M. “Bode’s Law.” Nature (Physical Science), volume 242 (1973), pages 318-
319.

Lehr, C. G., M. R. Pearlman, and J. A. Monjes. “The SAO Lunar Laser.” Pages
197-204, in S. A. Bowhill, L. D. Jaffe, and M. J. Rycroft, editors, Space
Research XII. Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 1972.

Lehr, C. G., S. J. Criswell, J. P. Ouellette, P. W. Sozanski, J. D. Mulholland, and
P. J. Shelus. “Laser Transit-Time Measurements between the Earth and the
Moon with a Transportable System.” Science, volume 80 (1973), pages 954-955.

Lehr, C. G., J. P. Ouellette, P. W. Sozanski, J. T. Williams, S. J. Criswell, and M.
Mattei. “Lunar Range Measurements with a High-Radiance Frequency-
Doubled Neodymium-Glass Laser System.” Applied Optics, volume 12 (1973),
pages 946-947.

meee. G. C. R. H. Tsiang, G. M. Mendes, and R. J. Eldred. “Laser Pulse
Analysis.” Presented at the Ist International Symposium on the Use of
Artificial Satellites for Geodesy and Geodynamics, Athens, Greece, May 1973.

Lester, J. B. “A Spectroscopic Study of the Strong Helium-Line Star H.D.
37017.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 178 (1972), pages 743-761.

Levy, H., Il. “Photochemistry of the Lower Troposphere.” Planetary and Space

Science, volume 20 (1972), pages 919-935.

\ . “The Tropospheric Budgets for Methane, Carbon Monoxide and
Related Species.” Presented at the Symposium on Sources, Sinks, and
Concentrations of Carbon Monoxide and Methane in the Earth’s Environment,
St. Petersburg, Florida, August 1972.

. “Photochemistry of Minor Constituents in the Troposphere.” Plane-
tary and Space Science, volume 21 (1973), pages 575-591.

‘Litvak, M. M. “Non-Equilibrium Processes in Interstellar Molecules.” Pages 201-

276, in T. R. Carson and M. J. Roberts, editors, Atoms and Molecules in

Astrophysics. New York: Academic Press, 1972.

. “Radiative Transport in Interstellar Masers.” Astrophysical Journal,

volume 182 (1973), pages 711-730.

268 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Masers and Optical Pumping.” Pages 268-288 in M. A. Gordon
and L. E. Snyder, editors, Molecules in the Galactic Environment. New York:
John Wiley & Sons, 1973.

Lundquist, C. A. “Concepts of the Utilization of Satellite-to-Ocean Altitudes.”
Presented at the Meeting of the Marine Technology Society, Washington,
D.C., September 1972.

Lundguist, C. A., R. H. Gay, and G. E. O. Giacaglia. “Spherical Sampling
Functions: Generalization and Applications.” Presented at the Ninth Interna-
tional Symposium on Geophysical Theory and Computers, Banff, Canada,
August 1972.

Lundquist, C. A., and G. E. O. Giacaglia. “A Geopotential Representation with
Sampling Functions.” Pages 125-131, in S. W. Henriksen, A. Mancini, and B.
H. Chovitz, editors, The Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy, Geophysical
Monograph Series, volume 15. Washington, D.C.: American Geophysical Union,
1972.

Lundquist, C. A., G. E. O. Giacaglia, and R. H. Gay. “Application of Sampling
Functions to Earth Gravity Models.” Presented at the American Geophysical
Union Meeting, Washington, D.C., August 1972.

Lundquist, C. A., and H. Levy II. “Comparison of Atmospheric Measurement
Techniques at Mt. Hopkins Observatory.” Presented at the Symposium on the
Use of Astronomical Techniques for the Study of Atmospheric Deterioration,
Seattle, Washington, April 1972.

Maeder, A., and E. Peytremann. “Uniformly Rotating Stars with Hydrogen- and
Metallic-Line Blanketed Model Atmospheres.” Astronomy and Astrophysics, vol-
ume 21 (1972), pages 279-284.

Marsden, B. G. “Comets in 1971.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical
Society, volume 13 (1972), pages 415-435.

. “Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.”
International Astronomical Union Information Bulletin, number 28 (1972), pages 8—
3:

. “Comet Orbits: Prediction, Nongravitational Effects.” Pages 123-
141, in G. P. Kuiper and E. Roemer, editors, Comets: Scientific Data and
Missions. Tucson, Arizona: University of Arizona, Lunar and Planetary
Laboratory, 1972.

. “General Remarks on Orbit and Ephemeris Computation.” Pages 36—
38, in G. A. Chebotarev, E. I. Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G. Marsden,
editors, The Motion, Evolution of Orbits, and Origin of Comets, Proceedings of the
International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

. “Nongravitational Effects on Comets: The Current Status.” Pages
135-143, in G. A. Chebotarev, E. I. Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G.
Marsden, editors, The Motion, Evolution of Orbits, and Origin of Comets,
Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

. “The Motion of Hidalgo and the Mass of Saturn.” Pages 239-243, in
G. A. Chebotarev, E. I. Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G. Marsden, editors,
The Motion, Evolution of Orbits, and Origin of Comets, Proceedings of the
International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

Marsden, B., Z. Sekanina, and D. K. Yeomans. “Comets and Nongravitational
Forces. V.” Astronomical Journal, volume 78 (1973), pages 211-225.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 269

Martin, R. W., and F. D. Young. “Considerations for an Earth Physics
Information-Management Service.” Pages 283-288, in S. W. Henriksen, A.
Mancini, and B. H. Chovitz, editors, The Use of Artificial Satellites for Geodesy,
Geophyswal Monograph Series, volume 15. Washington, D.C.: American Geo-
physical Union, 1972.

Marvin, U. B. Continental Drift: The Evolution of a Concept, Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1973.

- Apollo 16 Coarse Fines (4-10 mm): Sample Classification and Inventory.
NASA Manned Spacecraft Center, 143 pages, 1972.

Marvin, U. B., J. B. Reid, Jr., G. J. Taylor, and J. A. Wood. “Lunar Mafic Green
Glasses, Howardites, and the Composition of Undifferentiated Lunar Mate-
rial.” Pages 507-509, in C. Watkins, editor, Lunar Science—lII. Houston,
Texas: Lunar Science Institute, 1972.

Marvin, U. B., and J. A. Wood. “The Haveré Ureilite: Petrographic Notes.”
Meteoritics, volume 7 (1972), pages 601-610.

Megrue, G. H. “Spatial Distribution of *°Ar/* Ar ages in breccia 14301.” Journal
of Geophysical Research, volume 78 (1973), pages 3216-3221.

Megrue, G. H., E. Norton, and D. W. Strangway. “Tectonic History of the
Ethiopian Rift as Deduced by K-Ar Ages and Paleomagnetic Measurements of
Basaltic Dikes.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 77 (1972), pages 5744-
5754.

Megrue, G. H., and F. Steinbrunn. “Classification and Source of Lunar Soils;
Clastic Rocks; and Individual Mineral, Rock, and Glass Fragments from
Apollo 12 and 14 Samples as Determined by the Concentration Gradients of
the Helium, Neon, and Argon Isotopes.” Pages 1899-1916, in Proceedings of the
Third Lunar Science Conference, Geochimica et. Cosmochimica Acta, volume 2,
supplement 3. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press, 1972.

Mertz, L. N. “Maser Theory of Pulsars.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society, volume 4 (1972), page 221.

————. “Configuration for a Multichannel Fabry-Perot Spectroheliograph.”
Optics Communications, volume 6 (1972), pages 282-283.

. “Improved Polarization Interferometer for Fourier Spectroscopy.”
Optics Communications, volume 6 (1972), pages 354-355.

Michelini, R. D., and M. D. Grossi. “Very Long Baseline Observations of Radio
Emissions from Geostationary Satellites.” Pages 517-525, in S. A. Bowhill, L.
D. Jaffe, and M. J. Rycroft, editors, Space Research XII., Berlin: Akademie-
Verlag, 1972. :

'Mitler, H. E. “Cosmic-Ray Production of Deuterium, He’, Lithium, Beryllium,
and Boron in the Galaxy.” Astrophysics and Space Science, volume 17 (1972),
pages 186-218.

)Mohr, P. A. “Surface Structure and Plate Tectonics of Afar.” Tectonophysics,

volume 15 (1972), pages 3-18.

- “Crustal Deformation Rate and the Evolution of the Ethiopian Rift.”

Pages 759-768, in D. H. Tarling and S. K. Runcorn, editors, Continental Drift,

Sea Floor Spreading and Plate Tectonics: Implications to the Earth Sciences. London:

Academic Press, 1973.

- “Ethiopian Rift Geodimeter Surveys.” Bulletin of the Geophysical

Observatory, Addis Ababa, number 14 (1973), pages 1-91.

Noyes, R. W., A. K. Dupree, M. C. E. Huber, W. H. Parkinson, E. M. Reeves,

and G. L. Withbroe. “Extreme Ultraviolet Emission from Solar Prominences.”

Astrophysical Journal, volume 178 (1972), pages 515-525.

270 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Noyes, R. W., T. R. Ayres, and D. N. B. Hall. “Equator-Pole Temperature
Difference and the Solar Oblateness.” Solar Physics, volume 28 (1973), pages

343-345.
Noyes, R. W., and D. N. B. Hall. “Thermal Oscillations in the High Solar

Photosphere.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters), volume 176 (1972), pages L89-L92.

Noyes, R. W., and G. L. Withbroe. “The Solar EUV-Emitting Plasma.” ae
Science Reviews, volume 13 (1972), pages 612-637.

O’Mongain, E. “Limit to Pulses of Radio Frequency Emission from the Galactic
Centre.” Nature, Letter, volume 242 (1973), pages 136-137.

Oppenheimer, M., C. Bottcher, and A. Dalgarno. “The Charge Transfer
Spectrum of (LiNa) + .” Chemical Physics Letters, volume 15 (1972), pages 24-26.

Parsons, S. B., and E. Peytremann. “Comparison of Celescope Magnitudes with
Model-Atmosphere Predictions for A, F, and G Supergiants.” Astrophysical
Journal, volume 180 (1973), pages 71-79.

Ramasstry, J., B. Rosenbaum, R. D. Michelini, and S. Ross. “Precision Tracking
and Geodesy through VLBI Observations of Extragalactic Sources and Earth
Satellites.” Presented at the 16th International COSPAR Meeting, Konstanz,
Germany, May 1973.

Reid, J. B., Jr. “Olivine-Rich, True Spinel-Bearing Anorthosites from Apollo 15
and Luna 20 Soils.” Pages 154-157, in J. W. Chamberlain and C. Watkins,
editors, The Apollo 15 Lunar Samples, Houston, Texas: Lunar Science Institute,
1973:

Schild, R. E. “A Spectroscopically Distinguished Class of Be Stars.” Astro hysical
Journal, volume 179 (1973), pages 221-230.

“The Energy Distribution of NGC 1068 and of Other Stellar
Systems.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 178 (1972), pages 617-621.

“Spectral Types and UBV Photometry of G-K Giants at the North
Galactic Pole.” Astronomical Journal, volume 78 (1973), pages 37-44.

Sekanina, Z. “Rotation Effects in the Nongravitational Parameters of Comets.”
Pages 294-300, in G. A. Chebotarey, E. I. Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G.
Marsden, editors, The Motion, Evolution of Orbits, and Origin of Comets,
Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45, Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

. “A Model for the Nucleus of Encke’s Comet.” Pages 301-307, in G.
A. Chebotarevy, E. I. Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G. Marsden, editors, The
Motion, Evolution of Orbits, and Origin of Comets, Proceedings of the International
Astronomical Union Symposium No. 45. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1972.

. “Statistical Model of Meteor Streams. III. Stream Search Among
19303 Radio Meteors.” Icarus, volume 18 (1972), pages 253-284.

Sekanina, Z., and F. D. Miller. “Comet Bennett 1970 II.” Science, volume 179
(1973), pages 565-567.

Simon, G. W., and R. W. Noyes. “Solar Rotation as Measured in EUV
Chromospheric and Coronal Lines.” Solar Physics, volume 26 (1972), pages 8—
Nee

Slowey, J. W. “Earth Radiation Pressure and the Determination of Density from
Atmospheric Drag.” Presented at the 16th International COSPAR Meeting,
Konstanz, Germany, May 1973.

Smith, S., and E. L. Fireman. “Ages of Recently Fallen Meteorites.” Journal of
Geophysical Research, volume 78 (1973), pages 3249-3259.

Spannagel, G., and E. L. Fireman. “Stopping Rate of Negative Cosmic-Ray
Muons near Sea Level.” Journal of Geophysical Research, volume 77 (1972),
pages 5351-5359.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 27k

Stephens, T. L., and A. Dalgarno. “Spontaneous Radiative Dissociation in
Molecular Hydrogen.” Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer,
volume 12 (1972), pages 569-586.

Taylor, G. J. “The Composition of the Lunar Highlands: Evidence from Modal
and Normative Plagioclase Contents in Anorthositic Lithic Fragments and
Glasses.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters, volume 16 (1972), pages 263-268.

. “Anorthositic Lithic Fragments in Apollo 15 Soils and Fractional
Crystallization in the Early Lunar Crust.” Pages 165-168, in J. W. Chamberlain
and C. Watkins, editors, The Apollo 15 Lunar Samples. Houston, Texas: Lunar
Science Institute, 1973.

Taylor, G. J., U. B. Marvin, J. B. Reid, Jr., and J. A. Wood. “Noritic Fragments
in the Apollo 14 and 12 Soils and the Origin of Oceanus Procellarum.” Pages
995-1014, in Proceedings of the Third Lunar Science Conference, Geochimica et
Cosmochimica Acta, volume 1 supplement 3. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The

MIT Press, 1972.
Taylor, G. J., M. J. Drake, J. A. Wood, and U. B. Marvin. “The Luna 20 Lithic

Fragment, and the Composition and Origin of the Lunar Highlands.”
Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta, volume 37 (1973), pages 1087-1106.

Taylor, G. J., M. J. Drake, J. A. Wood, and U. B. Marvin. “Petrogenesis of
KREEP-rich and KREEP-poor nonmare rocks.” Pages 708-710, in J. Chamber-
lain and C. Watkins, editors, Lunar Science IV. Houston, Texas: Lunar Science
Institute, 1973.

Traub, W. A., and N. P. Carleton. “Motions in the Upper Atmosphere of Venus
from Spectroscopic Observations.” Presented at NATO Advanced Study
Institute on Planetary Atmospheres, Istanbul, Turkey, 1972.

. “A Search for HzO and Oz on Venus.” Presented at the Planetary
Sciences Division of the American Astronomical Society Meeting, Tucson,
Arizona, March 1973.

Trauger, J. T., F. L. Roesler, N. P. Carleton, and W. A. Traub. “Measurement of
the D/H Ratio in the Atmosphere of Jupiter with a PEPSIOS Spectrometer.”
Presented at the Planetary Sciences Division of the American Astronomical
Society Meeting, Tucson, Arizona, March 1973.

Ulmschneider, P., and W. Kalkofen. “The Effect of Mechanical Waves on
Empirical Solar Models.” Solar Physics, volume 28 (1973), pages 3-7.

Vernazza, J. E. “On the Difference between Poles and Equator on the Region of

Formation of the Lyman Continuum (abstract).” Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society, volume 4 (1972), page 394.

. “On the Density and Temperature Structure of the Solar Chromo-
sphere.” Pages 71-76, in S. D. Jordan and E. H. Avrett, editors, Stellar
Chromospheres, Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Colloquium No.
19. NASA SP-317, 1972.

Vernazza, J. E., and R. W. Noyes. “Equator-Pole Differences in the Solar
Chromosphere from Lyman-Continuum Data.” Solar Physics, volume 26 (1972),
pages 335-342.

Vessot, R. F. C. “Lectures on Frequency Stability and Clocks and on the
Gravitational Redshift Experiment.” Presented at Enrico Fermi International
School of Physics, Varenna, Italy, July 1972.

Visvanathan, N., and J. L. Elliot. “Variations of the Radio Source OJ 287 at
Optical Wavelengths.” Astrophysical Journal, volume 179 (1973), pages 721-730.

Weisheit, J. C., and A. Dalgarno. “Ionization Structure of Interstellar Carbon.”
Astrophysical Letters, volume 12 (1972), pages 103-1060.
202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Weymann, R. J., and N. P. Carleton. “The Multiple-Mirror Telescope Project.”
Sky and Telescope, volume 44 (1972), pages 159-163.

Whipple, F. L. “The Incentive of a Bold Hypothesis: Hyperbolic Meteors and
Comets.” Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, volume 198 (1972), pages
219-224.

. “The Origin of Comets.” Pages 401-408, in G. A. Chebotarev, E. I.
Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G. Marsden, editors, The Motion, Evolution of
Orbits, and Origin of Comets, Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union
Symposium No. 45. Dordrecht-Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

oe ea “Why Missions to Comets and Asteroids?” Astronautics and
Aeronautics, volume 10 (1972), pages 12-16.

. “Selection of Astronomy Experiments for Space.” Pages 381-384, in
Astronomy from a Space Platform, volume 28, Science and Technology. Tarzana,
California: American Astronautical Society, 1972.

Whipple, F. L., and S. E. Hamid. “A Search for Comet Encke in Ancient Chinese
Records—A Progress Report.” Pages 152-154, in G. A. Chebotarev, E. I.
Kazimirchak-Polonskaya, and B. G. Marsden, editors, The Motion, Evolution of
Orbits, and Origin of Comets, Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union
Symposium No. 45. Dordrecht-Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1972.

Wood, A. T., Jr., and R. W. Noyes. “Solar Flares in the Extreme Ultraviolet: II.
Comparisons with Other Observations.” Solar Physics, volume 24 (1972), pages
180-196. :

Wood, A. T., Jr., R. W. Noyes, A. K. Dupree, M. C. E. Huber, W. H. Parkinson,
E. M. Reeves, and G. L. Withbroe. “Solar Flares in the Extreme Ultraviolet: I.
The Observations.” Solar Physics, volume 24 (1972), pages 169-179.

Wood, A. T., Jr., R. W. Noyes, and E. M. Reeves. “EUV Observations of Solar
Flares.” Pages 117-125, in P. McIntosh and M. Dryer, editors, Solar Activity
Observations and Predictions. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press, 1972.

Wood, J. A. “Ancient History Now Emerges from Lunar Rocks.” Smithsonian,
volume 3 (1972), pages 37-42.

. “Early History of the Moon.” Chemistry, volume 45 (1972), pages 23—
26.

. “Fragments of Terra Rock in the Apollo 12 Soil Samples and a
Structure Model of the Moon.” Icarus, volume 16 (1972), pages 462-501.

. “Asymmetry of the Moon.” Pages 790-792, in J. Chamberlain and C.
Watkins, editors, Lunar Science IV. Houston, Texas: Lunar Science Institute,
1973:

Wright, F. W. “Errors of Some Sextant Sights with a Bubble, from the Queen
Elizabeth 2.” Journal of Navigation, volume 26 (1973), pages 236-238.

Zeilik, M., and A. Dalgarno. “Ultraviolet Argon Dayglow Lines in the Atmos-
phere of Mercury.” Planetary and Space Science, volume 21 (1973), pages 383-
389.

Smithsonian Astrophical Observatory Special Reports

344. G. E. O. Giacaglia and C. A. Lundquist. “Sampling Functions for
Geophysics.” 3 July 1972.

346. J. R. Cherniack. “Computation of Hansen Coefficients.” 27 July 1972.

347. P. A. Mohr. “ERTS-1 Imagery of Eastern Africa: A First Look at the
Geological Structure of Selected Areas.” 20 December 1972.

348. L. G. Jacchia and J. W. Slowey. “A Supplemental Catalog of Atmospheric
Densities from Satellite-Drag Analysis.” 28 December 1972.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 213

349. Y. Kozai. “A New Method to Compute Lunisolar Perturbations in Satellite
Motions.” 1 February 1973.

350. R. J. Davis, W. A. Deutschman, and K. L. Haramundanis. “Celescope
Catalog of Ultraviolet Stellar Observations. Magnetic Tape Version.” 3 May
1973.

351. R. L. Kurucz. ‘“Semiempirical Calculation of gf Values: Sc II
(3d+4s)?—(3d+4s) 4p, A Detailed Example.” 30 May 1973.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Abele, Lawrence G. “Comparative Habitat, Diversity and Faunal Relationships
Between the Pacific and Caribbean Panamanian Decapod Crustacea: A
Preliminary Report, with Some Remarks on the Crustacean Fauna of Panama.”
Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 2 (1972), pages- 125-138.

. “Introduction of Two Freshwater Decapod Crustaceans (Hymenoso-
matidae and Atyidae) into Central and North America. Crustaceana, volume 23
(1972), pages 209-218.

—_—_—_. “A Reevaluation of the Neopanope texana-sayi Complex, with Notes on
N. packardii (Crustacea: Decapoda: Xanthidae) in Northwestern Atlantic.”
Chesapeake Science, volume 13 (1972), pages 263-271.

Dodson, Calaway H., and Robert L. Dressler. “Two Undescribed Genera in the
Orchidaceae—Oncidiinae.” Phytologia, volume 24 (1972), pages 285-292.

Dressler, Robert L. “Una Kefersteinta Nueva del Ecuador.” Qrquideologia, volume
7 (1972), pages 135-137.

. “Terrestrial Plants of Panama.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of
Washington, volume 2 (1972), pages 179-186.

Earle, Sylvia A. and Joyce Redemske Young. “Siphonoclathrus, A New Genus of
Chlorophyta (Siphonales: Codiceae) from Panama.” Occasional Papers of the
Farlow Herbarium of Cryptogamic Botany, volume 3 (1972), pages 1—4:

Glynn, Peter W. “Acanthaster: Effect on Coral Reef Growth in Panama.” Science,

| volume 180 (1973), pages 504-506.

. “Aspects of the Ecology of Coral Reefs in the Western Atlantic
Region.” Pages 271-324, in D. A. Jones and R. Endean, editors, Biology and
geology of coral reefs. New York: Academic Press, 1972.

. “Isopoda of the Suez Canal.” Pages 3-4, in F. D. Por, editor,
Contributions to the Knowledge of Suez Canal Migratin. Israel Journal of Zoology,
volume 21 (1973).

. “Observations on the ecology of the Caribbean and Pacific coasts of
Panama.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington, volume 2 (1972), pages
13-30.

Glynn, Peter W., Robert H. Stewart, and John E. McCosker. “Pacific Coral Reefs
of Panama: Structure, Distribution and Predators.” Geologische Rundschau,
volume 61 (1972), pages 483-519.

Graham, Jeffrey B. and Lawrence G. Abele. “Panama Bay Fish Kill and Crab
Swarming.” Smithsonian Institution Center for Short Lived Phenomena, Event
Information Report, #54-73, 1618-1619, 25 April 1973.

Leigh, Egbert G. “The Golden Section and Spiral Leaf-Arrangement.” Pages
163-176, in E. S. Deevey, editor, Growth by Intussuspection: Ecological Essays in
Honor of G. Evelyn Hutchinson. New Haven: Connecticut Academy of Arts and
Sciences, 1972.

274 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Linares, Olga F. “Discussions.” Pages 14-15; 65-66, in Elizabeth P. Benson,
editor, The Cult of the Feline: A Conference on Pre-Colombian Iconography.
Dumbarton Oaks, 1972.

. “Tecincas en la Paleo-Arqueologia del Oeste Panameno: el Proyecto |
NSF en Bocas del Toro y Chiriqui.” Pages 257-289, in Actas del II Simposium
Nacional de Antropologia, Arqueologia y Etnohistoria de Panama, Abril 1971. |
Panama: Centro de Investigaciones Antropologicas, 1972.

Moynihan, Martin H. “Species Proportions—A Reply.” American Naturalist, |
volume 107 (1973), pages 155-156.

Porter, James W. “Ecology and Species Diversity of Coral Reefs on Opposite |
Sides of the Isthmus of Panama.” Bulletin of the Biological Society of Washington, |
volume 2 (1972), pages 89-116. \

. “Patterns of Species Diversity in Caribbean Reef Corals.” Ecology,
volume 53 (1972), pages 745-748.

. “Predation by Acanthaster and Its Effect on Coral Species Diversity.”
American Naturalist, volume 106 (1972), pages 487-492.

Rand, A. Stanley. “The Temperatures of Iguana Nests and Their Relation to
Incubation Optima and to Nesting Sites and Season.” Herpetologica, volume 28
(1972), pages 252-253.

Ranere, Anthony J. “Ocupacion Pre-Ceramica en las Tierras Altas de Chiriqui,”
traducido por Reina T. de Arauz. Pages 199-207, in Actas del II Simposio |
Nacional de Antropologia, Arqueologia y Etnohistoria de Panama. Panama: Centro /
de Investigaciones Antropologicas, 1972.

Reimer, Amada Alvarez. “Feeding Behavior in the Sea Anemone Calliactis polypus
(Forskal, 1775).” Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, volume 44A (1973), |
pages 1289-1301.

Robinson, Michael H. “The Defensive Behaviour of the Javanese Stick Insect
Orxines macklotti De Haan. In Barbosa and Peters, editors, Readings of |
Entomology. Washington: Suanders W.B., Company, 1972.

. “Insect Anti-Predator Adaptations and the Behavior of Predatory |
Primates.” Actas del IV Congreso Latinoamericano de Zoologia 11 (1973), pages |
811-836.

Robinson, Michael H., and Barbara Robinson. “The Structure, Possible Function |
and Origin of the Remarkable Ladder-Web Built by a New Guinea Orb-Web |
Spider (Araneae: Araneidae).” Journal of Natural History, volume 6 (1972),
pages 687-694. t

. “Techniques for the Observation of Spider Behaviour.” Bulletin of the |
British Arachnological Society, volume 4 (1972), pages 58-59.

Rosenblatt, Richard H., John E. McCosker, and Ira Rubinoff. “Indo-West Pacific
Fishes from the Gulf of Chiriqui, Panama.” Contributions in Science, Natural —
History Museum, Los Angeles County, number 234 (1972), pages 1-18.

Rubinoff, Ira. “Biological Assessment. The Panamic Biota.” Sczence, volume 179 |
(i973) spage 791:

Smith, Neal G. “A Game of Brood Parasitism: Cowbirds Versus Oropendolas.” }
Fauna, volume 4 (1973)

. “Reproductive Behavior.” Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1972. )
. “Spectacular Buteo Migration over Penama.” American Birds, volume ©
27 (1973); page's.

Wolda, Hindrik. “Changes in Shell Size in Some Experimental Populations of the |
Landsnail Cepaea nemoralis (L.).” Israel Journal of Malacology, volume 3 (1972), |
pages 63-71.

. “Ecology of Some Experimental Populations of the Landsnail Cepaea |

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 275

nemoralis (L.) 1. Adult Numbers and Adult Mortality.” Netherlands Journal of
Zoology, volume 22 (1972), pages 428-455.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Brooks, C., and E. Gantt. “Comparison of Phycoerythrins (542, 566 nm) from
Cryptophycean Algae.” Archiv fuer Mikrobiologie, volume 88 (1973), pages 193-
204.

Correll, David L. “The Measurement of Phosphorus Metabolism in Natural
Populations of Microorganisms.” In Bioassay Techniques and Environmental
Chemistry, Chapter 23 (1973), pages 425-431.

Gantt, E., and C. A. Lipschultz. “Energy Transfer in Phycobilisomes from
Phycoerythrin to Allophycocyanin.” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, volume 292
(1973), pages 858-861.

Harding, R. W., and R. P. Wagner. “Immunological Studies with Pyruvate
Dehydrogenase Complex Isolated from N. crassa.” Neurospora Newsletter,
volume 19 (1972), page 14.

Honeycutt, Richard C., and Maurice Margulies. “Control of Ribosome Level,
Gamete Formation, and Amino Acid Uptake in Wild Type Arg-1 Chlamydo-
monas reinhardi.” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, volume 281 (1972), pages 399-
405.

Huang, Ter-Chien, Daniel J. Stanley, and Robert Stuckenrath. “Sedimentological
Evidence for Current Reversal at the Strait of Gibraltar.” Marine Technology
Journal, volume 6 (1972), pages 25-33.

Mitrakos, K., and W. Shropshire, Jr. “Phytochrome,” Procedings of the Nato
Summer Institute on Phytochrome, Eretria, Greece, September 1971. Academic
Press, 1972, 631 pages.

Shropshire, W., Jr. “Phytochrome, A Photochromic Sensor.” Chapter 2, in
Photophysiology, edited by A. C. Giese, Academic Press, volume 7, 1972, pages
33-72.

. “Phototropism.” In Book of Abstracts, Symposia and Contributed Papers.
International Congress on Photobiology 1972, page 24.

———.. “Action Spectroscopy.” Chapter 8, in Phytochrome, edited by K.

- Mitrakos and W. Shropshire, Jr. Academic Press, 1972, pages 161-181.

Stuckenrath, Robert, and James E. Mielke. “Smithsonian Institution Radiocarbon

_ Measurements VII.” Radiocarbon, volume 14, 1972, pages 401-412.

| . “Smithsonian Institution Radiocarbon Measurements VIII.” Radiocar-

bon, volume 15, 1973, pages 388-424.

National Zoological Park

‘Bush, Mitchell, and C. W. Gray. “Sterilization of Projectile Syringes.” Journal of
the American Veterinary Medical Association, volume 161, number 6 (1972), pages
672-673.

Bush, Mitchell, R. Lemkin, and J.A. Moore. “Prolapsed Uterus in a Pigmy

Hippopotamus.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, volume

_ 161, number 6 (1972), page 651.

Bush, Mitchell, D. R. Pieroni, D. G. Goodman, R.I. White, V. Thomas, and A.E.

James. “Tetralogy of Fallot in a Cat.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical

Association, volume 161, number 12 (1972), pages 1679-1686.
276 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Collins, L. R. “America’s Latest Giant Pandas.” Proceedings of the 48th Annual
AAZPA Conference (1972), pages 54-61.

. “Hsing-Hsing and Ling-Ling from Peking.” Smithsonian, volume 3,
number 3 (1973), pages 26-33.

Collins, L. R., and J. K. Page. “Hsing-Hsing and Ling-Ling.” The World of the
Giant Panda by R. Perry (Afterword), 1972, pages 117-127.

Eisenberg, J. F., and D.G. Kleiman. “Olfactory Communication in Mammals.”
Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics, volume 3 (1972).

Eisenberg, J.F., and E. Maliniak. “Breeding and Captive Maintenance of the
Lesser Bamboo Rat, Cannomys badius.” International Zoo Yearbook, volume 13
(1973), pages 204-207.

Jainudeen, M.R., G.M. McKay, and J.F. Eisenberg. “Observations on Musth in
the Domesticated Asiatic Elephant (Elephas maximus).” Mammalia, volume 36,
number 2 (1972), pages 247-261.

Kleiman, D.G. “Social Behavior of the Maned Wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus) and
Bush Dog (Speothos venaticus): A Study in Contrast.” Journal of Mammalogy,
volume 53, number 4 (1972), pages 791-806.

. “Maternal Behaviour of the Green Acouchi (Myoprocta pratt Pocock),
A South American Caviomorph Rodent.” Behaviour, volume .43 (1972), pages
48-84.

Kleiman, D.G., and L.R. Collins. “Preliminary Observations on Scent-Marking,
Social Behavior, and Play in the Juvenile Giant Panda, Ailwropoda melanoleuca.”
American Zoologist, volume 12, number 4 (1972), page 15.

McKay, G. M. “The Ecology and Behavior of the Asiatic Elephant in Southeast-
ern Ceylon.” (Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,) number 125 Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1973.

Montgomery, G. G., and M. Sunquist. “Respiration Rate of Free-Living Three-
toed Sloth (Bradypus infuscatus).” Mammalia, volume 36 (1973), pages 530-532.
Muckenhirn, N.A., and J.F. Eisenberg. “Home Ranges and Predation in the |
Ceylon Leopard (Panthera pardus fusca).” In The World’s Cats, R. L. Eaton,
editor. World Wildlife Safari, Winston, Oregon, and ISCES, Athens, Georgia

(1973), pages 142-175.

Olds, Tony J., and L. R. Collins. “Breeding Matschie’s tree kangaroo (Dendrolagus
matschiet) in Captivity.” International Zoo Yearbook, volume 13 (1973), pages 123—_
1:

Perry, John. “In Danger—Golden Lion Marmosets.” Smithsonian, volume 3, ©
number 9 (December 1972), pages 49-53.

Perry, John, and Dana Lee Horsemen. “Captive Breeding of Orangutans.” —
Zoologia, volume 57, issue 2 (Summer 1972), pages 105-108.

Perry, John, Donald Bridgwater, and Dana Lee Horseman. “Captive Propaga- ©
tion: A Progress Report.” Zoologica, volume 57, issue 3 (Fall 1972), pages 109- |
INTs ;

Reed, T. H. “What's Black and White and Loved All Over?” National Geographic, ©
volume 142, number 6 (December 1972), pages 802-815.

Rudran, R. “The Reproductive Cycles of Two Species of Purple-Faced Langurs —
(Presbytis senex) with Relation to Environmental Factors.” Folia Primatologica, ©
volume (1973), pages 41-60.

Sagartz, J.W., F.M. Garner, and R.M. Sauer. “Multiple Neoplasia in a Captive .
Jungle Cat (Felis chaus)—Thyroid Adenocarcinoma, Gastric Adenocarcinoma, -
Renal Adenoma, and Sertoli Cell Tumor.” Journal of Wildlife Diseases, volume *
5, number 8 (October 1972), pages 375-380.

Strecker, Ernest-Peter, Mitchell Bush, and A.E. James. “Cerebrospinal Fluid

4

|
|
|

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF Paik

Imaging as a Method to Evaluate Communicating Hydrocephalus in Dogs.”
Journal of the American Veterinary Radiology Society, volume 34, number 1 (1973).
Xanten, William A., Jr., L. R. Collins, and M. M. Connery. “Breeding and Birth
of a Bongo (Boocercus eurycerus) at the National Zoological Park, Washington.”
International Zoo Yearbook, volume 13 (1973), pages 152-153.
Zook, B.C., R.M. Sauer, and F.M. Garner. “Lead Poisoning in Captive Wild
Animals.” Journal of Wildlife Diseases, volume 5, number 8 (July 1972).
. “Acute Amaurotic Epilepsy Caused by Lead Poisoning in Nonhuman
Primates.” Journal of American Veterinary Medical Association, volume 161,

number 6 (15 September 1972), pages 683-686.

Office of Environmental Sciences
ECOLOGY PROGRAM

Jenkins, D.W. “The Toxic Metals in Your Future—And Your Past.” Smithsonian,
volume 3, number | (1972), pages 62-69.

. “Bilharzia Defeats Development.” (Ecological Problems in Developing
Countries) Lakartidningen, Journal of Swedish Medical Association, volume 69,
number 23 (1972), pages 2822-2827.

. “Development of a Continuing Program to Provide Indicators and
Indices of Wildlife and the Natural Environment.” Final Report to the Council
on Environmental Quality, 15 April 1972, pages 1-163.

. “An Ecological Look at Our Earth,” Lecture. Ohio State University.
25 March 1972.

Jenkins, D.W., and S.L. Keiley. “Natural Areas of the Eastern Seaboard aud
Their Management.” Lecture. Southern Illinois University. 5 October 1972.
Keiley, S. L. “A Conservation and Protection Plan for the Coast of Maine.”
Report to the Coastal Conservation Conference at Campobello Island. 13

November 1972.

| . “The Role of the Smithsonian Center for Natural Areas.” Address at

annual meeting National Association of State Outdoor Recreation Liaison

_ Officers. 11 September 1972.

Jolly, W.C. “Environmental Studies at United States Colleges and Universities.”
Buological Conservation, volume 4, number 2 (1972) page 152.

. “Institute for Environmental Quality, University of Michigan.”
Environmental Education: Academies Response. Commission on Undergraduate
Education in Biological Sciences. Publication 35 (1972) pages 36-39.

Poole, R. K. “Smithsonian Institution—Peace Corps Environmental Program.”
Address and paper. The Second World Conference on National Parks, Grand
Teton, September 1972.

Sherburne, J.A., and R.K. Poole. “Wildlifers sought by the Smithsonian
Institution—Peace Corps Environmental Program.” Wildlife Society Bulletin,
volume 1, number | (1973), pages 48-49.

Sherburne, J.A. “The Function of the Smithsonian—Peace Corps Environmental

Program and Opportunities for Entomologists.” Lecture, Entomological Soci-

ety of America Annual Meeting, Montreal, November 1973.

. “Effects of Seasonal Changes in the Abundance and Chemistry of
the Fleshy Fruits of Northeastern Woody Shrubs on Patterns of Exploitation

by Frugivorous Birds.” Ph.D. Thesis, Cornell University, May 1972.

uy
278 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 |

OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY

Higgins, R. P. “Kinorhyncha.” In A. C. Giese and J. S. Pearse, editors,
Reproduction of Marine Invertebrates, New York: Academic Press, 1973.

. “Priapulida of Chesapeake Bay/Tardigrada of Chesapeake Bay/
Kinorhyncha of Chesapeake Bay.” Chesapeake Science, volume 13 (Supplement, |
1972), pages S102-S105.

Kerby, Catherine J., co-editor, “Biota of the Chesapeake Bay.” Chesapeake Science,
volume 13 (Supplement, 1972), entire issue.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

Houbrick, Joseph. “Application to Preserve the Name Certthium by Designating
Cerithium adansonii (Bruguiere, 1792) as the Type Species.” Bulletin of Zoological
Nomenclature, (1973, in press).

. “Growth Studies on the Genus Cerithium (Gastropoda: Prosobranchia)
with Notes on Ecology and Microhabitats.” Nautilus, (1973, in press).

—————. “Studies on the Reproductive Biology of the Genus Cerithium
(Gastropoda: Prosobranchia) in the Western Atlantic.” Bulletin of Marine
Science, (1973, in press).

. “Investigations of Marine Shallow Water Ecosystems (Molluscs).”
IMSWE Progress Report, FY 1973.

Knapp, Leslie W. “Platycephalus beauforti, a New Species of Flathead (Pisces: |
Platycephalidae) from the Western Pacific.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, (1973, in press).

———.. “Review of Pacific Marine Fishes, Book I, by Fujio Yasuda and Yoshio
Hiyama.” Transactions of the American Fisheries Society, (1973, in press). |

Landrum, B. J. “Antarctic Information Services at the Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center.” Antarctic Journal of the U.S., volume 7, number 5
(1972), pages 212-213.

Simmons, Keith L., and B. J. Landrum. “Bottom Photographs of Antarctic |
Benthos.” Antarctic Journal of the U.S., volume 8, number 2 (1973), pages 41-43
and front cover.

. “Sea Floor Photographs from the USNS ELTANIN: The Collection
and Data Processing Techniques.” Antarctic Journal of the U.S., volume 8,
number 3 (1973, in press).

CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA

“Catalogue of Publications Available Through the Center for Short-Lived —
Phenomena.” Novmeber 1972.
“CSLP 1972, Annual Report and Review of Events.” May 1972.
Citron, Robert. “A Plan to Establish an International Environmental Educational |
Program as Part of the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Program.” October |
1972
. “A Plan to Establish an International Alert Network as Part of the |
United Nations Earthwatch Program.” 2 October 1972.
Citron, Robert and John Whitman. “A Plan to Establish an International .
Environmental Alert Network and an International Environmental Education
Program as Part of the United Nations Earthwatch Program.” September
1972:

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 279
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc.

Hersey, D. F. “Keeping Pace with Active Research on Experimental Medicine
and Surgery in Primates.” CD Medical Primatology, volume 1 (1973), in press.
Foster, W. R. “Reference Books and Computerized Information Services:
Partners in Librarianship.” Bulletin Medical Library Association, volume 60,

number 3 (July 1972), pages 439-444.

Riva, J. P. “Computerized Indexing and Retrieval of Information Regarding On-
going Geological Research.” Proceedings of the 24th International Geological
Congress, Montreal, Canada, section 16 (August 1972), pages 213-217.

. “Toward the Development of a Geosciences Information System—
Research in Progress.” Geosciences Information Society Proceedings, volume 2
(September 1972), pages 69-74.

Snyderman, M., and B. L. Hunt. “Nineteen Ideas for Management of Small
Computer Systems.” Management and Computer Systems, 2nd edition (February
1973), pages 262-270.

The National Museum of History and Technology
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR

Bedini, Silvio A. “Artists and Artisans in Wood.” Lecture. America’s Wooden
Age. The Thirty-first Conference in Early American History. Sponsored by
Sleepy Hollow Restorations and the Institute of Early American History and
Culture. Tarrytown, New York. 27 April 1973.

. “Benjamin Banneker and Baltimore County.” Lecture. Maryland
Historical Society, Baltimore, Maryland. 15 October 1972.

Boorstin, Daniel J., editor. American Civilization. 352 pages. London: Thames and
Hudson; New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1972.

. The Americans: The Democratic Experience. 717 pages. New York:
Random House, 1973.

. “The U. S. Capitol Building.” Aventour International, volume 1,
number 1, inaugural issue [December 1972], page 10.

. “Too Much Too Soon?” T.V. Guide, volume 20, number 51, issue 529
(16-22 December 1972), pages 14-15.

. “Getting There First.” Reader’s Digest (December 1972), pages 91-94.

—————. “A. Montgomery Ward’s Mail-Order Business.” Chicago History
(Spring-Summer 1973), pages 142-152.

———.. “How We Democratized the American Diet from Salt Fish to Frozen
Berries.” Smithsonian (June 1973), pages 26-34.

. “Getting There Is All the Fun.” The Listener, volume 89, number
2301 (3 May 1973), pages 578-579.

. “Technology and Democracy.” Chapter in Our Secular Cathedrals:
Change and Continuity in the University. The Franklin Lectures in the Sciences
and Humanities, third series. The University of Alabama Press for Auburn
University (1973), pages 99-123.

. “Club of Rome.” Broadcast discussion. Nationale Publiciteits Onder-
neming by, The Hague, 3 November 1972.

. “Getting There First.” MGM Monogram Series TV Documentary
(December 1972).

521-552 O- 74-19
280 4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “A Country of the Future: Past and Present.” Lecture. Texas
Christian University, 8 December 1972.

. “Too Much Democracy?” Broadcast. British Broadcasting Corpora-
tion, London, 22 March 1973.

. “The Smithsonian Institution.” Lecture. The Instituto Della Enciclo-
pedia Italiana, Rome, 22 March 1973.

. “America and the Image of Europe.” Lecture. Royal University of
Malta, Valletta, Malta, 27 March 1973.

. “Education in America.” Lecture. American Center, Valletta, Malta,
27 March 1973.
. “American Life and the Exploring Spirit.” Lecture. Hellenic
American Union, Athens, 4 April 1973.

. “Man, His Machines and Society.” Symposium Lecture. American
Center, Nicosia, Cyprus, 10 April 1973.

. “The American Standard of Living.” Lecture. Nicosia, Cyprus, 12
April 1973.

. “Advertising and American Civilization.” Lecture in series Advertising
and Society. Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago, 24 May 1973.

. “Vietnam: a Discussion.” Broadcast. British Broadcasting Corpora-
tion, London, 6 June 1973.

. “A Letter from Washington.” Broadcast. British Broadcasting
Company, London, 11 June 1973.

DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED ARTS

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr. “The Post Office’s Philatelic Truck—An Early Project for
Philatelic Education.” Thirty-eighth American Philatelic Congress Book, 1972, pages
49-67.

. “Visiting the Smithsonian,” Scott Monthly Journal: “The National
Parks,’ volume 53, number 5, pages 18-19, 43; “Franklin D. Roosevelt and
Stamps of His Era,’ volume 53, number 7, pages 12-13; “The 1939-41
Philatelic Truck and Its Souvenir Sheet,” volume 53, number 8, pages 6-7, 9;
“New Era for Philately Launched by 1923 Stamp Illustration Law,” volume 54,
number 2, pages 14-15, 18.

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. “The New Coin Hall-New Horizons in Numismatics,” 15
November 1972. Lecture. Montgomery County Coin Club.

. “Counterfeiting in History,” lecture sponsored by Radio Smithson-
ian. 22 September 1972.

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira and Vladimir. The History of Money and Medals, Washing-
ton, 1972. 20 pages, illustrated.

Dirks, Katherine. ‘How to Care for Your Antique Textiles,” Handweaver &
Craftsman. January/February 1973, pages 40-41.

Haberstich, David. “The History of Photography at the Smithsonian,” Graphic
Antiquarian, volume 3, number 1 (July 1972), pages 4-8.

——. “Photography and the Plastic Arts,” Leonardo, volume 6, number 2
(1973), pages 113-119.
- “Bibliography in Photography,” Lecture. The University of Maryland
(Baltimore County campus), 20 September 1972.
- “Photography: Art and Artifact,” Lecture. Northern Virginia Fine
Arts Association, 20 September 1972.

Harris, Elizabeth M. “Miscellaneous 19th Century Map Printing Processes.”

Lecture. The Newberry Library, Chicago, November 1972.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 281

Marzio, Peter C., Milton Kaplan. “Prints as Historical Documents,” Antiques,

volume 102, number 4 (October 1972), pages 669-674.

. “Prints as Social Documents.” Lecture. Graduate Seminar. Smithson-
ian American Studies Program. Fall 1972.

. “Art, Technology, and Satire; The Legacy of Rube Goldberg.”
Leonardo, volume 5 (Fall 1972), pages 315-324.

. “Communications an Impetus for Change.” Lecture. Communica-
tions course offered by Smithsonian Associates, Spring 1973.

Marzio, Peter C. “An Introduction to the Henry R. Luce Hall of News
Reporting.” Lecture. Broadcast Educators Association. National Museum of
History and Technology, Spring 1973.

. The Men and Machines of American Journalism, Washington, D. C.,
Smithsonian Institution, 1973.

. “The History of News Reporting.” Hall Guide, Washington, D. C.,
Smithsonian Institution, 1973.

. “The American Drawing Books 1800-1860.” Lecture. Free Library
of Philadelphia, Fourth Annual Print Conference, Spring 1973.

Norby, Reidar. “The Séllested Strip,” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 8, number 7
(September 1972), pages 100-101.
. “Nordic Lands,” Linn’s Stamp News: “Scandinavia Has Tradition of
Reliable Postal Service,” (27 November 1972), page 16; “Stamps Retell
Mythology, History of Scandinavia” (25 December 1972), page 48.
. “Don’t Destroy Those Space Fillers,” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 9,

number | (January 1973), pages 4—5, and reprinted in Western Stamp Collector,
number 4020 (10 March 1973), pages 7-11.

—_______. “Scandinavian Varieties,” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 8 (1972)
page 110 and volume 9 (1973), pages 31, 45.
——————.. “Trimmed Stamps Not Always Fakes,” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 9,
number 2 (February 1973), pages 23-24.
. “FIP Representation Representative?” Scandinavian Scribe, volume 9,
number 3 (March 1973), pages 39-41.
. “Sweden’s Motorized Mail Coaches 1923-73,” Scandinavian Scribe,
volume 9, numbers 4 and 5 (April and May 1973), pages 55-65 and 71-79.

Scheele, Carl H., Reidar Norby, Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., Ellen Roney, Craig J.
Turner, and Frank J. Berek. Hall of Stamps and the Mails. 24 pages, 38
illustrations. Omaha, Neb.; Scott Publishing Co., 1972.

. “Technology and the U. S. Postal Service, 1875-1910,” Lecture.
Graduate Seminar. Smithsonian American Studies Program. Fall 1972.

Turner, Craig J. “The Early United States Bank Note Companies and Their
Postage Stamp Issues, 1847-1893.” The Thirty-Eighth American Philatelic Con-
gress Book (27-29 October 1972), pages 11-47 (16 illustrations and 6 tables).

Turner, Craig J. “National Postage Stamp Collection Has 12 Million Items
Available for Display.” Linn’s Stamp News, volume XLVI, number 9, (February
1973), pages 2 and 27.

. “The Postmaster General’s Postage Stamp—Part I—1860 Ninety
Cent Blue.” The S.P.A. Journal, volume 35, number 6, (February 1973), pages
339-342 (2 illustrations).

. “The Postmaster General’s Postage Stamp—Part II—1861 Ninety
Cent Blue.” The S.P.A. Journal, volume 35, number 8 (March 1973), pages
413-418 (4 illustrations).

. “The Postmaster General’s Postage Stamp—Part III—1869 Ninety
282 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Cent Lincoln.” The S.P.A. Journal, volume 35, number 8 (April 1973), pages
487-493 (4 illustrations).

. “The Postmaster General’s Postage Stamp—Part IV—1870 Ninety
Cent Perry.” The S.P.A. Journal, volume 35, number 9 (May 1973), pages 539-
541 (2 illustrations).

. “The Postmaster General’s Postage Stamp—Part V—1873-1888
Ninety Cent Perry.” The S.P.A. Journal, volume 35, number 10 (June 1973),
pages 601-604 (2 illustrations).

DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL HISTORY

Ahlborn, Richard E. “European Dress in Texas, 1830: As Rendered by Lino
Sanchez y Tapia.” American Scene, volume XIII, number 4. Thomas Gilcrease
Institute of American History and Art: Tulsa, 1972.

. “The Material Culture of Latin America.” Lecture. Foreign Service
Institute, Washington, D. C., September 1972.

. “The Transmission of Culture: Spain to America.” Lecture. Ameri-
can University, Washington, D. C., December 1972.

. “Woodwork in Hispanic New Mexico.” Lecture. NMHT Seminar,
Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., January 1973.

. “Latin American Art Since Independence.” Lecture. George Wash-
ington University, Washington, D. C., March 1973.

. “Hispanic Collections at the Smithsonian.” Lecture. NMHT Saturday
Series, Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., March 1973.

. “Hispanic Building Practices in the Southwest.” Lecture. Columbia
University (NYC) Graduate Seminar, Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., March
1973.

. “Hispanic Material Culture in the Southwest.” Lecture. American
Studies Graduate Seminar, Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., April 1973.

. “Hispanic Folk Traditions in New Mexico.” Lecture. University of
Delaware Graduate Seminar, Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., May 1973.

. “New Mexico in 1775.” Lecture. Conversations with Curators Series,
Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., May 1973.

Fesperman, John T. Recording. Messe pour les Paroisses (Francois Couperin).
Cambridge Records, CRS 2504, May 1973.

. Ten Voluntaries for the Organ or Harpsichord by William Boyce (1710-
1779), with an introduction and notes by John Fesperman, Boston: E. C.
Schirmer, 1973.

. “Renaissance in American Organ Design, 1930-1960.” Paper read at
the American Musical Instruments Society meetings, Boston, April 1973.

Fesperman, John T., with David Hinshaw. “New Light on North America’s
Oldest Instruments: Mexico.” Organ Yearbook, volume III, pages 52-63,
Amsterdam: Frits Knuf, 1972 (appeared in 1973).

Golovin, Anne Castrodale. “Bridgeport’s Gothic Ornament: The Harral-Wheeler
House.” Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, number 18, 1972.

Hoover, Cynthia A. “Music Machines at the Smithsonian,” Journal of the
Association for Recorded Sound Collections, volume IV, numbers 1/2/3, pages 29-
32.

. Record notes for Songs by Stephen Foster. Nonesuch Records, H
71268.

. Collaborated on exhibition “Early Music in Massachusetts,” Museum
of Fine Arts, 16 May—2 September 1973.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 283

. “Historical Music in Museums.” Member of panel at conferences on
American music at Old Sturbridge Village, 5-6 May 1973.

. “Musical Instruments in America.” Chairman of session at national
meetings of the American Musicological Society, November 1972.

. At national meetings of the American Musical Instruments Society,
moderator of panel of American instrument builders and program chairman
of the meetings. Boston, April 1973.

Kidwell, Claudia B. “Bathing Dress Was Not for Swimming.” Illustrated lecture.
Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D. C., 18 November
1972.

. “Quest for Clothing by 18th Century Americans.” Illustrated lecture.
The Smithsonian Associate’s “Conversations with Curators; Early Life in Our
Country.” Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., 21 May 1973.

Odell, J. Scott, with Sheridan Germann, research collaborator. Supervised full-
sized drawings of five keyboard instruments in the collection which are
available as research documents to builders and scholars (available in paper
print and mylar print).

Roth, Rodris. “Aspects of Material Culture: Cultural History.” Lecture. American
Studies Graduate Seminar, Smithsonian, Washington, D. C., 12 October 1972.
Serio, Anne Marie. “Political Cartoons in the 1848 Election Campaign.”

Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, number 14, 1972.

Sheldon, Robert. Flutist and keyed bugler for Songs by Stephen Foster. Nonesuch
Records, H 71268.

. Lecture and demonstration with Dr. Robert Eliason, Curator of
Musical Instruments, Henry Ford Museum, presented at First International
Tuba Symposium Workshop, Indiana University School of Music, 22 May 1973.

Watkins, C. Malcolm. James Johston’s White House in Half Moon Bay: An Example
of Early Anglo-American Reminiscent Architecture in California. Illustrated. 28 pages.
Half Moon Bay, California: The Johnston House Foundation, Inc., 1972.

. “Historical Archaeology: Its Significance for the History Museum
Curator.” Lecture. The Cooperstown Graduate Program, New York State
Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York, 4 May 1973.

. “Expert Knowledge: An Unfashionable Ingredient.” Panel paper,
Session on Museum Training, Western Regional Conference, American
Association of Museums, Berkeley, California, 20 October 1972.

Weaver, James M. Lecture. “Historical Keyboard Instruments,” at Baroque Music
at Aston Magna, June 1973.

. Faculty of Baroque Performance Institute, The Conservatory of Music,
Oberlin College, 16 July-6 August 1972.

”

DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIES

| Berkebile, Donald H. “Wood as a Material of Street and Road Construction.”

Lecture, Wood in American Culture, National Museum of History and Technol-
ogy, Washington, D. C., December 1972.

Chapelle, Howard I. “The Competition between Wood and Iron as a Shipbuild-
ing Material in the Last Half of the 19th Century.” Lecture, Wood in American
Culture, National Museum of History and Technology, Washington, D. C.,
December 1972.

Hoffman, John N. “Girard Estate Coal Lands in Pennsylvania, 1801-1884.”
Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology, number 15, Washington, D. C.,
1972. 86 pages.
284 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Mining and Processing Metallic Ores for Strategic Stockpiling.”
Lecture, Army Mobilization Detachment, Washington, D. C., 7 February 1973.

. “The Mechanization of the U. S. Coal Industry.” Lecture, National
Museum of History and Technology, Weekly Lecture Series, illustrated with
slides and film. 28 April 1973.

. “Our Energy Crisis.’
Washington, D. C., 20 June 1973.

. “Girard’s Coal Venture.” Paper, presented at the Historical Society
of Schuylkill County, Annual Meeting, 18 October 1972, Pottsville, Pennsylva-
nia.

’

Lecture, Army Mobilization Detachment,

. “Mechanization of the Anthracite Industry 1820-1850.” Paper,
presented at the Sixth Regional Economic History Conference, Eleutherian
Mills Historical Library, 10 May 1973. Wilmington, Delaware.

Knowles, James A., Jr. “Blue Water Monitor.” Proceedings United States Naval
Institute, volume 99(March 1973), pages 78-89.

Miller, J. Jefferson II. 18th Century English Porcelain, Washington, D. C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1973, 93 pages. _

Schlebecker, John T. “The Agricultural Collections in the United States National
Museum of History and Technology, Washington, D. -C.” Museum, volume
XXIV, number 3, 1972, pages 177-180.

. “World Agriculture and Living Historical Farms.” Lecture, given at
the Museum of English Rural Life, Reading, England, and at the Portsmouth
City Museum, Portsmouth, England. Spring 1973.

Sharrer, George T. “18th Century Virginia Agriculture.” Lecture given at the
George Washington Birthplace National Monument and Stratford Hall,
Westmoreland County, Virginia. Summer 1972.

White, John H., Jr. “Wood To Burn: the Role of the Railroad.” Lecture, Wood
in American Culture, National Museum of History and Technology, Washing-
ton, D. C., December 1972.

. Early American Locomotives. New York: Dover Publications, 1973.
XVII + 147 pages.

. “A History of the Railroad Hand Car.” Railroad History, 127 (October
1972), pages 65-95.

. Editor, Railroad History, number 127 (October 1972), 116 pages.

. Editor, Railroad History, number 128 (Spring 1973), 95 pages.

DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL AND MILITARY HISTORY

Coffee, Barbara J. “Handling and Storing of Museum Objects.” Lecture. 1973
Woodlawn Conference, National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington,
D. C. February 1973.

. “The Dresses of the First Ladies.” Lecture. The Northeastern
College Women’s Auxiliary, Villanova, Pennsylvania. May 1973.

. “The History of the First Ladies Hall.” Lecture. Saturday Presenta-
tions. The National Museum of History and Technology, Washington, D.C.
June 1973.

Collins, Herbert R. “Value of Collectible Items.” Lecture. The Value of History.
American Society of Appraisers Regional Conference, Williamsburg, Virginia.
July 1972.

—————.. “Campaigning American Style.” Lecture. Baptist Home of the

District of Columbia, Washington, D. C. August 1972.

”

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 285

—————.. “Campaigning for the Presidency.” Lecture. The North Carolina
Democratic Club of Washington, D. C. September 1972.

. “The Quest for the Presidency.” Lecture. The Rowfant Club,
Cleveland, Ohio. October 1972.

. “The Quest for the Presidency.” Lecture. Gulf Coast Politics in the
Twentieth Century. The Fourth Gulf Coast History and Humanities Conference.
Pensacola, Florida. December 1972.

. “Selecting and Documenting Collections.” Lecture. Material Aspects of
American Culture. American Studies Program, Smithsonian Institution, Wash-
ington, D.C. February 1973.

Goins, Craddock R., Jr. “The Arms Collection of the Smithsonian Institution: A
History of their Development and Use in Research.” Lecture. Arms and
Armor Society of New York, New York. April 1973.

. “Firearms in American History.” Lecture. The National Museum of
History and Technology, Washington, D.C. April 1973.

. “The Development of Breech-loading Arms in the U.S. Army
following the Civil War: A Study in Economy vs. Firepower.” Lecture. U.S. Air
Force Research and Development, Squadron “K”, Washington, D. C. Septem-
ber 1972.

Hoffman, Howard P., and Philip K. Lundeberg. “The Only Surviving Man-of-
War of the American Revolution: The Continental Gunboat Philadelphia.”
Lecture. Saturday Morning Lecture Series. Smithsonian Institution, Washing-
ton, D. C. 10 February 1973.

Klapthor, Margaret B. “The French Porcelains of America’s Presidents in the
Early Nineteenth Century.” Pages 48-51 in Catalog of Eighteenth Annual
Washington Antiques Show, 1973. Washington, D. C.

. “The Inauguration Story.” Lecture. The National Museum of
History and Technology, Washington, D. C. January 1973.

. “The Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House.” Lecture.
American College Public Relations Association, Washington, D.C. March 1973.

. “The Dresses of the First Ladies of the White House.” Lecture. The
Colonial Dames of America, Chapter I, Baltimore, Maryland. May 1973.

Kloster, Donald E. “The Development of U.S. Army Uniforms from the
Revolutionary War to World War II.” Lecture. The National Museum of
History and Technology, Washington, D. C. May 1973.

Langley, Harold D. “The American Empire and the Navy.” Lecture. Southern
Historical Association Annual Meeting, Houston, Texas. 20 October 1971.
[Not previously reported.]

—————.. “James Smithson and His Institution.” Lecture. Naval War College
Class, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. 8 August 1972.

. “The Urban Navy.” Lecture. American Studies Program. Smithson-
ian Institution, Washington, D.C. 16 November 1972.

. “The Smithsonian Institution Buildings.” Lecture. Smithsonian
Associates, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. 16 December 1972.

. “The Impact of Declassification on Diplomatic History.” Panel

{ discussion. Organization of American Historians, Chicago, Illinois. 11 April

jam 1973.

| ———.. “Life of the Common Seaman in the 19th and Early 20th Century.”

| Lecture. Docents, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. 30 April 1973.

, Lundeberg, Philip K. “Information Retrieval in Museums.” Lecture (illustrated).

First International Congress of Maritime Museums. National Maritime Mu-

seum, Greenwich, London, England. 6 October 1972.
286 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “The Museum Perspective.” Military Affairs, volume 36 (1972), pages
107-108, 147-149; and volume 37 (1973), pages 29-31, 69-71.

. “Time Capsule 1776: The Continental Gondola Philadelphia.” Lec-
ture (illustrated). The Episcopal School for Boys, Alexandria, Virginia. 25
March 1973.

. “The Challenge of the Museum Dimension.” Presidential address
(illustrated). Annual Meeting of the American Military Institute, Carlisle
Barracks, Pennsylvania. 7 April 1973.

. “Time Capsule 1776: The Continental Gondola Philadelphia.” Lec-
ture (illustrated). St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota. 10 April 1973.

Mayo, Edith P. The Right to Vote. Brochure for a special election year exhibition
at the National Museum of History and Technology, Washington, D.C. 1973.

. “Some Inaugural History.” The Spirit of ’76. Official Inaugural

Guidebook, 1973. Washington, D.C.: Inaugural Committee.

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

Battison, Edwin A. “History of the Ascutney Mill Dam.” Annual Report of Town

of Windsor, Vt., 1973, pages

. “Patents, Productivity and Prosperity.” Lecture, Calspan Chapter,
Sigma XI Engineering Society, Buffalo, N. Y., 24 May 1973. Same title
(different version), Museum Lecture, Smithsonian Institution, 9 June 1973.

Battison, Edwin A., and Patricia E. Kane. The American Clock, 1725-1865. New
York Graphic Society, Greenwich, Conn., 1973.

Brittain, James C. “The Revolt of the Engineers.” Symposium, N. Texas Sec. of
AIAA, Dallas, Tex., 3 February 1973.

. “Prehistory of the Telephone.” Lecture, American Acoustical Society,
Washington, D. C., 23 April 1973.

Cannon, Walter F. “The Darwin-Whewell Controversy.” Lecture, Geological
Society of London, 18 October 1972.

. “The Origins of Darwin’s Theory.” Lecture, Chelsea College,
University of London, 17 November 1972.

. The Uniformitarian-Catastrophist Debate. Reprint, Bobbs-Merrill Reprint
Series in History of Science, 55 pages.

. Commentary on “Scientists Go To Sea.” Oceanography Session,
AAAS Annual Meeting, December 1972.

Davis, Audrey B. “The Circulation of the Blood and Chemical Anatomy.”
Included in Festschrift honoring Walter Pagel: Science, Medicine, Society in the
Renaissance, Allen Debus, editor, 1972, pages 25-27. Pub. Neil Watson.

. “Rudolf Schindlre’s Role in the Development of Gastroscopy.”
Bulletin of the History of Medicine, volume XLVI, 1972, pages 150-170.

. Circulation of the Blood and Medical Chemistry in England, 1650-1680.
Coronado Press, Lawrence, Kansas, 1973. .

. “The Emergence of American Dental Medicine: The Relation of the
Maxillary Antrum to Focal Infection.” Lecture, Galveston Medical School,
Galveston, Tex., 23 February 1973.

Davis, Audrey B., and Jon B. Eklund. “Magnesia Alba before Black.” Pharmacy in
History, volume 14, 1972, pages 139-146.

Davis, Audrey B., and Uta C. Merzbach. “Soundings Then and Now: Audition
and the First Fifty Years of American Psychology Laboratories.” Invited paper,
Annual History of Science Meeting, Washington, D.C., December 1972.

Also see Eklund, Jon B., and Audrey B. Davis.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 287

Eklund, Jon B. “G. E. 1; Odyssey of an Instrument.” Lecture, Curators of Dept.
of Science and Technology, Smithsonian Institution, 15 December 1972.

. “Inside the Atom.” Museum Lecture, Smithsonian Institution, 3
February 1973.

. “Curiosities in the History of Technology.” Lecture, Maryland
Student Engineering Asso., University of Maryland, 7 March 1973.

Eklund, Jon B., and Audrey B. Davis. “Joseph Black Matriculates: Medicine and
Magnesia Alba.” Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences, volume 27,
1972, pages 396-417.

Also see Davis, Audrey B., and Jon B. Eklund.

Hamarneh, Sami K. “Pharmacy in Medieval Islam and the History of Drug
Addiction.” Medical History, volume 16, 1972, pages 226-237.

. “A History of Arabic Pharmacy.” Physis, volume 14, 1972, pages 5-
54.

. “History of the Dental Exhibits at the Smithsonian Institution.”
Bulletin of the History of Dentistry, volume 20, December 1972, pages 46-65.

. “Physicians and Practitioners During the Arabic Golden Age.”
Alexandria Medical Journal, volume 18, number 4, 1972, pages 1-12.

. “Some Aspects of Medical Practice and Institutions in Medieval
Islam.” Episteme, volume 7, 1973, pages 15-31.

. Temples of the Muses and a History of Pharmacy Museums. The Naito
Foundation, Tokyo, Japan, 1972.

. “Experimentation, Ethics and Education in Medieval Arabic Medi-
cine and Pharmacy.” Johns Hopkins University, History of Medicine Seminar,
Baltimore, Md., 24 June 1973.

. “Education and Pharmacy Museums in Historical Perspective.”
Lecture, Columbus, Ohio, State University, February 1973.

. “Medico-pharmaceutical Museums at Cultural Centers of Interna-
tional Impact.” Lecture, All-India Institute of Medical Research, New Delhi,
India, 25 May 1973.

Harris, Michael R. “A Behind the Scenes Tour of the Division of Medical
Sciences.” Lecture, The Women’s Auxiliary of the Fairfax Medical Society,
October 1972.

. “Photographs as Artifacts—American Hospitals.” Lecture, Depart-
ment of Science and Technology, Smithsonian Institution, 20 November 1972.

Jackson, Everett. “The Evolution of Dental Extraction Instruments.” Lecture,
Advanced Senior Science Students, Oxon Hill High School, Oxon Hill, Md.,
1973.

,

. “A Brief History of the Division of Medical Sciences.” Lecture,
Fairfax County Auxiliary of the American Medical Assn., 1973.

. “Cardiac Assist Devices: From Heart Pumps to Pacemakers.”
Lecture, Advanced Senior Science Students, Montgomery Hills Junior High
School, Silver Spring, Md., 1973.

. “False Teeth.” Lecture, Adult Enrichment Program, Montgomery
Junior College, Takoma Park, Md., 1973.

. “The History of Dentistry in America, 16th-17th Centuries.”

Lecture, Department of Science and Technology, Smithsonian Institution, 21
March 1973, and Museum Lecture, Smithsonian Institution, 5 May 1973.
_ Leckie, Doris. ‘A Brief Review of the Evolution of the Instruments Used in the
Surgical Practice of Bloodletting.” Museum Lecture, Smithsonian Institution,
17 March 1973.

. “Interpreting the History of a Medical Specialty through its
288 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Instruments—The Evolution of Cupping Glasses.” Paper, Annual History of
Medicine Meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, May 1973.

Mayr, Otto. “Von C. T. Porter zu J. F. Radinger: Die Aufange der Schnellaufen-
den Dampfmaschine und der Maschinendynamik.” Technikgeschichte 40, 1973,
pages 1-32.

. “The Emergence of Feedback Control in the 18th Century.” Lecture,
Baltimore Section of IEEE, Controls Section. Columbia, Md. 24 October 1972.

. “History of Technology in Engineering Education.” Lecture, Annual
Meeting, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, New York, 29 November
1972.

. “Feedback Control in 18th Century Britain.” Lecture, Mechanical
Engineering Colloquium, Univ. of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 21 February 1973.

. “The Science-Technology Relationship: Problems of Historiogra-
phy.” Lecture, Symposium on the Relationship of Science and Technology;
Burndy Library, Norwalk, Conn., 24 March 1973.

. “Perpetual Motion: The Decline and Fall of a Scientific Problem.”
Museum Lecture, Smithsonian Institution, 7 April 1973.

Morris, Danny A. “Its About Time.” The Galaxy, September 1972, Lafayette,
Calif., page 6.

. “Art Deco Apartment Structure in Arlington.” The Virginia Phoenix,
Fall 1972, Kilmarnock, Va., 2 pages.

. “The Development of the Paper Clip.” The American Collector, June
1973, Lafayette, Calif., 2 pages.

Multhauf, Robert P. “A Premature Science Advisor: Jacob A. Weber (1737-
1792),” Isis, volume 63, 1972, pages 356-369.

. “The Constitution of Saltpeter, According to Becher and Stahl.”
Science, Medicine and History, volume 1, Allen Debus, editor, New York, 1973,
pages 214-225.

——————.. Editor of Isis, a quarterly journal of the History of Science Society.

Post, Robert C. “Charles B. Page and the Induction Coil.” Lecture, Joseph Henry
Symposium, Washington, D. C., December 1972.

Sivowitch, Elliot. “Experimental Evolution of the Telephone.” Lecture, Acoustical
Society of America, Audio Engineering Society, Washington, D. C., 23 April
1973. (Assisted by J. E. Brittain and Ray Hutt.)

Tropp, Henry S. “John Charles Fields.” Dictionary of Scientific Biography, volume
IV, page 617.

————.. “Benjamin Gompertz.” DSB, volume V, page 466.

. “Edouard Goursat.” DSB, volume V, pages 481-483.
. “George Bruce Halsted.” DSB, volume VI, pages 76-77.

————.. Review of “A Computer Perspective.” Science, 11 May 1973, pages
590-591.

. “History of Computers.” Colloquium lecture, University of Arizona,
Department of Computer Science, 14 March 1973.
. “Computer History Project.” Lecture, Washington Chapter, DPMA,
George Washington University Faculty Club, 21 February 1973.
May, K. O., and H. S. Tropp. “Some Algebraic Equations Do Not Have Exactly

~-roots.” Mathematics Teacher, February 1973, pages 179-182.

Vogel, Robert M. “The Industrial Archeology of America’s Mechanical and Civil
Engineering.” Lecture, George Washington University-Smithsonian Institution
course on material culture, Washington, D. C., 26 October 1972.

. “The State of Industrial Historic Preservation in the United States.”

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 289

Lecture, National Trust for Historic Preservation, Annual Meeting, Washing-
ton, D. C., 28 October 1972.

. “Roebling and the Delaware Aqueduct.” Lecture, American Society
of Civil Engineers (at dedication of the Delaware Aqueduct (1848) as a
National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark), Lackawaxen, Pa. 12 November
1972.

. “Industrial Archeology and Historic Preservation.” Lecture, Historic
Preservation Seminar, University of Vermont, Montpelier, Vt., 14 November
1972, and at Cooperstown Graduate Seminar, Cooperstown, N. Y., 16
November 1972.

. “The Industrial Archeology of American Civil Engineering.” Lec-
ture, American Society of Civil Engineers, Lehigh Valley Section, 50th
Anniversary Dinner Meeting. Bethelehem, Pa., 11 December 1972.

. “The Meaning of Industrial Archeology.” Lecture, MIT Washington
Club, Washington, D. C., 18 January 1973.

. “The History and Heritage of Mechanical Engineering in America.”
Lecture, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Baltimore Sec., Baltimore,
Md., 26 March 1973.

. “The Recognition and Preservation of Industrial Structures.” Lec-
ture, Maryland Historical Trust, special meeting for the county committees,
Baltimore, Md., 31 March 1973.

. “Industrial Archeology at the National Museum of History and
Technology.” Lecture, Smithsonian Associates “Conversations with Curators”
class, Washington, D. C., 7 May 1973.

. “The State of Preservation and Loss of Industrial Structures in the
United States.” Lecture, First International Conference on the Conservation of
Industrial Monuments, Ironbridge, England, 1 June 1973. (To be published in
the Congress’ Proceedings. )

. Editor of Newsletter of the Society for Industrial Archeology (bimonthly),
and miscellaneous publications for the Society.

Warner, Deborah J. “The First Celestial Globe of Willem Janszoon Blaeu.” Imago
Mundi, volume 25 (1971), pages 29-38.

Freer Gallery of Art

| Ars Orientalis, Volume IX. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan, 1973.

| Atil, Esin. ‘2,500 Years of Persian Art.” Marzhaye Now (New Frontiers). Persian

. translation. Teheran: United States Information Agency, volume XVII-2,
pages 17-24, February 1973.

» ————.. “Ottoman Miniature Painting under Sultan Mehmed II.” Ars

| Orientalis (1973), volume IX, pages 103-120.

| ———. “Turkish Art of the Ottoman Period.” 84 pages. Ankara: Ajans-

Turk, 1973.

. “I!khanid Candlesticks with the Labors of the Months.” Lecture. The
Sixth International Congress of Iranian Art and Archaeology, Oxford
University, England, September 1972.

. “Turkish Miniatures from the Topkapi Palace Museum.” Lecture.
National Society of Arts and Letters, Embassy of Turkey, Washington, D.C.,
' November 1972.

. “Christian and Islamic Miniatures from the Near East.” Lecture.
__ Armenian Cultural Salons, Washington, D.C., February 1973.
i
290 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Chase, W. Thomas, director of art film, “The Art of the Hyég shi.” Cinematogra-
phers were James T. Hayden and W. Thomas Chase, with Martin P. Amt,
narrator.

. “Examination of Art Objects in the Freer Gallery Laboratory.” Ars
Orientalis (1973), volume IX, pages 79-88.

. “Comparative Analysis of Archaeological Materials—Bronzes—Interim Re-

port Number 2.” Lecture. International Council of Museums Conservation Committee
Working Group on Metals, Madrid, Spain, September 1972.

. “The Art of the Hyogushi.” Introductory lectures: The International
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Lisbon, Portugal;
Institut Royale du Patrimoine Artistique, Brussels, Belgium; The International
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, United Kingdom
Group, London, England; and Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, England, Sep-
tember and October 1972.

. “Metalworking Other Than Bronzes.” “Radiography of Bronzes.”
“Analyses of Ancient Metal.” Lectures. American Association of Museums
Conservation Workshop, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, California,
February 1973.

. “Comparative Analysis of Archaeological Bronzes.” Lecture. Ameri-
can Chemical Society, Fifth Symposium on Archaeological Chemistry, Dallas,
Texas, April 1973.

. “Oriental Art and Its Conservation.” Introductory lecture with film,
“The Art of the Hyogushi.” American Institute for Conservation Meeting,
Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas City, Missouri, June 1973.

Gettens, Rutherford J. “Japanese Paintings—Technical Studies and Conservation
at the Freer Gallery of Art.” Conservation of Paintings and the Graphic Arts
(1972), IIC Lisbon Congress 1972, pages 501-515.

. “Pigments of Japanese Painting.” Lecture. International Council of
Museums Conservation Committee, Madrid, Spain, October 1972.

. “Japanese Paintings: Technical Studies and Conservation at the
Freer Gallery of Art.” Lecture. The International Institute for Conservation of
Historic and Artistic Works, Fifth International Congress, Lisbon, Portugal,
October 1972.

. “Ancient Chinese Bronze Ceremonial Vessels in the Freer Gallery of
Art.” Lecture. Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, May 1973.

Gettens, Rutherford J., Robert L. Feller, and W. Thomas Chase. “Vermilion and
Cinnabar.” Studies in Conservation (1972), volume XVII, pages 45-69.

Knapp, Josephine H. “Chinese Pottery.” Lecture. Woodbridge Art Guild,
Woodbridge, Virginia, June 1973.

Lawton, Thomas. “Recent Archaeological Excavations on Mainland China.”
Lecture. National Women’s Democratic Club, Washington, D.C., February
19175.

. “The Beginnings of Chinese Civilization.” Lecture. Georgetown
University, Washington, D.C., October 1972.

Lovell, Hin-cheung. “Sung and Yuan Monochrome Lacquers in the Freer
Gallery.” Ars Orientalis (1973), volume IX, pages 121-130.

. “Chinese Ceramics at the Freer.” Lecture. Corcoran School of Art,
Washington, D.C., February 1973.

. “Aspects of Chinese Art.” Lecture. Northern Virginia Community
College, Annandale, Virginia, November 1972.

Stern, Harold P. Ukiyo-e Painting. 319 pages, 118 illustrations. Baltimore:
Garamond/Pridemark, 1973.

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 291

. The Magnificent Three: Lacquer, Netsuke and Tsuba. 141 pages, 125
illustrations. New York: Japan Society, 1972.

. “Preface.” In Zaiga Hiho—Katsushika Hokusai (Ukiyoe Prints in Western
Collections.) Tokyo: Gakken, 1973.

. “The Magnificent Three: Lacquer, Netsuke and Tsuba.” Lecture.
New York, September 1972.

. “The Art of the Hyogushi.” Introductory lectures: The International
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, Lisbon, Portugal;
Institut Royale du Patrimoine Artistique, Brussels, Belgium; The International
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, United Kingdom
Group, London, England, September and October 1972.

Winter, John. “Radiocarbon Dating by Thermoluminescent Dosimetry.” Archaeo-
metry (1972), volume XIV, pages 281-286.

. “Preliminary Investigations on Chinese Ink in Far Eastern Paint-
ings.” Lecture. American Chemical Society, Fifth Symposium on Archaeologi-
cal Chemistry, Dallas, Texas, April 1973.

Winter, John, and R. S. Merrillees. “Bronze Age Trade between the Aegean and
Egypt: Minoan and Mycenean Pottery from Egypt in Brooklyn.” Miscellanea
Wilbourtana (1972), volume I, pages 101-133.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Booth, Abigail. “An Inventory for the Art Researcher.” Article. 3 pages, 2
illustrations. Museum News, December 1972.

. “Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings.” Lecture. Historic
Annapolis, Inc., Annapolis, Maryland, 15 November 1972.

. “Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings.” Lecture. Historical
Society of Princeton, Princeton, New Jersey, 29 November 1972.

. “Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings.” Lecture. Annual
State Convention, Pennsylvania State Division, American Association of
University Women, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, 28 April 1973.

. “Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings.” Lecture. Chambers-
burg Branch American Association of University Women, Chambersburg,
Pennsylvania, 16 May 1973.

. “Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings.” Lecture. Aberdeen-
Harford Branch American Association of University Women, Belair, Mary-
land, 21 May 1973.

Breeskin, Adelyn D. “20th Century American Artists.” Lecture. Wives Seminar
Foreign Service Institute, Washington, D. C. (Monthly lecture), 1972-1973.

. “20th Century American Art and the National Collection of Fine
Arts.” Foreign Service Officers, United States Information Agency. National
Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D.C., 13 July 1972.

. “The Saidie A. May Collection.” Lecture. Baltimore Museum of Art,
Baltimore, Maryland, 24 September 1972.

. “The Role of Women in the Arts.” Lecture. Smithsonian Associates,
Washington, D. C., 15 November 1972.

. “20th Century American Art and the National Collection of Fine
Arts.” Lecture. Senior Seminar in Foreign Policy, Department of State.
National Collection of Fine Arts, Washington, D. C., 27 November 1972.

. “American Contemporary Art.” Lecture. Capitol Speakers Club,
Washington, D. C., 28 November 1972.
292 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Inside the Art Museum World.” Lecture. Smithsonian Associates
Series, Washington, D. C., 30 January 1973.

. “Tribute to Kenneth Sawyer.” Lecture. Baltimore Museum of Art,
Baltimore, Maryland, 29 April 1973.

. “Kassel Documenta.” Lecture. Corcoran School of Art, Washington,
D. C., 5 May 1973.

. “20th Century American Art.
Series, Washington, D. C., 14 May 1973.

—————. “Women in the Arts.” Lecture. Virginia Museum of Fine Arts,
Richmond, Virginia, 14 May 1973.

. “American Impressionism.” Lecture. Smithsonian Associates, Urban
Life Center, Columbia, Maryland, 5 June 1973.

. “Prelude to Martha Jackson’s Career.” Page 3 in The Private Collection
of Martha Jackson. Catalog, University of Maryland Art Gallery, College Park,
Maryland: Press of A. Colish, New York, 1973.

. “Lowell Nesbitt.” In Lowell Nesbitt: The Flower Series—1l 964-1973,
Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C.: Garamond/Pridemark, Baltimore,
Maryland, 1973.

Muhlert, Jan K. “The Contemporary Art Scene in Washington.” Moderator for
Smithsonian Associates Seminar (10 sessions), January—March 1973.

Fink, Lois M. “The Image of the Common Man in Nineteenth Century Art.”
Lecture. National Collection of Fine Arts, 21 February 1973.

. “The Image of Innocence in Nineteenth Century Art: Children.”
Lecture. National Collection of Fine Arts, 28 February 1973.

. “The Image of the Hero in Nineteenth Century Art.” Lecture.
National Collection of Fine Arts, 14 March 1973.

. “The Image of Death in Nineteenth Century Art.” Lecture. National
Collection of Fine Arts, 21 March 1973.

Flint, Janet A. The Way of Good and Evil—Popular Religious Lithographs of
Nineteenth-Century America. 12 pages, | illustration. 15 September 1972.
. Solon A. Borglum. 6 pages, | illustration. 20 October 1972.
. Johann Hermann Carmiencke—Drawings and Watercolors. January 1973.
Herman, Lloyd E. “From Class Art to Mass Art.” Lecture. The Woman's
National Democratic Club, Washington, D.C., 26 February 1973.

. “American Crafts.” Lecture. United States Information Agency,
Washington, D. C., 17 May 1973.

McClelland, Donald R. “The Arts in 17th Century Maryland.” Lecture. Olde
Princess Anne Days, Princess Anne, Maryland, 14 October 1972.

. “Washington and the Contemporary Art Scene.” Lecture. Crossroads
Community, Alexandria, Virginia, 30 March 1973.

. “Childe Hassam.” Lecture. Lyme Historical Society, Florence Gris-
wold House, Old Lyme, Connecticut, 24 June 1973.

Taylor, Joshua C. “The Hand and The Spirit.” Lecture. National Collection of
Fine Arts. 20 September and 4 November 1972.

. “Where is Art?” Lecture. University of Chicago Alumni Club of
Washington, D. C., 4 October 1972.

. “Mrs. Page and the Photographic Melancholy.” Lecture. Detroit
Institute of Art, 11 October 1972.

. “What Ever Happened to the Avant-garde?” “Edgar Degas and the
Photographic Melancholy” and “Twentieth Century Mexican Art: Art and
Nationality.” Three lectures. Claremont Men’s College, Claremont, California,
17-18 October 1972.

”

Lecture. Smithsonian Associates

APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 293

. “What Ever Happened to the Avant-garde?” Lecture. Society for
Contemporary Art, Chicago, 8 November 1972.

. Review of “The Memoirs of Giorgio de Chirico.” Translated and
with an ee by Margaret Crosland, University of Miami Press, Coral
Gables, Florida, Art in America, November—December, 1972.

. “Where is Art?” Lecture. University of Chicago Alumni of New
York, 12 December 1972.

. T. V. interview. “The Hand and The Spirit.” Deena Clark Show, 23
December 1972.

“Seeing and Thinking.” Series of six lectures for the Smithsonian
Associates, January—February 1973.

. “A Curator For the Future.” Lecture. College Art Association, New
York, 25 January 1973.

. “The Life and Times of American Art.” Lecture. Sheldon Memorial
Art Gallery, Lincoln, Nebraska, 22 March 1973.

. Review of Marinetti, Selected Writings. Edited by R. W. Flint, Art in
Amerwa, March-April 1973.

. “The Historical Problem of American Art.” Lecture. Symposium on
Nineteenth-Century American Painting, University of Delaware, 20 April
1973.

. “Where is Art?” and “The Present and Futurism.” Two lectures.
University of Tennessee, 26-27 April 1973.

. Fritz Scholder Catalogue Essay. An exhibition organized by Hayden
Gallery, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, April-May 1973.

—————_. Juror, Concurso de Arte Pictorico Xerox, 1973. Panama City,
Panama, 8 May 1973.
| ————.. “ Donde esta el arte?” and “Where is Art?” Two lectures. University
of Panama and Canal Zone College, 8-9 May 1973.

Archives of American Art

Breton, Arthur J. A Guide to the Manuscript Collections of the New York Historical
Society. 2 vols. Westport, Connecticut, Greenwood Press, Inc. 1972.
| Brown, Robert. “The Archives of American Art.” Lecture. Ogunquit Art
Association, Ogunquit, Maine, July 1972.
“Walt Kuhn in the Archives of American Art.” Lecture. York,
Maine, July 1972.
“The Archives of American Art—Oral History Project.” New
England Oral History Conference, Waltham, Massachusetts, June 1972.
“Arusts’ Organizations, 1930-1970.” Boston Visual Artists Union,
Boston, Massachusetts, June 1972.
_Freivogel, Elsie F. “Women in Archives: The Status of Women in the Academic
Professions.” The American Archivist, volume 36, number 3, April 1973, pages
183-201.
“Lily Martin Spencer.” Archives of American Art Journal, volume 12,
number 4, 1972, pages 9-14.
4 McCoy, Garnett. David Smith. New York, Praeger Publishers. 1973.
{ “The Price of a Small Motor Car.” Annual Report, Isabella Gardner
Museum. 1973.
“Photographs and Photography.” Archives of American Art Journal,
volume 12, number 3, 1972, pages 1-18.

294 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

. “Some Recently Discovered Thomas Eakins Photographs.” Archives of
American Art Journal, volume 12, number 4, 1972, pages 15-22.
Woolfenden, William E. “The Archives of American Art.” Lecture. Historic
Annapolis, Annapolis, Maryland, September 1972.

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

Elliott, John M. Magnificent Wheels for Those Flying Machines, for the National Air
and Space Museum, Smithsonian Institution.

Hobbins, James M. “Shaping a Provincial Learned Society: The Early History of
the Albany Institute.” Paper presented at the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences’ Colloquium on the Early History of Societies for Promoting
Knowledge in the United States, June 1973.

Molella, Arthur P. “The Origins of Modern Physical Science: 1500-1700.” |
History course, University of Maryland, Spring 1973.

. “Editing the Papers of Joseph Henry.” Talk. Lunchbox Forum, |
National Air and Space Museum. February 1973.

Reingold, Nathan. “Definitions and Speculations: The Professionalization of
Science in Nineteeth-Century America.” Paper presented at the American !
Academy of Arts and Sciences’ Colloquium on the Early History of Societies |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
Joseph Henry Papers |
f

for Promoting Knowledge in the United States, June 1973.

. “Eloge for Richard H. Shryock.” Isis, volume 64, (March 1973),
pages 96-100.

. “William Harkness.” Page 119 in Dictionary of Scientific Biography,
volume 6. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1972.

. “Ferdinand Rudolph Hassler.” Pages 165-166 in Dictionary of
Scientific Biography, volume 6. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1972.

————.. “John Fillmore Hayford.” Pages 188-189 in Dictionary of Scientific
Biography, volume 6. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1972.

. “Joseph Henry.” Pages 277-281 in Dictionary of Scientific Biography,
volume 6. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1972.

—_—.. “Joseph Henry in Albany.” Lecture, Albany Institute of History and |
Art, March 1973. 7)

. “Introduction to Science and Technology Series,” 14 volumes of the
New American State Papers published by Scholarly Resources, Inc., 1972.

. “New York State Roots of Joseph Henry’s National Career.” Annual |
address, New York State Historical Association, July 1972, published in New |
York History, volume 54 (April 1973), pages 133-144.

. “On Professionalization.” Seminar talk, Department of the History of :
Science, Johns Hopkins University, February 1973.

. “Science in Ninteenth-Century America.” Lecture to course on |
History of Medicine in America at National Library of Medicine, March 1973.

Office of American Studies ;

Wilcomb E. Washburn. ‘American Indians,’ The Americana Annual, 1973:

{
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 295

Yearbook of the Encyclopedia Americana, 51st edition, (New York: Americana
Corporation, 1973), pages 349-350.

————. “Campaign Banners,” American Heritage, volume XXIII, number 6
(October 1972), pages 8-13.

. “History, Anthropology, and the American Indian,” American Studies:

An International Newsletter, volume XI, number 1 (Autumn, 1972). [Condensa-
tion of article originally appearing in the Pacific Historical Review, August
1971].

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Goodway, M. E. “Methods of Microscopy in Museum Conservation.” Lecture to
Document Examiners of Washington Area, 15 March 1973.

McMillan, E. Moderator and lecturer on paper conservation at Symposium of
Washington Print Club, Washington Public Library, 14 January 1973.

“Three Months in Florence.” Foxcroft Alumnae Association Maga-
zine, volume 37, (1971), pages 10-12.

McMillan, E., and R. M. Organ. “Aid to a Hurricane-Damaged Museum.” IIC-
AG Bulletin, volume 10, number 1 (1969), pages 31-39. [Not previously
reported.]

Olin, J. S. “Chemical Studies of Medieval Window Glass.” Presented at 200th
Anniversary Science Symposium, Science for Survival, Dickinson College,
Carlisle, Pennsylvania, 9 March 1973.

“Neutron Activation Analytical Survey of Some Intact Medieval Glass
Panels aad Related Specimens.” presented at Fifth Symposium on Archaeolog-
ical Chemistry, American Chemical Society Meetings, Dallas, Texas, 10 April
1973.

. “Neutron Activation and Electron Beam Microprobe Study of a
Fourteenth Century Austrian Stained Glass Panel.” International Conference
on Application of Nuclear Methods in the Field of Works of Art, Accademia
Nazionale dei Lincei, Rome, Italy, 24 May 1973.

Organ, R. M. “Conservation and Preservation of Materials.” Lecture to Seminar
for Historical Administrators, Williamsburg, Virginia, 6 July 1972.

. “Techniques of Treating Metals.” Lecture to Regional Conference on
Preservation and Conservation, Williamsburg, Virginia, 12 September 1972.

“Deacidification.” Lead to discussion at Institute of Paper Chemistry,
Seminar for Paper Conservators, 8 November 1972.

. “The Philosophy of Conservation.” Lecture to Workshop on

Conservation, American Association of Museums, Winterthur, Delaware, 4

December 1972.

. “The Philosophy of Conservation.” Lecture at Symposium of

Washington Print Club, Washington Public Library, 14 January 1973.

“Conservation of Objects.” Lecture to Woodlawn Conference,

National Trust, 27 February 1973, Smithsonian Institution.

. “The Conservation-Analytical Laboratory.” Lecture to Smithsonian

Associates, Smithsonian Institution, 27 February 1973.

. “Conservation of Collections.” Lecture to Aviation Committee,

International Association of Transport Museums, Dearborn, Michigan, 24 May
1973.

. “Artefact Conservation.” Lectures No. 1 to 20 and 41 to 60 of a
series delivered in Fall and Winter at Smithsonian Institution, 1972-1973.
296 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Goodwin, Jack. “Special Libraries and Special Librarianship.” Seminar presented
at the Graduate School of Library Science, Catholic University, October 1971.
[Not previously reported.]

. “Special Libraries and Special Librarianship.” Seminar presented at
the School of Library and Information Services, University of Maryland,
November 1971. [Not previously reported.]

. “Architectural Books in the Smithsonian Libraries.” Seminar pre-
sented to a visiting graduate seminar from Columbia University at the
Museum of History and Technology, April 1972. [Not previously reported.]

——. “Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1970)
Technology and Culture, volume 12 (1972), pages 226-294.

. “A Preliminary Survey of Materials Available for the Study of
American Library History in Washington, D.C.” In Library History Seminar, no.

4, Proceedings, edited by Harold Goldstine and John M. Goudeau, pages 23-29.
Tallahassee: Florida State University Press, 1972. [Published in microfiche.]

. “Special Libraries and the Special Library Association.” Seminar
presented at the Graduate School of Library Science, Catholic University,
January 1973.

. “The Literature of Practical Building and Vernacular Architecture in
the United States in the Nineteenth Century.” Seminar presented to a visiting
graduate seminar from Columbia University at the Museum of History and
Technology, March 1973.

Leslie, Philip. “Forecast for Library/Information Service Technology,” Presented,
at Symposium IV, the 2nd ASIS Mid-Year Regional Conference, Bloomington,
Minnesota, 27 April 1973.

Shank, Russell. “Future Shock: Notes Towards a Summary and Direction.” In
Directions in Education for Information Science: Proceedings of a Symposium for
Educators, Denver, Colorado, 11-13 November 1971, (ED 061947) pages 169-
177.

”

., E. Olson, and H. Olsen. “Library and Information Networks.” In
Annual Review of Information Science and Technology, 1972. Washington, D.C.:
American Society for Information Science, 1972, pages 279-321.

. “Networking Via Cable: Problems and Prospects.” Drexel Library
Quarterly, volume 9 (January/April, 1973), pages 117-125.

.. and F. Norwood. “Telecommunications: Prospects for Research
Libraries.” Association of Research Libraries: Minutes of the Eightieth Meeting, 12-13
May 1972, Atlanta, Georgia, pages 2-9.

Sloan, Elaine. “User Assessment of Collections: A Tool for Research and
Planning.” Presented at the Special Libraries Association Conference, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, 12 June 1973.

ee ae ae

Office of Public Affairs .
[Leaflets issued by the Office] ;

“References to Witchcraft.” Department of Cultural History, Leaflet 72-16.
“Spoons—Selected Introductory Bibliography.” Department of Cultural History,
Leaflet 72-17. i
“Highlights of the National Zoo.” National Zoological Park, Leaflet 72-18. |
|
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 297

“Price Guides to Antiques.”” Department of Cultural History, Leaflet 72-19.
“Suggested Publications on Fishes—Central and South America—Freshwater and
Marine.” Department of Vertebrate Zoology, Leaflet 72-20.
“Photographic Services Division Price List.” Photographic Services Division,
Leaflet 72-21.
“Selected Readings on the First Ladies.” Photographic Services Division, Leaflet
72-22.
“Sharks.” Department of Vertebrate Zoology, Leaflet 72-23.
“Martha Washington.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-24.
“Dolley Madison.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-25.
“Mary Todd Lincoln.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-26.
“Grace Coolidge.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-27.
“Eleanor Roosevelt.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-28.
“Lady Bird Johnson.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-29.
“Dress of Martha Washington.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-30.
“Dress of Dolley Madison.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-31.
“Dress of Mary Todd Lincoln.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-32.
“Dress of Grace Coolidge.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-33.
“Dress of Eleanor Roosevelt.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-34.
“Dress of Lady Bird Johnson.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-35.
“Dress of Patricia Nixon.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-36.
“Political Campaign Slides.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 72-37.
“Bibliography on Ancient Coins.” Division of Numismatics, Leaflet 72-38.
_ “Bibliography on Confederate and Southern States Currency.” Division of
Numismatics, Leaflet 72-39.
“Photograph Numbers of Dresses of the First Ladies.” Division of Political
History, Leaflet 73-1.
“References on Dinosaurs and Other Prehistoric Reptiles.” Department of
Paleobiology, Leaflet 73-2.
“Dresses of the First Ladies.” Division of Political History, Leaflet 73-3.
“Descriptions of First Ladies’ Mannequins.” Division of Political History, Leaflet
73-4.

Division of Performing Arts

Davis, Gerald L. “African-American Coil Basketry in Charleston County, S.C.:
Affective Characteristics of An Artistic Craft in a Social Context.” American
Folklife, Don Yoder, editor, University of Texas Press, Austin, Texas, 1972.

_Rinzler, Ralph C. Introduction. The Songs of Doc Watson, Oak Publications, New
York. 1971.

. Preface. Reissue of Handicrafts of The Southern Highlands, Allen
Eaton, Dover Publications, New York. 1972.

Rinzler, Ralph C., and Norman Cohen. Uncle Dave Macon, a Bio-Discography, John
Edwards Memorial Foundation Special Series, No. 3., The John Edwards
Memorial Foundation, Inc. Folklore & Mythology Center, University of
California, Los Angeles, California, 1970.

Martin Williams. The Jazz Tradition, Oxford University Press and N.A.L. (Winner
of ASCAP-Deems Taylor Award, 1972).

. Jazz Masters in Transition, 1957-1969, MacMillan Co.
. “Scott Joplin: Genius Rediscovered,” Down Beat, 25 November 1971.
. “Snickersnapper, Snitznoodle, All the Raggedys and Snarlyboodle,”

298 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973.

(article on the Raggedy Ann books of Johnny Gruelle), Washington Post Book
World, 6 August 1972.

“Following the Yellow Brick Road” (article on the Oz books of L.
Frank Baum), Washington Post Book World, 10 December 1972.

“Comic Strip Artistry” (review of several books on comic strips),
Washington Post Book World, 31 December 1972.

. “Prolonging an Affair with ‘Something of a Moron’ ” (article-review
on pulp magazines), Washington Post, 29 January 1973. [Most of the Washington
Post articles have been republished in the San Francisco Examiner and other
papers around the country.]

“Swinging Smithsonian,” Washington Star, 11 March 1973.

x»

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Kinard, John R. “Intermediaries Between the Museum and the Community,”
EKISTICS, volume 210 (May 1973), pages 261-264.

Reading Is Fundamental (RIF), Inc.

RIF’s Guide to Book Selection 1973, 91 pages, 1973. |

RIF Newsletter, volume 3, issue 1 (January 1973), 12 pages, and volume 3, issue 2 ;
(May 1973), 12 pages.

Handbook (for development and operation of a RIF Program; in looseleaf form,
organized in eight sections), 1973.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Learning Opportunities for Schools.
LET’S GO to the Smithsonian.

Information Systems Division

Creighton, Reginald A., Penelope Packard, and Holley Linn. “SELGEM RE-
TRIEVAL: A General Description.” Smithsonian Institution Procedures in Com-—
puter Sciences, volume I, number 1. July 1972.

Roth, H. Daniel, and Richard Koritzer. “Applications of Statistical Analysis to”
Scientific Dental Studies.” Georgetown Dental Journal, volume 38, number 1.

Buechner, H., and H. Daniel Roth. “The Lek System in Uganda Kob Antelope, +4
in press, The American Scientist.

National Gallery of Art

Buck, Richard D., and Robert L. Feller. “The Examination and Treatment of a°)
Fayum Portrait,” Conservation of Paintings and the Graphic Arts, Preprints of.
Contributions to the Lisbon Conference 1972, London International Institute for |
Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, pages 801-807.
APPENDIX 8. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN STAFF 299

Edelstein, J. M., Review of The Letters of Roger Fry, Denys Sutton, editor, The
New Republic, (17 March 1973), pages 25-26.

Feller, Robert L. “Scientific Examination of Artistic and Decorative Colorants,”
Journal of Paint Technology, volume 44 (1972), pages 51-58.

. “Problems in the Investigation of Picture Varnishes,” Conservation of
Paintings and the Graphic Arts, Preprints of Contributions to the Lisbon Conference
1972, London International Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic
Works, pages 201-209.

Keisch, Bernard “The Atomic Fingerprint: Neutron Activation Analysis,” The
World of the Atom Series, United States Atomic Energy Commission, 1972.

. “X-ray Diffraction and the Composition of Lead White,” 1971, 1972
Studies in the History of Art, Washington, D.C.: National Gallery Of Art, 1972,
pages 121-132.

. “Mossbauer Effect Studies in the Fine Arts,” Archaeometry, volume 15
(1973), pages 79-104.

Keisch, B. and Holly H. Miller, “Recent Art Forgeries: Detection by Carbon-14
Measurements,” Nature, volume 240 (1972), pages 491-492.

Lewis, Douglas, “Il Classicismo Romantico in America: il tempio nella sua forma
completa,” Bollettino del Centro Internazionale di Studi di Architettura “Andrea
Palladio,” Vicenza, volume 13 (Summer 1972), pages 299-309.

, translator, G. P. Bordignon Favero: The Villa Emo at Fanzolo, Corpus
Palladianum, 5, University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1972.

. “Un disegno autografo del Sanmicheli e la notizia del committente
del Sansovino per S. Francesco della Vigna,” Bollettino det Musei Civici
Veneziani, Venice, volume 3-4 (1972), pages 7-36.

Parkhurst, Charles. “Red-Yellow-Blue. A Color Triad in Seventeenth-Century
Painting,” The Baltimore Museum of Art Annual, volume 4, (“Studies in Honor of
Gertrude Rosenthal,” II), pages 33-39.

——_———. “Louis Savot’s ‘Nova-antiqua’ Color Theory, 1609.” Album Amicorum

J. G. van Gelder . . .. The Hague: Nijhoff, 1973, pages 242-47.

‘Scott, David W. “The City From Greenwich Village by John Sloan,” 1971, 1972

Studies in the History of Art, Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1972, pages
107-119.

Shapley, Fern Rusk. Paintings from the Samuel H. Kress Collections: Italian Schools,

XVI-XVIII Century, London: Phaidon Press, 1973.

. “Titian’s Venus with a Mirror,” 1971, 1972 Studies in the History of Art,
Washington: National Gallery of Art, 1972, pages 93-105.

shepard, Katharine. Review of La Découverte de la Domus Aurea et la Formation des

Grostesques a la Renaissance, by Nicole Dacos, American Journal of Archaeology,
July 1972, pages 344-345.

Vhite, Christopher J. “The Armand Hammer Collection: Drawings,” Apollo,

volume 95 (June 1972), pages 456-463.

i]

|

Appendix 9

PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRESS IN FISCAL YEAR 1973

General Publications

BOOKS

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum: 5th Anniversary. ii + 54 pages, 111 black and |
white illustrations. September 1972.

Checklist of the Permanent Collection: National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C. 1972. 54 pages. 9 February 1973. Paper $1.25.

Paul E. Desautels. Gems in the Smithsonian. 63 pages, 44 color plates, 5 black and i}
white illustrations, 19 line drawings. 27 July 1972. Cloth: $6.95. Paper: $2.50.

Drugs in Perspective: A Fact Book on Drug Use and Misuse. 48 pages, 9 black and |
white illustrations, 19 line drawings. 12 October, 1972. Paper: $1.45.

Exhibition 73. January 14 to February 18, 1973 at the Anacostia Neighborhood \
Museum. Fourth Annual Exhibit of the District of Columbia Art Association.
48 pages, 83 black and white illustrations. January 1973. Paper $1.50.

Handbook for Employees: Smithsonian Institution. 31 pages, 20 black and white
illustrations. 29 September 1972.

Samuel F. Hildebrand and William C. Schroeder. Fishes of Chesapeake Bay. x +
388 pages. 211 figures. 12 April 1973. (Reprint of 1928 edition for the »
Smithsonian Institution by TFH Publications.) Hard cover: $8.00. {

Kruger-Sprengel, Friedhelm. The Role of NATO in the Use of the Sea and the Seabed.
Edited by Gerard J. Mangone. Woodrow Wilson International Center for {
Scholars, Ocean Series 304. iv + 45 pages, 2 black and white illustrations. |
October 1972. Paper: $1.00.

Marion Clayton Link. Windows in the Sea. 198 pages, 15 color and 52 black and
white illustrations. 28 June 1973. Cloth: $12.50.

Ursula B. Marvin. Continental Drift: The Evolution of a Concept. vii + 239 pages,
102 figures. 25 May 1973. Cloth: $12.50.

Betty J. Meggers, Edward S. Ayensu, and W. Donald Duckworth, editors. ©
Tropical Forest Ecosystems in Africa and South America: A Comparative Review. viii 4
+ 350 pages, 117 figures. 14 March 1973. Paper: $5.95; Cloth: $15.00.

J. Jefferson Miller II. 18th-Century English Porcelain: A Brief Guide to the Collection
in the National Museum of History and Technology. 96 pages, 80 black and white |
and 1 color illustrations. 28 February 1973. Paper: $1.50. ;

Lillian B. Miller, Frederick Voss, and Jeannette M. Hussey. The Lazzaroni: Science ,|
and Scientists in Mid-Nineteenth Century America. xiii + 121 pages, 19 black and |
white illustrations. 26 December 1972. Paper: $2.75.

Roger Pineau. Ballooning, 1782-1972. Catalog of an exhibition presented by the

300 |

ee ete eee
APPENDIX 9. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 301

_ National Air and Space Museum. 88 pages, 39 black and white illustrations. 8
November 1972. Paper $2.00.

Sheldon Reich. Alfred H. Maurer, 1868-1932. Foreword by Joshua C. Taylor. 167

pages. 13 February 1973.

Nathan Reingold, editor. The Papers of Joseph Henry. Volume 1: The Albany Years,
December 1797—October 1832. xxxix + 496 pages, 10 black and white
illustrations. 26 December 1972. Cloth: $15.00.

S. Dillon Ripley. On Museum Objects, Truth, and Education. Reflections of the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution Upon the One Hundred and Twenty Fifth Anniversary of
Its Founding. 31 pages. September 1972.

Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History, Art, Science.
Board of Academic Studies, Smithsonian Institution. 130 pages.

| 8 September 1972.

Alexander Wetmore. The Birds of the Republic of Panama. Part 3: Passeriformes:

_ Dendrocolaptidae (Woodcreepers) to Oxyruncidae (Sharpbills). iv + 631 pages, 48

figures, color frontispiece. 26 December 1972. Cloth: $15.00.

I ee

PAMPHLETS., FLYERS, AND OTHER PUBLISHED MATERIALS

John M. Elliott. Magnificent Wheels for Those Flying Machines. Foldout and booklet
questionnaire. 24 pages. 21 May 1973.

Janet A. Flint, Johann Hermann Carmiencke—Drawings and Watercolors. January

1973.

Janet A. Flint. Solon H. Borglum, 1868-1922. Foldout catalog of exhibition at
National Collection of Fine Arts. 6 pages, | illustration. 20 October 1972.

Janet A. Flint. The Way of Good and Evil. Popular Religious Lithographs of

)  Nineteenth-Century America. Pamphlet Checklist for exhibition at National

_ Collection of Fine Arts. 12 pages. 1 illustration. 15 September 1972.

‘Hall of Printing and Graphic Arts. Flyer foldout. 8 pages, 4 illustrations and map
of hall. July 1972.

Elizabeth Harris. Chain Goldberg's Shtetl. Checklist and biography of the artist.

| Foldout. 6 pages, 5 illustrations.

Learning Opportunities for Schools, 1972-73. Booklet. 18 pages. | illustration and 1
map of Mall complex. August 1972.

Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: Bulletin for Schools: Office of Elementary & Secondary
Education. Folders. July 1972—June 1973.

NCFA Calendar. July 1972-June 1973.

The Sculpture of Franz Barwig. Checklist and biography of the artist, for an
exhibition at the Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts. 6
pages. August 1972.

_ Who was George Washington? James Weldon Johnson? John F. Kennedy? Educational
folder for use with the “Jf Elected . . .” exhibition National Portrait Gallery. 8
pages. 17 October 1972.

The Catalog of American Portraits. Pamphlet. National Portrait Gallery. 8 pages.

Reprint. 13 June 1973.

Discourse and Dialogues at the Smithsonian. Foldout. The Office of Seminars,
Smithsonian Institution. 8 pages. 29 September 1972.

Pop Hart. Checklist and biography of artist. Folder. Division of Graphic Arts,
The National Museum of History and Technology. 4 pages. 31 October 1972.
Hall of Printing and Graphic Arts. Foldout. The National Museum of History and

Technology. 8 pages. July 1972.
News in America, 1704-1970. Poster-flyer for Henry R. Luce Hall of News
Reporting. 2 pages. May 1973.

so

|
302 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 _

Martina R. Norelli. Artist-Naturalists: Observations in the Americas. Pamphlet Catalog
of exhibition with biographical notes. 8 pages | illustration. July 1972.

Open Your Eyes to the National Museum of History and Technology, West Side. Foler.
Walking map and illustrated guide. 2 pages. 26 July 1972.

Open Your Eyes to the National Museum of History and Technology, East Side. Walking
map and illustrated guide. 2 pages. 24 July 1972.

Open Your Eyes to the National Museum of Natural History. Animal Highlights Tour.
Walking map and illustrated guide. 1 page. 24 July 1972.

Selected Portraits of Prominent North Amerwan Indians. Flyer Checklist. 4 pages. 20
March 1973.

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports. Numbers 1-4. Quarterly news bulletin. 8
pages. Summer 1972-Spring 1973.

The McDonnell FH-1 Phantom. Information Leaflet. 6 pages, 3 illustrations.

The National Anthropological Archives. Folder. 4 pages, 2 illustrations. 20 March
LOF3:

The Right To Vote. Booklet based on “The Right To Vote,” a special exhibit at the
National Museum of History and Technology. Booklet and exhibit prepared
by Edith Petersilia Mayo. 16 pages, 21 illustrations. September 1972.

The Wright Brothers. Information Leaflet. 8 pages, 4 illustrations.

Three Contemporary Printmakers: Jacob Kainen, Albert Christ-Janer, Tadeusz Lapinski.
Booklet. Biographical notes and checklist of exhibition at National Collection
of Fine Arts. 12 pages, 3 illustrations. June 1973.

Bicentennial Inventory of American Paintings Executed before 1914. Foldout. National
Collection of Fine Arts. 6 pages. Reprint. 27 February 1973.

Electricity and Matter. Folder guide to the Hall of Electricity. National Museum of
History and Technology. 4 pages. Reprint. 10 April 1973.

Wind Instruments. Foldout. Division of Musical Instruments, National Museum of ‘
History and Technology. 6 pages. Reprint. 6 April 1973.

Organs in Early America. Foldout. Division of Musical Instruments, National .
Museum of History and Technology. 6 pages. Reprint. 6 April 1973.

National Museum of Natural History. Foldout building guide. Office of Public
Affairs. 9 pages. Reprint. September 1972.

National Zoological Park. Foldout building guide. Office of Public Affairs. 14
pages. Reprint. 8 August 1972.

National, Collection of Fine Arts. Foldout building guide. Office of Public Affairs. 5
pages. Reprint. August 1972.

The National Museum of History and Technology. Foldout building guide. Office of |
Public Affairs. 8 pages. Reprint. 15 November 1972.

National Air and Space Museum. Foldout building guide. Office of Public Affairs.
10 pages. Reprint. 29 September 1972.

National Portrait Gallery. Foldout building guide. Office of Public Affairs. 4 pages.
Reprint. 19 September 1972.

Smithsonian Institution. Foldout guide. Office of Public Affairs. 12 pages. Reprint.
11 May 1973.

Series Publications

SMITHSONIAN ANNALS OF FLIGHT

9. Robert C. Mikesh. “Japan’s World War II Balloon Bomb Attacks on North
America.” vi + 85 pages, 90 figures, 7 tables. 9 April 1973.

APPENDIX 9. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 303

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

7. (In three parts) Frederica de Laguna. “Under Mount Saint Elias: The
History and Culture of the Yakutat Tlingit.” i + 1395 pages, 218 plates, 74
figures, 26 maps, musical scores of 116 songs. 13 November 1972.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASTROPHYSICS

14. A.F. Cook. “Discrete Levels of Beginning Height of Meteors in Streams.” 11
+ 10 pages, 17 figures, 2 tables. 31 January 1973.

15. A.F. Cook, B.-A. Lindblad, B.G. Marsden, R.E. McCrosky, and A. Posen.
“Yet Another Stream Search Among 2401 Photographic Meteors.” ii + 5
pages, 5 tables. 31 January 1973.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY

6. Wallace R. Ernst. “Floral Morphology and Systematics of Lamourouxia
(Scrophulariaceae: Rhinanthoideae).” iii + 63 pages, 36 figures, 1 table. 21
July 1972.

9. F.A. McClure. “Genera of Bamboos Native to the New World (Gramineae:
Bambusoideae).” Edited by Thomas R. Soderstrom. xii + 148 pages, 48
figures, 1 plate. 11 May 1973.

10. Mason E. Hale, Jr. “Fine Structure of the Cortex in the Lichen Family
Parmeliaceae Viewed with the Scanning-electron Microscope.” 111 + 92
pages, 150 figures. 5 March 1973.

11. Cleofé E. Calderon and Thomas R. Soderstrom. “Morphological and
Anatomical Considerations of the Grass Subfamily Bambusoideae Based on
the New Genus Maclurolyra.” iii + 55 pages, 24 figures. 26 March 1973.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES

9. William G. Melson, editor. “Mineral Sciences Investigations, 1969-1971.” i
+ 94 pages, 33 figures, 35 tables. 16 August 1972.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

12. Richard H. Benson. “The Bradleya Problem, With Descriptions of Two New
Psychrospheric Ostracode Genera, Agrenocythere and Poseidonamicus (Ostra-
coda: Crustacea).” iv + 138 pages, 66 figures, 14 plates, 4 tables. 30
October 1972.

14. G. Arthur Cooper and Richard E. Grant. “Permian Brachiopods of West
Texas, I.” ix + 231 pages, 39 figures, 23 plates. 29 December 1972.

16. G. Arthur Cooper. “New Brachiopoda from the Indian Ocean.” ii + 43
pages, 1 figure, 8 plates. 14 February 1973.

17. G. Arthur Cooper. “Vema’s Brachiopoda (Recent).” iv + 51 pages, 5 figures,
9 plates. 23 February 1973.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY
97. Richard Edward Young. “The Systematics and Areal Distribution of Pelagic

Cephalopods from the Seas off Southern California.” iii + 159 pages, 15
figures, 38 plates, 26 tables. 18 September 1972.

304 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

121. Clyde F.E. Roper and Walter L. Brundage, Jr. “Cirrate Octopods with
Associated Deep-Sea Organisms: New Biological Data Based on Deep
Benthic Photographs (Cephalopoda).” iii + 46 pages, 53 figures, 3 tables.
26 July 1972.

124. J. Laurens Barnard. “A Review of the Family Synopiidae (= Tironidae),
Mainly Distributed in the Deep Sea (Crustacea: Amphipoda).” iv + 94
pages, 46 figures. 30 August 1972.

125. George M. McKay. “Behavior and Ecology of the Asiatic Elephant in
Southeastern Ceylon.” iv + 113 pages, 63 figures, 25 tables. 23 April 1973.

126. Maureen E. Downey. “Starfishes from the Caribbean and the Gulf of
Mexico.” vi + 158 pages, 2 figures, 48 plates, 1 table. 23 April 1973.

128. Allan Watson. “An Illustrated Catalog of the Neotropic Arctiinae Types in
the United States National Museum (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae), Part II.” mi +
160 pages, 106 plates. 9 April 1973.

129. Joseph C. Britton, Jr. “I'wo New Species and a New Subgenus of Lucinidae
(Mollusca: Bivalvia), with Notes on Certain Aspects of Lucinid Phylogeny.”
ii + 19 pages, 6 figures, 3 tables. 15 November 1972.

130. Victor G. Springer. “Synopsis of the Tribe Omobranchini with Descriptions
of Three New Genera and Two New Species (Pisces: Blenniidae).” 11 + 31
pages, 16 figures, 6 tables. 29 November 1972.

131. Fenner A. Chace, Jr., and Raymond B. Manning. “Two New Caridean
Shrimps, One Representing a New Family, from Marine Pools on Ascension ~
Island (Crustacea: Decapoda: Natantia).” ii + 18 pages, 11 figures. 15
November 1972.

132. Mary E. Rice. “Morphology, Behavior, and Histogenesis of the Pelagos-
phera Larva of Phascolosoma agassizu (Sipuncula).” ili + 51 pages, 14 plates. ||
12 January 1973. a

133. J. Laurens Barnard. ‘“Deep-sea Amphipoda of the Genus Lepechinella
(Crustacea).” iii + 31 pages, 12 figures. 23 February 1973.

134. Victor G. Springer. “Additions to Revisions of the Blenniid Fish Genera
Ecsenius and Entomacrodus, with Descriptions of Three New Species of |
Ecsenius.” iii + 13 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables. 25 October 1972.

135. Roman Kenk. “Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America, V: The |
Genus Polycelis.” iii + 15 pages, 9 figures. 10 January 1973.

136. Thomas E. Bowman. “Pelagic Amphipods of the Genus Hyperia and Closely —
Related Genera (Hyperiidea: Hyperiidae).” ii + 76 pages, 52 figures, 1 ©
table. 9 March 1973. f

137. W. D. Hope and D. G. Murphy. “A Taxonomic Hierarchy and Checklist of |
the Genera and Higher Taxa of Marine Nematodes.” iii + 101 pages. 29 |
December 1972. i

138. Roman Kenk. “Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America, VI:
The Genus Dendrocoelopsis.” iii + 16 pages, 12 figures. 12 January 1973. (

140. Terry L. Erwin. “Studies of the Subtribe Tachyina (Coleoptera: Carabidae: | |
Bembidiini), Part I: A Revision of the Neotropical Genus Xystosomus |
Schaum.” ii + 39 pages. 30 May 1973.

141. I. G. Sohn and Louis S. Kornicker. “Morphology of Cypretta kawatai Sohn ©
and Kornicker, 1972 (Crustacea, Ostracoda), with a Discussion of the |
Genus.” ii + 28 pages, 18 figures. 7 May 1973.

142. Perry C. Holt. “A Summary of the Branchiobdellid (Annelida: Clitellata) |
Fauna of Mesoamerica.” iii + 40 pages, 19 figures, 19 June 1973.

144. Edwin O. Willis. “The Behavior of Ocellated Antbirds.” iii + 57 pages, 25 |
figures. 7 May 1973. |

APPENDIX 9. PUBLICATIONS OF THE SMITHSONIAN PRESS 305

147.

148.

ius

14.

aD:

oe

18.

9)

20.

W. Donald Duckworth. “The Old World Stenomidae: A Preliminary Survey
of the Fauna, Notes on Relationships, and Revision of the Genus Eriogenes
(Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea).” ii + 21 pages, 9 figures, 7 maps. 4 June
1973.

W. Donald Duckworth and Thomas D. Eichlin. “The Type-Material of
North American Clearwing Moths (Lepidoptera: Sesiidae).” 11 + 34 pages.
19 June 1973.

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Berkeley R. Lewis. “Small Arms Ammunition at the International Exposi-
tion Philadelphia, 1876.” ii + 68 pages, 76 figures, 45 plates. 11 August
1972.

Anne Marie Serio. “Political Cartoons in the 1848 Election Campaign.” 11 +
21 pages, 10 figures. 18 October 1972.

John N. Hoffman. “Girard Estate Coal Lands in Pennsylvania 1801-1884.”
vi + 86 pages, 39 figures. 29 December 1972.

John T. Schlebecker. “Agricultural Implements and Machines in the
Collection of the National Museum of History and Technology.” ii + 58
pages, 34 figures. 18 August 1972.

Anne Castrodale Golovin. “Bridgeport’s Gothic Ornament: The Harral-
Wheeler House.” iv + 27 pages, 21 figures. 18 October 1972.

Robert E. Eliason. “Keyed Bugles in the United States.” 44 pages, 22
figures. 29 November 1972.

John J. McCusker. “Alfred, the First Continental Flagship, 1775-1778.” iv +
19 pages, 14 figures. 25 June 1973.

ATOLL RESEARCH BULLETIN

151-162. In one volume, as follows. 31 December 1972.

151.
152.
153.

154.

| 156.

B57.

158.

|
}
160.
}

161.

———

, 155.

159.

Louis H. DiSalvo. “Bacterial Counts in Surface Open Waters of Eniwetok
Atoll, Marshall Islands.” 6 pages, | figure.

Gerald J. Bakus, editor. “Marine Studies on the North Coast of Jamaica.” 7
pages.

Michael J. Risk. “Fish Diversity on a Coral Reef in the Virgin Islands.” 7
pages.

William A. Bussing. “Recolonization of a Population of Supratidal Fishes at
Eniwetok Atoll, Marshall Islands.” 8 pages.

Roy T. Tsuda. “Some Marine Benthic Algae from Truk and Kuop,
Caroline Islands.” 12 pages, 1 figure.

Roy T. Tsuda and Mary S. Belk. “Additional Records of Marine Benthic
Algae from Yap, Western Caroline Islands.” 6 pages.

Jon N. Weber and Peter M. J. Woodhead. “Carbonate Lagoon and Beach
Sediments of Tarawa Atoll, Gilbert Islands.” 31 pages, 9 figures.

R. Pocklington, P.R. Willis, and M. Palmieri. “Birds Seen at Sea and on an
Island in the Cargados Carajos Shoals.” 9 pages.

R. Battistini and G. Cremers. “Geomorphology and Vegetation of Iles
Glorieuses.” 27 pages, 7 figures, 19 plates.

D.R. Stoddart. “Reef Islands of Rarotonga.” F.R. Fosberg. “List of Vascular
Plants.” 15 pages, 6 figures, 4 plates.

D. R. Stoddart and F.R. Fosberg. “South Indian Sand Cays.” 25 pages, 8
figures.
306 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

162. “Island News and Comment.” 27 pages.

163-164. In one volume, as follows. 31 December 1972.

163. Robert B. Clapp. “The Natural History of Gardner Pinnacles, Northwestern
Hawaiian Islands.” 33 pages, 7 figures.

164. Paul W. Woodward. “The Natural History of Kure Atoll, Northwestern
Hawaiian Islands.” 339 pages, 62 figures.

165. A.J. Peters and J.F.G. Lionnet. “Central Western Indian Ocean Bibliog-
raphy.” 328 pages, 3 figures. 2 May 1973.

Institutional Publications

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1971. Volume 1:
“Proceedings.” xvi + 192 pages. 1 March 1973. Paper: $1.75.

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1962. Volume II:
“Writings on American History, 1960.” xvi + 962 pages. 5 July 1972. Cloth:
$5.25.

1971 Annual Report, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, July 1, 1970
through June 30, 1971. v + 42 pages, | illustration. 19 January 1973.

Smithsonian Year 1972. Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year Ended
30 June 1972. vi + 266 pages, 22 illustrations. 24 January 1973. Paper: $2.00.

Smithsonian International Exchange Service, 1972 Annual Report. 9 pages. May 1973.

Statement by the Secretary. The Smithsonian Institution, 1972. “The Pleasure of Your
Company,” and “Financial Report.” iii + 50 pages. 22 December 1972.

Appendix 10

SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS

National Museum of History and Technology

PERMANENT EXHIBITIONS

Philately and Postal History.
Character of the West (Everyday Life)
Graphic Arts Hall

Photography Hall
News Reporting

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Mutoscopes

Right to Vote
Productivity

New Zealand Stamp

Works by Chaim Goldberg (Graphic
Arts Hall)

Copernicus Exhibit

Gillette Shaving Exhibit

National Museum of Natural History

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Tropical Blossoms

Butterflies

Masterpieces of Eskimo Carving
Magnificent West

Synthetic Crystals

Insect Zoo

Stone Age Hunter

Yavitz Sculpture

Indonesian Photos

Spanish Inquisition Necklace
Great Hall Case

Alaskan Jade Carvings

National Zoological Park

The Waterfowl Exhibit

National Air and Space Museum

Air Force Art
Flying Tigers

_ Army Art

Aerobatics

Exhibition Flight pre-exhibit

Improved Wright Military Flyer, Kitty
Hawk Flyer, and Spirit of St. Louis
exhibits in North Hall

Space Shuttle Development
Apollo 17 Preflight

Skylab Program

Copernicus Satellite Telescope
Bonestell Space Art
Louis-Marie Jullien Tapestry

307
308

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Evolution of a Community, Part II

D. C. Art Association Fourth Exhibit

National Collection of Fine Arts

Artist-Naturalists: Observations in the
Americas

The Way of Good and Evil: Popular
Religious Lithographs of 19th Cen-
tury America

The Hand and The Spirit: The Reli-
gious Impulse in American Art
1700-1900

Countryside/Inner City: Photography
by Roland Freeman, Jeff Weiss and
Their Students

New Prints from the Discover Graph-
ics Project

Solon H. Borglum

GSA Design Awards Program

Recent Accessions (Prints)

Wonder Productions Volume I: The
Evolution of a Book by Ellen Lan-
yon

NCFA Collection (Contemporary)

Johann Hermann Carmiencke

From Within

Alfred H. Maurer

Eighth Dulin Print and Drawing Com-
petition

5 Sense Store: An Aesthetic Design for
Education

Graphics ’73: Ralston Crawford

Diisseldorf Academy and the Ameri-
cans

Views of the Earth

High School Graphics III

Three Contemporary Printmakers: Ja- |
cob Kainen, Albert Christ-Janer, |

Tadeusz Lapinski
Lilly Martin Spencer (1833-1902): The
Joys of Sentiment

Divergent Representations: Five Con- |

temporary Artists
Five Years Later

Renwick Gallery

Franz Barwig Sculpture

Announcing the Avant Garde: French
Playbills of the 1890's

American Pieced Quilts (SITES)

Brazilian Baroque: Decorative and Re-
ligious Objects from the 17th and
18th Centuries

Objects for Preparing Food
Contemporary Indian Paintings
The Design Necessity
American Coverlet

The Arts and Crafts Movement in.

America, 1876-1918

Freer Gallery of Art

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Memorial
Exhibition
Japanese Art—Recent Accessions

Whistler Paintings
American Paintings
Ukiyoe Paintings

APPENDIX 10. SMITHSONIAN EXHIBITS

309

National Portrait Gallery

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

The Lazzaroni: Science and Scientists
in Mid Nineteenth-Century America

Notable Women (from the Gallery’s
Collection)

Portraits by Winold Reiss

American Authors (from the Gallery’s
Collection)

Portraits of Figures of the Harlem
Renaissance

African-American Week:
Frederick Douglass

National Portrait Gallery Recent Ac-
quisitions (2 exhibitions)

Prints and Drawings from the Perma-
nent Collection

Single Portrait Presentations (17 pres-
entaiions)

History

Smithsonian Institution Building

GREAT HALL

Textiles in New England
The History of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Building

The Joseph Henry Papers

COMMONS

Minerals

Patent Models

ASSOCIATES RECEPTION ROOM

Seashell Collection

Quiltmaking

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Graphics by Six Swiss Sculptors

The Phenomenon of Peter Max (two
versions)

Molas from the San Blas Islands (two
versions)

Man in Sport (two versions)

African Arts

The Monotype: An Edition of One

Education of an Architect

_ The Avant-Garde in Theatre & Art

The Laing Stores: Dismantling a
Landmark

_ Photographs of a New Guinea People
' Meteorological Optics

Prehistoric Rock Art of Spain

The American Artist & Water Recla-
mation

The Design Necessity

German Posters of Today

Guajiro Tapestries

Modern Housing Prototypes

Landfall Press

Makonde Sculpture

The Persistent Crafts of Poland

Samit

The Simple Home: Domestic Architec-
ture in the San Francisco Bay Re-
gion

Eskimo Art

Alexey Brodovitch and His Influence

American Pieced Quilts (two versions)

London & Birmingham Railway Draw-
ings

The Nag Hammadi Codices

The Magnificent West

Mississippi Folk Architecture
Appendix 11

PROGRESS ON BUILDING CONSTRUCTION,
RESTORATION, AND RENOVATION

AIR AND SPACE BuILDING. Construction of the planetarium exhibit was
completed.

ARTS AND INDUSTRIES BUILDING. A contract was completed for the west-north
range mezzanine and lower level and a contract was awarded and completed on
the east-south and west-south ranges. A contract was awarded for the installation
of public and employee restrooms in the southwest pavillion annex and
construction was completed of an employee restroom in the west-north range. A
fire protection system for the computer room was designed and the contract
awarded for installation. Architectural exterior lighting was completed. Design
work is in progress for the major restoration and air conditioning, and it is
expected that the contract for construction will be awarded in the summer of
ret.

FINE ARTS AND PORTRAIT GALLERIES. A contract was awarded and construc-
tion is underway on the air-conditioning system for the first floor of the Seventh
Street wing. Preparation of design work is underway for alteration of the

National Portrait Gallery’s area on the third floor. A study of architectural —

exterior lighting is being made by a lighting consultant. The offices of the
Director of the National Portrait Gallery were renovated. Plans are being
developed for a public and staff luncheon/snack facility on the first floor.

FREER GALLERY OF ArT. Architectural exterior lighting was completed. The
design of an X-ray facility for the research and conservation activity was
completed and construction work will be undertaken in the summer of 1973. A

project was undertaken to install ultraviolet shielding in the skylights to aid in —

the preservation and conservation of gallery collections.
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN. Construction continues to
move forward and major furnishings and equipment are being purchased.

History AND TECHNOLOGY BuiLpDING. A review of existing exterior lighting |

is underway. The Library and Reading Room on the fifth floor was renovated. A
contract was awarded for the design of a new addition to the Library on the
sixth floor. Work is underway to correct water penetration on the fifth floor and
the north terrace. The sanitary sewer project was completed.

NATIONAL AIR AND Space Museum. Construction was started on the new

—

building and presently is on schedule. It is expected that the building will be |

open to the public for the Bicentennial of the American Revolution.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PaRK. The Animal Research Building, completed as _

part of the Hospital-Research Complex, will be used initially for a Golden
Marmoset conservation project. The Giant Panda House, remodeling Phase II,
including exterior Panda Gardens was substantially completed in accordance with
approved Master Plan requirements. The old “camel line” was remodeled into a
Black Rhinoceros exhibit. Parking lots were modified to permit the inauguration

310
APPENDIX 11. PROGRESS ON BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 311

of paid parking. Repairs to the Bird House roof were completed. Working
drawings and specifications were completed for remodeling the Monkey and
Puma Houses. Working drawings were initiated for the new Lion and Tiger
exhibit facility which will replace the outdated Lion House. Three new corncrib
cages were erected for predatory birds, two corncrib cages were relocated to
accommodate animals displaced by remodeling plans, and additional corncrib
cage designs are underway. Significant landscape rehabilitation was achieved at
the Connecticut Avenue and Adams Mill Road entrances. The upgrading of the
landscape throughout the Zoo, to achieve the aims of the Master Plan, is a
continuing objective.

Natura History BurLpinc. New office space and a mezzanine in the north
pavillion were completed. Construction of new storage space is underway in the
west range. A design contract for architectural exterior lighting was awarded.
The first phase of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries’ expansion was
completed and design work is proceeding for the second phase.

RENWICK GALLERY A contract was awarded for installation of railings on the
towers, replacement and repair of roofs, and installation of lightning protection.

SitveR Hit Faciiity. Construction of Building 23 (Ramsey Building) was
completed. The design was completed for Building 24 and early construction is

_ anticipated. The sewer project was completed.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BuILDING. The architectural exterior lighting was
completed. A contract for the design of a humidification system was awarded

_ and the installation contract will be awarded in July 1973.

|
|

Appendix 12
VISITORS TO THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION DURING FISCAl

YEAR 1973

Smithsonian Arts & Natural Air & Freer History &

Institution Industries History Space Gallery Technolog

Month Building Building Building Building of Art Building

July 117,031 342,138 399 ,521 22 ,892 26,280 983,78

August 118 ,598 356,244 357,766 220 , 933 23,829 902 ,57

September 48 ,575 128 ,924 132,389 73,684 13,342 327,98

October 49 ,358 123 ,840 172,341 7.303 14,095 423,67

November 45 ,324 108 , 900 205 , 347 60,525 10,950 422,98

December 31 , 366 88,176 152,072 49,210 9,913 341,21

January 33,392 OTS 135,494 45,989 EAS 27320

February 38 , 356 106 ,058 1725 65,633 125223 310,17

March 61,124 143 ,528 Zilles ON, 97 ,823 16,106 467 ,23
April 104,576 316,397 479 ,848 180,955 22,973 1,023;69)
May 73,742 234,927 473,544 139,902 2267, 839,77),
June 85,725 258 , 369 354,882 194,952 21,280 585 ,04|
Totals 807,167 2,285,476 3,305,836, 1,223,808 204,723 6,901,38')

F

ee

Fine Arts National Anacostia |
& Portrait Renwick Koological Neighborhood ;
Month Galleries Gallery Park Museum Totals
July 18 ,033 12,010 SSS 2,249 2,699,670 \
August 20 , 638 11,389 762 ,869 2,304 2,777,143)
September 14,876 9,674 385,885 B5y274 1,138 , 604 \
October 23,455 15,964 427 , 884 4,602 1,326,520 |
November 18,990 15,798 406,178 6,367 1,301 , 362 | (
December 16,502 13,491 98,150 7,459 807 ,554 |
January 177503 13,795 166,317 3,032 777 , 868 |
February 23,721 18 , 137 324,106 8,146 1,077,682)
March 27,165 19,705 463,262 11,559 1,579,011)
April 24,291 13,616 888 ,992 Sole 3,060,653.
May 26,751 9,667 845,880 5,900 2,672,701 \
June 22,071 12,600 662 ,542 4,282 2,201 , 745
Totals 253,996 165 , 846 6,207,798 164,487 2 21,420,513.)
ee a te Bae ie ii ie a

1 46,117 adults and children visited museum; the mobile unit was viewed by 18,370 childre
their schools. : NT

2 This total does not include over 4,000,000 persons who visited the Smithsonian Institu
Traveling Exhibition Service’s displays in museums and educational institutions throughout
United States and Canada.

219 |
Appendix 13

STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
30 JUNE 1973

Secretary’s Office and Related Activities

UE SCERCEAIY 2 in he oo dp oa aie eines’ S. Dillon Ripley
Executive Assistant... 2)<).j06 6.2< «s(uj + « Dorothy Rosenberg
BEGET SECUCLALY 55. 2 ests cin lena eens Robert A. Brooks
Aduunistrative Officer...............- John Motheral
Director of Support Activities......... Richard L. Ault
Director; Office of Audits. § 25 </1054).%: Chris S. Peratino
Assistant Secretary for Science.......... David Challinor
Assistant Secretary for History and Art... Charles Blitzer
Assistant Secretary for Public Service
i St ae GO ie a Julian Euell !

Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
(Director, United States National

Mrseum)) rie. nth ks 5 ees ss Paul N. Perrot
RE ARNT TS thc) ian os AMELIE H ooo ATEN a» T. Ames Wheeler
PRRHRE ABU GR TCASEEOE ole a.55.. 5.2 se as 8 Betty J. Morgan
Director, Office of Programming and
IEE cio ye A ch siGesin ole oases «a 3 John F. Jameson
Ghnef Accountant. ...2%5 Peo wa. « Allen S. Goff
Business Manager sis 6. 2) OE. es Richard Griesel

_ Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops. William W. Rowan, III

_ Director, Belmont Conference Center.. Joanne S. Baker Kugel

Mecneral Counsel............00)5....4. Peter G. Powers

Assistant General Counsels........... Alan D. Ullberg
George S. Robinson

L. Wardlaw Hamilton

Suzanne D. Murphy

, Marie C. Malaro

Special Projects, Office of the Secretary

_ Special Assistant to the Secretary..... Richard H. Howland

' Special Assistant to the Secretary..... Margaret Gaynor
Director, Office of Development...... Lynford E. Kautz
Editor, Joseph Henry Papers......... Nathan Reingold

| Director, Office of Equal Opportunity. Archie D. Grimmett
Curator, Smithsonian Institution

James M. Goode

1 William W. Warner on sabbatical leave.

313
314 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Honorary Research Associates.......... Charles G. Abbot,
Secretary Emeritus
Leonard Carmichael,
Secretary Emeritus
Paul H. Oehser
Alexander Wetmore,
Secretary Emeritus

Honorary Bellow. 25 oc... se oie ales John A. Graf
SCIENCE

Assistant Secretary. <4. 5/55 pris ogy. Geet David Challinor

Special\Assistants . ae. turn. one aes Michael R. Huxley

Harold J. Michaelson

National Museum of Natural History

DireCtOr 52 enced Ss nt POR BR cles Porter M. Kier ?
Assistant (DiTeciori.<<cicc.an goo den see OF James F. Mello ?
Special Assistant to Director........... Paul K. Knierim ?
Ghiet of Exhibits. .2.. Gees 46 HBR <2 ac Harry T. Hart 3
Administrative’ Oficersa6 9 ed. ok. =. John C. Townsend
ANTHROPOLOGY
Chairman’ sr oc. <6: WOE be GAA es Clifford Evans
SeniorArcheologisth-Ah( amatee. ..- Waldo R. Wedel
Senior Ethnolopists..3.' 598 245 2. . =) John S. Ewers
Saul H. Riesenberg
Archivist. 023-2.) < amen swat: 2.4 Herman J. Viola 4
Collections'Managens 48) 2 28 e wach... ,- George E. Phebus
Latin American Anthropology
Curators: ceotwasterpatecn a od:5.3 Clifford Evans
Associate: Guraters.b4. 1 sbaeaet- «4 William H. Crocker
Robert M. Laughlin
Old World Anthropology
Gurators., aah Ea EBLE Oae «oS Gordon D. Gibson
Gus W. Van Beek
Associate Guratorsye¢ 2: 2 Sates AS 22 Eugene I. Knez

William B. Trousdale

? Effective 14 January 1973.
3 Appointed 18 March 1973.
4 Appointed 1 October 1972.

:
—_————

= =

APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF

North American Anthropology
MEAtOMR Rs oae roe i ene eee 8c

Physical Anthropology
“COLDS LIOIOS ne rie apartament tea aan

Organic Chemist... 400 core te ene 4 o-
Research Associates, Collaborators, and
PAtMAted SCIEMUSES: .. 2.6 sel oe 6 2

Botany
@hairman soe 6 ete cee Se

’ Effective 14 January 1973.
8 Died 29 July 1972.

591-5529 OO. 74- 21

23) 5)

William C. Sturtevant
William W. Fitzhugh
Dennis M. Stanford

J. Lawrence Angel
Donald J. Ortner
Lucile E. St. Hoyme
Douglas H. Ubelaker
David W. Von Endt

Hans-Georg Bandi (Archeology)

W. Montague Cobb (Physical
Anthropology)

T. Aidan Cockburn (Physical
Anthropology)

Henry B. Collins (Archeology)

Wilson Duff (Ethnology)

Roger I. Eddy (Ethnology)

Don D. Fowler (Archeology)

Sister Inez Hilger (Ethnology)

C. G. Holland (Archeology)

Neil M. Judd (Archeology)

Richard T. Koritzer (Physical
Anthropology)

Ralph K. Lewis (Archeology)

Michael Liebman (Physical
Anthropology)

Olga Linares de Sapir (Archeology)

Betty J. Meggars (Archeology)

George S. Metcalf (Archeology)

Walter G. Putschar (Physical
Anthropology)

Victor A. Nunez Regueiro
(Archeology)

Wilhelm G. Solheim (Archeology)

T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Anthropology)

Matthew W. Stirling (Archeology)

Robert Stuckenrath (Archeology)

Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)

Edwin F. Wilmsen (Archeology)

Edward S. Ayensu
Richard S. Cowan 5
Conrad V. Morton ®
Lyman B. Smith
316

Phanerogams

@urators)c sect Ce eee

Associate @uratorsoeee aoe

Ferns

[Associates Cura toneaee ener

Grasses

(Associate: CuratoGeee eee ne

Cryptogams

Guin AatOrs ee yee ek rapa ea orc are

Associates Guratonsee aie iene

Plant Anatomy

@urators idater a tie een hake

Associate Guratoiyaeee enor

Research Associates, Collaborators, and

Afnliatedscientists2?b 4. caecn i.

7 Retired 13 April 1973.
8 Appointed 4 March 1973.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 _

F. Raymond Fosberg
Velva E. Rudd 7
John J. Wurdack
Dan H. Nicolson
Robert W. Read 8
Marie-Héléne Sachet
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Beryl B. Simpson
Dieter C. Wasshausen

David B. Lellinger
Thomas R. Soderstrom

Mason E. Hale, Jr.
Harold E. Robinson
Arthur L. Dahl

Edward S. Ayensu
Richard H. Eyde
Joan W. Nowicke

W. Andrew Archer (Flowering
Plants) !°

John A. Churchill (Flowering Plants)

Paul S. Conger (Diatomaceae)

José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical
South America)

James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)

Marie L, Farr (Fungi)

Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)

Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)

William H. Hathaway (Flora of
Central America)

Paul L. Lentz (Fungi)

Elbert L. Little (Dendrology)

Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)

Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)

Clyde F. Reed (Ferns)

James L. Reveal (Ferns)

Marie L. Solt (Melastomataceae)

Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)

William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)

John A Stevenson (Fungi)

Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)

* National fungus collections are curated by Department of Agriculture staff.

10 Died 7 May 1973.

| APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF 317

Francis A. Uecker (Fungi)
Egbert H. Walker (Myrsinaceae,
East Asian Flora)

ENTOMOLOGY
Chairman’... Spee ss is Sede eas Paul D. Hurd, Jr.
Senior Entomolopists.. J. F. Gates Clarke
| Karl V. Krombein
| Neuropteroids
| OMIRAL OLE years eee sfc tisna o Auiose eS ais oo: Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Associate Curator. hij... «cites tae « -s Richard W. Baumann
Lepidoptera and Diptera
| Curator eae ee eA aes Donald R. Davis
| ASSOCIAtes CULALOrS eee W. Donald Duckworth
William D. Field
| Coleoptera

PASSOCIAtCICUIAtOIS.s | Sn ine ees os es Terry L. Erwin

| Paul J. Spangler

Hemiptera and Hymenoptera
Associate @uratonuee ne noes kee aoe Richard C. Froeschner

Myriapoda and Arachnida

Grinatone tsar ei) Peles ose 8 Se > ¢ Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.
_ Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Affiliated! Scientists. $0025 2 2 ole Charles P. Alexander (Diptera)

W. H. Anderson (Coleoptera)
Doris H. Blake (Coleoptera)
| Franklin S. Blanton (Diptera)
i Frank L. Campbell (Insect
Physiology)

Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)
| K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)

John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)
| Harry Hoogstraal (Medical

Entomology)

Frank M. Hull (Diptera)
W. L. Jellison (Siphonaptera,
Anoplura)
: Harold F. Loomis (Myriapoda)
C. F. W. Muesebeck (Hymenoptera)
George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera)
Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)
David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

} Cnairimaner ness sadn tees eee David L. Pawson

| Senior Zoolopists:..% 65 f steps doe ote aes Fenner A. Chace, Jr.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder

——

318

Crustacea
@urators$ 25. oc, Soe eee

Visiting’ Curator.jan.32 5 soccer. 2 se it
Echinoderms
@uratorsssosos. eee ee ee

Worms
CUPAatOrsis Awe ee AN ee te eae

Associate Gurators-soee se ecco ee ce
Mollusks
@urators sie os eee aoa Aceon

Associate 1G@uratorins5 0 casei eek ol -
Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Afnliatedi Scientists)... 5 2 5ee -1

MINERAL SCIENCES
Ghairman spc oe eee eee
IMinmeralogisthr- citi nae roe
Collections Manager. 25.2.7. 5-. 54-5 -

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

J. Laurens Barnard

Thomas E. Bowman

Roger F. Cressey

Louis S. Kornicker

Raymond B. Manning )
John R. Holsinger !!

David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler
|

W. Duane Hope |
Meredith L. Jones

Marian H. Pettibone

Mary E. Rice

Clyde F. E. Roper
Joseph Rosewater
Joseph P. E. Morrison

Frederick M. Bayer (Echinoderms)
S. Stillman Berry (Mollusks)
Janet M. Bradford (Crustacea)
J. Bruce Bredin (Biology)
Isabel C. Canet (Biology)
Maybelle H. Chitwood (Worms)
Mary Gardiner (Echinoderms)
John C, Harshbarger (Marine
Invertebrates) i
Lipke B. Holthuis (Crustacea)
Roman Kenk (Worms)
J. Ralph Lichtenfels (Worms)
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
(Crustacea)
Waldo L. Schmitt (Marine
Invertebrates)
Frank R. Schwengel (Mollusks)
I. G. Sohn (Crustacea)
Donald F. Squires (Echinoderms)
Gilbert L. Voss (Mollusks)
Austin B. Williams (Crustacea)
Mildred S. Wilson (Copepod
Crustacea)

William G. Melson!”
George S. Switzer
Harold H. Banks, Jr.

11 Appointed 26 June 1972; terminated 24 June 1973

12 Effective 19 March 1973.
APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF

Meteorites

G@urators er eee es

Mineralogy

Curators aoc ees

Petrology and Volcanology

Curators pce ee ee ks

Physical Sciences Laboratory

ihemStsheia co sores seven hastens ions

Research Associates, Collaborators, and

Affiliated Scientists.....:..........

PALEOBIOLOGY

Chairman ere ye cia ois 6 ecko Sere cus ee ee
Collections) Manager’. 2.6... ce5, 56 +>

Invertebrate Paleontolog y

GIGAalLOns ter ees ooh aay ieee fo oie

Associates @unatol eee niece
SEOlORISE se sues at che Cimaasee cs

Vertebrate Paleontolog y

@uratorsheert sees es as

Associate Curator. 4.40 045e0e ee eee ciec

Paleobotany

(CHTREONE So ai eS SE Ae CLEP ete

13 Effective 18 March 1973.

ong

Roy S. Clarke. Jr.
Brian H. Mason 13
Kurt Fredriksson
Robert F. Fudali

Paul E. Desautels
Joel E. Arem

William G. Melson
Thomas E. Simkin

Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen

Howard J. Axon (Meteorites)
Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites)
Tomas Feininger (Petrology)
John J. Gurney (Petrology)
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites)
John B. Jago (Mineralogy)
Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)

T. R. McGetchin (Petrology)
Rosser Reeves (Mineralogy)
Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology)
Harry Winston (Mineralogy)

Richard E. Grant
Frederick J. Collier

Richard M. Benson
Richard S. Boardman
Martin A. Buzas
Alan H. Cheetham
Richard Cifelli
Richard E. Grant
Erle G. Kauffman
Thomas R. Waller
Kenneth M. Towe

Nicholas Hotton III
Clayton E. Ray
Robert J. Emry

Walter H. Adey
Leo J. Hickey
Francis M. Hueber
320 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Sedimentolog y
Gurators..<.:... sca%alantete ae aa. Jack W. Pierce
Geological Oceanographer.........-- Daniel J. Stanley
Geolopist).... : ..... <s “geatrerist = dag22 is Ian G. Macintyre

Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists

Invertebrate Paleontology............ Arthur J. Boucot
Anthony C. Coates
G. Arthur Cooper
Raymond Douglass
J. Thomas Dutro
Robert M. Finks
C. Lewis Gazin
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
John M. Hancock
Joseph E. Hazel
John W. Huddle
Ralph W. Imlay
Jeremy B. C. Jackson
Harry S. Ladd
N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E, Lohman
Venka V. Macintyre
Sergius H. Mamay
James F. Mello
Robert B. Neuman
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Storrs L. Olson
Axel A. Olsson
John Pojeta, Jr.
Norman F. Sohl
Steven M. Stanley
Margaret Ruth Todd
Astrid Witmer
Wendell P. Woodring
Ellis P. Yochelson

Paleobotanyi. 1.0: erecta cide cian Patricia J. Adey
David Child

Sedimentology <5 <j... sje 02 ses wie is ee. ° Gilbert Kelling
Frederic R. Siegel

Vertebrate Paleontology..........--- Douglas Emlong

Charles A. Reppening
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

@hawamian oa. 24 eee eee eee Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.!4
Fishes
@uratorsscscser case Mee see eres Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.

Ernest A. Lachner

14 Effective 1 September 1972.
APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF 321
}

Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman

PASSOCIALC OUEALOLG A cc ele oe ve es William R. Taylor
Reptiles and Amphibians
| RO ALOLE RA re ae aoe ee Gree ee: James A. Peters 15
| associate: CUTALOL. a6 6. sees eh oles George R. Zug
Birds
OUI ALOIS etc thea epics oe ress George E. Watson !4
| Richard L. Zusi
| PASSOCI Ate; CULAtOls. = fe \o6 wets ie o's 6s Paul Slud
Mammals
i MEALOESGHIAG |. b cian iele alee slersteste sso ag Charles O. Handley, Jr.
Henry W. Setzer
Associate Curator. se coc oe ee wes 3, Richard W. Thorington, Jr.
assistant: GUratOLs «. sais titers sae Oe es James G. Mead
Research Associates, Collaborators, and
Athiliated! Scientistssas. ee sean: John W. Aldrich (Birds)

Richard C. Banks (Birds)

William Belton (Birds)

James E. Bohlke (Fishes)

Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals)

Leonard Carmichael (Psychology,
Animal Behavior)

Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)

Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)

George J. Divoky (Birds)

John F, Eisenberg (Mammals)

Robert K. Enders (Mammals)

Herbert Friedmann (Birds)

Crawford H. Greenewalt (Birds)

Arthur M. Greenhall (Mammals)

Lester A. Hart (Mammals)

Marshall A. Howe (Birds)

Philip S. Humphrey (Birds)

George J. Jacobs (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)

E. V. Komarek (Mammals)

Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)

Richard H. Manville (Mammals)

J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)

Egardo Mondolfi (Mammals)

Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)

John R. Napier (Mammals)

Storrs L. Olson (Birds)

Braulio Orejas-Miranda (Reptiles)

John Paradiso (Mammals)

William F. Perrin (Mammals)

Dioscoro S. Rabor (Birds)

15 Died 18 December 1972.

322

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

G. Carleton Ray (Mammals)

S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)
William Schevill (Mammals)
Leonard P. Schultz (Fishes)
Sheldon R. Severinghaus (Birds)
John S. Weske (Birds)
Alexander Wetmore (Birds)
Ralph E. Wetzel (Mammals)
Don E. Wilson (Mammals)

National Air and Space Museum

ID) INE CTORS erate wig cher ens Seeks hen ne Cl cus
Deputy: Directors serra ear
Bxecutive Oflicens «denen ae eae
Ter rarraneweny: Rep escriek cr re icles eae oe
Assistant Director (Aeronautics)........
Assistant Director (Astronautics)........
Assistant Director (Science and
Technology iwi sa soo. ae WML.
Advisory? Board ai, by sorete. ciao keene

Honorary

Michael Collins

Melvin B. Zisfein

John Whitelaw
Catherine D. Scott
Donald S. Lopez
Frederick C. Durant III

Howard Wolko

S. Dillon Ripley, Chairman
(ex-officio)

Brig. General James L. Collins, USA

Major General Edward S. Fris, USMC

Vice Admiral William D. Houser,
USN

Rear Admiral William A. Jenkins,
USCG

Major General John L. Locke,
USAF

Brig. General Gustav Lundquist,
FAA

Willis H. Shapley, NASA

Mrs. Olive Ann Beach

Lt. General William E. Hall, USAF
(Ret.)

Edwood R. Quesada

Astrophysical Observatory

Director, ee Oe eee Sears Sears
Assistant Director (Administration)......
Assistant Director (Science)............
Scientifie’Staffs..050 +. oe oe Bootes

16 Retired effective 30 June 1973.

Fred L. Whipple'®
John G. Gregory
Charles A. Lundquist
Kaare Aksnes

Arthur C. Allison
Eugene H. Avrett
Prabhu Bhatnagar

APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF 323

Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederic Chaffee
Jerome R. Cherniack
Giuseppe Colombo
Allan F. Cook

Alex Dalgarno

Robert J. Davis

James C. DeFelice
William A. Deutschman
Dale F. Dickinson

Giovanni G. Fazio
Darrell Fernald

Edward L. Fireman
Fred A. Franklin
Edward M. Gaposchkin
Owen Gingerich
Antanas Girnius
Jonathan E. Grindlay
Mario D. Grossi
Marie E. Hallam
Katherine Haramundanis
Gerald Hawkins
Henry F. Helmken
Paul W. Hodge

Luigi G. Jacchia
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Douglas Kleinmann
Yoshihide Kozai
Robert L. Kurucz
David Latham
Myron Lecar

Carlton G. Lehr
Martin Levine

Hiram Levy II

A. Edward Lilley
Marvin Litvak
Richard E. McCrosky
Brian G. Marsden
Ursula B. Marvin
George H. Megrue
Donald H. Menzel
Lawrence W. Mertz
Henri E. Mitler

Paul A. Mohr

James Moran

Robert W. Noyes
Costas Papaliolios
Cecelia H. Payne-Gaposhkin
Michael R. Pearlman
Douglas T. Pitman
Annette Posen
Harrison E. Radford

394 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973.

George B. Rybicki
Winfield W. Salisbury
Rudolph E. Schild
Zdenek Sekanina
Chen-Yuan Shao
I. Shapiro
Jack W. Slowey
Richard B. Southworth
Frank Steinbrunn
G. Jeffrey Taylor
Wesley A. Traub
Robert Vessot
George Victor
George Weiffenbach
Trevor C. Weekes
Charles A. Whitney
Marlene Williamson
John A. Wood
Consultants se hess iaetyek cer ra mas wok John Danziger
Peter Noerdlinger
Jan Rolff
Stanley Ross
Robert Stein
Wallace Tucker

George Veis
Director, Central Bureau for Satellite
Geodesy. «..:: . Saacipee 5 saa... George Veis |
Director, Central Bureau for Astronomical
Telegrams: ..: i.e a vo en ee Brian G. Marsden
INAS Fellows 2 .:c200tt-< Ske eee Eoghan O’Mongain

Steven Wofsy
Eric Chaisson

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

DDIKECtOES, cial heenectc el Faroe Oe aero mee ee Martin H. Moynihan
Special Assistant to Director.......... Adela Gomez

Assistant Director, Science............. Ira Rubinoff

Administrative Oficerseee oe ee ae C. Neal McKinney i
Manager, Barro Colorado Island...... Ernest Hayden y
Manager, Naos Island............... Thomas Borges |
Office; Manager, -\:... << Sestis cid «io BE foes Arilla Kourany

PADATIAD yo) Wo. ake) 2 bs ce AS et Alcira Mejia

Biologists isc. 72 cis it Mee tetas Gee oe Oe: Robert L. Dressler

Peter W. Glynn
Jeffrey B. Graham
Judith Lang
Egbert Leigh
David L. Meyer
A. Stanley Rand

|
|
|

APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF

HIONOLAGY Eas ion hero iss eracie Fe 3 Lin. Sie

SEMEHEOVOIOOISES «ni ke wee ee ve Se
ECACC 08 Sa a ae IRS ee

RIO PISS meester cisco 2 Sg = fais ede 8
Chien, > oh 6 ¢died tee eee e

Fisheries Biologist
CRTSTINCTEL ES sin Big ho ue ROME On ae

MEE SIEISES (ri PE oy c0 )0R cis, oeyovwic Seercic- ea bones: 2
Ehysiological Ecologist............-...-

Fellow

eiie| (outs) /eXeiie\.v\.¢ 0) el’e 'e).e) o/'s.,e).6 (0) =/sjisi(s?\s) a, «) (6. 6\0.

PEE CCOR yh 4 8 eh EO Oe kas
USPENTIRY DA yo 0) aR eR ae
Assistant Director for Conservation......
Acmimistrative Officers.....2.4-.--...-

325

Michael H. Robinson
Roberta W. Rubinoff
Neal G. Smith
Nicholas Smythe
Hindrik Wolda
Madeline Andrews
Charles F. Bennett, Jr.
John F. Eisenberg
Carmen Glynn
Carlos Lehmann
Giles W. Mead

Ernst Mayr

Barbara Robinson
Patricio Sanchez

W. John Smith

C. C. Soper

Paulo Vanzolini
Martin Young

Radiation Biology Laboratory

William H. Klein
W. Shropshire, Jr.

Robert Stuckenrath
David L. Correll
Maurice M. Margulies
Elisabeth Gantt
Rebecca Hayes

Allan Michaels

David Severn

Joseph Miklas

Roy W. Harding, Jr.
James Mielke

Maria Faust

Brian Gray

Bernard Goldberg
Bert Drake

William O. Smith, Jr.
John L. Edwards
Michael Read

Robert L. Weintraub
Edward DeFabo

National Zoological Park

Theodore H. Reed
Edward Kohn
John Perry

Joseph J. McGarry
326 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

StaffvArchitect’; cve.scsys.cey- ont paee Norman C. Melun
Chief, Office of Interpretation.......... Saul Schiffman
Captain, Protective Services... 33. 2:4... Anthony S. Kadlubowski
General Curator, Office of Animal
Management... os a. sae o does Jaren G. Horsley
Curator, Small Mammals............ Harold J. Egoscue
ASsistant, @uratOle ere Aer Larry R. Collins
Curator, Large Mammals............ William A. Xanten, Jr.
Assistant CUratOr ss 27,2: uareeeseees s Miles Roberts
Curatore birds. Ac nc sec etnies Guy A. Greenwell
Curator Repilesic scons nctseiesa ae as Jaren G. Horsley
AASSiStantsCuratole ese ace coo: Michael L. Davenport
Scientist-in-Charge, Office of Scientific
ARGS ane Misia d sock ah te oka ss John F. Eisenberg
Veterinarian, Office of Animal Health
and Pathology 2.6 (cei a «hr aise oe oe Clinton W. Gray
Pathologist, Office of Animal Health
andy) Pathologyaate sac ask gn cecee tee Robert M. Sauer
Chief, Office of Buildings and Grounds.. Emanuel Petrella
Elead: ‘Maintenance Unit:j.c5- 5; +. 2e¢ Robert F. Ogilvie
Head MGoroundav Unie, © 15 oeisncscl-veim John W. Monday
HeadsServices Unita cas s55 se Carl F. Jackson
Head) Dransportation Unit. .52..4.. .- Jesse B. Batts
Associates in Ecology... ....002626 2640 <0 S. Dillon Ripley
Lee M. Talbot
Research Associates: a. ....is6> Sse ats or Jean Delacour
Bernard C. Zook
Collaborators eis, «m2 dai tteerematss a Leonard J. Goss

Carlton M. Herman
Paul Leyhausen
Charles R. Schroeder

Office of Environmental Sciences

DSKECIOR., siac's tacies sinh bees William L. Eilers
Program Director, AID Environmental
Impactistudiess esate error Peter H. Freeman
Program Director, AID Waterborne
Diseases Study ta eee Curt R. Schneider
Ecology Program
Director). An 4 ae Oe Sate Dale W. Jenkins
Deputy2Director eee eEe een Lee M. Talbot'?
Director, Center for Natural Areas.... Stephen L. Keiley
Director, Peace Corps Environmental
Studiesi ajc. tas SON Poe Robert K. Poole
Director, Environmental Inventories
Study... .<).:feve st: erent es). William C, Jolly
Oceanography and Limnology Program
Directors. 5.452 ee ase ans es Robert P. Higgins

17 On leave in 1972 to Council on Environmental Quality.

|
|
|
|
|
|
APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF 327

PMeputy, DireCtOn s,s ml ts Sele cee David K. Young
Estuarine: Biologist. ..2.. 2.5622... Catherine J. Kerby
Director, Smithsonian Oceanographic
MOKA Centenario e ee oe H. Adair Fehlmann
Director, Mediterranean Marine
GRD E CENCE 6 2ye-ynt eicieyers o skeierem = Ernani G. Menez'®
Center for Short-Lived Phenomena
] DIRE} Toy Re eat aeetn ctam ec trere Den eon noe Robert A. Citron

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

HD RE CLON eee ee caer yanceescee stole ehasclaaa jake Francis S. L. Williamson
PISSISEANEMDITECLON seca ede tee ns hee es John Kevin Sullivan

Center for the Study of Man

MORRO Rent (os: 9) ou a.c5 Tolle seael sya arias SES NES wv sas Sol Tax
mropram, Coordinators ..2. 6... ee os Sam Stanley

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Incorporated

PSEESICEME steer iois oys1c bite oe ecu Mie eine ew Oe David F. Hersey
Vice President, User Services... .2..-... Frank J. Kreysa
Director Wsen Education. =. 4-- +. Richard C. Reeser
Vice President, Professional Services... .. Willis R. Foster
Vice President, Data Processing......... Martin Snyderman
DECLEEAL Ve yaoi cur. a1 tos) by ec acotice ole ach ols V. P. Verfuerth
sreasunci peri ere le Go omen David W. Lakamp
ANCSMIBINE INGEGUIRTR obocosoccdcthoodar Evelyn M. Roll
Science Division
DD ECEOR A Ae te oie 2 5% indies. 5 sysia, auecetai a’ ¢ Willis R. Foster
Weputy, ite Sciences:. =. - 0). <2 «2 a Charlotte M. Damron
Chief, Medical Sciences Branch..... Faith F. Stephan
Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch... Rhoda Stolper
Chief, Social Sciences Branch....... Barbara F. Lundquist

Chief, Agriculture Sciences Branch.. William T. Carlson
Chief, Biological Sciences Branch... James R. Wheatley, Jr.

Deputy, Physical Sciences.......... Samuel Liebman
Chief, Chemistry, Material and
Engineering Branch........... Samuel Liebman
Chief, Physics, Mathematics and
Electronics Branche en -eeee -- Robert Summers
Chief, Earth Science Branch.......... Joseph P. Riva, Jr.
Data Processing Division
WW ITECCOM Ry He cits ea. ons) ope sep snbsene peat a Martin Snyderman
IDS aU So he aia oe cee eats aOR Meh een noreR a ae Bernard L. Hunt
Chief, Input Services Branch....... Jack DeVore

'8 Appointed effective April 1973. William P. Davis completed his tour of duty
| March 1973.
|
328 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973.

Chief, Systems Development Branch. Bernard L. Hunt
Chief, Programming and Reports

Senvicess Dranchlina eerie Robert A. Kline
Chief, Computer Operations Branch. Paul Gallucci

Fort Pierce Bureau

ActingsDirectonsacn.. meniscus eer sa ee H. Adair Fehlmann

HISTORY AND ART

PASSIStAaMt SECLELALY te.wie alta ashe ees ces Charles Blitzer
Dep Uby ee Poh aiihee esiaka eb eee ede th Richard Grove
Bicentennial Coordinator: <2 .4<....- Susan Hamilton

The National Museum of History and Technology

LD STE R0) GROEN ey eee ee Cee ee ee ee Daniel J. Boorstin
Deputy sirectonian. . sane ae Silvio A. Bedini
Assistant Director for Administration.... Robert G. Tillotson
EAISEOGT AMM ayes s/s 8 © cee are eRe Harold K. Skramstad
LETS 0 Eee Rete ae ney AEE, OP Bo Virginia Beets

APPLIED ARTS

Chaimman® evant ere ren a Carl H. Scheele
Graphic Arts
PASSOCIATLERCLIGat OLS HEE nee Elizabeth M. Harris
Peter C. Marzio
Numismatics
(CIEATOIS: Sect c ethers eee Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Photographic History

CuiratOny von ae ee ence Cote Eugene Ostroff
ASSistant) @unatOL ane ne oie rio s mie David E. Haberstich
Postal History
GuEAatoree nce core creer: Carl H. Scheele
INIOORUS CUTE Goccuccooooppeeddd Franklin R. Bruns
Reidar Norby
Textiles
@urators ere se ses ere trachea ohare Rita J. Adrosko
Grace R. Cooper
Honorary
INGUIMMISIVATICS cctv cen cache eee cee eee Cora Lee C. Gillilland

R. Henry Norweb
Emery May Norweb

APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF

CULTURAL HisTORY

Chairman ‘(acting)'30; .\..25 RS. =. Rodris Roth

emion Curator... Messe. Rese os bie C. Malcolm Watkins
Costume and Funishings

GutatoOn sn chic Done he wee he hates ees Rodris Roth

Assistanti Curators jan nce cis oor = Claudia B. Kidwell

Curator Emeritus: 2% 5.62. co0 ds bate Anne W. Murray
Ethnic and Western Cultural History

COU AT ORY sees yoiciie case sie Sew SUIS eI Richard E. Ahlborn
Musical Instruments

RORUALON ee ei) cr) cha a obalecs rcciaye-auele ale aust John T. Fesperman

PASSOciate | @uratorsmyee ceria on oe Cynthia A. Hoover

PASSistanti@urators,.cis).\. Soleus miaio os 6% James M. Weaver
Preindustrial Cultural History

Pssoclate Curator iso oa selene nom wio ss Anne C. Golovin
Honorary

Miusicalelnstrumentss - 4 see David W. Hinshaw

Preindustrial Cultural History........ Ivor Noél-Hume

Robert H. McNulty
Joan Pearson Watkins

INDUSTRIES
ROH ARGIM AMR yey eon Sherein, Aes eich ee John H. White, Jr.
Historian Emenituses-4e acecce ee. - Howard I. Chapelle
Agriculture and Mining
(CUIRMIOS aig. g big oO IGIn tea DRO DD OTe Oe John T. Schlebecker
ASSOCIATE TOUEALOL. oo. < s.<.se.eisi cp ie so John N. Hoffman
Ceramics and Glass
(CURATION ong bla eee cee One e Drone ore J. Jefferson Miller, II
Paul V. Gardner
Manufacturing
PSSSISEAR EOC ALOL)0.= /./0. «ore oe cle ls mel sei George T. Sharrer
Transportation
ROT ALONS thd oie che =o) VIO eee ee John H. White, Jr.
Melvin H. Jackson
Honorary
@eramics)/ and) Glass: .0. 35a ates -.< Hans Syz
IManufactuming;. a. eatio. 2h denim 2 - Philip W. Bishop
BiranspontattOmla. « -caiaraein aitcusteresiate 2 i Peter B. Bell

NATIONAL AND MiLitTary History

Charmane esc sete opin setts es Edgar M. Howell
Historic Archeology

Ciaratoueened. eee le ves ee aS Mendel L. Peterson
Military History

KCRIFATOES seer tothe ned ca RIES oh la Edgar M. Howell

Craddock R. Goins, Jr.

NSS IStanty CUIEATOR. Maetne tee te eis = Donald E. Kloster
Naval History

AT ALOESe Ae es cas Oe ey ie Philip K. Lundeberg

Harold D. Langley

329
330

Political History
Curator. 2 s.hc.c osx a eS
Associate Curator
Honorary
Navall History..o5 oo. en eee ee

ScIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
@hairmants. gre an eee hae eee
Senior Scientific Scholar.............
Mistorian (Phanmacy))xo 42 acactec & cee
Principal Investigator (Computer
story sPEGlect) pecs: ge -jaseiaens

Electricity and Nuclear Energy
Curation RACES aus a Se
Curator (Mathematics)..............
Associate Curator: io. ian oie dac.. 2 ee

Mechanical and Civil Engineering

WUTatOrs yee nk eos cbolecis on aon

Medical Sciences
ZASSOCiaten@uraton ney) scien eee
Physical Sciences
Associate(Guratorge geo. ease
@urnatorien ey. ee APE Mee end ee
NSSOCIate) GlinatOla ae etn aeiemericeiei re
Honorary
Electricity and Nuclear Energy.......

Physical Sciences’, 5 ars sss ssi eee

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Margaret B. Klapthor
Herbert R. Collins

William Rea Furlong

Robert M. Vogel
Robert P. Multhauf
Sami K. Hamarneh

Henry S. Tropp

Bernard S. Finn
Uta C. Merzbach
Paul Forman

Robert M. Vogel
Edwin A. Battison
Otto Mayr

Audrey B. Davis

Deborah J. Warner
Walter F. Cannon
Jon B. Eklund

Ladislaus L. Marton
Gerald F. J. Tyne
Anthony R. Michaelis
Derek J. De Solla Price

Archives of American Art

WOIEELOR ocho cds ace Saar MN ee
Deputy Director-Archivist........:.....
Administrative Assistant. ere see ein
Curator of Manuscriptss sss eee
Assistant Curator of Manuscripts........
ISTE AR OMIEECLOES a 5icc scp e ar Sana Sec

hreldyResearchers saa eee

Orall History: 2 .<f-gocost she conten.
EETUSEES e222, oc \ nies tg atte alah ES oe

William E. Woolfenden

Garnett McCoy

Richard J. Nicastro

Arthur J. Breton

Elsie F. Freivogel

Butler Coleman (New York)

Robert Brown (Northeast)

Dennis Barrie (Midwest)

Paul Karlstrom (West Coast)

F. Ivor D. Avellino (New York)
Sylvia Loomis (Southwest)

Paul Cummings

Howard W. Lipman, President
Irving F. Burton, Vice President
James Humphry III, Vice President
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Vice President

.
“4
/

ane

CS ey ce aes

ee a
APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF 351

Girard L. Spencer, Treasurer
Miss Milka Iconomoff, Secretary
Henry De F. Baldwin
Edmond duPont
Joel Ehrenkranz
Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Harold O. Love
Russell Lynes
Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Mrs. Alfred Negley
Abraham Melamed
Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson
Henry Pearlman
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond
Mrs. William L. Richards
E. P. Richardson
Chapin Riley
Edward M. M. Warburg
S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio
Charles Blitzer, ex officio
Lawrence A. Fleischman, Honorary
Mrs. Edsel B. Ford, Honorary
menisory Committee. 3)... 66 Lee. 6. James Humphry III, Chairman
Milton W. Brown
Lloyd Goodrich
Eugene C. Goossen
James J. Heslin
| John Howat
| Bernard Karpel
Edgar Kaufmann, Jr.
| John A. Kouwenhoven
Karl Kup
Eric Larrabee
Abram Lerner
A. Hyatt Mayor
Jules Prown
J. T. Rankin
Daniel J. Reed
Charles van Ravenswaay
Marvin S. Sadik
Joshua C. Taylor
William B. Walker
Richard P. Wunder

Freer Gallery of Art

EO RD eases Bycpnehiae 5 x Harold P. Stern

Beessistant Directors os3)44 $4 <2 ayn dk nae Thomas Lawton

| Associate Curator, Chinese Art.......... Hin-cheung Lovell
Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art..... Esin Atil

Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory. _W. Thomas Chase
332

Chemist, Technical Laboratory.........
Research Curator, Far Eastern Ceramics.
Research Consultant, Technical
[GAbOratOLVy oerayacnscia tee oie ee er keke
Research Assistant, Far Eastern Ceramics.
Research Assistant, Herzfeld Archive... .
Wibrarian access sce ee ei Save Seis oe arate ek

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 _

John Winter
John A. Pope

Rutherford J. Gettens
Josephine H. Knapp
Joseph M. Upton
Priscilla P. Smith
Richard Edwards
Calvin French

National Collection of Fine Arts

Directors eaters eee Oe eee ce
Assistant Director for Operations........
Administrative Othicer.. 2925 as see»
IRE PIS(H ALS Se ee Ree RR St
Curator, Contemporary Painting and
Sculprunesaeerse nce is yikes eres
Associate Curator, 18th- and 19th-
Centry Painting and Sculpture.....
Curator, Prints and Drawings..........
Curator of Education 7 2.2) eee...
Administrator, Renwick Gallery........
Coordinator of Research... =. asses. -
Coordinator, Bicentennial Inventory of
Americanlbaimtings ne ieee
Chief, Office of Exhibition and Design. . .
Chief, Office for Exhibitions Abroad.....
Senior Gonservators-7e oo hee tee
Editor, Office of Publication...........
fabrarian, NCEA/NPEG..o. se. soos os
Coordinator for Lending Program.......
Buble Affairs Officer, 2 eae ee a
National Collection of Fine Arts
Commissions. so ee Sere

Joshua C. Taylor
Harry Lowe

Harry Jordon

W. Robert Johnston

Adelyn Breeskin

William H. Truettner
Janet A. Flint

Peter Bermingham
Lloyd E. Herman
Lois M. Fink

Abigail Booth

David Keeler

Lois A. Bingham
Anton Konrad

Carroll Clark

William B. Walker
Donald R. McClelland
Benjamin Ruhe

Thomas C. Howe, Chairman
H. Page Cross, Vice Chairman
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary
Thomas S. Buechner
David E. Finley

Martin Friedman

Lloyd Goodrich

Walker Hancock

Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr.
August Heckscher

Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume
Abram Lerner, ex officio
Henry P. MclIlhenny
Ogden M. Pleissner
Charles H. Sawyer

APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF

Baonorary Members... ..... 20200 hs. 20%

333

Mrs Otto L. Spaeth
George B. Tatum
Otto Wittman
Alexander Wetmore
Leonard Carmichael
Gilmore D. Clarke
Paul Mellon

Stow Wengenroth
Andrew Wyeth

National Portrait Gallery

meceper of the Catalogue: ..2.. <i... ..
Senior Research Assistant.............
ferator of Education. 4... <<... .s.«ss.:-

Chief, Exhibits Design and Production. . .

Assistant Chief, Exhibits Design and

PEOGUGHON Ma 68 oie fi alocicrle aids
rbrarian (NPG-NGPA)..... ..< 20.600. --
BeetniGr CONSELVATOL. os awe ois see ss
BTLOPTAPACY ons, crits a a= tere + @ misuncsnens = «
ERNE cee a 6 OPC haya x stn
BPRISEAHE UREDISITAL 0. jcc a te na oe 2
Meeublic Affairs Officer...............5.
ERG: CONMINIISSION.... 64. 2)6 6500s sae es ote «

BPs -Ofli Clon at ck Oe a ee

Marvin S. Sadik

Douglas E. Evelyn
Lillian B. Miller
Frederick S. Voss
Beverly J. Cox
Robert G. Stewart
Monroe Fabian
Wilford P. Cole
Mona Dearborn
Dennis A. O’Toole
Lisa Strick

James J. Shelton

Joseph M. Carrigan

William B. Walker

Felrath Hines

Eugene L. Mantie

Jon D. Freshour

Suzanne C. Jenkins

Nancy F. Bush

John Nicholas Brown, Chairman
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.

Ralph Ellison

David E. Finley

Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Andrew Oliver

Jules D. Prown

E. P. Richardson

Robert Hilton Smith

Chief Justice of the United States
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Director, National Gallery of Art

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Abram Lerner
Joseph Sefekar
334

Curatompexhibitionseee ase eee
Associate. Guraton eee eee ai ie
Assistants Guratonee ee emer
G@uratorialvAssistantepee eee eee
Tibrarian sce Oo oo Oe
Registrars. foo as. eee ate eect ee
Museums pecialist= nates
Trustees: cee oes ec en eae

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973 ©

Douglas MacAgy
Cynthia Jaffee McCabe
Inez Garson

Maurene S. Donadio
Anna Brooke

Nancy Sage

Frank B. Gettings

H. Harvard Arnason
Leigh B. Block
Theodore E. Cummings
George Heard Hamilton
Elisabeth Houghton
Daniel P. Moynihan, Chairman
Taft B. Schreiber

Hal B. Wallis

Warren E. Burger

S. Dillon Ripley

Brian O’Doherty
William C. Seitz
Joshua C. Taylor

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design

DD) INECEORNe esa Ae ial ee oto ieee eee
Administrator and Curator of Collections.
Assistant Curator of Decorative Arts... .
Curator of Drawings and Prints.........
Technician for Drawings and Prints... .
Assistant Curator of Vextiles...-.......:
Consultant for Textiles................
INE GIS ERAT Petts el peek cytes Sena heuer kaon
Exhibitsespecialistamae eee erence nee
AXssistante li bcanianlee eae ee nee
Butlding Managers cr asi. oc crs yess “eyo h
Museumbsecretany-mr sa oan
Museum™Receptioniste i ee are

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

DIrECtOrg yas cee ee Sa keene ai oy
Assistant Directorsa ssc) aero
Administrative Ofnicers sarees
Collections: =... atidace ees rose ore a
Secretary seearis cui.) chee tekencns sicko oyacre so
FAISCOGIANE ganz). cient cio ae eee temo aie
Repistian seeetcrtia ts lirg ser oc oaiepe ac

'? Died 2 September 1972.

*° Acting Director from 11 December 1972 to 30 April 1973; appointed Director

on | May 1973.
1 Resigned 20 April 1973.

22 Transferred to National Museum of History and Technology 23 April 1973.

John M. Elliott

James S. Stokesberry 7?

Lisa Suter Taylor
Christian Rohlfing
Catherine Frangiamore
Elaine Evans Dee
Xenia Cage |
Milton Sonday i
Alice Baldwin Beer
Mary F. Blackwelder |
Dorothy Twining

Eliane Zuesse |
Manuel Perez
Rowena MacLeod
Deirdre MacGuire

John H. Magruder III 18
James S. Hutchins ”°
Miriam H. Uretz
Barbara J. Lane

Lorene B. Mayo?

APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF A305

Mem ORY BOATC o/s Salo eles ee ts a 8s The Honorable John Nicholas Brown,

Chairman

The Honorable Earl Warren

Secretary of Army

Secretary of Navy

Secretary of Air Force

Lieutenant General Milton G.
Baker, Retired

Robert C. Baker

The Honorable Alexander P.
Butterfield

William H. Perkins, Jr.

MMMEAC IOS ote ae aes GGG oaaity ar ahs Gicue estes ans Secretary of Defense

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

Joseph Henry Papers

BUPRRE ere oes 20s aioe oc. 0/6 alos oot Sie Nathan Reingold
ERSSIStANEVEGICOL sie cases ce ose eee oe ee < Arthur P. Molella
Bese ETISTODIAM : .ccccs cist c's sits ene eee ei James M. Hobbins
Beesearch Assistant... .".-- 02. bs... ee Kathleen Waldenfels
moministrative Officer...............+ Beverly Jo Lepley

Office of American Studies

_DARSGOLES a gest So toe ee Wilcomb E. Washburn

Office of Academic Studies

EXECUTIVE) @MICED =. 5 Soe ce cna cee as Edward S. Davidson
EE O30 Se Gretchen Gayle

Smithsonian Institution Archives

=F ELOAGI Bares vahaies ace meee tie aiseelise ai cere Richard H. Lytle
EXSsOCIAte PATEMIVASts cre ce cele cis eae cies: William A. Deiss
BURSISEATT “ATCRIVISIS, 2.7. cos ss ee tetes we's James Steed

Alan L. Bain
Supervisory Technician................ Norwood Biggs 74

Office of Seminars

MMELOES en a5) 30 a SoG neces <8 Wilton S. Dillon

MeAssistant to Director. .................. Dorothy Richardson
Beeretary 40 DIeCtOr::0. 0.05 van hanes as Frances Miller
BeePEATY SPCCIANISt. 6 ce a se cen se a Jane Wallace

23 Joined staff 1 November 1973.
336 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

SPECIAL MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Assistant Secretary... og sic ge 5 cides oe Paul N. Perrot
Assistants Director eee ec rieeaence Frederick Schmid
Research Assistant (Conservation)....... Elena Borowski
Learning Research Specialist........... Jean Chen
Research Assistant (Psychology)........ Pamala Elliott
Research, Psychologist. 2 eeu: = 501 ne Robert A. Lakota *4
Research Psychologist (Visiting)........ Ross J. Loomis
Consultant, Experimental Psychologist... C. G. Screven
Chief, Workshop Programs (Exhibits)... Rolland O. Hower
INesearcheAssociates nian earner ian Frank A. Taylor

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Director of Librariesem -ts5..00 Ase «2 Russell Shank
Assistant tothe; Dinecton saa eee. Elaine F. Sloan 7°
Administrative Librarian............ Thomas L. Wilding
Administrative @lhicernae- eee eee Mary C. Quinn

Assistant Director of Libraries for Bureau

DEEVICES egtch, sense (anak eee el autor Jean C. Smith

Deputy Assistant Director of Libraries for

IBUKe AUS CLVICES retiree ier L. Francis Jones

Branch Librarians:

Departmentiolf Botany-eene aera Ruth F. Schallert
Breer Gallerysoteants-eee eerie eer Priscilla B. Smith
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture

Garden. cifsk ort era teoy Seen Anna M. Brooke
National Air and Space Museum..... Catherine D. Scott
National Collection of Fine Arts and

National Portrait Gallery........ William B. Walker
National Museum ef History and

Mechnology .%. sen cess ee Frank A. Pietropaoli
National Museum of Natural History.. Jean C. Smith (acting)
National Zoological Park............ Mary Clare Cahill
Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-

SEFVALOLY) 2:2). Gat. Sash Podehede «eo Joyce M. Rey
Smithsonian Radiation Biology

Laboratory:#:, (3h cuscmaeees 2% Mary Clare Cahill
Smithsonian Tropical Research

Institute ssag. ce wane ocewe aeiecres Alcira Mejia
Woodrow Wilson International Center

forpocholars (ive we mans ees Mary Anglemyer

Branch Library Reference Staff:
National Collection of Fine Arts and
National Portrait Gallery........ Sara H. Hanan

24 Appointed 1 February 1973.
25 Appointed 15 January 1973.
APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF ao

National Museum of History and

sechnolopyp van een ete =) Charles G. Berger
Assistant Director of Libraries for
KGenerall SELVICES since ecyss seeyens + sions «2's Philip Leslie 7°
Access Services
(OTL TS oy Aiea cabe ie een ear Jack F. Marquardt
Assistants (Delain cece en nes 8 Shs ii Dan O. Clemmer
Bibliographer for the History of Science
BanUetechnologys : wale ster. os Jack S. Goodwin
Technical Processing Center Chief...... Vija L. Karklins
Acquisitions Division
‘CHATS a 3 Gon Severe 2 oe Oe nn ne ea Mildred D. Raitt
Gift and Exchange Librarian......... Sharon H. Sweeting
Catalog Division
“CUTE: caote Ree ee ee ee Mary Jane H. Linn 27
RE ALLO REES ile Pc og oA ehele ane aie «<< Angeline D. Ashford

Charles H. King
Helen S. Nordberg
Margaret A. Sealor
Bertha S. Sohn
Carol L. Wohlford 28
Processing Section
neha tae Ne sche Eee 4 Mary J. Pierce

Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

CLES SS Eee Cee eee ee Robert M. Organ
Research MC Hemiant . 0). 506.64%0.64 6. 5 we os Jacqueline S. Olin
DEMIOL CONSETVALOL. << 6 oye ci son one es a, Eleanor McMillan

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Chicl@rree cr te a sic Aas mie ae Dennis Gould
Administrative Assistant............... Eileen Rose
Exhibits'Goordinators.,.......52.00544. Anne R. Gossett

Andrea P. Stevens
Quinton H. Hoglund
Re mISEG AGI. 28 <8 ho, 5 SMA eke oe Me oe Kathleen Spears

Office of Registrar

pc isnp. Registrar... satire Shik cine William P. Haynes

*° Appointed 29 October 1973.

27 Transterred from Department of Health, Education, and Welfare 24
December 1972.

8 Resigned 13 October 1972.
338

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Office of Exhibits Programs

Actings Directors... oie eee

Deputy-Directors). <1... «=... A pboecbEGe

Chiefof Design: tates totes ota see
Assistant @hiefiof Designtn.- 9-- 2-44 -
ChiefiofsProductionse. a2 taeeie
Assistant Chief of Production...........
E-xhibitsslcabels) Editoriale a
Program Management Officer..........

James A. Mahoney
Benjamin W. Lawless
Richard S. Virgo
William F. Haase
Harry T. Hart
Eugene F. Behlen
Constance Minkin
William M. Clark, Jr.

PUBLIC SERVICE

Acting Assistant Secretary..............
Deputy Assistant Secretary... .422 125+ --
Administrative Assistant...............

Julian T. Euell
Robert W. Mason
Ruth Frazier

Smithsonian Associates

Executive Director... ea. . sate s e s
Director of Plans and Marketing........
National Program
Director, “Reception Genter. . 2.45555.
Manager, Domestic Study Tours......
Manager, Contributing Membership. . .
Assistant for Corporate Membership... .
Resident Program
DIN CLONE Ee Fae os wise Moros ieee
Businesshivianaper.. 2.0 4.60. eens ore
Program Coordinators...............

Membership Seeretary. «5... 520.600

Robert W. Mason
Robert H. Angle

Mary Grace Potter
Patricia N. Kilkenny
Maxwell G. Courtney III
Barbara M. Benson

Janet W. Solinger
Edward Able
Carolyn A. Hecker
Moya B. King
Leslie L. Buhler
Judith L. Engels

Office of Public Affairs

Directonsiatee ooo OR ee eicn
Special Assistant to the Director........
Chief Newsiburcaulee eee er:
Art Information Specialist...........
Science Information Specialist........
Imformationt@Oflicerssss- nee
Wiriter-Editore oar nce ieee
SpecialiE vents! @Oiicer: v5 522 Gan 2 oe
Assistant Special Events Officer.......
Publications }Oiticens-n eee
Radio Production Specialist............
BilmeCoordinators eerie eens er

Carl W. Larsen
Jewell S. Dulaney
Mary M. Krug
Benjamin P. Ruhe
Thomas R. Harney
Johnnie M. Douthis
Lilas P. Wiltshire
Meredith Johnson
Jeanette C. Gladstone
William O. Craig
Paul B. Johnson
William C. Grayson
APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF

Office of International Activities

PRITEMENTCCLOL S35 6 sa 6 25-5 eases nao a Kennedy B. Schmertz
Special Consultant on International
PIEEVETIOS co naa eterentereten, Ceieee slow 5 LeRoy Makepeace *°
International Activities Assistant........ Francine C. Berkowitz °°
Foreign Currentcy Program
PREEERIOE ics ys . Sains Sula ee OSes Kennedy B. Schmertz
RRSHNEATIC. TITECCODS reyes te oer ah els iene ate 6 Kenneth D. Whitehead #1
C. Elmer Skold *?
BSL arOICET:;* os kee Gees ee es Richard T. Conroy
Grants Technical Assistants.......... Betty J. Wingfield
Judy E. Rodgers
Administrative Assistant............... Jean A. C. Harrell

Division of Performing Arts

PREM oe iris che sonra os Cig wns om, tapes eys James R. Morris
BISIMEPITCCIOL. oc oe age ae wens om Richard P. Lusher
Director, Festival of American Folklife... Ralph C. Rinzler
Associate Director, Festival of American

MPO ie Sei ys oralic yes Sano Rel sa nye > Gerald L. Davis
Folklore Presentation Specialist......... Ernestine Potter
Director, Indian Awareness Program.... Clydia Nahwooksy
Assistant Director, Indian Awareness

BM ATIAA i (one Serene sos tan Syd = en « Tom Kavanagh
Spector, Jazz Propram....... 4.0... . Martin Williams
epee CONICET. oo... ne ae ee Marian A. Hope
Beecuction Manaper.................. B. C. May
MeetanoORsOMicer, 2... o.. 2. ce ces es yas Manuel Melendez
Director, Touring Performances......... Mark Mason
epmttes. Box OMe. m2... 2 soe ee ss Harry Bagdasian
Sauaministrative Officer...........:..... Anne Axders

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Ly ee John R. Kinard
BERMEEEAE PUITECION. 255. 5. ss cs eiee soars a as Zora B. Martin
_ Research and Design Coordinator....... Larry Erskine Thomas
MEME Specialist.) )). 0.000. doe eee ees James E. Mayo
Education-Research Specialist.......... Louise D. Hutchinson
Semele Coordinator... 2. ..0..6.s ese Fletcher Smith
| Assistant to the Director for Special
BRE SRS es, 8.8. ch ghee te Jeno hk BEM c toh Balcha Fellows

*9 Appointed 21 February 1973.

8° Appointed 11 December 1972.

31 Resigned 16 September 1972.
32 Appointed 1 October 1972.

Bip he,
340 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

Smithsonian (magazine)

1 Bo bilo) os. tr uhel eneernies Ween on yongiaes CMe Edward K. Thompson
Members, Board of Editors............. Ralph Backlund
Grayce P. Northcross :
James K. Page, Jr. |
Edwards Park |
|
|
|
|
|
|

General Manager... s1'- 8 sees aoe Joseph J. Bonsignore
AAVertising WiILecton hey il emcee eas os Thomas H. Black
Circulation-Promotion Director......... Anne Keating

Smithsonian Institution Press

Pirectors eset ead See ts ik eicion yess Gordon Hubel
ManapinosDesionensran acre cries Stephen Kraft
PromotionpVlanaverae. ae Maureen R. Jacoby
Businessp Viana Gel-y.je, <oonsks sensset fogs aye Frederick H. MacVicar
Series! Managing Editor << <5. <2 olo.oe enstaien- Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.
Series Production Manager............. Charles L. Shaffer
EGitOrsty cise hole sea be tehe esky eae Mary Francess Bell

Ernest E. Biebighauser

Louise J. Heskett

Joan B. Horn

Mary M. Ingraham i

John S. Lea

Nancy L. Powars
Winiter=Eiditor seve. crac torercnae losis ieee Hope G. Pantell
DEI n bow sehy awa ns oalen gone tec Crimilda Pontes

Elizabeth Sur

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Chairman of Board of Directors......... Mrs. Robert S. McNamara
Managing. Director. i...) cones se Eleanor Smollar
Program Director... .2. seine tein Ae Barbara B. Atkinson

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Acting OWeCtOrs cc ccyosee os eee ee John W. Bingham
Stal Associates. 5,.-. vic: seme cise Teresa E. Covacevich (Art History)
David W. Estabrook (History and
Technology)
Robert S. Harding (History) ‘

Laura L. McKie (Anthropology)
Coordinator, Volunteer Programs......... Joan C. Madden

Sel as
APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF

341

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

BIEETSCCUCIALY 6 o00. Pe ec De ser 6 seas a's

Robert A. Brooks

Support Activities

Director

|

aE nEee) Wie oFs aiehiat auelstels slic\cye)e)elesetale (=, «

Director, Buildings Management
HPCDAREMICUES foc vce sadn yec gins
Contracting Officer, Contracts Office. .
Director, Information Systems Division
Director, Management Analysis Office.
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Director, Office of Personnel
AGmministration’. «4. oo 25. ae amid de»
Director, Office of Protection Service .
Director, Photographic Services
PART OT ges hee aot 2 eases ET: «
ihief, Supply Divis on... ...%....,.00.% ..
Chief, Travel Services Office.........

Besrieral el rusteGSs.. fcc, <ccus Mb «ies cooks ofe ©

Assistant to the Director, Music.......
Assistant to the Director, National

Richard L. Ault

Andrew F. Michaels
Elbridge O. Hurlbut
Stanley A. Kovy
Ann S. Campbell
Archie D. Grimmett

Vincent J. Doyle
Robert B. Burke, Jr.

Arthur L. Gaush
Fred G. Barwick
Betty V. Strickler

International Exchange Service

Jeremiah A. Collins

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

The Chief Justice of the United
States, Warren E. Burger,
Chairman

The Secretary of State,
William P. Rogers

The Secretary of the Treasury,
George P. Shultz

The Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, S. Dillon Ripley,
ex officio

Paul Mellon

Dr. Franklin D. Murphy

Lessing J. Rosenwald

Stoddard M. Stevens

John Hay Whitney

Paul Mellon

John Hay Whitney

J. Carter Brown

Richard Bales

W. Howard Adams
342

Assistant to the Director, Public
Informationy... 5c see ee eee

Construction Manager...............

Planning Gonsultant. 9 sc0/4.2 5.5% ns

Secretary and General Counsel.........

Assistant Secretary and General
G@ounsellin eS amete onan can Gonder

AssistanteDirecton eee eee

Curator of American Painting........
@uratoniof Paintings: 22... ees ciee ss
Curator of Graphie*Artss-5..-5525-- -
Curator of Drawings?> <2. 2s ost.
Curator of Decorative Arts...........

Katherine Warwick
Robert C. Engle
David W. Scott
E. James Adams

Robert Amory, Jr.
Charles P. Parkhurst
William P. Campbell
H. Lester Cooke
Christopher J. White
Konrad Oberhuber
Grose Evans

Curator of Sculpture 2225-2... 4. 5-.- C. Douglas Lewis, Jr.
Chief, Education and Public Programs... Margaret I. Bouton
Chic librarian’ fais tacts: caches 172 deen J. M. Edelstein
Curator of Photographic Archives....... Alessandro Contini-Bonacossi
Editon cae hee Tee eee hee ice ce Theodore S. Amussen
Chiefor Exhibitions: 27).452.60+ 050006 Jack C. Spinx
Chief, Photographic Laboratory........ Henry B. Beville
Chief Conservationist: - >) ae oe ee Victor Covey
ebreasureroc ys fone AA: Utero Lloyd D. Hayes

Assistant. Treasurers 2 set os. 2 wi chets ciel James W. Woodard
PNGUNITNIStEALOP <5) o 62's, ce, Sy ofeds is o-oo hoes Joseph G. English

Acting Deputy Administrator......... Charles B. Walstrom

Assistant Administrator.............. George W. Riggs
Assistant to the Administrator

(Scientific and Technical) ........ Sterling P. Eagleton
Personnel Ofmicer «1.7.0 shire wate Jeremiah J. Barrett

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS

Honorary: Chairmeniia- 3: 202 2 os cic: Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower
Chairman sCexe oes ae See eons Roger L. Stevens ~
Mice: @hairmente acacia eee Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
Charles H. Percy
Henry Strong

Generali@ounselsnasee ae ene Ralph E. Becker
Secretanyc unk coe ame ee aie tes Frank N. Ikard
WBReASUTER Fc coe we woe ea: aes eee W. Jarvis Moody
Musici Director... 4. SRO A i RIC UIE Julius Rudel
Executive Director of Performing Arts... Martin Feinstein
General Manager of Theaters.......... Alexander Morr
Comptrollens:2 Meret: oe See eee Aaron Spaulding
Directomol hducation mem nee eae eerie Forbes W. Rogers

Director of Publicity and Promotion..... Wayne Shilkret

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1973

APPENDIX 13. SMITHSONIAN STAFF 343

MAssistant Treasurers.................-. Rita M. Driscoll

L. Parker Harrell, Jr.
James F. Rogers
Henry Strong

Peter M. Van Dine

| John R. Whitmore

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL
CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

RPA UT CCLOB sisiclo civic x's «ana Seis Kise ais Albert Meisel

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1974 O—521-522

&

SS Oorort—“‘———

soe

oo

— — a in PR ee Pa ee
. = Oke * a> hs oh 9 ~~ ees fea ST Se tee

Cue + Nd BAW 8 eT 8 HOS SUE ne ee EE ENTRIES NG hei peer ee ee ee - aed
wgtere aes Sw: > Fd Pe an Mi Ta, Ba te te ata lee  e “es oe:

: oe Ft
ballin tte hte ates . c?

PRATER,
cen

ered tee See
em

“4
Dare t he <3 95-4557
see) vg: ame
tetgeurer teat
San nto ae ;
RNS NE ON HE =

~ FO PSOE S Gay

CRW
s wee *

EN RTS
INSP RTE Ore oe
Sion } Oe the er a hee

ch AS

SHO SY Rees eeare et es Bai oe ae
PENS eerie dna oa teeny eee WEEE ANN G-Q-s-eraiee We FE oren ree

4.
,

