at

2]

a

a)

Pom

e

"=

za

ey

7)

|

<<
ce
e
'
io
B
3
~
t
-
-
is &
T
=
. .
a
A
a)
a 4
*
‘ _
hs “4
. -

=
.

=
MITHSONIAN YEAR

lan
itution

Smithson

t
?
re

Inst

Sel TH SONITIAN YEAR

2000

ANNUAL REPORT

FOR THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

x

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

WASEIUNG LOIN) DEG a2007
Report of the Board of Regents

A 21st- -Century Vision Tr ss ee :
Public Impact. 1S
Research . 43 AGS ee a

Management Excellence - 49

Financial Strength dL oo
‘Selected Exhibitions 71 |
Selected Acquisitions 7 5.

~e
pee .

ithsonian ‘Administration. ew

Peet E MENT BY THE SECRETARY
A 21st-Century Smithsonian

LEFT: The National Zoo’s capti-
vating giant pandas have popular
appeal and significant research
value. Mei Xiang, shown here, and
her companion, Tian Tian, arrived
from China in December 2000.
RIGHT: Smithsonian Secretary
Lawrence M. Small with a scale
model of the Lockheed YF-12A
interceptor from the National Air

and Space Museum collection

The first year of the 21st century has been a stimulating, rewarding year for the
Smithsonian. We have new plans, new people, new enthusiasm, and new exhibitions in
place to build on the Smithsonian’s great past and enhance its stature as a world-class
institution and one of America’s true treasures.

We're experiencing a record number of visits—more than 70 million in 2000, including
34 million to our museums and the National Zoo and 36 million to our traveling exhibi-
tions, Affiliate museums, and Web sites. We are reaching citizens across the country in
unprecedented numbers.

The National Zoo had 2.36 million visits in 2000, and we’re certain to exceed that
number now that the Smithsonian’s “first couple’—the giant pandas Mei Xiang and Tian
Tian—have arrived from China and made their debut. In their first week in their new
home, they attracted 76,181 visitors.

We're sure everyone will want to see The American Presidency: A Glorious Burden, which
opened November 15 at the National Museum of American History, Behring Center. Our
newest exhibition is a timely look at the office of the presidency through more than 900
artifacts from our unparalleled collection. George Washington’s sword and scabbard, the
top hat Abraham Lincoln
wore on the night he was
assassinated, the portable lap
desk on which Thomas
Jefferson wrote the Decla-
ration of Independence, the
microphones FDR used for
his fireside chats—these
memorable objects, and
more, tell the story. During
the exhibition’s first two
months, there were more
than 110,000 visits.

Another popular exhibi-
tion at the same museum has
attracted millions of visits. It

tells the story of the nation’s

most treasured flag and the
Awe-inspiring treasures from the
National Museum of American
History, Behring Center are on view
in the museum’s newest exhibition,
The American Presidency: A Glorious
Burden. Highlights include the hat
Abraham Lincoln wore the night he
was assassinated, George Wash-
ington’s military uniform, and the
portable desk that Thomas Jeffer-
son used when he wrote the
Declaration of Independence. A
richly illustrated book, published
by the Smithsonian Institution

Press, accompanied the exhibition.

inspiring efforts to preserve it for at least
another 500 years, and it is part of our
Star-Spangled Banner Preservation Project.

Other major new exhibitions drew huge
crowds, including the American History
Museum’s Piano 300: Celebrating Three
Centuries of People and Pianos and Fast
Attacks and Boomers: Submarines in the Cold
War; Vikings: The North Atlantic Saga at the
National Museum of Natural History;
Dali's Optical Illusions at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden; and the
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum's
National Design Triennial: Design Culture Now.

There will be more visitors still when
we ve finished building two important new
museums: the National Air and Space
Museum’s Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center,
adjacent to Washington Dulles Internation-
al Airport, and the National Museum of the
American Indian, next to the Air and Space
Museum on the National Mall. Both will be
absolutely irresistible attractions.

Outside the Washington area, we're
working to make the Smithsonian an
increasingly vivid presence across the
United States. We're bolstering our program
of traveling exhibitions, already the largest
of its kind in the world, and strengthening
our adult education courses and trips.

Of our 142 million objects, we can only
display 2 percent at any one time, so we're
lending items from our vast collections to
museums across the country that become
Smithsonian Affiliates. The number of muse-

ums in our Smithsonian Affiliations
Program more than doubled in fiscal year
2000, to 58 Affiliates in 23 states and the
District of Columbia. One example is The
Women’s Museum: An Institute for the
Future in Dallas, which integrated more
than 150 Smithsonian treasures into its
exhibitions—from political buttons
and suffragette material, to Amelia
Earhart’s flight suit, to memorabilia

from women in the U.S. space program.

Scholarship and scientific discovery are
also thriving at the Smithsonian. When the
National Academy of Sciences published its
once-a-decade survey of the 12 most signifi-
cant contributions to astronomy during the
1990S, scientists from the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory figured in nine
of them.

We are ever mindful of our education
mission. Last year, more than 6.5 million
schoolchildren visited us. More than 24,000
teachers benefited from our training and
development programs, and they used what
they learned to teach tens of thousands of
students.

It takes money to support all these
efforts, and our financial underpinnings are
solid. The Smithsonian’s net worth has
increased nearly 40 percent in just two
years, and for the first time, it has passed
the $1.5 billion mark.

Private-sector fund-raising totals at the
Smithsonian have reached an all-time high,
rising from $40 million in 1996, to $147 mil-
lion in 1999, to $206.6 million in 2000. We
received our largest commitment ever, $100
million, with a new $80 million gift to the
National Museum of American History from
philanthropist Kenneth E. Behring, who had
previously given $20 million to the National
Museum of Natural History. Record-breaking
individual gift commitments were also
received this year by the Archives of
American Art, National Portrait Gallery,
National Postal Museum, National Zoological
Park, Program for Asian Pacific American
Studies, Smithsonian American Art Museum,
and Smithsonian Institution Libraries.

We are making significant progress, yet we
need additional funding to deal with desper-
ately needed repairs to some decaying build-
ings. Peeling paint, dripping water, and falling
plaster are all-too-common sights. We have
400 buildings; several are historic landmarks,
and one has been around for 164 years.

With our backlog in excess of $600 million
in repairs and renovations,
we are working to create a
bipartisan consensus to get
the federal funding needed to
bring these buildings up to
standard. Added to the $900
million required to complete

projects the Smithsonian has

| 1 Glerions Burden :
E RIC AN taken on over the last few
RES DE NC Y years, the total we must raise

if in the public and private sec-

tors is well over $1.5 billion.

This is a daunting goal, but

an achievable one.

The Smithsonian has taken a giant step
forward into the new century. Our progress
wouldn't be possible without the dedica-
tion of the exceptional people who work
here. It wouldn’t be possible without the
support of the American taxpayer. It
wouldn’t be possible without the knowl-
edgeable volunteers and generous donors
who contribute their time and money. We
are all committed to the Smithsonian’s
time-honored mission, the “increase and
diffusion of knowledge.”

Inspired Smithsonian people are ex-
ploring, studying, and discovering every
day, in the laboratory, the library, and the
rainforest, here on Earth, and billions of
light years into space. In all these places,
the Smithsonian is active and involved,
and transforming itself into a true 21st-

a century institution.

a Today, our nation numbers
281 million strong.
Ultimately, our goal is to

touch the lives of all these

Americans.

LAWRENCE M. SMALL

he
WENO Re ee arrney, . en r
SHOR ne 4 Ss,

shee

Gatco

mee ORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

David Beck’s mixed-media con-
struction Movie Palace, 1990, was
added to the collection of the
Smithsonian American Art
Museum, the gift of Ken and Judy

Siebal and a museum purchase

through the Luisita L. and Franz H.

Denghausen Endowment.

The Board of Regents exercised its governance of the Smithsonian Institution in fiscal year
2000 through three plenary meetings, meetings of its various committees, and communica-
tions among members and with the Secretary and his staff. The board welcomed Alan Spoon
as a new member, congratulated Manuel Ibanez on his reappointment to the board, and
named retiring members Frank A. Shrontz and Daniel Patrick Moynihan as Regents
Emeritus. The board elected Howard H. Baker Jr. as chairman of its Executive Committee
and thanked Barber B. Conable Jr. for his service in that position since 1995. The board also
revised its bylaws to establish a new Finance and Investment Committee to enhance its over-
sight of financial affairs and maintain standards of investment strategies.

Shortly after Lawrence M. Small’s installation on January 24, 2000, as the 11th Secretary,
the board was pleased to affirm support for his vision of the Smithsonian’s future and the
optimum organizational structure to effect that vision. In subsequent meetings with the
Regents, Secretary Small discussed his 10-year plan, as well as his semiannual and annual
reports, which presented evidence of significant achievements toward his goals. On May
11, 2000, the Regents received reports from National Air and Space Museum Director John
R. Dailey and National Museum of the American Indian Director W. Richard West on the
compelling significance of their capital plans. At the Regents’ September 11, 2000, meeting,
members of the Secretary's management team reported on progress in their areas of

responsibility.

Moved by Kenneth E. Behring’s record- Air and Space Museum’s center at
breaking contribution to the Smithsonian Washington Dulles International Airport,
for the revitalization of the National the Regents voted to name that facility the
Museum of American History, the Regents — Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center and to induct
authorized the designation “Behring him into the prestigious Order of James
Center” on the building and on printed Smithson.
materials, beneath the names Smithsonian The Regents also established the Paul
Institution and National Museum of Peck Fund for Presidential Studies and
American History. The Regents also named named a gallery in the National Portrait

two galleries in the museum in honor of Gallery in honor of Mr. Peck out of grati-

the donor and his family.
In recognition of Steven F. Udvar-Hazy’s

extraordinary contribution for the National

tude for his generosity.
The Regents named the Fujifilm Giant

Panda Conservation Habitat and proposed
BOARD OF REGENTS

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United
States, Chancellor, ex officio

Albert Gore Jr, Vice-President of the United States,
ex officio (until January 2001)

Richard B. Cheney, Vice-President of the United
States, ex officio (beginning January 2001)

Thad Cochran, Senator from Mississippi

Bill Frist, Senator from Tennessee

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York
(retired January 2001)

Patrick J. Leahy, Senator from Vermont (beginning
January 2001)

Sam Johnson, Representative from Texas

Robert T. Matsui, Representative from California

Ralph Regula, Representative from Ohio

Howard H. Baker Jr., Citizen of the District of
Columbia

Barber B. Conable Jr., Citizen of New York

Anne d’Harnoncourt, Citizen of Pennsylvania

Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois

Manuel L. Ibafiez, Citizen of Texas

Walter E. Massey, Citizen of Georgia (beginning
March 2001)

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

Frank A. Shrontz, Citizen of Washington (retired
May 2000)

Alan G. Spoon, Citizen of Maryland

Wesley S. Williams Jr., Citizen of the District of

Columbia

Veterinarian Lucy H. Spelman
was named director of the

National Zoological Park in

June 2000.

a bill to Congress to change the name of
the National Museum of American Art to
the simpler, more forceful, and more
instantly recognized name Smithsonian
American Art Museum.

Among its other actions, the board
agreed to seek congressional authorization
for construction of a scientific base facility
at Hilo, Hawaii, in support of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory; author-
ized the Friends of the National Zoo to
raise funds for and construct a new educa-
tion building at the Zoo; and authorized
construction of the National Air and Space
Museum Udvar-Hazy Center.

The board also voted to appoint
Secretary Emeritus I. Michael Heyman as
an honorary life member of the Smith-
sonian National Board, and throughout the
year, the Regents appointed many dedicat-
ed volunteers as members of the Insti-

tution’s advisory boards and commissions.

STAFF MIEESMm@O NES

At a special dinner in honor of the 10th
Secretary and Mrs. Heyman on December
12, 1999, the Regents presented the
Smithsonian’s highest distinction, the
James Smithson Medal, to Secretary
Heyman in grateful recognition of his
extraordinary service. In other ceremonies,
the Regents presented Joseph Henry
Medals to Constance Berry Newman for
her service as Under Secretary, 1992-2000,
and Michael H. Robinson for his enlight-
ened leadership as director of the National
Zoological Park, 1984-2000.

Assembling his new senior management
team, Secretary Small appointed leaders to
five positions. Under Secretary for Amer-
ican Museums and National Programs
Sheila P. Burke came to the Smithsonian
from Harvard University’s John F.
Kennedy School of Government, where
she was executive dean and lecturer in

public policy. She previously served as
chief of staff to Senate Majority Leader
Bob Dole and as Secretary of the United
States Senate.

J. Dennis O’Connor, Under Secretary for
Science, was Smithsonian Provost from
1996 to 2000. A biologist and educational
leader, he formerly was chancellor of the
University of Pittsburgh and a top admin-
istrator and faculty member of the
University of California, Los Angeles, and
the University of North Carolina.

Thomas W. Lentz, Director of the
International Art Museums Division, was
deputy director of the Freer and Sackler
Galleries. A specialist in Islamic art and
Persian painting, he joined the galleries in
1992.

Under Secretary for Finance and
Administration Robert D. Bailey has had a
career in the banking industry, most recent-
ly as head of corporate banking for the
Santander Group, the largest bank in Spain
and Latin America, and for NationsBank.
He was an international executive with
Citicorp for nearly 30 years.

Gary M. Beer continues in his position
as Chief Executive Officer of Smithsonian
Business Ventures. Beer came to the Smith-

sonian in 1999 from the Sundance Group,

where he served as president and CEO.

The Secretary also appointed Robert P.
Kogod as adviser to the Secretary for the
Patent Office Building renovation; Donald
A. Brown as adviser to the Secretary for
the National Museum of the American
Indian construction; and Oliver T. Carr Jr.
as adviser to the Secretary for construction
of the National Air and Space Museum's
Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center.

The Institution welcomed a number of
new directors. John R. (Jack) Dailey is
director of the National Air and Space
Museum; Lucy H. Spelman is director of
the National Zoological Park; and Penelope
(Nell) Payne is director of the Office of
Government Relations. Marc Pachter was
appointed director of the National Portrait
Gallery, and Paul Warwick Thompson was
appointed director of the Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum. Amy P. Wilkins
was appointed publisher of Smithsonian
and Air ¢& Space/Smithsonian magazines;
Dennis Shaw was appointed chief technol-
ogy officer; Alice C. Maroni was appointed
chief financial officer; and William W.
Brubaker was appointed director of facili-

ties engineering and operations.

The Smithsonian’s new manage-
ment team: Sheila P. Burke, Under
Secretary for American Museums
and National Programs; J. Dennis
O’Connor, Under Secretary for
Science; Thomas W. Lentz,
Director, International Art
Museums Division; Robert D.
Bailey, Under Secretary for Finance
and Administration; and Gary M.
Beer, Chief Executive Officer,

Smithsonian Business Ventures
pees t-ChNITURY VISION

Early in his first year as Secretary, Lawrence M. Small made this promise: “We pledge to be
the architects of a Smithsonian that, for intellectual eloquence, emotional excitement, and
quality of presentation, is second to no other cultural and educational enterprise in the
world.”

This vision is unfolding, and the Smithsonian’s impressive accomplishments are shap-
ing an institution that is truly second to none. As a prelude to the achievements described

in this annual report, here are some examples:

PO) SLC IMP AS

e A growing, enthusiastic audience
enjoyed dynamic exhibitions: the
legendary Vikings, the optical
iUlusions of Salvador Dali, the
work of noted African American
photographers, and more. The
Smithsonian’s museums and the
National Zoo logged an impres-
sive 34 million visits.

© By the close of the year, a captivat-

ing pair of giant pandas were on

LEFT: Historic artifacts such as their way from China to the

the Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird, the National Zoo, and The American

fastest, highest-flying operational Presidency: A Glorious Burden at the

aircraft ever built, will be displayed National Museum of American

in the National Air and Space History, Behring Center was poised
Museum’s Steven F. Udvar-Hazy to open in the wake of an unprece-

Center, now under construction at dented presidential election.

Washington Dulles International ° Exciting Affiliations partnerships

Airport in Virginia. with nearly 60 cultural institutions gave
RIGHT: The cockpit of the the Smithsonian a vibrant presence in 23
Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird, which states and the District of Columbia—and
set a transcontinental speed record the number of partnerships is increasing.

in 1990 © In cyberspace, the Smithsonian capital-
ized on the enormous potential to reach
people in their homes, at their leisure. The
number of electronic visits to www.si.edu
exceeded 2 million per month.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service opened the block-
buster Star Wars: The Magic of Myth, just
one offering on a rich menu of exhibi-
tions that circulate from coast to coast.
On the National Mall in Washington,
D.C., the sights, sounds, and aromas of
the annual Smithsonian Folklife Festival
attracted more than 1.2 million people.
Some 6.5 million schoolchildren visited
the Smithsonian, and more than 24,000
educators enriched their classroom
teaching through professional develop-

ment opportunities.

RESEARCH—
® Globally acclaimed, top-caliber research

in science and the humanities revealed
new understanding in a dazzling variety
of fields.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
scientists observed galaxies 60 million
light-years from Earth from the orbiting
Chandra X-ray Observatory, which pro-
vides powerful images that are trans-
forming astronomy. They also took first
light readings from the refurbished mul-
tiple-mirror telescope at the Whipple
Observatory in Arizona.

National Museum of Natural History
researchers revisited the question of
human origins, working with colleagues
in China to study 800,000-year-old
stone artifacts and defy the notion that
early humans in Asia were less intelli-
gent than humans in Africa.

At the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, a scientist completed a project
showing the geographical and biological
consequences of the rise of the Isthmus

of Panama.

© Groundbreaking textile research on the

Star-Spangled Banner and major scien-
tific studies by the Freer and Sackler
Galleries exemplified the Smithsonian’s
sterling reputation in conservation and

materials research.

MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE—

e After a smooth transition to a new man-

agement team, efforts intensified to build
the Smithsonian into an effective and
streamlined 21st-century organization.
Secretary Lawrence M. Small created
five divisions—American Museums

and National Programs; Science;
International Art Museums; Financial
and Administrative Services; and
Business Ventures.

The purchase of the Victor Building in
Washington, D.C., centralized staff from
leased offices and freed up more muse-

um exhibition space.

IINUAINTEI AE SIU RIEING 1 inl

e In an extraordinary year, financial con-

tributions to the Smithsonian surpassed
all records: a total of $206.6 million
from individuals, corporations, and
foundations.

With his $80 million gift to the National
Museum of American History, Kenneth
E. Behring increased his support for the
Smithsonian to $100 million, the largest
gift the Smithsonian has ever received.
The Archives of American Art, National
Portrait Gallery, National Postal
Museum, National Zoo, Program for
Asian Pacific American Studies,
Smithsonian American Art Museum,
and Smithsonian Institution Libraries all
received record-breaking gifts.

This year’s success gave invigorating
momentum to the Smithsonian’s effort
to raise more than $1 billion from pri-

vate sources in the next five years.

The Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual

and political leader of Tibet, spoke
on the National Mall during the
2000 Smithsonian Folklife Festival.
RIGHT: A butterfly lands on the
dress of a small visitor at the re-dedi-
cation ceremony for the Office of
Physical Plant Horticulture Services
Division’s Butterfly Habitat Garden
next to the National Museum of
Natural History.

FAR RIGHT: The Program for
Asian Pacific American Studies works
with community organizations to
bring Asian American youth groups,
like the students shown here at the
National Postal Museum, to visit

Smithsonian museums.
pare ara
i pees :

cue

Pea) gh :

ized on the enormous potential to reach
people in their homes, at their leisure. The
number of electronic visits to www.si.edu
exceeded 2 million per month.

e The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service opened the block-
buster Star Wars: The Magic of Myth, just
one offering on a rich menu of exhibi-
tions that circulate from coast to coast.

© On the National Mall in Washington,
D.C., the sights, sounds, and aromas of
the annual Smithsonian Folklife Festival
attracted more than 1.2 million people.

e Some 6.5 million schoolchildren visited
the Smithsonian, and more than 24,000
educators enriched their classroom
teaching through professional develop-

ment opportunities.

RESEARCH—

@ Globally acclaimed, top-caliber research
in science and the humanities revealed
new understanding in a dazzling variety
of fields.

e Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
scientists observed galaxies 60 million
light-years from Earth from the orbiting
Chandra X-ray Observatory, which pro-
vides powerful images that are trans-
forming astronomy. They also took first
light readings from the refurbished mul-
tiple-mirror telescope at the Whipple
Observatory in Arizona.

¢ National Museum of Natural History
researchers revisited the question of
human origins, working with colleagues
in China to study 800,000-year-old
stone artifacts and defy the notion that
early humans in Asia were less intelli-
gent than humans in Africa.

® At the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, a scientist completed a project
showing the geographical and biological
consequences of the rise of the Isthmus
of Panama.

e Groundbreaking textile research on the

Star-Spangled Banner and major scien-
tific studies by the Freer and Sackler
Galleries exemplified the Smithsonian's
sterling reputation in conservation and

materials research.

MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE—
e After a smooth transition to a new man-

agement team, efforts intensified to build
the Smithsonian into an effective and
streamlined 21st-¢entury organization.
Secretary Lawrence M. Small created
five divisions—American Museums

and National Programs; Science;
International Art Museums; Financial
and Administrative Services; and
Business Ventures.

The purchase of the Victor Building in
Washington, D.C., centralized staff from
leased offices and freed up more muse-

um exhibition space.

FINANCIAL STRENGTH—

@ In an extraordinary year, financial con-

tributions to the Smithsonian surpassed
all records: a total of $206.6 million
from individuals, corporations, and
foundations.

With his $80 million gift to the National
Museum of American History, Kenneth
E. Behring increased his support for the
Smithsonian to $100 million, the largest
gift the Smithsonian has ever received.
The Archives of American Art, National
Portrait Gallery, National Postal
Museum, National Zoo, Program for
Asian Pacific American Studies,
Smithsonian American Art Museum,
and Smithsonian Institution Libraries all
received record-breaking gifts.

This year’s success gave invigorating
momentum to the Smithsonian’s effort
to raise more than $1 billion from pri-

vate sources in the next five years.

The Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual
and political leader of Tibet, spoke
on the National Mall during the
2000 Smithsonian Folklife Festival.
RIGHT: A butterfly lands on the
dress of a small visitor at the re-dedi-
cation ceremony for the Office of
Physical Plant Horticulture Services
Division’s Butterfly Habitat Garden
next to the National Museum of
Natural History.

FAR RIGHT: The Program for
Asian Pacific American Studies works
with community organizations to
bring Asian American youth groups,
like the students shown here at the
National Postal Museum, to visit

Smithsonian museums.

meBELIC IMPACT
Compelling Exhibitions

Engaging visitors with real things and intriguing ideas

the Zoo in greater numbers in 2000—34 million visits in all—and they had an incredible

LEFT: Piano 300 celebrates

three centuries of this popular
instrument, including a square
piano made by Chickering of
Boston in 1850.

RIGHT: A piano under construc-
tion on the Yamaha assembly line,

Hamamatsu, Japan, 1988

People came to Smithsonian museums and

array of exhibitions to choose from. At one end of the National Mall, visitors flocked to the

National Museum of American History, Behring Center for a live, close-up look at the del-

icate work of preserving the Star-Spangled Banner. Next door, the remarkable tale of the
Vikings unfolded at the National Museum of Natural History. Across the Mall, in the his-

toric Arts and Industries Building, the fasci-
nating, 500-year-old Latino cultural tradi-
tion of santos was on display, along with a
popular exhibition of African American
photographers’ work.

Exhibitions like these—the three-dimen-
sional stories that make a museum visit
memorable—are a vital connecting point
between people and the Smithsonian. The
Institution is dedicated to creating exhibi-
tions of the highest quality that invite visi-
tors to rethink familiar concepts, imagine
new possibilities, and consider the continu-
ity of cultures. Here are some examples

from fiscal year 2000.

Attendance rose by nearly 20 percent at
the National Museum of American
History, Behring Center, with the Star-
Spangled Banner conservation laboratory
and exhibition attracting nearly half of the
museum’s visits. Fast Attacks and Boomers:
Submarines in the Cold War, another draw-
ing card, revealed fascinating facts about
the role of submarines in American Cold
War strategy. The piano has always

delighted music lovers, so the museum's

exhibition Piano 300: Celebrating Three

Centuries of People and Pianos was a natural
success while it was on view in the S. Dillon
Ripley Center’s International Gallery.
Capitalizing on a perfect performance
opportunity, Smithsonian Productions and
Maryland Public Television produced the
go-minute television special Piano Grand! A
Smithsonian Celebration, hosted by Billy Joel
and featuring Dave Brubeck, Jerry Lee

Lewis, and other renowned pianists.

Their name conjures up visions of fearsome
marauders, but the Vikings were also boat
builders, traders, pioneers of parliamentary
government, and the first Europeans to
reach North America. On the 1,o00th
anniversary of the Vikings’ landing, the
National Museum of Natural History
examined their historical impact in Vikings:
The North Atlantic Saga. This traveling exhi-
bition, an official project of the White
House Millennium Council, highlighted

new archaeological research and involved

ime, 0

aac ia
Mel Led

SH

cooperation with museums from around
the world. Public response was positive:
Museum attendance rose, and the 43,000-
volume first printing of the companion
book, published by Smithsonian Institution
Press, was so popular that it sold out before
the exhibition closed in August. Vikings is

now on a two-year tour.

“Provocative, intriguing, sometimes per-
plexing, but never dull” was the Washington
Post’s view of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden’s 25th
anniversary exhibition,
Regarding Beauty: A View of the
Late 20th Century. Curators
Neal Benezra and Olga Viso
chose more than 90 works by
well-known and emerging
artists to show how an age-old
concept has been probed and
reassessed since 1960. Later in
the year, Dali’s Optical Illusions
attracted one of the highest

ABOVE: Fascinated visitors fol-
low the progress of the Star-
Spangled Banner Preservation
Project in a specially designed con-
servation laboratory at the National

Museum of American History.

LEFT: Conservators work from a
mobile platform suspended over
the flag, vacuuming dust from the
30-by-34-foot surface and then
carefully clipping and removing the
17 million stitches that held the flag

to its support backing.

:
t
RE
24
:
.e.
>. 3
:

attendance levels in the Hirshhorn’s histo-
ry: an average of 2,500 visitors a day from
April 19 through June 18. Visit totals for
May 2000—154,200—were almost double
what they were for May 1999.

The looking-glass of Reflections in Black: A
History of Black Photographers, 1840 to the
Present revealed not just images, but the
powerful story of African American life.
This critically acclaimed exhibition, organ-
ized by the Anacostia Museum and Center
for African American History and Culture,
took visitors on a visual odyssey from slav-
ery through the present. Curator Deborah
Willis, who was awarded a prestigious John
D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Fellowship
in June 2000, said she intended to show the
“link between visual imagery and personal
and historical identity.” A national tour of
Reflections in Black began in August 2000.

The Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum showcased the creative vitality of
contemporary design in Design Culture Now,
the first National Design Triennial. Art in
America praised the exhibition for drawing
attention to “things, both grand and small,
that we customarily overlook,” such as the
sole of the Nike Air Jordan XIII shoe, a pro-
totype mobile computing and communica-
tion appliance, and a skateboard. More
than 70,000 visitors enjoyed Design Culture
Now during its five-month showing. Some
15,000 participated in programs for adults
and young people, including a sold-out
conference to hear leading designers on
current design issues. The catalogue, pub-
lished by the museum with Princeton
Architectural Press, had sold more than
7,000 copies by September 2000.

No one knows how music sounded when

performed in China 2,500 years ago, but
visitors to the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s

18

Music in the Age of Confucius invited visitors
to imagine the possibilities. The exhibition
presented the largest, best-preserved group
of ancient musical instruments ever discov-
ered—bells, chime stones, zithers, flutes,
drums, and panpipes from the fifth century
B.C. Most were on loan from the Hubei
Provincial Museum in central China. Cellist
Yo-Yo Ma narrated the audio tour and gave
a free public performance with Wu Man
and the Music from China ensemble.

Combined attendance at the Smithsonian
American Art Museum (formerly known as
the National Museum of American Art)
and the National Portrait Gallery rose by
80 percent during October, November, and
December 1999, just before the historic
Patent Office Building closed for major
(Continued on page 22)

Vikings: The North Atlantic Saga

brought together more than 300
precious artifacts from Viking
homelands and settlements. A pair
of silver and bronze inlaid swords
from the gth to the 11th centuries
was discovered in the Oslo Fjord
region of Norway.

TOP RIGHT: The Jénsbék (Book
of Laws) considered a national
treasure of Iceland, records the
country’s formal adoption of
Norwegian law in the 13th century.
BELOW RIGHT: The gilded har-
ness bow is from the collection of

the National Museum of Denmark.
BELOW: Highlights of the Zoo's
influential species conservation
efforts included continuing efforts
to breed the highly endangered
black-footed ferret and reintroduce
it to the wild, and the birth ofa
fourth offspring to Mandara, a 17-

year-old lowland gorilla.

RIGHT: The National Zoo’s

crowd-pleasing giant pandas, Mei

Xiang and Tian Tian, arrived from

China in early December 2000 and
attracted more than 76,000 visitors

in their first week.

PRIVATE
SUPPORT BRINGS
PANDAS TO THE
ZOO

Knowledge of giant panda biology, behavior, and
conservation has advanced considerably in the past
25 years, in part due to research by scientists at the
National Zoological Park. Now the Smithsonian has
received commitments totaling an impressive $18
million in private support for continuing efforts to
ensure the survival in the wild of this highly endan-
gered species. Mei Xiang and Tian Tian, a pair of
young giant pandas, arrived at the Zoo from China
in December 2000.

Nearly $8 million from Fujifilm, the largest sin-
gle sponsorship ever received by the National Zoo,
will fund the acquisition of the giant pandas, con-
struction of a new habitat, and extensive education-
al programs, including a visitor guide and a Web site
for teachers. Discovery Communications’ Animal
Planet network, in addition to making a financial
contribution, will create four hour-long specials and
other educational programming. FedEx Express
contributed air transportation, ground transporta-
tion, and logistical support for the pandas’ journey
from China, at no cost to the Smithsonian.

Additional support was provided by Ruth S. and
A. William Holmberg; the Alice S. Marriott Lifetime
Trust; the J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Founda-
tion; the Roger and Vicki Sant Fund; the Chubb
Corporation; and Friends of the National Zoo.

In exchange for the long-term loan of the giant
pandas, the Zoo will contribute $1 million a year
over 10 years to the China Wildlife Conservation
Association for the expansion and improvement of

giant panda reserves in China.

BELOW: Highlights of the Zoo's
influential species conservation
efforts included continuing efforts
to breed the highly endangered
black-footed ferret and reintroduce
it to the wild, and the birth of a
fourth offspring to Mandara, a17-

year-old lowland gorilla.

20

RIGHT: The National Zoo's
crowd-pleasing giant pandas, Mei
Xiang and Tian Tian, arrived from
China in early December 2000 and
attracted more than 76,000 visitors

in their first week.

FARSI EZN GI le
SUPPORT BI RINGs
PANDAS TO. 7 Ge
ZOO

Knowledge of giant panda biology, behavior, and
conservation has advanced considerably in the past
25 years, in part due to research by scientists at the
National Zoological Park. Now the Smithsonian has
received commitments totaling an impressive $18
million in private support for continuing efforts to
ensure the survival in the wild of this highly endan-
gered species. Mei Xiang and Tian Tian, a pair of
young giant pandas, arrived at the Zoo from China
in December 2000.

Nearly $8 million from Fujifilm, the largest sin-
gle sponsorship ever received by the National Zoo,
will fund the acquisition of the giant pandas, con-
struction of a new habitat, and extensive education-
al programs, including a visitor guide and a Web site
for teachers. Discovery Communications’ Animal
Planet network, in addition to making a financial
contribution, will create four hour-long specials and
other educational programming. FedEx Express
contributed air transportation, ground transporta-
tion, and logistical support for the pandas journey
from China, at no cost to the Smithsonian.

Additional support was provided by Ruth S. and
A. William Holmberg; the Alice S. Marriott Lifetime
Trust; the J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Founda-
tion; the Roger and Vicki Sant Fund; the Chubb
Corporation; and Friends of the National Zoo.

In exchange for the long-term loan of the giant
pandas, the Zoo will contribute $1 million a year
over 10 years to the China Wildlife Conservation
Association for the expansion and improvement of

giant panda reserves in China.

The U.S.S. Pogy (SSN 647) a fast
attack submarine of the kind origi-
nally built to hunt Soviet sub-
marines operating below the polar
ice caps, escorts a team of
research scientists from Pearl
Harbor to the North Pole. This
photograph is from the exhibition
Fast Attacks and Boomers:
Submarines in the Cold War.
BELOW: The Attack Center from

the U.S.S. Trepang (SSN 674), on

display in Fast Attacks and

Boomers

renovation. An active schedule of traveling
exhibitions is keeping the two museums in
the public eye until they reopen in 2004.

The Portrait Gallery prepared to launch
Portrait of a Nation, a four-exhibition series
that is sending 250 treasures on the road in
the United States, Europe, and Japan from
October 2000 until 2004. Portraits of the
Presidents from the National Portrait Gallery,
the first exhibition, features presidential
likenesses from the gallery’s most famous
collection, ranging from Rembrandt Peale’s
“porthole” portrait of George Washington
to Chuck Close’s iris print of Bill Clinton.

The American Art Museum’s Treasures to
Go is crisscrossing the United States to 70
cities, stimulating wide enthusiasm for
American art with eight thematic exhibi-
tions from the collection. Promotional
activities developed in partnership with
Principal Financial Group include a syndi-
cated television special, Time magazine
advertorials, an educational video, a Web
site, teacher resources, and four souvenir
books copublished with Watson-Guptill.
Nearly 150,000 people had seen the exhibi-
tions by the end of the fiscal year.

Twenty works of art from one of the
West's most comprehensive collections of
Chinese calligraphy of the late 18th to the
late 20th centuries were shown at the Freer
Gallery of Art in Brushing the Past: Later
Chinese Calligraphy from the Gift of Robert
Hatfield Ellsworth. This recent gift encom-
passes the major trends and most of the
important calligraphers of the last 200
years. The Freer now has one of the largest
collections of Chinese calligraphy in the
United States, and it is the only museum
with such an extensive collection from the

19th and 2oth centuries.

A Concrete Vision: Oshogbo Art in the 1960s
at the National Museum of African Art

chronicled the artistic transformation in a

Yoruba town in western Nigeria where
visual, literary, and performance artists
drew on traditional ideas to conceive new
artistic forms. Adebisi Akanji, one of the
movement’s founders, created large open-
work concrete screens showing everyday
subjects. Four screens were on view in the
exhibition, along with a description of

their extensive conservation treatment.

Living Latino cultural traditions attracted
enthusiastic exhibition audiences this year.
The making and veneration of santos—
carved and colorfully painted wooden fig-
ures of saints—is a Hispanic American cul-
tural legacy from the earliest Spanish colo-
nial days. Santos: Substance and Soul, a trav-
eling exhibition organized by the
Smithsonian Center for Materials Research
and Education in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Center for Latino Initiatives,
considered distinctive santos-making tech-
niques and materials of Puerto Rico and
New Mexico. The Center for Latino
Initiatives’ bilingual exhibition Ritmos de
Identidad/Rhythms of Identity explored
rhythm and percussion in Afro-Caribbean
music through the work of the eminent

Cuban musicologist Fernando Ortiz.

Drawn from the treasures of the national
collections, permanent exhibitions are at
the heart of Smithsonian
museums. In a museum-
wide collaborative effort,
the National Museum of
American History,
Behring Center spent
much of the year prepar-
ing The American
Presidency: A Glorious
Burden for a November 15,
2000, opening. More than
900 objects from the
museum's unparalleled

collection of presidential

In conjunction with the National
Postal Museum exhibition Posted
Aboard R.M.S. Titanic, the U.S.
Postal Service unveiled the design
for its new Celebrate the Century
1990s Titanic postage stamp at the

museum on September 16, 2000.

a
re
a

@:

bab PP &

&

reer PP PR &

LEFT: Ali Helewa carved this
door in the classic Zanzibar style
sometime before 1900. Across the
top is a proverb chosen by the
door’s owner. Objects such as this
one tell evocative stories of Africa
in the National Museum of Natural
History’s new permanent exhibi-

tion, African Voices.

artifacts—the largest of its kind in the
nation—were chosen to tell the story.
Interactive experiences, videos, teacher

resources, a Web site, and a year-long series

of public programs enhance the experience.

The National Museum of Natural History’s

new 6,500-square-foot exhibition hall,

African Voices, offers a dynamic view of the

African continent. Voices of African peo-
ple are coupled with objects from the col-

lection, photographs, film, video, and

sound to tell vivid stories of Africa’s histo-
ry, influence, and continuing relevance.
The African elephant in the Museum of
Natural History’s rotunda, long a favorite
of Smithsonian visitors, has a new habi-
tat—a realistic landscape created by fabri-
cators from the Smithsonian Office of
Exhibits Central’s Modelmaking and
Fabrication Units. The diorama is remark-
able for its realism, from the individual
butterflies to the dusty contoured surface

that evokes the African savanna.

Staff from the Office of Exhibits
Central and the National Museum
of Natural History pose during the
installation of the new elephant
habitat in the museum’s renovated

rotunda.

bowePenet

ho

>i > ® &

LEFT: Ali Helewa carved this
door in the classic Zanzibar style
sometime before 1900. Across the
top is a proverb chosen by the
door’s owner. Objects such as this
one tell evocative stories of Africa
National Museum of Natural
History’s new permanent exhibi-

tion, African Voices.

artifacts—the largest of its kind in the
nation—were chosen to tell the sto
Interactive e s, videos, teacher
resources, a Web site, and a year-long series

of public programs enhance the experience.

The National Museum of Natural History's
new 6,500-square-foot bition hall,
African Voices, view of the
frican continent. Voices of African peo-
ple are coupled with objects from the col-

lection, photographs, film, video, and

sound to tell v

elepl
Natural History’s rotunda, long a favorite
of Smithsonian visitors, has a new habi-
tat—a realistic landscape created by fabri-
cators from the Smithsonian Office of
xhibits Central’s Modelmaking and

ication Units. The diorama is remark-
able for its realism, from the individual
butterflies to the dusty contoured surface

that evokes the African savanna.

Staff from the Office of Exhibits
Central and the National Museum
of Natural History pose during the
installation of the new elephant
habitat in the museum's renovated

rotunda.

Dynamic Outreach

Welcoming a cross-section of America to the Smithsonian experience In Long Beach, California, Cynthia
Vidaurri captivates middle school students with anecdotes from her research in Mexican
American folklife. Vidaurri, a U.S.-Mexico Borderlands scholar from the Smithsonian
Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage, is spending a week in Long Beach as part of The
Smithsonian Associates’ Scholars in the Schools program. Across the country, a family vis-
iting the Miami Museum of Science enters the adventurous world of Smithsonian
Expeditions. Fascinating artifacts of past civilizations, gathered by Smithsonian scientists in
Latin America and now in the collections of the National Museum of Natural History, make
up this exhibition organized as part of the Smithsonian Affiliations Program.

Scenes like these are repeated every day somewhere in the nation, as the Smithsonian
shares its unparalleled resources: objects on loan to complement other museums’ collec-
tions, curriculum guides for teachers, traveling exhibitions, and educational tours and pro-
grams. Throughout the country—and in the Washington, D.C., region as well—the

26

Smithsonian’s energetic outreach served countless Americans.

The Miami Museum of Science partner-
ship that led to Smithsonian Expeditions is a
product of the Smithsonian Affiliations
Program, an expanding initiative, begun in
1987, that shares artifacts, programs, and
expertise with other cultural institutions.
By the end of the fiscal year, the steadily
increasing number of affiliations reached

58 in 23 states and the District of Columbia.

All kinds of communities benefit,
including McAllen, Texas, located on the
Rio Grande border; Oakland, California,
where there is no single ethnic majority
and more than 120 different dialects are
spoken; and Bisbee, Arizona, a rural com-
munity that depends on heritage tourism.

Through these partnerships, the
Smithsonian touches the lives of millions.
Audiences grow when museums partici-
pate. At the Miami Museum of Science, for
example, attendance is up by 37 percent
since Smithsonian Expeditions opened.

Affiliations with 18 museums were fully
implemented this year. One example, the
Chabot Space and Science Center, opened
its new facility in Oakland, California,

with historical telescopes and astronomi-

cal instruments from the National Museum
of American History and meteorites from
the National Museum of Natural History.

Collaboration with Mount Vernon,
announced this year, will lead to expanded
exhibitions about the life and times of
George Washington using objects from
Smithsonian collections. The Heinz
Pittsburgh Regional Center of the
Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania
included artifacts from the American
History Museum in George Washington: Man
Behind the Myths. The center reports signifi-
cant attendance increases—150 percent for
school groups and 20 percent for general
visitors—since the exhibition opened.

New participants in the program include
a remarkable variety of cultural institu-
tions: the American Jazz Museum in
Kansas City, Missouri; the Storytelling
Foundation International in Jonesborough,
Tennessee; the Museum of American
Financial History in New York City; the
North Carolina Museum of Natural
Sciences in Raleigh; and more than 30 oth-
ers that are welcoming America’s museum

to their hometowns.
estigational Use.

y PRODUCED FOR J
“< Feowoavion Fon snrante’ ©
NEW YORK, N.Y-

Millions of Americans marvel at
artifacts from Smithsonian collec-
tions on loan to their local muse-
ums through the Smithsonian
Affiliations Program, including
(clockwise from left) Amelia
Earhart’s flight suit , Joe Louis
bronzed boxing glove, a lamp

designed by Thomas Edison, and a

27
APPILLITAT TONS
SUPPORT BIG
[LOE AS

Bisbee, Arizona, with a population of just under
6,500, was a leading copper mining site in the late
19th and early 20th centuries, a thriving urban cen-
ter in the rugged Arizona Territory. The mines are
closed now, but this rural community is home to a
small museum with big ideas.

In 2002, anew permanent mining and minerals

gallery will open at the Bisbee Mining and Historical

Museum that includes Bisbee minerals on long-
term loan from the National Museum of Natural
History through the Smithsonian Affiliations
Program. The partnership, says director Carrie
Gustavson, “has allowed us as a community mu-
seum to take our vision and go for it.”

The Bisbee affiliation shows how one partner-
ship can penetrate multiple museums and commu-
nities. As the museum works with the
Smithsonian’s Office of Exhibits Central and the
Smithsonian Center for Education and Museum
Studies on exhibition development and fabrication
and educational programming, it has conceived a
workshop series called “Think Big,” for staff in
small, rural Arizona museums. The
Smithsonian-stimulated exhibition in
Bisbee will provide a laboratory for
hands-on learning and professional
development in other museums.

“No one would have ever thought
that a small mining town would part-
ner with the Smithsonian,” says
Gustavson. “If we’re a tiny museum
and can think beyond the limits, others

can do it, too.”

RIGHT: Indoors and out, The
Smithsonian Associates offers
something for everyone. The
annual Kite Festival (top) is a rite
of spring that draws 25,000 kite
enthusiasts and competitors.
Clarinetist Paquito D’Rivera and
singer Celia Cruz joined the all-
star lineup of Latino musicians
who played to capacity crowds in
the second annual Musica de las
Américas series.

BELOW: A Bisbee azurite speci-

men from the National Museum

of Natural History

ae
t

\

a

3

Sample the art and architecture of Italy, lis-
ten to Latin rhythms, escape to adult sum-
mer camp at the Smithsonian, fly a kite:
Lifelong learning is the specialty of The
Smithsonian Associates (TSA), which
offered 1,730 programs and 342 study tours
this year. Among them was La Bella Italia, a
total immersion in Italian art, invention,
intellectual history, music, and cuisine.
Four-day Summer Escapes to the worlds of
photography, diplomacy, and cooking got
rave reviews from adult campers. The 34th

Annual Kite Festival, a study tour and sem-
inar on the Vikings, and the lively perform-
ance-interview series Musica de las Américas
brought out the best in TSA programming.
In a national outreach program, teach-
ers, students, adults, and families sampled
the Smithsonian in TSA’s Smithsonian Week
in Long Beach. Under an Affiliations agree-
ment with the Public Corporation for the
Arts, TSA offered lectures, workshops, and
school programs by three Smithsonian
experts. They headlined three evening
events in the California community and

gave 28 lectures, workshops, and teacher

29
AFFILIATIONS
SUPPORT BIG
DEAS

Bisbee, Arizona, with a population of just under
6,500, was a leading copper mining site in the late
ith and early 20th centuries, a thriving urban cen-
ter in the rugged Arizona Territory. The mines are
closed now, but this rural community is home toa
small museum with big ideas.

In 2002, a new permanent mining and minerals
gallery will open at the Bisbee Mining and Historical

Museum that includes Bisbee minerals on long- RIGHT: Indoors and out, The

. mithsonian Associates offers
term loan from the National Museum of Natural :

: ; . ae something for everyone. The
History through the Smithsonian Affiliations : ae
annual Kite Festival (top) is a rite

Program. The partnership, says director Carrie of spring that draws 25,000 kite

Gustavson, “has allowed us as a community mu- enthusiasts and competitors.

seum to take our vision and go for it.” Clarinetist Paquito D’Rivera and

The Bisbee affiliation shows how one partner- singer Celia Cruz joined the all

; : star lineup of Latino musicians
ship can penetrate multiple museums and commu- ;
who played to capacity crowds in
nities. As the museum works with the Pe
the second annual Musica de las

Smithsonian’s Office of Exhibits Central and the Américas series.

Smithsonian Center for Education and Museum BELOW: A Bisbee azurite speci-

Studies on exhibition development and fabrication men from the National Museum

of Natural History

and educational programming, it has conceived a
workshop series called “Think Big,” for staff in
small, rural Arizona museums. The
Smithsonian-stimulated exhibition in
Bisbee will provide a laboratory for
hands-on learning and professional
development in other museums.
“No one would have ever thought
that a small mining town would part-
ner with the Smithsonian,” says
Gustavson. “If we're a tiny museum
and can think beyond the limits, others

can do it, too.”

Sample the art and architecture of Italy, lis-
ten to Latin rhythms, escape to adult sum-
mer camp at the Smithsonian, fly a kite:
Lifelong learning is the specialty of The
Smithsonian Associates (TSA), which
offered 1,730 programs and 342 study tours
this year. Among them was La Bella Italia, a
total immersion in Italian art, invention,
intellectual history, music, and cuisine.
Four-day Summer Escapes to the worlds of
photography, diplomacy, and cooking got
rave reviews from adult campers. The 34th

Annual Kite Festival, a study tour and sem-

inar on the Vikings, and the lively perform-
ance-interview series Musica de las Américas
brought out the best in TSA programming.
In a national outreach program, teach-

ers, students, adults, and families sampled
the Smithsonian in TSA’s Smithsonian Week
in Long Beach. Under an Affiliations agree-
ment with the Public Corporation for the
Arts, TSA offered lectures, workshops, and
school programs by three Smithsonian
experts. They headlined three evening
events in the California community and

gave 28 lectures, workshops, and teacher

29
programs in middle schools and high

schools as part of Smithsonian Scholars in
the Schools.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service (SITES) has been con-
necting communities to the Smithsonian
for more than 50 years. This year, SITES
sent 47 exhibitions to 163 locales, reaching
about 5 million people.

The enormously popular Star Wars: The
Magic of Myth, originally shown at the
National Air and Space Museum, broke
attendance records at the Field Museum in
Chicago. The museum was the third stop
on a seven-city tour that this year included
the San Diego Museum of Art and the
Minneapolis Institute of Arts. SITES has
collaborated with Lucasfilms on a number
of educational outreach projects, including
a distance learning program through the
Fairfax Network in Virginia that was set
for broadcast in November 2000.

Creating community linkages is part of
SITES’ mission. For On Miniature Wings:
Model Aircraft of the National Air and Space
Museum, SITES joined with the Academy of
Model Aeronautics to create educational

programs for students in each tour-city

museum. Teacher resource material, devel-

oped with an advisory committee of educa-
tors, is tied to math and science curricula.
SITES’ successful rural initiative, Museum on
Main Street, took the exhibition Barn Again!
to 200 towns this year. With a grant from
the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation,
SITES is developing a new exhibition in the
series Yesterday's Tomorrows: Past Visions of

the American Future.

Where else but at the Smithsonian Folklife
Festival could you listen to Tibetan monks
engaging in vigorous religious debate, resi-
dents of the nation’s capital reminiscing
about their neighborhoods, and South
Texas conjunto musicians performing for a

dance party? This 34th annual living exhi-

LEFT: Movie fans are flocking to
the National Air and Space
Museum’s Star Wars: The Magic of
Muth, now touring through the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service.

ABOVE: Stan Jorstad’s panoramic
photograph of a rainforest in
Quinault, Washington (top), is one
of 43 striking images of national
parks, monuments, and battlefields
in These Rare Lands, an exhibition
from SITES. This wind-tunnel
model of the Vought XF4U-1
Corsair, the famed U.S. Navy fight-
er, is featured in SITES’ On
Miniature Wings: Model Aircraft of

the National Air and Space Museum.

31
bition, a program of the Center for Folklife
and Cultural Heritage, attracted a diverse
audience of more than 1.2 million people to
the Smithsonian’s neighborhood on the
National Mall during 10 days in June and
July. The featured programs were the cul-
tures, communities, and traditions of
Tibet, the Rio Grande/Rio Bravo Basin in
Texas and Mexico, and Washington, D.C.
Special events included a visit from the
Dalai Lama, Tibet’s exiled spiritual and
political leader, who participated in a tradi-
tional peace ritual called a Monlam

Chenmo and gave a free public address.

Programs for students and teachers capitalize
on the Smithsonian’s extraordinary potential
as a learning resource. More than 6.5 million
schoolchildren visited the Smithsonian this
year, and some 24,000 teachers used
Smithsonian professional development
resources.

The annual Teacher’s Night at the
Smithsonian, hosted by the Smithsonian
Center for Education and Museum Studies
(SCEMS) and sponsored by the Clark-
Winchcole Foundation, attracted more
than 2,000 educators from nearly 50 school
districts. Educators can find more informa-

tion online at the new Field Trips and
Learning Resources Web site (educate.si.edu),
developed by SCEMS.

In every Smithsonian museum, educa-
tors find food for thought and useful teach-
ing tools. “Whose Beauty Is It?,” a work-
shop for elementary through high school
teachers presented by the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden and the
National Museum of African Art, raised
questions about beauty in art to stimulate
future classroom discussions and field
trips. The workshop was so successful that
it sparked plans for similar collaborative
workshops among Smithsonian museums.

For preschoolers ages 2 through 4, the
National Postal Museum introduced a fan-
ciful tour called Let’s Deliver Mail. Children
uncover the mystery of mail delivery by
tracing the travels of three make-believe
characters through the mail system. Early
childhood specialists and museum educa-
tors profit from the Smithsonian Early
Enrichment Center’s latest training semi-
nar, “Creating Collections in the
Classroom,” which complements the
“Learning Through Objects” seminar
offered twice a year. A scholarship pro-
gram enables teachers working with low-
income children in the Washington, D.C.,
metropolitan area to participate.

Smithsonian museums have a lot to offer
adolescents and young adults, who typically
lack consistent involvement with museums.

The Cooper-Hewitt, National Design

LEFT AND BELOW: Summer
fun, Smithsonian-style: These
youngsters enjoy hands-on experi-
ences in The Smithsonian
Associates’ summer day camps.
ABOVE: Volunteers for the
Smithsonian Environmental

Research Center’s Neighborhood

Nestwatch program monitored
birds in their own backyards to
learn about the effects of develop-
ment and urbanization on their
feathered neighbors. The program
was supported by the Mills

Corporation.

33

BELOW: The Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum’s Design
Directions series gives New York
City high school students real-
world experiences in design profes-
sions. “Re-Design Your City” par-
ticipants (left) discuss their propos-
al for 16th Street, while students in
another program explore ideas
with an Old Navy designer.
RIGHT: Poncho Sanchez and his
band delighted audiences with per-
formances of Afro-Cuban and Latin
jazz compositions at a Smithsonian
Associates’ Musica de las Américas
2000 program in March.

RIGHT BELOW: Thomas
Jefferson Peace Medal, on view in

The American Presidency

Museum’s comprehensive design and career
awareness program series for high school
students, Design Directions, doubled in size
this year with 600 participants. The National
Museum of African Art hosted its first-ever
College Night, attended by 1,000 undergrad-
uate and graduate students from more than
30 colleges and universities. The National
Museum of Natural History hosted the first
annual Discovery Young Scientist Challenge,
a nationwide scholarship contest for middle
school students sponsored by Discovery
Communications, Inc., in partnership with
Science Service. Forty finalists competed for
the $10,000 top prize by working with muse-
um scientists in their laboratories on “sci-

ence challenges.”

Family days at the National Museum of
American History, Behring Center reflected
the exuberance of the American experi-

ence. Playful innovation with a purpose

took center stage in a day-long dem-
onstration of robotics sponsored by the
Lemelson Center for the Study of
Invention and Innovation. For the family
program “Tales from the Land/Cuentos de
la Tierra,” storytellers shared tales origi-
nating in different communities, from
Native American hunting and gathering
thousands of years ago to migrant farm

labor today.

On a local, regional, and national scale, the
Institution has stepped up its efforts to
welcome more people—especially minori-
ties and new Americans—into the
Smithsonian experience.

Bhangra, a traditional Punjabi folk
dance, has found renewed popularity, espe-
cially among South Asian youth who mix it
with rap and hip-hop beats. Four groups of
Bhangra dancers performed in “From

Roots to Shoots,” the biggest drawing card

in the series of Heritage Month events
sponsored by the Smithsonian Center for
Education and Museum Studies

During the five Heritage Months—
Hispanic Heritage, American Indian
Heritage, Black History, Women’s History,
and Asian Pacific American Heritage—
Smithsonian museums and centers present-
ed more than 150 lectures, films, perform-
ances, and programs. More than 2,000 peo-
ple participated—twice as many as last year.

Building bridges through community
organizations, the Program for Asian Pacific
American Studies (PAPAS) has established
connections with the growing local popula-
tion of recent immigrant children from
Asia. Working with Asian American LEAD,
the Chin Baptist Church, the Newcomer
Community Service Center, and the
Chinatown Community Center, PAPAS ini-
tiated museum visits and other activities for
children that laid the groundwork for col-
laboration as these organizations and the

Smithsonian get to know one another.

OBiESI LESSONS
FROM EAE
AMERICAN

Piel DENCY

More than goo objects from the National Museum
of American History’s collection were assembled
for The American Presidency: A Glorious Burden, a
new permanent exhibition that celebrates this pow-
erful and challenging institution.

For museum director Spencer Crew, two partic-
ular objects evoke the glorious burdens of the presi-
dency. The first is a charred wooden beam from the
White House that is believed to have survived when
the British burned the building in 1814. “Looking at
that burned wood,” Crew says, “one has to think
about the crisis James Madison faced at that
moment as the survival of the new nation hung in
the balance.” The second object is a glass ballot
box, “a reminder that the power of the presidency is
derived from the will of the people”—and an espe-
cially meaningful symbol in 2000.

The American Presidency is made possible
through the generous support of individual donors
and corporate sponsors, including Kenneth E.
Behring; The History Channel; Chevy Chase Bank;
Cisco Systems, Inc.; Elizabeth and
Whitney MacMillan; Heidi and Max
Berry; and the United States

Congress. Additional sponsors
include Automatic Data
Processing, Inc.; Business 2.0;
KPMG LLP; Sears, Roebuck and

Co.; and T. Rowe Price and

Associates, Inc.

The Electronic Smithsonian

Capturing the potential of a powerful medium On a cyber-journey through the Smithsonian, the

RIGHT: The Nautilus pompilius
and other shells, an illustration
from a rare 17th-century work pub-
lished in a digital edition by the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries at

wwwsil.si.edu.

frontiers are limitless. If you missed Vikings: The North Atlantic Saga in person, you can visit
the virtual version on the National Museum of Natural History’s site, www.nmnh.si.
edu/vikings. You can satisfy your curiosity about the Star-Spangled Banner and get an
update on this spectacular conservation project at www.americanhistory.si.edu/ssb. You
can also peruse digital editions of rare books in natural history or search the online catalog
on the Smithsonian Institution Libraries’ site, www.sil.si.edu.

Electronic visits to Smithsonian Web sites topped 2 million per month this year. Nearly
every organization has expanded its online offerings and redesigned its sites, and more

resources have gone live on the Web. Electronic access is transforming the way people use

and enjoy the Smithsonian, as these new developments in fiscal year 2000 illustrate.

Forbes magazine described the Smithsonian
American Art Museum’s revamped
Web site as “a party at every click.” At
AmericanArt.si.edu, the museum is open
while its building is closed for renovation.
Director Elizabeth Broun shares her per-
sonal favorites from the permanent collec-
tion in a virtual gallery talk. A click on the
monthly calendar, “1001 Days and Nights
of American Art,” displays a new entertain-
ing fact about American art and artists
every day. And an online research librarian
will answer questions submitted to “Ask
Joan of Art.” Forbes chose the site for its
“Best of the Web” issue—one of just seven
art museums to receive this distinction.
The museum also supports new art
created for the Web with the New Media/
New Century Award. Winning projects are
posted on Helios, the museum’s online
photography center. The award is made
possible by Dominion, an energy company,
in an ongoing partnership with the muse-
um that is dedicated to supporting land-
scape photography.

The National Museum of American
History, Behring Center’s Star-Spangled
Banner Web site is an absorbing com-

pendium of history. The many-layered

presentation, developed by a team of
museum experts, captures the Web’s
potential for quality, quantity, and interac-
tivity.

The award-winning site tells the story
of the flag that inspired the Star-Spangled
Banner and describes the challenges of
preserving and caring for this fragile arti-
fact. Visitors can consult primary sources
such as photographs, documents, and pub-
lished materials and compare their conclu-
sions to what museum historians say.
Educators can download materials and
ideas for classroom use and then plan a
museum visit to watch the preservation

project firsthand.

From the 19th century on, recordings of
spoken words and music have allowed us
to listen to history. The Smithsonian
Institution and the Library of Congress
have been collecting these recordings—
hundreds of thousands of them, from the
sounds of Native American music, dance,
and storytelling, to Woody Guthrie singing
the original “This Land Is Your Land,” to
speeches by every American president
since Theodore Roosevelt. But the original
recordings are deteriorating, and sounds

that have inspired generations of listeners
‘Tin

(2

100)

Creating inviting public spaces

are in jeopardy. This year, the two organi-
zations received a $750,000 grant through
the U.S. Congress from Save America’s
Treasures, a bipartisan program to preserve
our cultural heritage. With the help of

Major Building Projects

experts in the field, they will restore and
preserve the originals, create digital and
archival copies, and make recordings avail-
able to millions of listeners on the Web and
in CD form.

“Pardon Our Progress!” proclaim the banners stretched across the

exterior of the National Air and Space Museum, signaling the renovation of the building

and the replacement of its signature skylights and window walls. Similar evidence of

progress is everywhere at the Smithsonian, where an unprecedented number of building

and renovation projects are under way.

From brand-new facilities, to major renovations, to building repairs, Smithsonian spaces

inside and out are receiving renewed attention. The Institution’s landmark buildings, like

its collections, deserve expert care. Urgent maintenance and restoration have moved up on

the agenda. As Secretary Lawrence M. Small says, “Americans who make a pilgrimage to

their nation’s capital should be open-mouthed in awe at their national treasures, not at the

state of disrepair of the buildings in which they are housed.”

Construction cranes appeared at the east
end of the Mall this year as site prepara-
tion began for the National Museum of
the American Indian—the first museum
conceived and designed by Native
Americans, not just about them. The
curvilinear building, with exterior walls of
Minnesota limestone, will be surrounded
by landscaping that evokes American
Indian lands.

Visitors will enter through a five-story
welcoming area called the Potomac, where
they will be immersed in living traditions.
Three inaugural exhibitions will present
the philosophies, histories, and identities
of indigenous peoples from a Native per-
spective—a revolutionary change from
traditional museum practice. Research
and extensive collaboration with 18 Native

communities in the United States, Latin

America, and Canada have been complet-
ed for these exhibitions.

Meanwhile, at the museum’s Cultural
Resources Center in Suitland, Maryland,
staff coordinated the complex move of the
museum’s renowned collection of more
than 800,000 ethnographic and archaeo-
logical objects from the Research Branch
in the Bronx, New York. In 2000, they
brought the total number of objects pre-
pared for the journey to more than 67,300,
packing them in custom-made mounts and

giving each truckload a Native blessing.

It is a puzzle of huge proportions: fitting
more than 300 spectacular flying machines
into the soaring spaces of the National Air
and Space Museum’s Steven F. Udvar-Hazy
Center. Site work on the new storage,

restoration, and exhibition facility at
aR

SSS ees Sees ‘
— eee ee

Beier

pie
@ )
ht

A computer rendering of the

National Air and Space Museum's

new Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center,

being built at Washington Dulles

International Airport in Fairfax

County, Virginia.
Washington Dulles International Airport in
Virginia has just begun, but a team of cura-
tors, collection managers, and exhibit
designers is already solving the puzzle.

The center is named for aviation busi-
ness executive Steven F. Udvar-Hazy, who
has contributed $65 million to the museum
and co-chairs its capital campaign. Udvar-
Hazy professes an early love for aerospace
and aviation and a deep respect for their
role in shaping our world. He says he hopes
the center will be an enjoyable, educational
experience that inspires those same feel-
ings in others.

For the museum planning team, it helps
that the 761,000-square-foot structure is
almost three football fields long and 10
stories high. Using computer-aided design,
they arrange plastic cutouts in a scale
model of the building to create a three-
dimensional view of the artifacts within
the exhibition space, suspended from the
arches and displayed on the floor.

Three to four million visitors a
year are anticipated when the
Udvar-Hazy Center opens in
December 2003, the centennial
month of the Wright Brothers’ his-
toric flight in Kitty Hawk, North

Carolina.

The renovation of the Patent Office
Building, home to the Smithsonian
American Art Museum and the
National Portrait Gallery, began this
year, with both museums closed for
the duration but active and visible
on the Web and in exhibitions from
their collections touring the coun-
try. The Smithsonian purchased the
Victor Building in downtown Washington
to provide consolidated office space for
Smithsonian administrative offices, as well
as staff of the two museums and the

Archives of American Art.

40

Other projects have created comfortable
visitor spaces or improved collection dis-
play and storage. The loggias, or open gal-
leries, overlooking the courtyard of the
Freer Gallery of Art opened to the public
for the first time in June, made possible by
a generous grant from the Philip L.
Graham Fund. Visitors can relax among
the refreshed courtyard plantings and
enjoy two bronze sculptures by American
sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens that are
on view in the east loggia.

The Renwick Gallery’s Grand Salon,
considered one of Washington’s most
beautiful public spaces, reopened in June
after a six-month refurbishment that re-
created the elegant setting of a 19th-
century collector’s picture gallery. While
the Smithsonian American Art Museum is
closed, 170 paintings and sculptures from
its collection are on view in the Grand
Salon and the Octagon Room.

TOP: The National Museum of

the American Indian’s new building
on the National Mall will be a cen-
ter for ceremonies, performances,
and educational programs, as well

as an exhibition space. Utility work

and excavation began this year
(above left), while staff started
moving objects from New York
City to the museum’s Cultural
Resources Center in Suitland,

Maryland (above center).

A member of a Mapuche delega-
tion from Chile (above right) exam-
ines Mapuche textiles from the
museum's collection at the

Cultural Resources Center.

4)
Washington Dulles International Airport in
Virginia has just begun, but a team of cura-
tors, collection managers, and exhibit
designers is already solving the puzzle.

The center is named for aviation busi-
ness executive Steven F. Udvar-Hazy, who
has contributed $65 million to the museum
and co-chairs its capital campaign. Udvar-
Hazy professes an early love for aerospace
and aviation and a deep respect for their
role in shaping our world. He says he hopes
the center will be an enjoyable, educational
experience that inspires those same feel-
ings in others.

For the museum planning team, it helps
that the 761,000-square-foot structure is
almost three football fields long and 10
stories high. Using computer-aided design,
they arrange plastic cutouts ina scale
model of the building to create a three-
dimensional view of the artifacts within
the exhibition space, suspended from the
arches and displayed on the floor.

Three to four million visitors a
year are anticipated when the
Udvar-Hazy Center opens in

December 2003, the centennial
month of the Wright Brothers’ his-
toric flight in Kitty Hawk, North

Carolina.

The renovation of the Patent Office
Building, home to the Smithsonian
American Art Museum and the
National Portrait Gallery, began this
year, with both museums closed for
the duration but active and visible
on the Web and in exhibitions from
their collections touring the coun-
try. The Smithsonian purchased the
Victor Building in downtown Washington
to provide consolidated office space for
Smithsonian administrative offices, as well
as staff of the two museums and the
Archives of American Art.

40

Other projects have created comfortable

visitor spaces Or improved collection dis-
play and storage. The loggias, or open gal-
leries, overlooking the courtyard of the
Freer Gallery of Art opened to the public
for the first timé in June, made possible by
a generous grant from the Philip L.
Graham Bund. Visitors can relax among
the refreshed courtyard plantings and
enjoy two bronze sculptures by American
sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens that are
on view in the east loggia.

The Renwick Gallery's Grand Salon,
considered one of Washington's most
beautiful public spaces, reopened in June
after a six-month refurbishment that re-
created the elegant setting of a 19th-
century collector's picture gallery. While
the Smithsonian American Art Museum is
closed, 170 paintings and sculptures from
its collection are on view in the Grand

Salon and the Octagon Room.

TOP: The National Museum of

and excavation began this year
(above left), while staff started

moving objects from New York

A member of a Mapuche delega-
the American Indian’s new building

on the National Mall will be a cen-

tion from Chile (above right) exam-
ines Mapuche textiles from the
museum's collection at the

ter i i
for ceremonies, performances, City to the museum’s Cultural

and educati in Sui
cational programs, as well Resources Center in Suitland, Cultural Resources Center.

as an exhibition space. Utility work Maryland (above center).

4
RESEARCH

A Year of Significant Contributions

Continuing a tradition of excellence and influence Smithsonian scholars ask some intriguing ques-

LEFT: Treehoppers such as these
Umbonia, studied at the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute,
are remarkable, not just for their
beauty, but for the way mothers
care for their offspring.

RIGHT: Steve Paton adjusts sen-
sor cables for the weather station
on the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute’s Fort Sherman
canopy access crane. STRI pio-
neered the use of construction
cranes for research in the upper

forest canopy.

tions: What makes up the mysterious material being sucked into the black hole at the cen-
ter of our galaxy? How have African American photographers shaped our understanding of
a people’s history? Why are Washington’s celebrated cherry trees blooming earlier every
year? How do we know that Leif Ericson was the first European to set foot on the North
American continent?

From an orbiting observatory probing the far reaches of the universe, to art conserva-
tion laboratories in the Freer and Sackler Galleries, to the Smithsonian Marine Station at
Fort Pierce on Florida’s Atlantic coast, exploration and discovery are thriving. The
Smithsonian is both a premier research institution and a thriving center for learning, and
the combination is powerful. Scholars advance knowledge about human beings, our uni-
verse, and our place in it, while seeking solutions to pressing global problems. Their
research also shapes exhibitions and programs to provide a solid educational experience for
Smithsonian audiences. “We have a special obligation to explain what we are doing,”
Secretary Lawrence M. Small has observed, “to bring the public along with us, to commu-

nicate the importance and the consequences of our work.”

A pair of merging galaxies in the Constella-
tion Corvus is giving astronomers a glimpse
of the young universe 15 billion years ago.
“Galaxies were much closer together then,”
explains Giuseppina Fabbiano of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
(SAO). Such collisions were more common,
and “they played a major role in shaping the
galaxies we see around us today.”

Fabbiano and her SAO colleagues
Andreas Zezas and Stephen Murray have
observed the two galaxies—about 60 mil-
lion light-years from Earth—using the
orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory, which
SAO built and operates under contract to
the National Aeronautics and Space

Administration. Launched aboard the

43
44

Space Shuttle Columbia in July 1999,

Chandra is the most sophisticated x-ray
observatory ever built, with a resolving
power equivalent to the ability to reada
stop sign from a distance of 12 miles. The
images it returns from high-energy regions
of the universe, such as the remnants of
supernovas, are transforming astronomy.
Scientific support and the operations con-
trol center for this mission are located at
SAO in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
“What we are witnessing with Chandra
is galaxy ecology in action,” says Zezas. As
the two galaxies in Constellation Corvus
collide, they produce massive bubbles of
expanding x-ray-emitting gas at such
astonishing rates that they are bumping
into each other to create “superbubbles”

with surprisingly bright x-ray luminosities.

Over tens of billions of years, the super-

bubbles enrich the galaxy’s supply of oxy-

More than 1.8 million elementary
students a year participate in
hands-on, inquiry-based science
using curriculum materials devel-
oped by the National Science

Resources Center.

gen and other elements, supporting the
cycle of star birth, death, and renewal.

Scientists at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (STRI) in Panama who
study the behavior of tropical animals have
discovered that parasites take advantage of
their hosts in unusual ways. Perhaps no story
tops the one about the spider and the wasp.
On the night that the parasitic wasp larva
will kill its orb-weaving spider host, the wasp
induces the spider to weave a unique web
designed to support the larva’s cocoon.
William Eberhard of STRI and the
University of Costa Rica had been observing
orb-weaving spiders for 10 years when he
uncovered this story, which is probably the
most elaborate known example of an insect
parasite manipulating the behavior of its
host. His report in the July 2000 issue of the
journal Nature was the first to describe the
wasps’ behavior and explain it as a fast-act-
ing, apparently chemical phenomenon with
long-term effects.

For nearly 30 years, the National Zoological
Park has been a center of research in giant
panda biology, behavior, and conservation,
making significant contributions to knowl-
edge of endangered species. After the
deaths of the Zoo’s original giant panda
pair—Ling-Ling in 1992 and Hsing-Hsing in
1999—the Zoo arranged for the long-term
loan of two pandas from the China
Wildlife Conservation Association. Tian
Tian, a male born in 1997, and Mei Xiang, a
female born in 1998, arrived at the Zoo on
December 6, 2000.

In the next decade, the Zoo will collabo-
rate with other organizations, including the
China Wildlife Conservation Association,
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the
World Wildlife Fund, and various zoos on
an expanded program of research and pro-
fessional training.

The Zoo’s research led
to success in the propa-
gation of other disap-
pearing species this year.
Mandara, a 17-year-old
lowland gorilla, gave
birth to her fourth off-
spring. Lowland gorillas,
native to the tropical
forests of West and
Central Africa, are con-
sidered endangered.

Through the Species
Survival Plan, coordinat-
ed by the American Zoo
and Aquarium Associa-
tion, zoos in the United
States are engaged in a
collective effort to create
a self-sustaining zoo pop-
ulation of the world’s
largest ape.

As Tropical Storm Floyd moved steadily
toward the mid-Atlantic states in fall 1999,
staff at the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center (SERC) in Edgewater,
Maryland, geared up for a long-awaited
research opportunity. By measuring stream
flows at the height of the storm, SERC sci-
entists continued their quest for solutions
to a major environmental problem.

Since the early 1970s, they have studied
the movement of sediments and plant
nutrients into the Chesapeake Bay, using the
Rhode River and its watershed as a model
system. The resulting accumulations threat-
en the ecosystem by killing off sea grasses
and depleting the oxygen supply. Scientists
think heavy storm flows might be a factor,
but they have not been able to test this
hypothesis in recent years because of severe
drought conditions.

Floyd changed all that. Two SERC
“stream teams’ braved heavy currents to

find flow rates that were up to 100 times

higher than usual. The researchers’ Floyd

John Quincy Adams Ward’s 1866
sculpture of an Indian hunting,
shown here before and after
restoration, is one of nearly 32,000
publicly accessible sculptures in
the Smithsonian American Art
Museum’s online Inventory of
American Sculpture. Information
about the sculptures comes from
Save Outdoor Sculpture! (SOS!), a
joint program of the museum and

Heritage Preservation, Inc.

adventure added crucial comparative data
to SERC's studies.

Cherry blossoms appear earlier every year
in Washington, D.C.—on average, seven
days earlier than they did three decades
ago. Global warming may be the reason,
according to National Museum of Natural
History scientists who analyzed botanical
data during a 30-year study. They found
significant correlations between tempera-
ture and early flowering: As the average
minimum temperature rises, flowering
plants begin to bloom earlier in the spring.

Museum scientists Stanwyn Shetler,
Mones Abu-Asab, Paul Peterson, and Sylvia
Stone Orli studied 100 species in and
around Washington. They determined that
89 show a consistent trend of earlier flow-
ering, including dogwood, columbine,
bluebells, Jack-in-the-pulpit, and the
famous flowering cherry trees that are a
rite of spring in the nation’s capital.

The phenomenon could affect far more
than the spring tourist season. We could
expect a gradually expanding growing sea-
son, as well as long-term changes in local
flora. Plants that prefer colder climates
could die out, and weedy species that
thrive on warm weather could spread.
People who are allergic to pollen could suf-
fer over a longer period, because wind-pol-
linated trees are among the first to bloom.

Smithsonian botanists are continuing
their study so they can contribute to the
understanding of global warming and its
effects.

Art conservation and scientific research at
the Smithsonian preserve the nation’s col-
lections while contributing to knowledge in
the field. At the Freer and Sackler Galleries,
the Department of Conservation and
Scientific Research is involved in crucial
conservation work on the renowned collec-

tion of Chinese paintings with the support

46

of a $250,000 grant from the Henry Luce
Foundation. The program also provides
valuable professional training and collabo-
rative opportunities for conservators in the
United States and abroad. Another Freer
and Sackler team, along with scientists
from Johns Hopkins University, is explor-
ing the possibility that techniques from the
automotive and aerospace industries could
be used to study ancient metalworking.
With a grant from the National Center for
Preservation Technology and Training of
the National Park Service, they are study-
ing a method used to examine metals to
find out whether it is appropriate for con-
serving and authenticating works of art.

Online and in person, researchers’ access
to Smithsonian libraries and archives is
faster and more complete. Searching the
Smithsonian Library Catalog through the
Smithsonian Institution Research
Information System (SIRIS) is a simpler,
smoother process now that SIRIS is an

integrated system that supports catalogu-
ing, circulation, acquisitions, and public
access. Among the new editions in the

The Smithsonian Astrophysical

Electronic Library are three rare books in

natural history, which researchers can Observatory’s multiple-mirror tel-

peruse online in high-quality digital edi- escope glows against the Arizona

tions. sunset.
Collections guides such as the Archives of

American Art’s Papers of Latino and Latin

American Artists—reissued this year in a sec-

ond edition with 43 additional collections—

provide a roadmap to the Archives’ exten-

sive original source materials on American

art and cultural history. Finding aids are

being converted for electronic access, oral

history transcripts are available online, and a

new search engine improves Web service.

Smithsonian-sponsored public sympo-

siums in the arts and the humanities pres-
ent current research and raise challenging
issues. “Reflections in Black: A History of
Black Photographers, 1840 to the Present,”

this year’s James A. Porter Colloquium
cosponsored by the Anacostia Museum
and Center for African American History
and Culture and Howard University,
brought together more than 30 of the
nation’s most respected African American
photographers and art historians for lec-
tures and demonstrations. At the National
Museum of American History, Behring
Center, overflow audiences attended
“Slavery in History and Memory,” a two-
day symposium that looked at images of
slavery and how they continue to haunt
race relations in this country. A major
symposium at the National Museum of
Natural History featured an international
group of scholars who contributed to the
exhibition Vikings: The North Atlantic Saga

and also attracted a large audience.

Spark PA RACY 1 OR
Pie MULT EP LE -
MIRROR

iReiWes GO? E

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory threw
a party in June to celebrate its latest accomplish-
ment. At the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory,
35 miles south of Tucson, Arizona, the public was
invited toa Community Day in honor of the new
6.5-meter mirror in the multiple-mirror telescope,
or MMT. After the sun went down, the “star party”
began, as amateur astronomers gazed at the night
skies from the observatory’s site on top of Mount
Hopkins.

The converted telescope, one of the 10 largest in
the world, has one gigantic lightweight mirror,
which replaced six smaller mirrors mounted togeth-
er ina common structure—the most practical
design at the time the original MMT was built in the
late 1970S.

Dozens of research projects are under way using
the MMT, including the most comprehensive survey
ever undertaken of quasars, distant astronomical
objects that emit radio waves, and a study of the
remnants of supernovas, or exploding stars, to
understand their role in stellar evolution and in
determining the age of the universe.

The MMT is a joint venture of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory and the University of

Arizona.
adventure added crucial comparative data

to SERC’s studies.

Cherry blossoms appear earlier every year
in Washington, D.C.—on average, seven
days earlier than they did three decades
ago. Global warming may be the reason,
according to National Museum of Natural
History scientists who analyzed botanical
data during a 30-year study. They found
significant correlations between tempera-
ture and early flowering: As the average
minimum temperature rises, flowering
plants begin to bloom earlier in the spring.

Museum scientists Stanwyn Shetler,
Mones Abu-Asab, Paul Peterson, and Sylvia
Stone Orli studied 100 species in and
around Washington. They determined that
89 show a consistent trend of earlier flow-
ering, including dogwood, columbine,
bluebells, Jack-in-the-pulpit, and the
famous flowering cherry trees that are a
rite of spring in the nation’s capital.

The phenomenon could affect far more
than the spring tourist season. We could
expect a gradually expanding growing sea-
son, as well as long-term changes in local
flora. Plants that prefer colder climates
could die out, and weedy species that
thrive on warm weather could spread.
People who are allergic to pollen could suf-
fer over a longer period, because wind-pol-
linated trees are among the first to bloom.

Smithsonian botanists are continuing
their study so they can contribute to the
understanding of global warming and its
effects.

Art conservation and scientific research at
the Smithsonian preserve the nation’s col-
lections while contributing to knowledge in
the field. At the Freer and Sackler Galleries
the Department of Conservation and
Scientific Research is involved in crucial

,

conservation work on the renowned collec-
tion of Chinese paintings with the support

46

of a $250,000 grant from the Henry Luce
Foundation. The program also provides
valuable professional training and collabo-
rative opportunities for conservators in the
United States and abroad. Another Freer
and Sackler team, along with scientists
from Johns Hopkins University, is explor-
ing the possibility that techniques from the
automotive and aerospace industries could
be used to study ancient metalworking.
With a grant from the National Center for
Preservation Technology and Training of
the National Park Service, they are study-
ing a method used to examine metals to
find out whether it is appropriate for con-
serving and authenticating works of art.

Online and in person, researchers’ access
to Smithsonian libraries and archives is
faster and more complete. Searching the
Smithsonian Library Catalog through the
Smithsonian Institution Research
Information System (SIRIS) is a simpler,
smoother process now that SIRIS is an
integrated system that supports catalogu-
ing, circulation, acquisitions, and public
access. Among the new editions in the
Electronic Library are three rare books in
natural history, which researchers can
peruse online in high-quality digital edi-
tions.

Collections guides such as the Archives of
American Art's Papers of Latino and Latin
American Artists—reissued this year in a sec-
ond edition with 43 additional collections—
provide a roadmap to the Archives’ exten-
Sive original source materials on American
art and cultural history. Finding aids are
being converted for electronic access, oral

history transcripts are available online, and a

new search engine improves Web service.

Smithsonian-sponsored public sympo-

siums in the arts and the humanities pres-
ent Current research and raise challenging
issues. “Reflections in Black: A History of

The Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory’s multiple-mirror tel-
escope glows against the Arizona

sunset,

Black Photographers, 1840 to the Present.”

this year’s James A. Porter Colloquium
cosponsored by the Anacostia Museum
and Center for African American History
and Culture and Howard University,
brought together more than 30 of the
nation’s most respected African American
photographers and art historians for lec-
tures and demonstrations. At the National
Museum of American History, Behring
Center, overflow audiences attended
“Slavery in History and Memory,” a two-
day symposium that looked at images of
slavery and how they continue to haunt
race relations in this country. A major
Symposium at the National Museum of
Natural History featured an international
8roup of scholars who contributed to the
exhibition Vikings: The North Atlantic Saga
and also attracted a large audience.

STAR PARTY FOR
THE MULTIPLE-
MIRROR
TELESCOPE

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory threw
a party in June to celebrate its latest accomplish-
ment. At the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory,
35 miles south of Tucson, Arizona, the public was
invited to a Community Day in honor of the new
6.5-meter mirror in the multiple-mirror telescope,
or MMT. After the sun went down, the “star party”
began, as amateur astronomers gazed at the night
skies from the observatory’s site on top of Mount
Hopkins.

The converted telescope, one of the 10 largest in
the world, has one gigantic lightweight mirror,
which replaced six smaller mirrors mounted togeth-
erin acommon structure—the most practical
design at the time the original MMT was built in the
late 1970s.

Dozens of research projects are under way using
the MMT, including the most comprehensive survey
ever undertaken of quasars, distant astronomical
objects that emit radio waves, and a study of the
remnants of supernovas, or exploding stars, to
understand their role in stellar evolution and in

determining the age of the universe.
The MMT is a joint venture of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory and the University of

Arizona.
MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE
Leadership for the 21st Century

Reinvigorating the Smithsonian organization Witha promise to lead an “energetic reimagination and renewal”

Springtime blossoms in the Enid
A. Haupt Garden, with the
Smithsonian Institution Building

(the Castle) in the background

of the Smithsonian’s traditions, Lawrence M. Small was installed as the Institution’s 11th
Secretary on January 24, 2000. Small is the former president and chief operating officer of
Fannie Mae, the world’s largest housing finance company. He has been involved with the
museum and cultural communities throughout his career. Vigorous action to build a
dynamic, contemporary organization marked Secretary Small’s first year.

On February 11, 2000, he announced a reorganization plan that created five divisions,
each unified by shared priorities: American Museums and National Programs; Science;
International Art Museums; Finance and Administration; and Smithsonian Business
Ventures. Over the succeeding months, the Secretary appointed a senior management team
that provides leadership for what he terms the “marvelous enterprise that is the

Smithsonian Institution,” and he outlined an institutional vision for the coming decade.

‘The Smithsonian’s leadership took deci-

sive steps this year to strengthen internal
systems in support of broader institutional
goals. The appointment of a new chief
financial officer, a new chief technology
officer, and a new facilities engineering
and operations director signaled renewed
emphasis on those areas of operations.

The newly created Office of Policy and
Analysis completed several issue papers
that will lead to organizational change. A
collections management study that will
guide collections activities was initiated.

Other high-priority functions include
capital management, human resources,
and relations with government and the
news media.

A dedicated, enthusiastic workforce is
key to the Smithsonian’s effectiveness.
During the year, the Secretary met with
staff throughout the Institution and held

numerous town meetings to seek em-
ployee feedback and ideas. He also began a
popular series of weekly breakfasts, wel-
coming small groups of staff members to
his office for candid conversations.
Sixty-six percent of the workforce—
4,100 people—responded to the first
employee perspective survey, conducted in
spring 2000 by Hewitt Associates. The
findings revealed that employees are com-
mitted to the Smithsonian and believe in
its mission, but they have obvious con-
cerns and support the need for improve-
ments. To address these staff concerns,
Secretary Small is focusing the Institu-
tion’s efforts in four key areas: communi-
cation, individual performance, manage-
ment, and organizational infrastructure. In
addition, he plans to conduct the Em-
ployee Perspective Survey every two years

to gauge the progress of these efforts.

49
epee iE.
BEHRING: INSPIRING
Saren>s, 1O FOLLOW
THEIR DREAMS

Kenneth E. Behring, a California philanthropist and devel-
oper, hopes his gift will “showcase the ideas, the technolo-
gies, and most of all, the people who continue to make the
United States the greatest country in the world.”

Behring’s donation is unprecedented in its generosity:
a total of $100 million, the largest in the Smithsonian’s
history. This includes $80 million to the National Museum
of American History this year and $20 million to the
National Museum of Natural History in fiscal year 1998.

“| owe society a lot for the happiness and success | have
enjoyed,” Behring says, “and I really want to do some good
in return. | worked hard building my business and making a
good life for my family. But I’m working harder now at giving
the money away.... It’s something | believe | must do.

“Sometimes it is easy to forget how we started,
who made the country,” he adds. He believes in
the American History Museum’s potential to

“inspire people to chase the American dream.”

MON ANCIAL STRENGTH

Impressive Momentum in Private Support

Dedicated commitment to the Smithsonian’s vision _ The first year of the 21st century emerged bright-
ly for the Smithsonian Institution, as its strength and vitality continued to shine through
the success of public and private partnerships, fund-raising campaigns, audience develop-
ment, and outreach efforts. The new year brought significant change to every facet of the
Smithsonian. The excitement and momentum generated by the new administration and its
goals fostered increased awareness among the Smithsonian’s membership and reaffirmed
the Institution’s commitment to the public.

The Smithsonian enjoyed many successes in fiscal year 2000. Fund-raising efforts led the
way to record-breaking progress. With $206.6 million in contributions from individuals,
corporations, and foundations, the Smithsonian exceeded all previous levels of annual fund
raising with a 40 percent increase from fiscal year 1999.

Kenneth E. Behring increased his remarkable gift to the Smithsonian to $100 million, the
largest gift the Smithsonian has ever received. In fiscal year 2000, he pledged $80 million
to the National Museum of American History, which now carries the title “Behring Center”
in honor of his philanthropy. Behring gave $20 million to the National Museum of Natural
History in 1998. His generous contribution led the way for other individual gift commit-
ments. By the year’s end, the Archives of American Art, National Portrait Gallery, National
Postal Museum, National Zoological Park, Program for Asian Pacific American Studies,
Smithsonian American Art Museum, and Smithsonian Institution Libraries had also received
their highest single gifts ever.

Highlights of private giving for the fiscal year included the following:

e The National Zoo received commit- J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Foun-

dation, the Roger and Vicki Sant Fund,
the Chubb Corporation, and Friends of
the National Zoo.

@ The National Museum of American

ments totaling $18 million from individ-
uals and corporations in support of its
panda conservation project. Fujifilm

pledged nearly $8 million toward creat-

ing a new habitat for the pandas and
educational programs for visitors.
Discovery Communications’ Animal
Planet network pledged $5 million.
Additional support came from Ruth
and Bill Holmberg, FedEx Express, the
Alice S. Marriott Lifetime Trust, the

History, Behring Center received major
gifts in support of The American
Presidency exhibition. This blockbuster
installation was made possible through
the generous support of individual
donors and corporate partners, includ-
ing Kenneth E. Behring; The History

51
KENNETH E.
BEHRING: INSPIRING
OTHERS TO FOLLOW
THEIR DREAMS

Kenneth E. Behring, a California philanthropist and devel-
oper, hopes his gift will “showcase the ideas, the technolo-
gies, and most of all, the people who continue to make the
United States the greatest country in the world.”

Behring’s donation is unprecedented in its generosity:
a total of $100 million, the largest in the Smithsonian's
history. This includes $80 million to the National Museum
of American History this year and $20 million to the
National Museum of Natural History in fiscal year 1998.

“1 owe society a lot for the happiness and success | have
enjoyed,” Behring says, “and | really want to do some good
in return. | worked hard building my business and making a
good life for my family. But I’m working harder now at giving
the money away... It’s something | believe | must do.

“Sometimes it is easy to forget how we started,
who made the country,” he adds. He believes in
the American History Museum’s potential to

“inspire people to chase the American dream.”

FINANCIAL STRENGTH

Impressive Momentum in Private Support

Dedicated commitment to the Smithsonian’s vision The first year of the 21st century emerged bright-

ly for the Smithsonian Institution, as its strength and vitality continued to shine through
the success of public and private partnerships, fund-raising campaigns, audience develop-
ment, and outreach efforts. The new year brought significant change to every facet of the
Smithsonian. The excitement and momentum generated by the new administration and its
goals fostered increased awareness among the Smithsonian's membership and reaffirmed
the Institution’s commitment to the public.

The Smithsonian enjoyed many successes in fiscal year 2000. Fund-raising efforts led the
way to record-breaking progress. With $206.6 million in contributions from individuals,
corporations, and foundations, the Smithsonian exceeded all previous levels of annual fund
raising with a 40 percent increase from fiscal year 1999.

Kenneth E. Behring increased his remarkable gift to the Smithsonian to $100 million, the
largest gift the Smithsonian has ever received. In fiscal year 2000, he pledged $80 million
to the National Museum of American History, which now carries the title “Behring Center”
in honor of his philanthropy. Behring gave $20 million to the National Museum of Natural
History in 1998. His generous contribution led the way for other individual gift commit-
ments. By the year’s end, the Archives of American Art, National Portrait Gallery, National
Postal Museum, National Zoological Park, Program for Asian Pacific American Studies,
Smithsonian American Art Museum, and Smithsonian Institution Libraries had also received
their highest single gifts ever.

Highlights of private giving for the fiscal year included the following:

J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott Foun-

dation, the Roger and Vicki Sant Fund,

e The National Zoo received commit-
ments totaling $18 million from individ-
uals and corporations in support of its the Chubb Corporation, and Friends of

panda conservation project. Fujifilm

pledged nearly $8 million toward creat-

ing a new habitat for the pandas and

the National Zoo.

© The National Museum of American
History, Behring Center received major
gifts in support of The American

educational programs for visitors.
Presidency exhibition. This blockbuster

Discovery Communications’ Animal
Planet network pledged $5 million.
Additional support came from Ruth
and Bill Holmberg, FedEx Express, the
Alice S. Marriott Lifetime Trust, the

installation was made possible through
the generous support of individual
donors and corporate partners, includ-
ing Kenneth E. Behring; The History

SI
Channel; Chevy Chase Bank; Cisco
Systems, Inc.; Elizabeth and Whitney
MacMillan; Heidi and Max Berry; and
the United States Congress. Additional
support came from Automatic Data
Processing, Inc.; Business 2.0; KPMG
LLP; Sears, Roebuck and Co.; and

T. Rowe Price and Associates, Inc.
Bringing their cumulative total to $40

million, the Lemelson Foundation gave to
the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center

for the Study of Invention and Innovation,

for endowment and operational support
and for a future exhibition on the Nobel
Prize.

The Brown Foundation, Inc. of Houston
made a $12 million grant to the Archives
of American Art that will allow the

Space Museum’s Steven F. Udvar-

N

Archives to establish its permanent home
in the Victor Building. The grant is the
largest the Archives has ever received.

e Nan Tucker McEvoy contributed $10 mil-
lion toward an auditorium in the renovat-
ed Patent Office Building and for the ;
Smithsonian American Art Museum. This e
is the largest gift in the museum’s history.

e The National Postal Museum received a
$10 million gift, the largest in its history,
from former Postmaster General Winton
M. Blount to create the Winton M. Blount
Center for Postal Studies. The center will
conduct research, publish research find-
ings, and develop public programs on the
future of postal communications.

e John and Adrienne Bevis Mars made a gift
of $5 million toward the National Air and

TOP: Invited participants gather Hazy Center. In the center’s main Visitors will have a close-up view (above left), shown here arriving at
with shovels in hand to break aviation hangar (above right) air- of historic aviation and space arti- Washington Dulles International
ground for the National Air and craft will be suspended from the facts such as the Space Shuttle Airport riding piggyback aboard a

ceiling and displayed on the floor. Enterprise, the first space shuttle Boeing 747.
Space Museum’s Steven F. Udvar-Hazy
Center.

A $3 million gift from Royal Dutch/Shell
Group will support scientific research
that increases our understanding of bio-
diversity and how ecosystems function.
Paul Peck contributed $2 million to the
National Portrait Gallery for new and
expanded programs on the presidency,
its role in American history, and its
impact on society and culture. This is
the largest gift in the gallery’s history.

A library in the National Museum of
Natural History to house rare books and
manuscripts received a leadership com-
mitment of $2 million from Joseph F.
Cullman 3rd of New York City. The Cull-
man Natural History Library Endowment
will underwrite acquisitions, programs,
and staffing for the new library, to be
administered by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries. The gift is the Libraries’
largest ever.

The Smithsonian Program for Asian

Pacific American Studies received its

S GEV EN 2F
DV A Rawat ZY:
APPRECIATING
TEs sy OUND IE RS
Or reiGchy

The wonders of flight have inspired Steven F. Udvar-
Hazy since childhood. The aviation executive, who
is president and CEO of International Lease Finance
Corp., has given $65 million to the National Air and
Space Museum’s new storage, restoration, and exhi-
bition center at Washington Dulles International
Airport in Virginia, which has been named the
Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center in his honor.

“The time has arrived for my family to give back
to America part of the reward that aviation has
been instrumental in creating,” Udvar-Hazy says.
He hopes the new facility will introduce children to
the marvels of aviation—and its greatest potential.
“An airplane rising into the sky is the only hope, the

only way to reach into a bigger world.”

Channel; Chevy Chase Bank; Cisco
Systems, Inc.; Elizabeth and Whitney
MacMillan; Heidi and Max Berry; and
the United States Congress. Additional
support came from Automatic Data
Processing, Inc.; Business 2.0; KPMG
LLP; Sears, Roebuck and Co.; and

T. Rowe Price and Associates, Inc.
e Bringing their cumulative total to $40

million, the Lemelson Foundation gave to
the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center
for the Study of Invention and Innovation,
for endowment and operational support
and for a future exhibition on the Nobel
Prize.

e The Brown Foundation, Inc. of Houston
made a $12 million grant to the Archives

of American Art that will allow the

TOP: Invited participants gather

with shovels in hand to break

ground for the National Air and

Space Museum's Steven F. Udvar-

52

Hazy Center. In the center’s main
aviation hangar (above right) air-
craft will be suspended from the

ceiling and displayed on the floor.

Archives to establish its permanent home
in the Victor Building. The grant is the
largest the Archives has ever received.
Nan Tucker McEvoy contributed $10 mil-
lion toward an auditorium in the renovat-
ed Patent Office Building and for the
Smithsonian American Art Museum. This
is the largest gift in the museum’s history.
The National Postal Museum received a
$10 million gift, the largest in its history,
from former Postmaster General Winton
M. Blount to create the Winton M. Blount
Center for Postal Studies. The center will
conduct research, publish research find-
ings, and develop public programs on the
future of postal communications.

John and Adrienne Bevis Mars made a gift
of $5 million toward the National Air and

Visitors will have a close-up view
of historic aviation and space arti-
facts such as the Space Shuttle

Enterprise, the first space shuttle

(above left), shown here arriving at
Washington Dulles International
Airport riding piggyback aboard a
Boeing 747.

Ommecmorace-

Space Museum’s Steven F. Udvar-Hazy
Center.

A $3 million gift from Royal Dutch/Shell
Group will support scientific research
that increases our understanding of bio-
diversity and how ecosystems function.
Paul Peck contributed $2 million to the
National Portrait Gallery for new and
expanded programs on the presidency,
its role in American history, and its
impact on society and culture. This is
the largest gift in the gallery's history.

A library in the National Museum of
Natural History to house rare books and
manuscripts received a leadership com-
mitment of $2 million from Joseph F.
Cullman 3rd of New York City. The Cull-
man Natural History Library Endowment
will underwrite acquisitions, programs,
and staffing for the new library, to be
administered by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries. The gift is the Libraries’
largest ever.

The Smithsonian Program for Asian

Pacific American Studies received its

SIHENASIN |r.
UDVAR-HAZY:
APPRECIATING

THE WONDERS

Oe ILIMG Alar

The wonders of flight have inspired Steven F. Udvar-
Hazy since childhood. The aviation executive, who
is president and CEO of International Lease Finance
Corp., has given $65 million to the National Air and
Space Museum's new storage, restoration, and exhi-
bition center at Washington Dulles International
Airport in Virginia, which has been named the
Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center in his honor.

“The time has arrived for my family to give back
to America part of the reward that aviation has
been instrumental in creating,” Udvar-Hazy says.
He hopes the new facility will introduce children to
the marvels of aviation—and its greatest potential.
“An airplane rising into the sky is the only hope, the

only way to reach into a bigger world.”

DOROTHY
LEMEES ON:
CONTINUING A
TRADILON OF:
GIVING

There is little in our contemporary world that has not
been touched by the creative genius of Jerome Lemel-
son, one of America’s most prolific inventors. Bar
code readers, cordless phones, cassette players, and
camcorders are but a few of the hundreds of items
derived from the creativity of this remarkable man.
The legacy of Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson will
touch the lives of millions of Americans through
their generosity to the Smithsonian’s National
Museum of American History, Behring Center.
Since 1995, the Lemelson Foundation has con-
tributed $40 million to the creation and support of
the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center for the
Study of Invention and Innovation. The center pro-
vides programs and resources
aimed at engaging young people in
the study and exploration of tech-
nological invention and innovation.
Through her support of the
Smithsonian, Dorothy Lemelson
continues to impart the important
lessons of creative thought and
innovation her late husband so val-
ued. The Lemelson Foundation’s
most recent contribution of $14.5
million to the museum earmarked
substantial funds for both endow-
ment and operational support of
the center, as well as a future exhi-

bition on the Nobel Prize.

first major gift: a $750,000 challenge
grant from The Starr Foundation toward
the establishment of an endowment for
continuing support of its work in inte-
grating the Asian American experience
into the Smithsonian.

The success of fund-raising endeavors in
2000 soared with the rise in attendance at
museums, outreach programs, and travel-
ing exhibitions. The name “Smithsonian
Institution” garnered even greater visibility
among well-established constituencies and
new, diverse audiences across the country.
From a fund-raising total of $40 million in
fiscal year 1996 to an unprecedented $206.6
million four years later—with gifts greater
than $5 million each comprising half that
total—the Smithsonian’s fund raising has
gained substantial momentum.

The Office of Development is spear-
heading the effort to raise more than $1 bil-
lion from private sources in the next five
years, seeking new and imaginative
resources to help fund four major capital
projects, the refurbishment of existing
museum facilities, and the creation of
vibrant and compelling exhibitions.

In this annual report, we recognize and
applaud the many individuals, corporations,
foundations, and organizations that have
joined the Smithsonian in its eagerness to
expand and improve the nation’s most visi-
ble educational resource. Many such partner-
ships are described in greater detail through-
out this publication. Donors of $2,000 and
above from October 1, 1999, through Septem-
ber 30, 2000, are listed as part of this report.
Business Ventures

Developing the potential of the Smithsonian brand Newly reorganized as Smithsonian Business Ven-
tures, the Smithsonian’s core businesses—Smithsonian and Air ¢ Space/Smithsonian maga-
zines; museum retail stores, restaurants, and IMAX theaters; the mail order catalogue and
e-commerce; and licensing and media activities—launched a five-year strategy aimed at
doubling net gain. The Smithsonian has valuable assets in its millions of visitors, its sub-
scribers and readers, and its vast collections. Using these assets to capitalize on the power
of the Smithsonian brand can generate significant resources to support the Institution’s
vision of heightened public impact and influential scientific research.

e Business activities achieved a total net fiscal year 2002. This year’s accomplish-

The National Air and Space
Museum’s new three-level, 12,000-
square-foot store is the Smithso-

nian’s largest.

gain of $24.4 million in fiscal year 2000, a
decline of $5 million from the previous
year. The decline in earnings was due
principally to Smithsonian magazine
advertising, as compared with 1999, and
disappointing Catalogue holiday sales.
With new revenue streams and improved
management and marketing, Smithso-

nian Business Ventures expects to achieve

solid growth and a $30 million net gain by

ments indicate progress toward that goal.
Smithsonian Store.com, the virtual
superstore, was ready to launch by the
end of the fiscal year, offering more than
1,000 high-quality products based on
Smithsonian collections. A five-year,
multimillion-dollar collaborative licens-
ing agreement was negotiated with The
Museum Company for a comprehensive
e-retailing program.

Smithsonian magazine maintained its
circulation of 2.1 million even while
implementing a price increase. Monthly
readership for this flagship business is
estimated at more than 7.6 million.
Museum stores, restaurants, and IMAX
theaters on the National Mall served more
than 6.4 million customers this year. An
impressive new 12,000-square-foot store
opened in January at the National Air and
Space Museum.

A five-year, multimillion-dollar media
partnership was established with the
Animal Planet network, including televi-
sion specials on the giant pandas and a
13-part episodic series from the Smithso-
nian’s National Zoo.

Co-production agreements were reached
with Showtime Networks for Smithso-
nian-branded movies-of-the-week televi-
sion programs on the African American
experience and a four-part dramatic

series chronicling the First Ladies.

55
Financial Report

Fiscal year 2000 was an exciting one for the Smithsonian. Fund raising surpassed previous
records. Challenging new initiatives and major construction projects are under way. The
Smithsonian’s financial condition is strong. In 2000, our:

e Operating revenue increased 7 percent.

e Funds raised totaled $206.6 million, a
40 percent increase over 1999.

e Endowment had an annualized return of
15.8 percent.

e Business Ventures generated a net gain
of $24.4 million.

By the end of 2000, the market value of the

endowment was $742 million, and net

FY2000 SOURCES OF OPERATING REVENUES

: Other
Business Ventures 1%
0 ‘0

Investment Earnings
5%

Govt. Grants
& Contracts
11%

Contributions
& Private Grants
17%

J Federal
Appropriations
62%

assets of the Institution had reached a total
of $1,569 million.

The Smithsonian receives funding from
federal government appropriations and
from private sources, including gifts and
grants from individuals, foundations and
corporations; grants and contracts from
governmental entities; earnings from
investments; revenue from membership
programs and from sales activities, such as
Smithsonian magazine, museum stores and
restaurants, a mail order catalogue, large-
screen theaters, and licensed products.

Federal appropriations support core
functions: caring for and conserving our
national collections; sustaining basic
research in history, science, and the arts;
and educating the public through exhibi-
tions and other programs. Federal funds
also pay most costs associated with operat-
ing, maintaining, and protecting the large
Smithsonian museum and research com-
plex, as well as administrative and support

services.

FY 2000 FINANCIAL POSITION ($MILLIONS)
SEPTEMBER 30, 2000

ASSETS

LIABILITIES

Net ASSETS

56

1336

1,077

TOTAL FUNDS
2000 1999
2,078 1,741

742

1,569 1,334
Private funds, known as trust funds,
allow the Institution to undertake new ven-
tures and significantly enrich existing pro-
grams in ways that would not otherwise be
possible. These funds provide a critical

and building new facilities, opening state-
of-the-art exhibitions, and reaching out to
America’s many different communities.
An annual audit was conducted by
KPMG LLP. For a complete set of audited

margin of excellence for carrying out inno- _ financial statements, contact the Office of
vative research, expanding and strengthen- _ the Chief Financial Officer at (202) 275-

ing our national collections, developing 2020.

FY2000 FINANCIAL ACTIVITY ($MILLIONS)
SEPTEMBER 30, 2000

AMOUNT
2000 1999

POEERATING REVENUE 604 563

OPERATING EXPENSES 580 536

INCREASE IN OPERATING NET ASSETS

INCREASE IN OTHER ASSETS 214 162
TOTAL INCREASE IN NET ASSETS 235 189

MARKET VALUE OF ENDOWMENT
($MILLIONS)

1999 2000

57
ep,

a ee

BOP IT ag

5
x

&.

A tropical respite from Washing-
ton’s winter, The Artistry of
Orchids showcased selections
from the vast orchid collections of
the Office of Physical Plant’s
Horticulture Services Division and
the U.S. Botanic Garden in special-
ly designed garden spaces in the

Arts and Industries Building.

DISMING UISHED
BENEFACTORS
The Distinguished Benefactors room
honors the Institution’s most gener-
ous contributors whose gifts total
$1 million or more. Their abiding
vision and stewardship have pre-
served the traditions of the Smith-
sonian while furthering its mission.
Following the leadership of the
Institution’s founder, James Smith-
son, they have expressed their belief
in the Smithsonian through their
magnanimous support and represent
the truest spirit of philanthropy.
Gifts are as broad and varied as
the work of the Institution and help
support museum programs, exhibi-
tions, capital projects, scientific
endeavors, and national and regional
outreach activities.

Anonymous

American International Group, Inc.

A&E Television Network

Charles Francis Adams

American Airlines

American Chemical Society

AMS Foundation for the Arts,
Sciences and Humanities

Animal Planet

Apple Computer, Inc.

Art Research Foundation

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod

Laura Barney

Kenneth E. Behring Family

Max N. and Heidi L. Berry

James A. and Barbara H. Block

Mary and Leigh B. Block

Winton M. “Red” Blount

The Boeing Company

Agnes C. Bourne

The Brown Foundation, Inc. of
Houston

The Emil Buehler Trust

Mrs. Janet Burkle

William A. Burleson

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

The E. Rhodes & Leona B. Carpenter
Foundation

Cessna Aircraft Company

Chevy Chase Bank

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd

Florence Coulson Davis

Luisita L. and Franz H. Denghausen

Bern Dibner

Discover Financial Services, Inc.

Patricia C. Dodge

DuPont

The Eberly Family Trust

EDS

Charles H. Ettl

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

FDX Corporation

The Ford Foundation

Charles Lang Freer

Friends of the National Zoo

Patricia and Phillip Frost

Fujifilm

Arvin Gottlieb

Katharine Graham

The George Gund Foundation

George Gund III and Jara Lee

Karl H. Hagen

Enid A. Haupt

Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

Conrad N. Hilton Foundation

Ikuo Hirayama

Joseph Hirshhorn

Frank and Lisina Hoch

Holenia Trust in Memory of Joseph
H. Hirshhorn

Ruth S. and A. William Holmberg

Janet Annenberg Hooker

IBM Corporation

Intel Corporation

International Lease Finance
Corporation

Christian A. Johnson Endeavor
Foundation

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

W. K. Kellogg Foundation

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia

John S. and James L. Knight
Foundation

Kraft Foods

The Kresge Foundation

B. Y. Lam Foundation

Lannan Foundation

Robert Lehrman

The Lemelson Foundation

Barbara Riley Levin

Lockheed Martin Corporation

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Peter and Paula Lunder

The John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

Elizabeth and Whitney MacMillan

Alice S. Marriott Lifetime Trust/
J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott
Foundation

John and Adrienne Mars

Nan Tucker McEvoy

MCI WorldCom

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

NAMM-International Products
Association

National Association of Realtors

National Business Aviation
Association, Inc.

National Mining Association

The National Stone Association

The Nippon Foundation

Nissan North America, Inc.

Nordic Council of Ministers

Northrop Grumman Corporation

Occidental Chemical Corporation

Yoko Ono

The David and Lucile Packard
Foundation

Paul Peck

The Mashantucket Pequot Tribal
Nation

The Pew Charitable Trusts

Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc.

Pitney Bowes Inc.

Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation

The Principal Financial Group

Sara Roby Foundation

Rockefeller Foundation

David Rockefeller

Susan and Elihu Rose

Arthur Ross Foundation

Rodris Roth

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

The Children of Arthur M. Sackler

Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

John Safer

Victoria P. and Roger W. Sant

Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer

Nina and Ivan Selin

Shirley Phillips Sichel

Paul Singer

Sketch Foundation

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

The Starr Foundation

Margaret and Terry Stent

Eugene V. and Claire E. Thaw
Charitable Trust

Timex Corporation

TRW

TWA

Earl S. Tupper

Turner Foundation, Inc.

Steven F. Udvar-Hazy

United States Postal Service

The Upton Trust

Teodoro Vidal

VOLVO

Lila Wallace—Reader’s Digest Fund

Harry Winston Research
Foundation, Inc.
Ronald Winston

Xerox Corporation

59
DONORS OF
FINAN GUAE SUPPORT

The Smithsonian recognizes those
donors who made contributions
during the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2000.

$1,000,000 or more

Anonymous

A&E Television Network

American International Group, Inc.

Animal Planet

Laura Barney

Kenneth E. Behring Family

Max N. and Heidi L. Berry

Winton M. “Red” Blount

The Brown Foundation, Inc. of
Houston

Mrs. Janet Burkle

Chevy Chase Bank

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd

The Ford Foundation

Friends of the National Zoo

Fujifilm

Holenia Trust in Memory of Joseph
H. Hirshhorn

Ruth S. and A. William Holmberg

Christian A. Johnson Endeavor
Foundation

The Lemelson Foundation

Elizabeth and Whitney MacMillan

Alice S. Marriott Lifetime Trust/
J. Willard and Alice S. Marriott
Foundation

John and Adrienne Mars

Nan Tucker McEvoy

National Business Aviation
Association, Inc.

Northrop Grumman Corporation

The Mashantucket Pequot Tribal
Nation

Rodris Roth

Victoria P. and Roger W. Sant

The Starr Foundation

Margaret and Terry Stent

TRW

The Upton Trust

$500,000 or more

The Irving Caesar Lifetime Trust

The Chubb Corporation

Ms. Nanette L. Laitman

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Lucent Technologies Foundation

The Mills Corporation

National Air and Space Society

National Park Foundation

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw
Charitable Trust

Volvo Group North America

60

$100,000 or more

The Ahmanson Foundation

American Honda Motor
Company, Inc.

Automatic Data Processing, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Baker

Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc.

Mr. Jack S. Blanton

The Boeing Company

BP Amoco

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Mrs. Melva Bucksbaum

The E. Rhodes & Leona B. Carpenter
Foundation

Vinton G. and Sigrid T. Cerf

Cessna Aircraft Company

Mr. and Mrs. Landon T. Clay

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Congdon

Corning Incorporated

Corporation for Public Broadcasting

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger

Discovery Communications, Inc.

Dow Chemical Company
Foundation

The Eberly Family Trust

Mr. D. Travis Engen

Eurocopter Communications
Directorate

Fannie Mae Foundation

Federal City Council

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Feuille

Fidelity Foundation

The Ford Foundation

The Fund for U.S. Artists at
International Festivals and
Exhibitions

The Garden Club of America

J. Paul Getty Trust

Katharine Graham

Group 1 Software

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Haute Décor, Inc.

The Hearst Foundation, Inc.

Frank and Lisina Hoch

Ikea U.S., Inc.

W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc.

The Robert S. & Grayce B. Kerr
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. Peter B. Kovler and Dr. Judy
Lansing Kovler

KPMG

Mrs. Cynthia Lawrence

Robert Lehrman

Lockheed Martin Corporation

Richard Lounsbery Foundation

Ms. Claudine B. Malone

Barbara and Morton Mandel

The Mead Corporation

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Menschel

Merck Company Foundation

Mr. Jeffery W. Meyer

Mr. Howard Milstein

Mr. Charles Hewes Moore, Jr. and
Ms. Judith Moore

The Myers Family Foundation

NAMM -International Products
Association

National Geographic Society

Mrs. Paul M. Niebell, Sr.

Nissan North America, Inc.

David & Lucile Packard Foundation

Paul Peck

Phillips Petroleum Company
Norway

Mr. Thomas G. Pownall

T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.

Regional Citizens Advisory
Council, Inc.

James Renwick Alliance

Rocks Build America Foundation

Susan and Elihu Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin N. Seiler

Nina and Ivan Selin

Shirley Phillips Sichel

Sikorsky Aircraft

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

Guenther and Siewchin Yong
Sommer

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Streckewald

The Summit Charitable
Foundation, Inc.

The Surdna Foundation

Texaco, Inc.

Mr. Robert E. Turner, III

USWeb/CKS

Mrs. Hendrick H. van Biema

Mr. and Mrs. Mallory Walker

Washington Area Lawyers
for the Arts

Warren and Barbara Winiarski

Mr. Scott B. Wood

The Xerox Foundation

The Young Benefactors of the
Smithsonian Institution

$50,000 or more

Alcoa Foundation

Altman Foundation

America Online, Inc.

American Cocoa Research Institute
American Institute of Graphic Arts
Aviation Space Writers Foundation
Barbro Osher Pro Suecia Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein
Dr. and Mrs. Peter S. Bing

Agnes C. Bourne

BP

BP Exploration & Oil, Inc.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation
Mr. Torsten Brohan

Brother International Corporation

The Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Carolina Biological Supply Company

Champion International
Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Claussen

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards Foundation

Conservancy for Tibetan Art &
Culture

Consolidated Natural Gas Company
Foundation

Mr. Guido Craveri

Mr. Raimondo Craveri

Delta Education

Denver Museum of Natural History

Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner

Earthwatch Institute

Envelope Manufacturers Association

The Event Network, Inc.

Sherman Fairchild Foundation, Inc.

Farmers Group, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Fri

General Electric Company

Mr. Tito Giamporcaro

Mr. Gilbert W. Glass

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Hemphill, Jr.

Herman Miller, Inc.

Hewlett-Packard Company

The Hill Family Foundation, Inc.

Ruth S. Holmberg Fund of the
Community Foundation of
Greater Chattanooga

Housing Assistance Council

Italian Trade Commission

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. James

Janus-Merritt Strategies, LLC

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey M. Krueger

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin

Maharam

Mail Advertising Service Association

Maritz Travel Company

The National Association for Music
Education

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Jr.

Ms. Elizabeth E. Meyer

Morris Animal Foundation

New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

Colonel Erickson S. Nichols

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O’Connor

The Pinkerton Foundation

Mr. Edward Hart Rice

Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer

Dr. Evert I. Schlinger

The Gertrude E. Skelly Charitable
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence M. Small

Mr. and Mrs. Franchon M. Smithson

The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. David M. Sundman
Mr. Donald J. Sundman

Target Corporation

Time Warner Inc.

Turner Broadcasting System Inc.
TyCom

United Technologies Corporation
Ms. Selena M. Updegraff

Viking Sewing Machines, Inc.
Vitra, Inc.

The Women’s Museum

$10,000 or more

Anonymous

Abbott Laboratories Fund

Marjorie C. Adams Charitable Trust

Adamstein & Demetriou Inc.

Mr. Warren J. Adelson

Alitalia Airlines

Mrs. Kathleen B. Allaire

American Association for the
Advancement of Science

American Bankers Association

American Brachytherapy Society

American Express Company

American Hospital Association

American Management Association
International

American Scandinavian Foundation

American Society of Artificial
Internal Organs

American Standard, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Anheuser-Busch Companies

Argentum Foundation

Aria Foundation

ASARCO Incorporated

Association of American Law
Schools

Association of the United States
Army

AT&T Corporation

Ms. Elizabeth Ballantine

Binney & Smith, Inc.

James A. and Barbara H. Block

Bombardier Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Bradley

Mr. Eli Broad

Ms. Ann L. Bronfman

Mrs. Jackson Burke

David E. Burmaster, Ph.D.

W. Atlee Burpee Company

CACI International, Inc.

Mr. L. Hardwick Caldwell III

Cardiovascular Research Foundation

Chabot Observatory and Science
Center

Dr. Anthony Chang

Dr. Jaswinder K. Chattha

Dr. Sohan S. Chaudhry

Ms. Margaret A. Chisholm

Christie's

Citigroup

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

Cobe Laboratories, Inc.

The Coca-Cola Company

Dr. David A. Cofrin

Mr. Lester Colbert, Jr.

Mr. Walter Conser

Conservation Treaty Support Fund

Consolidated Edison Company of
New York, Inc.

Mr. Frank B. Crandall

Crate & Barrel

Arie & Ida Crown Memorial

Cyprus Amax Minerals Company

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Daniels, Jr.

Davenport Museum of Art

Davidson Plyforms, Inc.

The Gladys Krieble Delmas
Foundation

Deutsche Bank AG

S. Sydney DeYoung Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Diker

The Walt Disney Company

Walt Disney World Company

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph L. Dixon

DLJ Holding Ltd.

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation Inc.

DuPont

Durst Organization L.P.

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, III

Mr. James H. Edmonds

EGR International, Inc.

Ehrenkranz Family Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Michael D. Eisner

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Elliott

Emigrant Savings Bank

Mrs. Mary Engen

Envision Communications, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Ernst

The Eureka Company

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Evensonbest, LLC

Eveready Battery

Exxon Mobil Corporation

Foundation of the Litton Industries

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Feinberg

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Ferris, Jr.

Mr. Edward Ridley Finch, Jr.

Elizabeth Firestone-Graham
Foundation

Mrs. Helen Flanagan

Ms. Barbara G. Fleischman

Florida International Museum

Mrs. Leslie S. Fogg III

Mrs. Joanne Foster

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson Fund, Inc.

Friends of the Hunley, Inc.

Ms. Patricia K. Frontz

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger

Ms. Caroline D. Gabel

Gagosian Gallery

Galyan’s

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Gans

Mr. and Mrs. H. Clay Gardenhire

Garmar Foundation

Mr. Edward O. Gaylord

Genentech, Inc.

General Atlantic Partners, LLC

General Electric Aircraft Engines

General Motors Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Arie Genger

Geographic Expeditions

Giant Food Inc.

Mrs. Sara Tiedeman Gillespie

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

The Glenstone Foundation

Global Environment Fund

Mr. Irving P. Golden

Marian Goodman Gallery

Goya Foods, Incorporated

Mrs. Phyllis M. Grasty

Alvin, Lottie & Rachel Gray Fund

The Monica & Hermen Greenberg
Foundation

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation

Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Mrs. Ruth L. Halperin

Mr. Henry Ellis Harris, Jr.

Mrs. Martha Head

The Heidtke Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Robert A. Hemm

Heritage Harbor Museum

Mr. and Mrs. Adolph Herseth

Mr. Paul Hertelendy

Mr. Jeff Hill

Hilton Hotels Corporation

Mr. Alan J. Hirschfield

Hogan & Hartson

Hong Kong Economic &
Trade Office
Ms. Robyn Horn
Mr. Gary Horowitz
Mr. Mark Horowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Hough
Hughes Network Systems
IBM Corporation
Illuminating Engineering Society of
North America
Isaac 2000
Mr. James F. Jacoby
The Jaffe Family Foundation
Jewelers of America
Mr. William H. John
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. Stephen Johnson
Mr. B. Franklin Kahn
Mr. Myron Kaller
The Honorable Max M. Kampelman
Eugene J. Kaplan Family Trust

J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Ketchum Communications, Inc.

Kirkland & Ellis Foundation

Mrs. Rose C. Kramer

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. Sanford Krieger

Krispy Kreme Doughnut
Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Krissel

Dr. and Mrs. Gregory T. Kruglak

Ms. Lee Kush

Ms. Patricia A. Laird

Mr. and Mrs. James J. Lally

Mrs. Emily Fisher Landau

Ms. Elaine LaRoche

Mr. Arthur Lazarus, Jr.

L. S. B. Leakey Foundation

Mr. Thomas H. Lee and
Ms. Ann Tenenbaum

Mr. Jeffrey T. Leeds

Jacqueline and Marc Leland

Lemberg Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Harold Fitzgerald Lenfest

Ms. Emily Sherby Levenson

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Levin

Mr. and Mrs. Aaron Levine

The Levitt Foundation

Mr. Alan D. Levy

Lichtenberg Family Foundation, Inc.

Lincoln Mercury Corporation

The Link Foundation

Mr. Leonard Litwin

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Lockheed Martin Mission Systems

Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Lubin

Mr. H. Christopher Luce and
Ms. Tina Liu

Lucent Technologies, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter H. Lunder

Mr. and Mrs. Yo-Yo Ma

The Honorable and Mrs. John D.
Macomber

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Madigan

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney

The Malik Family Trust

Mr. Sam Maloof

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Malott

Nancy and Edwin Marks

Mr. Clyde Marr

Ms. Mary Martell and Mr. Paul
Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Martucci

The Masinter Family Foundation

Mrs. Margery F. Masinter

Dr. and Mrs. Ernst Mayr

Mr. Charles R. McAlister, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Sanford N. McDonnell

Dr. John P. McGovern

Miss Minnie Belle McIntosh

61
Medical and Science
Communications Development
Corporation

Medtronic, Inc.

Mr. Richard Meier

Mellor Family Foundation

Mr. Bernard H. Mendik

Merrill Lynch & Co. Fdn., Inc.

LuEsther T. Mertz Fund

Wilson & Geo. Meyer & Company

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Meyer

Mr. Harvey M. Meyerhoff

Microsoft Corporation

Mr. J. Irwin Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Miller

Mitsubishi Corporation

The Steven T. Mnuchin Foundation

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.

Enid and Lester Morse

Mr. John M. Morss

Mr. and Mrs. Furman C. Moseley, Jr.

Mr. Henry R. Munoz, III

Museum of Science

Charn S. Nandra, M.D.

NASA Goddard Alliance

National Academy of Recording Arts
& Sciences, Inc.

National Association of Secondary
School Principals

National Broadcasting
Company, Inc.

National Collegiate Honors Council

National Grange of the Order of
Patrons of Husbandry

National League of Cities

Nest Magazine

The New York Times Company

Newmark & Company Real
Estate, Inc.

Nordic Council of Ministers

Nortek, Inc.

Northeast Utilities Service Company

University of Notre Dame

Mr. and Mrs. Morris W. Offit

Ralph E. Ogden Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Steven H. Oliver

Camille Oliver-Hoffmann

Oneida Indian Nation

Origins of the Southwest

Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical

Mr. Arthur Pacheco

Pacific Life Foundation

Pacific Visions Communications

Padma Health Products, Inc.

Mr. Jene Pankow

Mr. John Pappajohn

The Park Foundation

Parke-Davis Group

Parsons Engineering Science, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Pearl

Pharmacia Corporation

62

The Philanthropic
Collaborative, Inc.

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Ms. Carol Pochardt

Mr. and Mrs. William Potter

Mrs. Martha Caroline Pradeau

Mr. and Mrs. Heinz C. Prechter

Price Family Charitable Fund

Mrs. Charles H. Price, II

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Pritzker

Privacy Council, Inc.

Public Corporation for the Arts

Mr. Allen E. Puckett

Putnam Investments

Mr. Thomas F. Pyle, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Quirk

Reed Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas K. Reed

Mr. Donald L. Reinking

Mr. Douglas R. Ring

Mr. Richard H. Robb

Ms. Ann R. Roberts

Mr. John R. Robinson

Roche Diagnostic Systems, Inc.

Dr. Ruth Roland

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

Mr. Stephen M. Ross

Mr. Gary Roth

Eric de Rothschild

The Judith Rothschild Foundation

The May and Samuel Rudin Family
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Sackler

Else Sackler

Dr. Marietta Lutze Sackler

SAE International

Dr. H. Sahota

San Diego Society of Natural
History

Ujjal Singh Sandhu, M.D.

Sappi, Ltd.

Sara Lee Foundation

Saturn Electronics & Engineering

Dr. and Mrs. Rolf G. Scherman

Margaret Knowles Schink

David Schwartz Foundation, Inc.

Scient

Shaw Industries, Inc.

Shell Oil Company

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Sherman

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Silfen

Silver Dollar City Inc.

Silverstream Software, Inc.

Mr. Donald H. Siskind

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore J. Slavin

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen K Soldoff

Mr. David Sonenberg

Space Frontier Foundation

Space.Com, Inc.

Mr. Jerry I. Speyer

Starwood Capital Group, LLC
Tom and Kitty Stoner

Richard and Nina Sussman

Mr. and Mrs. Kelso F. Sutton
Synergics Energy Development
Mr. Jackson Tai

Mr. Steven J. Tamkin

Mr. Robert C. Tang, Q.C.

Tarver Family Fund

TC Group L.L.C.

The Tides Foundation

Tiffany & Company

Mrs. Doris B. Tornroth

Toyota Motor North America, Inc.
Marcia Brady Tucker Foundation
Unico Banking Group

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Waite
Mr. Brent Wallis

Mr. Artur Walther

Warren Wilson College

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
Mr. Charles Weingartner

Mr. Eric W. Weinmann

Mr. Edward A. Weinstein

Dr. and Mrs. George David Weiss
Mr. Keith S. Wellin

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Welters
Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust
Mr. Josh S. Weston

Mr. Carrington Williams

Wilson Charitable Trust

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn

World Wildlife Fund

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Ms. Nina Zolt and Miles Gilburne

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. Roger Abelson

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald D. Abramson

American Center for Design

Dr. and Mrs. Ken S. Bajaj

Dr. Surinder S. Bajwa

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Barwick

Battelle Memorial Institute

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Bennett

Birthplace of Country Music
Alliance

Whitney Boin Studio Inc.

Ms. Eleanor F. Bourke

The British Council, USA

Mr. Earle Palmer Brown

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

Mr. Gerald E. Buck

Steve Burnett, Inc.

Bushnell Sports Optics Worldwide

Ms. Rosalie K. Butzel

The Capital Group Companies, Inc.

The Honorable Henry E. Catto

Captain Eugene A. Cernan,
USN (Ret.)

Chamber Music America, Inc.

The Chase Manhattan Bank

Chesapeake Region Lace Guild

Chesapeake Wildlife Heritage

Citizens Utility Company

Dr. John P. Comstock

Consolidated Natural Gas Company

Mrs. Ann Cousins

Douglas S. Cramer Foundation

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Diamon K Outfitters

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Dorn

Mr. Donald J. Douglass

William L. Ebbs DDS &
Associates, PC

Lyda Ebert Family Foundation

Mr. Farhad F. Ebrahimi

Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz

Mr. and Mrs. George J. Fan

Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation

Ms. Martha Feltenstein

Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund

The Gap

Ms. Barbara Guggenheim and
Mr. Bertram Fields

Mrs. June M. Fontanier

Mr. William Clay Ford

Mr. James S. Frank

Freedom Museum

Mr. George C. Freeman, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Peter A. Freeman

The Frist Foundation

Gamma-Metrics

GEICO Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty

Golden Family Foundation

Ms. Elizabeth Gosnell

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies in the Fine Arts

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Graham

Richard Gray Gallery L.P.

Mr. Murray A. Gribin

Mr. H. Malcolm Grimmer

Ms. Barbara Guggenheim and Mr.
Bertram Fields

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Haas

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Haldeman

Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr.

Hamilton Sundstrand Aerospace

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic C. Hamilton

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hammett

Mr. and Mrs. Irshad-ul-Haque

Sylvia and Alexander Hassan Family
Foundation

Carolyn and Robert Hedin Fund

Mrs. Drue M. Heinz

Mr. J. Roderick Heller, III

The Clarence and Jack Himmel
Foundation
Home Box Office

Mr. Eric Horowitz

Howard University

Mr. John K. Howat

Mr. John L. Huber

Hunter Douglas, Inc

Ms. Kathleen M. Ilyin

Imax Limited

Industrial Designers Society of
America

International Children’s Museum

Mr. Robert C. Johnson

Mr. Robert L. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob C. Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Karatz

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Kaufman

The William H. Kearns Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly, III

Mrs. Olive Dibben Kemp

Mr. and Mrs. R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.

Mr. William G. Kerr

Mr. James V. Kimsey

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Klein

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Lieutenant Colonel William K. and
Mrs. Alice S. Konze

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. Shau-wai Lam

Mr. and Mrs. Jon Landau

Alvin S. Lane, Esq.

Mr. Marshall O. Larsen

Mr. Leonard A. Lauder

Dr. Thomas Lawton

LEF Foundation

Robert Lehman Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. R. Robert Linowes

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Linton

Lockheed Martin Missiles & Space

Loudenslager Enterprises Inc.

MAAR Associates, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Mr. Matthew Marks

Mars Foundation

Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia, Inc.

Margery and Edgar Masinter

The May Department Stores
Company

MayaTech Corporation

Nan Tucker McEvoy
Foundation, Inc.

The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.

Mr. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Memphis Rock ’n’ Soul, Inc.

Mexican Heritage Corporation

Miami Museum of Science

Mr. Edward J. Minskoff

Ms. Maureen L. Miskovic

Mr. James A. Mitchell

Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.

The Mnuchin Foundation

Mr. Jon Molot and
Ms. Hattie Ruttenberg

The Henry Moore Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Mullins

Museum of American Financial
History

The Museum of Arts and Sciences

Museum of Progress

NAMSSB Foundation, Inc.

New York State Museum

Dr. Dan H. Nicolson

Nordstrom

North Carolina Museum of Natural
Sciences

Peter Norton Foundation

Novartis Corporation

Mr. Francis J. O’ Toole

Mrs. Camille Oliver-Hoffmann

Ms. Virginia J. Ortega

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Osnos

PaceWildenstein

Parnassus Foundation

Mr. Harish Patel

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Pearson Art Foundation Inc.

Mr. James E. Pehta

Mr. Gerald P. Peters

Mrs. Vivian L. Pollock

Mr. James S. Polshek

Mrs. John Alexander Pope

Dr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin

Pratt & Whitney

Mrs. Lewis T. Preston

Principal Mutual Life Insurance
Company

Mr. Gene Quintana

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Rachlin

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

The Christopher Reynolds
Foundation

Mary Livingston Ripley Charitable
Lead Trust

Mr. John W. Rogers, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Rosenfeld

Harold I. Rubenstein Family
Charitable Foundation

Mrs. Polly Rubin

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams

Mr. and Mrs. Cameron H. Sanders

Santa Fe Pro Musica, Inc.

Sears, Roebuck and Company

Semiconductor Industry Association

Nate S. & Ruth B. Shapero
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. J. Henry Sheffield

Mr. and Mrs. James Shinn

The Skerryvore Foundation, Inc.

Julia R. Smith Lifetime Trust

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith

Mr. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony M. Solomon

Sony Corporation

Sony Music Entertainment Inc.

Mr. Ira Spanierman

Steelcase, Inc.

Alexander & Margaret Stewart Trust

Mr. Stanford C. Stoddard

Mrs. H. William Tanaka

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

Lady Judith O. Thomson

Time Inc.

Mr. Joseph G. Tompkins

Tupperware

Mr. Norman H. Volk

Ms. Patty Wagstaff

Warner—Lambert Company

Mrs. Eileen A. Wells

Mr. Robert A. Williams

Mr. Eli Wilner and Ms. Barbara
Brennan

Ms. Dora Wong

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel W. Yohannes

Mr. Henry C. Zenke, III

$2,000 or more
Anonymous
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Danese Altman, LLC
American Bird Conservancy
American General
American Institute of Aero & Astro
American Jazz Museum
American Planning Association
Harriett Ames Charitable Trust
Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.
ARCO Foundation, Inc.
Art Alliance for Contemporary Glass
Arthur Andersen, LLP
Atlanta International Museum
Jean Axelrod Memorial Foundation
B&O Railroad Museum
Mr. Sidney Babcock and
Ms. Samantha Butler
Ms. Susanne Bachtel
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Balzer
Mr. Robert A. Bartlett, Jr.
Mr. Jorge L. Batista
Mr. Frederic Berger
Mrs. Katherine Brittain Bradley
Brand Environment Partners
Mrs. Rochelle L. Brunner
Mr. John R. Butler, Jr.
Mr. Paul Calello
California Institute of Technology
Mr. Tommie Carl
Carpenter Group
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver T. Carr
Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Carr
Mr. and Mrs. Cummins
Catherwood, Jr.
The Center for Art Education

The Chase Manhattan Foundation
Ms. Jeanne Z. Chiao
Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs
Ms. Priscilla Christy
Mr. and Mrs. Brice M. Clagett
The Honorable Jeannine Smith Clark
Ms. Jan McLin Claybergand and
Mr. Olaf Bexhoeft
The Honorable Bonnie Cohen
Mr. Edward Cohen
Melvin and Ryna Cohen
Mr. Marcus Cohn
Concrete Media, Inc.
Ms. Nancy L. Connor
Dr. Ronald M. Costell and
Ms. Marsha E. Swiss
Ruth Covo Family Foundation
The Cowles Charitable Trust
Mr. Douglas S. Cramer
Ms. Harriett M. Crosby
Priscilla Cunningham and
Jay C. Lick Dyke
Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Ltd.
Dallas Museum of Natural History
Dalva Brothers, Inc.
Mrs. M. A. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. R. P. Davison
Mr. Oscar de la Renta
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Del Balso
Mr. Marion Deshmukh
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mr. and Mrs. William H. E. Doole
Mr. and Mrs. Dale F. Dorn
Dorsey & Whitney Foundation
Mr. William Drenttel
Dreyfus Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Dubin
Mrs. Alexander Dunbar
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony T. Enders
Mrs. Myron S. Falk, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder
Dr. Alan Fern and Mrs. Lois Fern
Mr. Emilio A. Fernandez
Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Ms. Anne Forbes
Mrs. Anne Ford
Mrs. Charlotte M. Ford

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Friedlander

Mr. Peter Fudge
Ms. Nely Galan
Georgetown University
Mr. George J. Gillespie, III
Dr. Kurt A. Gitter and
Ms. Alice Yelen
Mr. Philip H. Goldentyer
Dr. Margaret Goodman
Mr. Richard E. Gray
Mrs. Theodora S. Greenbaum
The William and Mary Greve
Foundation

Mr. Gary Grossman

63
Group of Dominican Professionals
of Washington, D.C.

Mr. Erwin M. Gudelsky and
Ms. Harriet Silverman

Ms. Agnes S. Gund

Ms. Elizabeth W. Gwinn

Mr. John M. Haddow

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Halpern

Hayes & Associates

The Honorable John W.
Hechinger, Sr.

Ms. Margot R. Heckman

Mr. Brian Heidtke

The Heller Family Foundation

The Honorable and Mrs. Richard M.

Helms
Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Herlitz
Levy Hermanos Foundation, Inc.
Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess
Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn
Mr. Howard Hodgkin
Ms. JunAnn Holmes
Mr. William Hoover
Mr. Joseph Horning
Vice Admiral William D.
Houser, USN

Mr. and Mrs. Roland M. Howard, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Stanley O. Ikenberry

Institut fur Auslandsbeziehungen

The Institute for Intercultural
Studies, Inc.

Mr. David Jacques

Mr. Richard J. Janes

Mr. and Mrs. David Jernigan

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Jessup, Jr.

J P Company

Mr. and Mrs. Stanton Jue

Mr. John E. Katzenmeyer

J. C. Kellogg Foundation

Mr. Richard H. Kimberly

James V. Kimsey

Mr. Jatinder Kumar, Trustee
of APCA

Mr. Myron Kunin

Dr. and Mrs. Emanuel Landau

Dr. Thomas W. Langfitt

Laplaca Cohen Advertising, Inc.

Mr. Albert G. Lauber, Jr. and
Mr. Craig W. Hoffman

Mr. Edward J. Lenkin

Dr. Thomas Lentz

Mrs. Jane Lightcap

Ms. Ann Ling

Ms. Marilyn C. Link

Lippincott & Margulies

Mr. and Mrs. Jan Lodal

Mr. Meredith J. Long

Dr. Penn Lupovich

Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Magid

Marriott International, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Marsh

Mr. Enrico Martignoni

64

Major General and Mrs. Raymond E.

Mason, Jr.

Dr. Wayne N. Mathis

McAllen International Museum

Mr. and Mrs. William P. McClure

Mr. Arnold B. McKinnon

Dr. Gilbert D. Mead and
Dr. Jaylee Mead

Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern
Art Studies

Ms. Paula Paster Michtom

Mr. Steve Mignogna

General and Mrs. Kenneth P. Miles

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert S. Miller

Mr. J. Sanford Miller

Diane and Kenneth Miller

Ms. Rebecca Ann Miller

Mr. J. Gregory Milmoe

Ms. Madge Rutherford Minton

Mobil Foundation, Inc.

Dr. Allen M. Mondzac

Elayne and Marvin Mordes

Mr. and Mrs. I. A. Morris

Mr. Murray Moss

Museum of Latin American Art

Museum of the Americas

Mr. Jack Nash

National Asian Pacific American Bar
Association

National Underground Railroad
Freedom Center

National Soft Drink Association

National Trust for Historic
Preservation

Nevada Test Site Historical
Foundation

Newsweek, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. Halsey North

O’Hara Gallery

Odegard, Inc.

Oklahoma Historical Society

Mr. Donald Oresman

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathon J. Oscher

Ms. Cheryl Owen

Pasadena Art Alliance

Ms. Lynne Pasculano

Mr. Stephen M. Peck

H. O. Peet Foundation

Pentagram Design, Inc.

PEPCO

Mr. Jorge Peralta

Permanent Mission of Germany
to the UN

Pew Partnership for Civic Change

Mr. Carl H. Pforzheimer

Barry and Beverly Pierce

Mr. Harvey B. Plotnick

Podesta Associates, Inc.

Mrs. Elliott I. Pollock

Prince Charitable Trusts

Ms. Judy Lynn Prince

Mr. Allen W. Prusis

Mr. Charles Rademaker

Dr. William C. Ramsay

Dr. and Mrs. David L. Raphling

The Rau Foundation, Inc.

Razorfish USA

The C. Frank Reavis
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Morgan Rees

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Mr. David Rockefeller, Sr.

Karol K. Rodriguez

Anton H. Rosenthal and
Ruth E. Ganister

Ms. Loretta Rosenthal

Gloria F. Ross Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Miles L. Rubin

The Safer-Fearer Fund

Mr. and Mrs. David Saity

Charles E. Sampson Memorial
Foundation

San Diego Natural History Museum

Santa Fe Art Foundation

SBL, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schmidt

Mr. Steven Schmidt

Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell R. Schneider

Mr. Leslie J. Schreyer

Robert and Caroline Schwartz
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Schwob

Mr. Martin E. Segal

M. Sigmund & Barbara K. Shapiro
Family Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey R. Short, Jr.

Dr. Gursharan Sidhu

Siegelgale, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Arman R. Simone

Mrs. H. Robert Slusser

Ms. Jennifer Jean Small

Smart Designs

Mr. Bernald Smith

Mr. David Byron Smith, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth L. Smith

Ms. Frances D. Smyth

Space Telescope Science Institute

Mr. Robert A. M. Stern

Mr. and Mrs. Roger D. Stone

Storytelling Foundation
International

Strong Museum

Mrs. Elizabeth Strong—Cuevas

Ms. Sandra Sully

Mr. Mark W. Sundberg

Dr. Mahinder Tak and
Mr. Sharad Tak

Mrs. Stuart Symington

Mr. Harold Tanner

Mr. Frederick W. Telling

Textron Inc.

Mrs. Alice Tisch

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Tober

UNESCO

University of Pennsylvania

Mr. and Mrs. Greg Wageman

Mr. and Mrs. Shao F. Wang

Mr. William B. Warner

Warner—Lambert Company

Mr. Tetsunkuni Watanabe

Mr. Edward Wayson

Mrs, Janet L. Wayson

The Honorable and Mrs. Frank A.
Weil

Mr. and Mrs. Guy Weill

Mr. and Mrs. Franc Wertheimer

The Western Reserve Historical
Society

Ms. Angela Westwater

Mr. William F. Whalen and
Ms. Nancy Mattson

Ms. Shelby White and Dr. Leon Levy

Mrs. Paula M. Whitehouse

Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Wimpfheimer

Mr. David Y. Ying

Ms. Virginia Hawthorne Zenke

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Zucker

SMITHSONIAN
G€ORPO RARE
MEMBERSHIP
PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Corporate
Membership Program is a national
initiative through which corpora-
tions provide unrestricted support
to Smithsonian education, research,
and exhibition initiatives.

3M

ABC, Ine.

American Express

American General

Arthur Andersen LLP

Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Bayer Corporation

The Beacon Group

BellSouth Corporation

Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc.

BP

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Capital One

CH2M Hill Companies Ltd.

Citibank

The Clark Construction Group, Inc.

The Coca-Cola Company

Columbia University Business
School

Conoco Inc.

DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund

Debevoise & Plimpton

Deutsche Bank

Dewey Ballantine LLP
DuPont

Eastman Kodak Company

Eli Lilly and Company

Eurasia Group

ExxonMobil Corporation

Fannie Mae

Fidelity Investments

First Union Corporation

Ford Motor Company

Fried, Frank, Shriver and Jacobsen

Gannett

General Electric Company

Goldman, Sachs & Company

Hitachi Limited

Hunter Douglas

Jane Eyre the Musical

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

The Kansai Electric Power
Company, Inc.

Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club

Kirkland & Ellis

KPMG

Lee Enterprises

Litton Industries

Liz Claiborne

Mars Incorporated

Martha Stewart Living

Merck and Company, Inc.

Merrill Lynch

MetLife

J. P. Morgan & Company, Inc.

National Association of Display
Industries

Nest Magazine

Noble Drilling Corporation

Novartis Corporation

Paleontological Research Institute

Pepco

Pfizer Inc

Pharmacia Corporation

Polshek Partnership Architects

Raytheon Company

Riggs Bank N.A.

Scripps Howard Foundation

Siemens Foundation

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom

Sony Corporation of America

Southern Company

Sprint Corporation

State Farm Insurance Companies

Steelcase

Texas Instruments

The Tokyo Electric Power
Company, Inc.

Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A, Inc

Tribune Company

TRW Ine.

United Gulf Management

United Van Lines

U. S. Bank

Verizon Corporation

Whitney Boin Studio
Windhover Information Systems
Xerox Corporation

JAMES SMITHSON
SOIGIER™

James Smithson Society members
share a deep commitment to the
dynamic unfolding of James Smith-
son’s vision. The society's dues and
special gifts provide unrestricted
support for the Smithsonian’s re-
search, exhibition, and educational

programs.

Endowed Life Members
Anonymous
Karen and Edward Burka
Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton
Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds
Mr. Daniel Gilbert and Mrs. Alice
Petree Gilbert
Mrs. Alton B. Grimes
William Logan Hopkins
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaufman
Lieutenant Colonel and
Mrs. William K. Konze
Pearl Bell and Colonel Billie G.
Matheson, Ret.
Jaylee and Gilbert Mead
Ms. Carol Pochardt
Anton H. Rosenthal and
Ruth E. Ganister
Catherine F. Scott
Shelby Shapiro
J. Henry and Virginia Sheffield
Shirley Phillips Sichel
Mr. Richard L. Triska

Annual Members

$10,000 or more

The Jean Axelrod Memorial
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Ms. Nancy L. Connor

The Da Capo Fund

The Eberly Family Trust

The Gordon Fund

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence M. Small

Mrs. Betty Rhoads Wright

$5,000 or more

Mr. William Arndt

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

Carter and Melissa Cafritz
Charitable Trust

Dr. and Mrs. David A. Cofrin

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Mr. James A. Elkins, Jr.

The Virginia Sugg Furrow
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Michael C. Gelman

Ms. Lumina Greenway

Mr. Corbin Gwaltney

Stephen and Jocelin Hamblett

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Britt Harmon

Miss Nancy A. Haynes

The Honorable and Mrs. John W.
Hechinger Sr.

Therese and I. Michael Heyman

Mr. James T. Hines, Jr.

Mrs. Roy Johnson

Dr. Edward J. Kirby

Mr. William Layson

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan Mac Millan

Mary Martell and Paul Johnson

Ms. Corenne McKinley

Meriam MeNiel

Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.

Mr. Michael D. O’Dell and
Ms. Judith Grass

C. Wesley and Jacqueline Peebles

John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Mrs. Melville J. Price

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John Watts Roberts

Mrs. I. Alfred Rosenbaum, Jr.

Vicki and Roger Sant

Ms. Evelyn Twigg—Smith

Miss Winifred E. Weter

Ellen and Bernard Young

$2,000 or more

Anonymous (38)

Mrs. August Ackel+

Mr. Terry L. Albertson

Mr. and Mrs. Lambert E. Althaver
Mrs. Carole Altice

Miss Barbara Anne Ames

Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
Mr. Leonard Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph Arkin
Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Bernard Aronson

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Avery
Mr. and Mrs. Brian J. Baker

Mr. and Mrs. Steven C. Bakerink
Mr. Robert J. Barker

Ms. Janine F. Barre

Ms. Elizabeth V. Barrer

Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Barton
Rhoda and Jordan Baruch

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs
Mr. Michael D. Bielucki
Dr. Deborah Black
The Honorable Robert O. Blake and
Mrs. Blake
Mr. John H. Blazek
Mr. and Mrs. Huntington T. Block
Mr. William K. Block
Elizabeth Board
Mr. and Mrs. William J. D. Bond
Ms. Jane A. Boorman
Mrs. Howard M. Booth
Mr. Bennett Boskey
Mr. David Boyes
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Bresler
Mr. J. Kevin Buchi and
Dr. Kathleen Buchi
The Bunting Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Burch
Mrs. Audrey S. Burnand
Dr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Burnes
Ms. Alice Green Burnette
Mrs. Helen N. Cabell
Mr. Kenneth S. Cameron
Mrs. Phyllis H. Carey
Mr. Donald Carl
Mr. William Carlebach
Dennis and Pamela Casey
Ms. Eva M. Casner
Dr. and Mrs. Vinton Cerf
Mr. Alger Chaney
Dr. Jonathan L. Chang
Colonel and Mrs. George E.
Chapin, Jr.
Ms. Li Chu
Mr. and Mrs. J. Donald Cline
Mr. and Mrs. Melvin S. Cohen
The Honorable Barber Conable Jr.
and Mrs. Conable
Mr. Richard P. Cooley
Mr. and Mrs. Donald N. Coupard
Ms. Jean Coyne
Mrs. Crayton M. Crawford
Mrs. Gretchen Smith Crow
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Daniels, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Worth B. Daniels
Mr. John H. Darlington, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Daschbach
Barry and Nora Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Davis
Mrs. M. A. Davis
Mrs. Anna Day
Mr. Arthur F. Dellheim
Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard G. Dennis, Jr.
Mr. Geert M. Deprest and
Ms, Laura Travis-Deprest
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. R. Dewart
Hilton B. Dickerson
Ms. Claudia Dickman

65
The Honorable Douglas Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Dr. and Mrs. William H. L. Dornette

Ms. Jacqueline H. Dryfoos

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Mrs. Shirley Egashira

Miss Babs Eisman

Mrs. Harriet J. Eiwen

Mr. and Mrs. Richard England

Gary and Jeri Epstein

Colonel Charles O. Eshelman

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Fayad

Ms. Dianne Fecteau

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Feldman

Dr. and Mrs. Adrian E. Flatt

David A. Fleming, M.D.

Mary and Henry Flynt

Mr. Philip E. Forest

The Honorable Rockwood Hoar
Foster and Mrs. Foster

Mr. Benjamin Frank

Ernst and Elfriede Frank
Foundation Inc.

Ms. Betty Fraser

Mr. and Mrs. Eric P. Fraunfelter

Virginia McGehee Friend

Mr. Cary J. Frieze

David Morgan Frost

Mrs. L. J. Futchik

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. and Mrs. Caspar C. Garrigues

Mr. and Mrs. Carl S. Gewirz

Mrs. John T. Gibson :

Dr. and Mrs. Clarence G. Glenn

Mr. Charles Goldsberry

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Graham

Ms. Catharine Graton

Mrs. John B. Greene

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mr. Edward C. Groark

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

Bruce Guthrie

Mr. Tom Gwaltney

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Hall

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Robert V. and Rita S. Hanle

Mrs. Marguerite J. Harbert

Nancy W. Harding

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mrs. Jane S. Hart

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Hartl

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman, Jr.

Ms. Chatten Hayes

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner
Robert and Gladys Henry
Catherine W. Herman

Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess
Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo

Mrs. Clara Jane Hill

66

Ms. Nancy A. Hoffmann
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Hopkins
Mr. and Mrs. Peter House
Mr. Tommy D. Hughes
Mrs. Peter D. Humleker, Jr.
Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter
Mr. Joshua Icore
Mr. L. R. Ingels
John Ippolito and

Diane Laird-Ippolito
Dr. Jay and Dr. Mary Anne Jackson
Mr. David A. Jacques
David and Pat Jernigan
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. Woodrow C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones
Mr. Kenneth L. Jordan, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur L. Jung, Jr.
Mr. John C. Kane
Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon T. Katz
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay
Ms. Shelley Kay
Mr. Stephen C. Keeble and
Ms. Karen Depew
Dr. Rebecca Kenyon

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering
Mr. and Mrs. Clark H. Kilhefner
Dr. William M. King
Mr. and Mrs. Norman V. Kinsey
Susan L. Klaus
Ms. Elizabeth Gelman Kossow
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger
Mr. Wayne E. Kurcz
Mrs. James S. Lacock
The Honorable Marion Ladwig and
Mrs. Ladwig
Dr. and Mrs. Emanuel Landau
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Lando
Mrs. Stephens J. Lange
Mrs. Janet E. Lanman
Mr. James K. Leach
Dr. E. H. Leduc
Dr. and Mrs. LaSalle D. Leffall, Jr.
Mrs. William Leonhart
Mr. William B. Levin and
Ms. Canice Kelly Levin
Mr. James Lintott and
Ms. May Liang
Dr. and Mrs. John G. Lodmell
Mr. Frank J. Lukowski
Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.
Dr. Hugh S. Mainzer and
Ms. Jill Jarecki Mainzer
Mr. and Mrs. Jack A. Mark
Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.
Mrs. Virginia C. Mars
Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli
Major General Raymond E.
Mason, Jr. and Mrs. Mason
Dr. Thomas R. Masters

Wayne and Tina Mathews
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias
Philip R. Mayhew
Mr. James I. McAuliff
Emmett and Miriam McCoy
Richard and Vivian McCrary
Mr. and Mrs. Clayton McCuistion
Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean
Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman
His Excellency Sir Christopher
Meyer
Mr. George H. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert S. Miller
Ms. Elizabeth M. Molloy and
Mr. Timothy E. Welch
Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose, Jr.
Mrs. Rosalis Montgomery
Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran
Mr. Robert E. Mortensen
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth F.
Mountcastle
Dr. and Mrs. Gary L. Mueller
Dr. J. Andrew Mulholland
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Munroe
Mrs. Ray Murray
Ms. Linell E. Nemeth
Mr. and Mrs. Eric B. Nettere
Ms. Mary Nucci
Mr. and Mrs. Merlin G. Nygren
Dr. and Mrs. J. Dennis O’Connor
Ms. Nancy F. O’Connor
Mr. James D. Oglevee and
Ms. Susan Marie Halliday
Sture G, Olsson
Mr. and Mrs. Steven F. Paes
Mr. and Mrs. Gregory J. Parseghian
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Peacock Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Scott D. Pearson
Mrs. Thomas Perkins
Mrs. Ruby Q. Petersen
George and Sally Pillsbury
Mr. John Pitts, Sr.
Mrs. Jane P. Plakias
Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky/
The Polsky Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Posner, Jr.
Mrs. Charles P. Price
Mr. William Raduchel
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Radway, Jr.
Mr. Elmer Rasmuson
Mr. and Mrs. Norval L. Rasmussen
Mrs. Carol H. Ray
Mr. Michael F. Reagan
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Hart Rice
Mrs. Carlyn Ring
Doug Ring and Cindy Miscikowski
Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts
Ms. Nancy Robertson and
Mr. Mark Cookingham
Mr. Arthur Rock

The Honorable John D. Rockefeller,
IV and Mrs. Rockefeller

Mrs. Howard W. Rosser

Mrs. Yvonne W. Roth

Ms. Marya Rowan

Ms. Marcia Rubenstein

Mr. Marcos Russek

Mr. Edward H. Sachtleben

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Sbar

The Honorable James H. Scheuer
and Mrs. Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Roger P. Schlemmer

Ms. Maybelle Schneider

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Shapiro

Mrs. Selma Shapiro

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz

Mr. Winslow T. Shearman

Mr. Allan E. Shore

Mrs. Alan B. Showalter

Charles Siegel

Alan and Sarah Skerker

Dr. Lionel J. Skidmore and
Dr. Jean M. Karle

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Dr. Harvey C. Slocum, Jr.

Mr. Robert D. Smith

General and Mrs. W. Y. Smith

Mrs. Lillian Solomon

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R.
Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Sowell

Helen B. Spaulding

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. Bernie Stadiem

Dr. Marjorie L. Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Sterling, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Shepard B. Stone

Mr. Roy T. Strainge

Ms. Carolyn Swift

Mr. Joseph M. Tessmer

Ms. Marjorie E. Thomas

Mr. Stephen Tilton

Ms. Carol Todd

The Honorable and Mrs. Russell E.
Train

Mr. and Mrs. George Travis

Helen Brice Trenckmann

Bryan Troutman and
Margaret Fischer

Ms. Eva F. Tully

Mr. James F. Turner

Mr. M. S. Ursino

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von
Hoffmann

Colonel Harold W. Vorhies

Mrs. Robert Waidner
Dr. and Mrs. Wesley W. Walton
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.
Lee Weissman

Mr. and Mrs. Craig L. Weston

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Wherley
Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. White
Mr. John K. White

The Honorable John C. Whitehead
Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox
Mrs. Elizabeth Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley S. Williams, Jr.

Pat and Harvey Wilmeth
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Wilson
Mr. Joseph G. Wirth
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Womble
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Wright
Ms. Alice Wrobleski
Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman
Mr. Gregory B. Young
Mary L. Zicarelli
Mr. Henri Zimand
Mr. and Mrs. Michael N. Zirkle
Ms. Nina Zolt and
Mr. Miles Gilburne

Deceased

Life Members

Prior to 1985, Life Members were
appointed to the James Smithson

Society in recognition of significant,

one-time contributions to the
Institution.

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod

Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Edwin W. Bitter

Dr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd

Lee Bronson

Dr. Ruth D. Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H.
Caldwell, Jr.

Mr. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.

Mrs. George H. Capps

Carol Chiu

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell
Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham
Dr. Bruce E. Dahrling, II

Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont
Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II

Patricia and Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

C. Paul and Pat S. Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott
Mrs. W. G. Gould

Dawn Greene

Doris Stack Greene

Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mrs. Melville W. Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Mr. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mr. Paul Horgan

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
Dr. Annette Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. Peter Merrill Klein

Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Mrs. David Landau

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger
Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon
Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and Mr. Joshua
M. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Robert Levey and Karen Levey
Mrs. Frances Lewis

Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian
Mr. John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Messman
Mr. W. A. Moldermaker

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann
Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John Alexander Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Kate Rinzler

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts

The Honorable Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mrs. Janos Scholz

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery

Mrs. Helen F. Sloan

Mrs. Edith Thomas Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

The Honorable Elaine Jackson Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.

Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Doctors Yen Tan

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

Lillian Scheffres Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams

Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

SMITHSONIAN

DEG AG Yesi@e Ein

The Smithsonian Legacy Society
honors our friends who carry on
James Smithson’s tradition through

legacy gifts to the Smithsonian, such

as bequests, charitable gift annuities,

charitable remainder trusts, pooled
income fund gifts, gifts of retire-
ment and life insurance plans, and

other giving vehicles.

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton,
Founding Chairman

Anonymous (17)

Mr. H. V. Andersen+

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Mrs. J. Paul Austin

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Baecht

William C. and Nellie N. Baker

Mr. Gary F. Beanblossom

Col. and Mrs. Joseph S. Benham

George and Bonnie Bogumill

Mr. Richard L. Bolling

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Boone

Mr. Richard E. Booth

Col. Charles Botula III, USAF (Ret.)

Susan K. Botula

Mr. John Brokaw

Mr. Pulaski Broward, Jr.

Mrs. Agnes M. Brown

Mr. Berchman T. Carville}

Mr. Michael W. Cassidy

Fenner A. Chace, Jr.

Mr. Harry R. Charles, Jr.

Ms. Linda C. Clark

Mr. Louis P. Clark

Mr. Earl Clayton

Mr. Lawrence G, Clayton

Dr. Karen Weaver Coleman

The Honorable Barber B. Conable, Jr.
and Mrs. Conable

Mr. Hal J. Cunningham

Miss Pauline R. Cushing

Ms. Patricia Daniels

Mr. Dennis O. Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph L. Dixon

Dr. Harold A. Dundee

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Dutton

Mr. John M. Elling

Mr. and Mrs. George William Elliott

Mrs. Elizabeth Engstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Glenn H. Evans

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Feuille

Mrs. Helen Flanagan

Mrs. June M. Fontanier

Ms. Patricia K. Frontz

Dr. Martin A. Funk and
Mr. Eugene S. Zimmer

Mr. Oscar Galeno

Mr. and Mrs. H. Clay Gardenhire

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Mrs. Aileen M. Garrett

Mr. David E. Garrett

Jane W. Gaston

Mr. Gilbert W. Glass

Mr. Irving P. Golden

Mr. Charles Goldsberry

Mrs. Phyllis M. Grasty

Mr. and Mrs. Roger D. Hathaway

Mr. Geoffrey Francis Hayes

Mr. Lloyd E. Herman

Mr. and Mrs. Carl D. Herold

Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess
Mr. Jeff Hill
Frank and Lisina Hoch
Miss K. T. Hoffacker
Ruth S. and A. William Holmberg
Ms. Hanna Lore Hombordy
William Logan Hopkins
Catherine Marjorie Horne
Dr. and Mrs. Lee Houchins
Mrs. Edgar McPherson Howell
Mr. John R. Huggard
Woodie W. and Jean B. Humburg
Mr. Thomas L. Humphrey
Dr. and Mrs. James C. Hunt
Mr. and Mrs. Milton M. Hyatt
Lt. Col. Robert B. Jenkins,
USAF (Ret.)
Mr. Joseph E. Johnson
Mr. Robert C. Johnson
Ms. Judy Kaselow
Miss Narinder K. Keith
Miss Rajinder K. Keith
Ms. Kelly A. Kendrick
Ms. Moselle Kimbler
Mrs. Bessie M. Koehler
Mr. and Mrs. John Koenig
Lt. Col. William K. and
Mrs. Alice S. Konze
Mrs. Rose C. Kramer
Mr. William J. Kramer
Ms. Lee Kush
Dr. Geraldine E. La Rocque
Mrs. James Spencer Lacock
Ms. Patricia A. Laird
Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Lathrap
Mrs. Cynthia Lawrence
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Leighty
Ms. Eleanor L. Linkous
Ms. Shirley Loo
Mr. Anton C. Love
Dr. and Mrs. Burton N. Lowe
Mr. Frank J. Lukowski
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Maluzzi
Mr. Clyde Marr
Mr. Ronald W. McCain
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. McCrary
Miss Minnie Belle McIntosh
Ms. Lowen McKay
Mr. and Mrs. Allen McReynolds, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Meyer
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Mikuletzky
Mrs. Mike Mitchell
Mrs. Jane R. Moore
Mr. Arthur Mucklow
Mr. and Mrs. Roger K. Myers
Col. Erickson S. Nichols
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Paul L. Peck
Mr. James E. Pehta
Mr. and Mrs. David S. Purvis
Mr. and Mrs. Frank K. Rabbitt
Gen. and Mrs. William S. Rader,
USAF (Ret.)

68

Mr. Francis H. Rasmus, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Galen B. Rathbun
Ms. Sanae Iida Reeves

Mr. Donald L. Reinking

Mr. Robert A. Rice

Col. and Mrs. Robert F. Rick
George W. and Margaret P. Riesz
Dr. Ruth A. Roland

Mr. Stuart W. Rosenbaum

Mr. Edward Sachtleben

Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer
Ms. Sharon Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin N. Seiler
Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Sherman
Allan E. Shore

Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Mary F. Simons

Dr. Barbara J. Smith

Kathy Daubert Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Lee Smith

Mrs. Margaret Sokol

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen K. Soldoff
Mr. and Mrs. Guenther Sommer

Irene Sorrough

Mr. Charles W. Speck+

Mr. Bernie Stadiem

Ms. Sandra Sterling

Mr. Kevin B. Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Streckewald

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. N. Suarez

George D. and Mary Augusta
Thomas

Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian Thompson

Ms. Johanna W. Thompson

John and Ellen Thompson

Diane D. Tobin

Mr. David E. Todd

Mr. and Mrs. W. Carroll Tornroth

Ms. Selena M. Updegraff

Ms. Carol Vangelos

Ms. Patty Wagstaff

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Waite

Miss Catherine M. Walsh

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Ward

Mr. and Mrs. DeVer K. Warner

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Watts

Mr. Charles Weingartner

Mrs. Harriet K. Westcott

Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. White

Mr. Julius Wile

Mrs. Laurence I. Wood

ADCS Scott B. Wood, USN (Ret.)

Mr. Francis W. Worrell

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Zapart

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Zelenka

Dr. P. Joseph Zharn

Mrs. Michael N. Zirkle

Mr. Stephen R. Zlodi, Jr.+

+Deceased

BEQIUIESTS

We remember with appreciation the
following generous donors whose
gifts through bequests from their
estates were received this year.

Richard Anthis

Samuel W. Bernheimer
Luisita L. and Franz H. Denghausen
Karl H. Hagen

Robert Inverarity

Janet W. Johnson
Frederick Lankford
Elinor Merrell

Boyd O’Neal

Catherine E. Rayne
Beatrice Rubenstein
Curtis W. Sabrosky
Frances Schillinger Shaw
Frank B. Sherry

Robert R. Shomer

Albert Snyder

Victor J. Van Lint
Wanda M. Wade

MEMORIAL AND
COMMEMORATIVE
GIF LS

The following were so honored by
their families and friends.

Alice Pike Barney

Cecelia Chang

Frank M. Conser, Sr.

Donald D. Engen

Henry E. Fontanier

Barbara W. Freeman

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Carolyn McKerrow Glass

Henry Christian Zenke II and all Air
Weather Service personnel who
have served this country

Richard Horowitz

Rollyn O. Krichbaum

Katherine Malone

Raymond Manning

Paul Milton Niebell, Sr.

A. F. Pradeau

Josephine Raymond

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence M. Small

James Smith

J.T. Vida

Priscilla Williams

William J. Woolfenden

DONORS OF IN-KIND

SUPPORT

Alitalia Airlines

American Airlines

Aviation Week

BET on Jazz

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Blake

Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc.

British Airways

Cisco Systems, Inc.

Continental Airlines, Inc.

Delta Air Lines

fastac.net

FedEx Corporation

The Gap Foundation

Gateway, Inc.

Hach Company

iXL, Inc.

Longview Fibre Company

Midwest Express Airlines

NEC Technologies, Inc.

The Recording Industries Music
Performance Trust Funds

Research Systems, Inc.

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

Southern Company

Southwest Airlines

TransBrasil Airlines

U.S.A. Direct, Inc.

Mr. Bruce M. Waldack

Mr. David Y. Ying
SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL BOARD

The Hon. Max N. Berry, Chair

The Hon. Marc E. Leland, Vice-Chair (until October 2000)
Mr. Frank A. Daniels, Jr., Vice-Chair (appointed January 2001)

Mrs. Patricia Frost, Vice-Chair (appointed January 2001)

Mr. David M. Silfen, Vice-Chair (appointed January 2001)

Current Members

Mr. Kenneth E. Behring
(appointed January 2001)

Mr. L. Hardwick Caldwell III

Mr. Richard O. Campbell

Mrs. Jean Case

Mr. Pete Claussen

Ms. Laurel Cutler

Mr. Robert G. Donnelley

Mr. Archie W. Dunham

Dr. Sylvia A. Earle

Mrs. Jane B. Eisner

Mrs. Harriet Fraunfelter

Ms. Nely Galan

Mr. Bert A. Getz

Mr. Stephen Hamblett

Mr. Frederic C. Hamilton

Mr. Paul Hertelendy

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles

Mrs. Elizabeth S. MacMillan

Mr. John D. Macomber

Mrs. Holly Madigan

Mr. Frank Martucci

Mr. Michael P. McBride

Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

The Hon. Norman Y. Mineta

Mr. Charles Moore

Mrs. Susan Reed Moseley

Mr. Henry R. Munoz III

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley

Mrs. Mary Ourisman

Mr. James Patton, Jr.

Mr. S. Davis Phillips

Mr. Thomas F. Pyle, Jr.

Baron Eric de Rothschild

Mr. Richard T. Schlosberg III
(appointed January 2001)

Mrs. Helen B. Spaulding

Mr. Kelso F. Sutton

Mr. Jackson Tai

Mr. Anthony Welters

Mr. Daniel W. Yohannes

Honorary Members

Mr. Robert McC. Adams

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd

Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. I. Michael Heyman

Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney

The Hon. George C. McGhee

Justice Sandra D. O’Connor

Mr. S. Dillon Ripley (deceased
March 2001)

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer

The Hon. Frank A. Weil

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

SMITHSONIAN
NATIONAL
BOARD: INSPIRING
LEADERSHIP

The Smithsonian National Board enjoyed tremen-
dous success in 2000, ushering in the new century
with an unprecedented fund-raising total of

$42 million toward Smithsonian priorities and ini-
tiatives. The board’s continued leadership and
strong financial commitment led the way for fund-
raising efforts on behalf of the Institution’s muse-
ums and research centers. The board’s generosity is
an invaluable catalyst for future contributions
toward special projects, educational programs, facil-
ity expansion, and exhibition development.

The installation of the new giant panda habitat
at the National Zoo received the strong financial
support of National Board members. The block-
buster exhibition The American Presidency: A
Glorious Burden at the National Museum of
American History, Behring Center also received
substantial donations from members of the board,
who committed to raise the funds for the national
traveling portion of the exhibition.

As the Institution’s premier fund-raising group,
the National Board advises the Secretary on a range
of issues and maintains a network of supporters
from around the country. The all-volunteer group
met three times to discuss issues central to the
board’s development efforts and to the whole of the

Institution in national fund raising.
le eee ee

SELECTED EXHIBITIONS
October 1, 1999-September 30, 2000

LEFT: Dali’s Optical Illusions
attracted one of the highest atten-
dance levels in the history of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. Shown here is Salvador
Dali’s Madonna of Port Lligat, 1949,
from the collection of the Patrick
and Beatrice Haggerty Museum

of Art.

RIGHT: Adebisi Akanji’s rein-
forced concrete screens may stand
free or form a fence. This example,
from ca. 1966, was on view inA
Concrete Vision: Oshogbo Art in the
1960s at the National Museum of

African Art.

ANACOSTIA MUSEUM AND

GENTER FOR AERIGAIN

AMERICAN HISTORY AND

CUPTUIRE

Through These Eyes: The Photographs of P. H. Polk,
October 15, 1999—March 30, 2000

Reflections in Black: A History of Black Photographers,

1840 to the Present, February 4—-June 30, 2000

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

NEW YORK REGIONAL CENTER

Ellsworth Kelly: Selections from His Archives, October
19, 1999-January 21, 2000

Getting the Picture: The Art of the Illustrated Letter,
January 28—March 10, 2000

Selections from the Fairfield Porter Papers, March

16—October 6, 2000

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

Treasures from the Royal Tombs of Ur, October 17,
1999-January 17, 2000 (organized by the
University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology

and Anthropology)

Imaging the Word: New Selections of Calligraphy from
the Islamic World, November 17, 1999—May 7,
2000

Constructing Identities: Recent Works by Jananne al-
Ani, November 21, 1999-February 28, 2000

Antoin Sevruguin and the Persian Image, November
21, 1999—May 29, 2000

Music in the Age of Confucius, April 30-September 17,
2000

The Heroic Past: The Persian Book of Kings, June 4-
October 29, 2000

Fountains of Light: Islamic Metalwork from the Nuhad
Es-Said Collection, September 17, 2000-indefinite

A Well-Watched War: Images from the Russo-Japanese

Front, 1904-05, June 11-November 26, 2000

COOPER-HEWITT, NATIONAL

DESIGN MUSEUM

The Work of Charles and Ray Eames: A Legacy of
Invention, October 12, 1999-January 9, 2000
(organized by the Library of Congress and the Vitra
Design Museum, Germany)

Two Views of Venice: Canaletto and Menpes, October

26—December 19, 1999

71
The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s A
Well-Watched War: Images from
the Russo-Japanese Front, 1904-05,
featured woodblock prints and
illustrations by Japanese and
Western artists and illustrators,
including this triptych titled Sea
Battle Near Port Arthur, March 10,
1904: A Sailor from the Saznami
Jumps to the Russian Ship and Kicks
its Captain into the Sea, by Migita
Toshide.

ABOVE RIGHT: Among the
images in Reflections in Black: A
History of Black Photographers,
1840 to the Present, an Anacostia
Museum and Center for African
American History and Culture
exhibition, was this undated pho-
tograph of Paul Robeson with a
young fan, by Morgan and Marvin
Smith. (Courtesy of Schomburg
Center for Research in Black

Culture, New York Public Library)

V2

National Design Triennial: Design Culture Now,
March 7—August 6, 2000
The Opulent Eye of Alexander Girard, September 12,

2000—March 18, 2001

PREE RSG ERY s@) Athol

The Idea of China in Japanese Art, December 19,
1999-June 11, 2000

The Dragon’s Moan, February 6-October 1, 2000

Winged Figures, April 2000-indefinite

Later Chinese Calligraphy from the Gift of Robert
Hatfield Ellsworth, April 30, 2000-January 2, 2001

Picturing Whistler: Portraits and Self-Portraits,
May 21—December 3, 2000

Poets and Parties, July 2, 2000-February 4, 2001

The Tea Ceremony in Japan, July 2, 2000-indefinite

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND

SCULPTURE GARDEN

Regarding Beauty: A View of the Late 20th Century,
October 7, 1999-January 17, 2000

Directions—Shahzia Sikander, November 18,
1999—Hebruary 21, 2000

Robert Gober: Sculpture and Drawing, February
24—April 23, 2000

Directions—Leonardo Drew, March 16-June 25, 2000

Dali’s Optical Illusions, April 19-June 18, 2000
(organized by the Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford,

Connecticut)

The Collection in Context: Horace Pippin’s “Holy

Mountain Ill,” September 14, 2000—March 5,
2001
Ed Ruscha, June 29-September 17, 2000
Directions—Cathy de Monchaux, Jaly 14-October 26,

2000

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
MUSEUM
R. G. Smith: The “Old Master” of the Sky,
March 24-September 5, 2000
Looping the Loop: Posters of Early Flight, April 29-

July 9, 2000

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF

AFRICAN ART

A Concrete Vision: Oshogbo Art in the 1960s,
January 23—October 22, 2000

The Artistry of African Currency, March 12-July 23,
2000

Transatlantic Dialogue: Contemporary Art In and Out
of Africa, May 21-September 3, 2000 (organized
by the Ackland Art Museum, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill)

Audible Artworks: Selected African Musical
Instruments, June 25, 2000—April 8, 2001

Identity of the Sacred: Two Nigerian Shrine Figures,

September 24, 2000-April 2, 2001
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
AMERICAN HISTORY
Sporting Invention, October 6, 1999-October 2000

(organized by the museum’s Jerome and Dorothy
Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and
Innovation)

On Time, November 18, 1999-indefinite

Digilab, December 9, 1999-indefinite

Lighting a Revolution 2, March 1, 2000-indefinite

Piano 300: Celebrating Three Centuries of People and
Pianos, March 9, 2000-June 3, 2001

Fast Attacks and Boomers: Submarines in the Cold War,
April 12, 2000-April 2003 (organized in collabora-
tion with the U.S. Navy and the Naval Submarine
League)

Rock ‘n’ Soul: Social Crossroads, April 28,
2000-indefinite (organized in collaboration with
and presented at the Memphis Rock ’n’ Soul
Museum, Memphis, Tennessee)

An American Diary and Memories of Childhood:
Paintings and Prints by Roger Shimomura,

June 10-September 5, 2000
The Disability Rights Movement, July 1, 2000-

indefinite

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE
AMERICAN INDIAN

GEORGE GUSTAV HEYE CENTER

Instrument of Change: Jim Schoppert Retrospective

Exhibition, 1947-1992, October 3, 1999-
February 6, 2000 (organized by the Anchorage
Museum of History and Art)

Reservation X: The Power of Place, April 9-
August 20, 2000 (organized by the Canadian

Museum of Civilization, Quebec)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
NATURAL HISTORY

Galapagos: A Living Laboratory, October 20, The Powerful Hand/La Mano

1999-indefinite Poderosa, a Puerto Rican santo

In Pl Prairie, N - :
n Place of Prairie, November 30, 1999—March 7, Ped ehmteneneriicendiiy shows

2000
the hand of the crucified Christ.
African Voices, December 15, 1999-indefinite
‘ j : . ae: The bilingual traveling exhibition
In Search of Giant Squid, April 1, 2000-indefinite ; ef
Santos: S
Vikings: The North Atlantic Saga, April 29- Ge eee OG SCH N ee

September 4, 2000 organized by the Smithsonian

Selections from Forces of Change: A New View of Center for Materials Research and

Nature, June 8-October 9, 2000 Education with the Smithsonian

Desert and Sea: Visions of Baja California, September Center for Latino Initiatives. (Pike

12, 2000—March 12, 2001 Collection, National Museum of

American History)

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY
Téte a Téte: Portraits by Henri Cartier-Bresson,
October 29, 1999-January 8, 2000

(Museum closed for renovation on January 10, 2000)

NATIONAL POSTAL MUSEUM

The Graceful Envelope: Looking at the Century,
May 5-October 31, 2000

Artistic License: The Federal Duck Stamp Story,

June 30, 2000-indefinite

“If you ever get a second chance in life” (cyclist
Lance Armstrong), July 24—September 5, 2000
Recounting Roosevelt Presentation Albums,

1903-1905, July 26, 2000-February 23, 2001

OFFIGE'OF PHYSIGAE PLANT,
HORTIGULRURE SERVIGES
The Artistry of Orchids, January 22—March 26, 2000

(co-sponsored by the U.S. Botanic Garden)

SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN

ART MUSEUM

Recent African American Acquisitions, October 1,
1999-January 3, 2000

Birthday Tribute to Jacob Kainen, October 20,
1999-January 3, 2000

Selections from the Washington Color School,

73
The Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden’s 25th-
anniversary exhibition,
Regarding Beauty: A View of the
Late 20th Century, included this
color photograph by Cindy
Sherman, Untitled, 1990, from
the collection of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Diker.

RIGHT: An early prototype of
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe’s
Barcelona chair, one of the
most popular icons of 20th-
century furniture design, was
added to the collection of the
Cooper-Hewitt, National

Design Museum.

74

October 20, 1999-January 3, 2000
Edward Hopper: The Watercolors, October 22,
1999-January 3, 2000 (with the Montgomery Museum
of Fine Arts, Alabama)
Treasures to Go: Young America, opened March 1, 2000
Treasures to Go: Lure of the West, opened June 17, 2000
Treasures to Go: American Impressionism, opened
June 17, 2000
Treasures to Go: The Gilded Age, opened June 23, 2000
Treasures to Go: Scenes of American Life, opened
April 1, 2000
Treasures to Go: Modernism and Abstraction, opened
January 7, 2000
Treasures to Go: Contemporary Folk Art, opened
September 3, 2000

Treasures to Go: Arte Latino, opened September 16, 2000

(Museum closed for renovation on January 10, 2000)

SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN ART

MUSEUM, RENWICK GALLERY

The Art of John Cederquist: Reality of Ilusion, March
31-August 20, 2000 (organized by the Oakland
Museum of California)

The Renwick Invitational: Five Women in Craft, March

31-August 20, 2000

SMITHSONIAN CENTER FOR

LATINO INITIATIVES

Ritmos de Identidad/Rhythms of Identity: Fernando
Ortiz’s Legacy and the Howard Family Collection of
Percussion Instruments, February 27—August 1,

2000

SMITHSONIAN CENTER FOR
MATERIALS RESEARCH AND
EDUCATION

Santos: Substance and Soul, September 17,

2000—March 31, 2001

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
LIBRARIES
“Make the Dirt Fly!” Building the Panama Canal,

November 20, 2000-January 5, 2001

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Star Wars: The Magic of Myth, opened September 25,
1999

Serving Home and Community: Women of Southern
Appalachia, opened September 25, 1999

On Miniature Wings: Model Aircraft of the National Air
and Space Museum, opened October 9, 1999

These Rare Lands, opened January 15, 2000

Millennium Messages, opened February 17, 2000

Heart & Hands: Musical Instrument Makers of
America, opened April 8, 2000

Looping the Loop: Posters of Early Flight, opened April
29, 2000

Picturing the Century: One Hundred Years of
Photography from the National Archives, opened
May 6, 2000

Hubble Space Telescope: New Views of the Universe
(versions 1 and 2), opened June 30 and
September 2, 2000

American Garden Legacy: Exploring Garden
Transformations, 1900-2000, opened September

30, 2000

Some of these exhibitions have online compo-
nents, accessible through the Smithsonian’s Web

site, www.si.edu.
SELECTED ACQUISITIONS
October 1, 1999-September 30, 2000

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Papers of Florence Knoll Bassett, designer and
design director of Knoll Furniture, 1932-99.
Gift of Florence Knoll Bassett

Fendrick Gallery Records and the Barbara
Fendrick Gallery Records, ca. 1960-95. Gift of
Barbara Fendrick

Papers of Helen Lundeberg, painter, addition to
the Lorser Feitelson and Helen Lundeberg
papers, 1924-99. Gift of the
Feitelson/Lundeberg Art Foundation

Papers of Geoffrey Clements, photographer, ca.
1950-95. Gift of Geoffrey Clements

Papers of Gifford Beal, painter, 1902-53. Gift of
Richard Goff, Lewis Goff, Margaret Alexander
Beal, and Telda A. Beal

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Sheikh Mohammad Amir, A Horse and Groom,

1830-50, pencil and watercolor with touches

of white and gum Arabic. Museum purchase

Huseyin Fazil Beg, Man Dressed in European Costume
from a Copy of the “Hubannama,” ca. 1780,
opaque watercolor, gold, and ink on paper.
Museum purchase

Bronze bell (nao), Yangzi River Valley, China,
Shang period (1200-1100 B.C.). The Dr. Paul
Singer Collection of Chinese Art of the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution; a
joint gift of the Arthur M. Sackler Foundation,
Paul Singer, the Arthur M. Sackler Foundation
for the Arts, Sciences, and Humanities, and the
Children of Arthur M. Sackler

COOPER-HEWITT, NATIONAL

DESIGN MUSEUM

Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, Barcelona chair, model
no. 90, 1929, Germany, hand-forged steel and
hemp. Museum purchase from Smithsonian
Institution Collections Acquisition Program;
General Acquisitions Endowment; Decorative
Arts Association Fund through the gift of
Torsten Brohan; and through the gift of Mr.
and Mrs. Samuel A. Dix; Anne McDonnell
Ford; Eleanor and Sarah Hewitt; Mrs. John
Innes Kane from the estate of and in memory
of her sister Mrs. Samuel W. Bridgeham; Mrs.
Paul Moore; Neil Sellin; unknown donor; and
through bequests of Mrs. John Innes Kane,
Ruth Vollmer, and Mary Hayward Weir

Panoramic wallpaper, Mecs of /ta/y, printed by

Joseph Dufour Co., Paris, ca. 1825, block-printed
on handmade paper. Museum purchase from
Sarah Cooper-Hewitt, Pauline Cooper-Noyes,

and General Acquisitions Endowment Funds

Wallpaper sidewall depicting George Washington,

United States, ca. 1800, block-printed on hand-

75
Three butterflies from an experi-

ment flown on the STS-93 Space
Shuttle mission in July 1999.
Students from the Dougherty
County School System in Albany,
Georgia, created the experiment
and gave the butterflies to the
National Air and Space Museum.
RIGHT: The Freer Gallery of Art

acquired this earthenware bowl,

painted in cobalt over a clear glaze.

It was made in Mesopotamia dur-

ing the Abbasid dynasty (749-1252).

=)

76

made paper. Gift of the Museum at the Fashion
Institute of Technology

FREER GAEEERY sO EAR

Earthenware bowl, Abbasid dynasty (749-1252),
Mesopotamia. Museum purchase

Giuseppe Castiglione (Lang Shining), Portrait of
the Qianlong Emperor (r. 1736-95) as the
Bodhisattva Manjursi, China, mid-18th century,
color on silk. Museum purchase, anonymous
donor and museum funds

White Avalokiteshvara, Nepal, 14th century, wood
with pigment. Museum purchase, Friends of
the Freer and Sackler Galleries and Sigrid and
Vinton Cert

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND

SCULPTURE GARDEN

Arshile Gorky, Study for “Nighttime, Enigma, and
Nostalgia,” ca. 1932, pen and brush and ink.
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund

Jim Hodges, 7Ais Way Jn, 1999, silk, plastic, and
wire with pins. Museum purchase

Jannis Kounellis, Untitled, 1980, stone and plaster
fragments. Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund

Michelangelo Pistoletto, Venus of the Rags, 1967,
plaster and fabric. Joseph H. Hirshhorn Bequest
Fund

Rachel Whiteread, Untitled (Library), 1999, dental
plaster, polystyrene, fiberboard, and steel.
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE

MUSEUM

Three butterflies from the student experiment
flown on the STS-93 Space Shuttle mission, July
1999. Gift of the High School/High Tech
Program, Dougherty County School System,
Albany, Georgia

Nemesis racer, the most successful aircraft in air
racing history, built and piloted by Jon Sharp.
Gift of Jon and Tricia Sharp

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF

AFRICAN ART

Dogon figure, Mali, 19th-20th century, wood. Gift
of Robert and Nancy Nooter

Baga mask, Guinea, early 20th century, wood, pig-
ment, and metal. Gift of Margaret H. Demant
in memory of Steven Demant

Mbala maternity figure, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, 19th century, wood and pigment.
Museum purchase

Alexander “Skunder” Boghossian, Devil Descending,
1970, oil and mixed media on canvas. Gift of
Basilio F. Ciocci in memory of Raimondo
Ciocci and Elvira Maone Ciocci

Gerard Sekoto, Boy and the Candle, 1943, oil on can-

vas. Museum purchase
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF

AMERICAN HISTORY

Two fragments from the Star-Spangled Banner, 1813,
among the pieces removed from the flag as
mementos in the 19th century. Museum purchase

Bill Holman Collection, 1951-99, approximately
430 holograph scores, including compositions
and arrangements for Woody Herman, Stan
Kenton, Count Basie, the Metropole Orchestra
(The Netherlands), and the WDR Big Band
(Germany). Gift of Willis Holman

Cased set of Colt Army presentation revolvers,
Model 1860. Gift of Mr. Adalbert Ames III

Two Quickie ultralight wheelchairs, a 1980 tennis
wheelchair, and a 2000 sports wheelchair. Gift
of Marilyn Hamilton

Goya Foods Collection, archival materials and
objects documenting the largest Hispanic-
owned food company in America. Gift of Goya

Foods, Inc.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE

AMERICAN INDIAN

Indian Arts and Crafts Board Collection, more
than 8,000 works of art created by American
Indians, 1937-99. Transfer from U.S.
Department of the Interior.

Doug Hyde, Chief Joseph, 1995, bronze, edition 9.
Gift of Dr. and Mrs. Jerome Harold Kay

Dave McGary, Chief Washakie (Shoshone), 1999,
painted bronze. Gift of the Washakie Family

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL

HISTORY

Robert Walters Collection, 860 modern replicas of
Paleoindian stone projectile points, made by
2oth-century flint knappers. Department of
Anthropology. Gift of Margaret Robbins Walters

Series of plant voucher specimens of plants that
have anticancer and anti-AIDS properties, col-
lected in Vietnam by T. N. Ninh. Department
of Botany. Transferred from the National
Cancer Institute

Collection of Dr. Arthur G. Humes, including
invertebrate specimens and library.
Department of Invertebrate Zoology. Bequest
of Dr. Arthur G. Humes

Orpiment, Twin Creeks mine, Winnemucca,

Humboldt County, Nevada. Department of
Mineral Sciences. Gift of Newmont Mining
Corporation

Meyer Collection, 2,294 kimberlite and related
rock specimens from around the world.
Department of Mineral Sciences. Gift of Helen
Meyer

Sinhalite, 100.9 carats, faceted, Sri Lanka.
Department of Mineral Sciences. Gift of
Richard C. Ashley

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Nineteen Indian Peace Medals representing
American Presidents, 1793-1884, silver or
bronzed copper. Gift of Betty A. and Lloyd
Schermer

History of the Indian Tribes, 1837-44, by Thomas L.
McKenney and James Hall, three volumes with
250 hand-painted lithographic portraits. Gift of
Betty A. and Lloyd Schermer

Wilfred de Glehn, Lynn Fontanne, 1912, oil on can-
vas. Gallery purchase

Marius de Zayas, Agnes Meyer, ca. 1912-13, abstract
charcoal drawing. Gift of Anne Meyer

Leni Riefenstahl, Jesse Owens, 1936, gelatin silver
print. Gallery purchase

Edward Weston, Miguel Covarrubias, 1926, gelatin

silver print. Gallery purchase

In 2000, the National Portrait

Gallery acquired this 1912 portrait
of actress Lynn Fontanne
(1887?-1983) by English painter
Wilfred de Glehn (1870-1951).

78

NATIONAL POSTAL MUSEUM

Presentation album, small die proofs of all revenue
stamps produced by Joseph Carpenter and Co.,
1860s and 1870s. Gift of W. Curtis Livingston

Album, U.S. Post Office Department blank forms
prepared by the Government Printing Office,
1873. Gift of Myron and Judith Kaller

U.S. Postal Money Order salvaged from U.S.S.
Kanawha following its sinking on April 7, 1943.
Gift of Oscar M. Holm

SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN ART

MUSEUM

David Beck, Movie Palace, 1990, mixed media con-
struction. Gift of Ken and Judy Siebal and
museum purchase through the Luisita L. and
Franz H. Denghausen Endowment

Christo, Package, 1961, fabric and rope on wood.
Museum purchase through the Luisita L. and
Franz H. Denghausen Endowment

Joseph Cornell, Soap Bubble Set, 1949-50, wood box
construction with mixed media. Museum pur-

chase made possible by the American Art Forum

SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN ART
MUSEUM, RENWICK GALLERY

Kim Schmahmann, Bureau of Bureaucracy, 1993-99,
various hardwoods, veneers, marquetry,
mother-of-pearl, gold leaf, and brass. Gift

of an anonymous donor

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

LIBRARIES

Journal des Scavans, 1665-1759, 220 volumes, widely
regarded as the first scientific journal pub-
lished, for the Dibner Library of the History of
Science and Technology. Purchase, Smithso-
nian Libraries’ Spencer Baird Society

Louis Sue and André Mare, Architectures, Paris,
1921. Folio of Art Deco designs by the era’s
foremost designers, artists, and architects, for
the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum
Library. Purchase, Smithsonian Institution
Libraries Collections Acquisition Fund

Isaac McCoy, Periodical Account of Baptist Missions
with the Indian Territory, Shawnee Baptist
Mission, Kansas, 1837. Provides important his-
torical background in American Indian linguis-

tics. Purchase, private and public funds
BLE SONIAN ADMINISTRATION

The Smithsonian Institution is the world’s largest museum and research complex, with 16 museums, the
National Zoo, and a number of research facilities around the world. It was created by an act of Congress
in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed
his property to the United States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian
Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the
property and accepting the trust, Congress vested responsibility for administering the trust in the

Smithsonian Board of Regents.

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN — Edward L. Knapp, Comptroller

Lawrence M. Small

SMITHSONIAN MANAGEMENT

Sudeep Anand, Treasurer

Robert D. Bailey, Under Secretary, Finance and
Administration

Roland Banscher, Director, Concessions

Gary M. Beer, Chief Executive Officer,
Smithsonian Business Ventures

Francine C. Berkowitz, Director, International
Relations

F, William Billingsley, Director, Environmental
Management and Safety

Thomas D. Blair, Inspector General

William W. Brubaker, Director, Facilities
Engineering and Operations

Sheila P. Burke, Under Secretary for American
Museums and National Programs

John W. Cobert, Director, Contracting

Paul M. Flickinger, Director, Operations, Stores

Robert V. Hanle, Director, Development

Michael A. Headley, Director, Exhibits Central

Herma Hightower, Director, National Programs

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the
Secretary

Thomas L. Holzfeind, Director, Catalogue

John E. Huerta, General Counsel

Paul B. Johnson, Director, Smithsonian Productions

Carolyn E. Jones, Director, Human Resources

Nicole L. Krakora, Director, Special Events and
Conference Services

Thomas W. Lentz, Director, International Art
Museums Division

Janice Majewski, Coordinator, Accessibility
Program

Alice C. Maroni, Chief Financial Officer

Lisa A. Mazzio, Director, Merchandise, Stores

David F. Morrell, Director, Protection Services

Donald B. Moser, Editor, Smithsonian Magazine

Carole M. P. Neves, Director, Policy and Analysis

J. Dennis O'Connor, Under Secretary for Science

Nell Payne, Director, Government Relations

Mary Grace Potter, Director, Visitor Information
and Associates’ Reception Center

Peter J. Reid, Director, Product Development and
Licensing

Dennis Shaw, Chief Technology Officer

Michael J. Sofield, Director, Physical Plant

Dan Stevenson, Acting Director, IMAX Theaters

David J. Umansky, Director, Communications

James H. Wallace Jr., Director, Imaging, Printing,
and Photographic Services

L. Carole Wharton, Director, Planning,
Management, and Budget

Amy P. Wilkins, Publisher, Smithsonian Magazine

To contact any of these staff members, call (202) 357-2700
for addresses and telephone numbers.

79
MUSEUMS

Anacostia Museum and Center for African
American History and Culture, Steven
Cameron Newsome, Director,
Washington, DC 20560-0431; (202) 357-
4500

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery
of Art, Milo C. Beach, Director,
Washington, DC 20560-0707; (202) 357-
4880

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum,
Paul Warwick Thompson, Director,
2 East 91 St., New York, NY 10128-0669;
(212) 849-8370

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
James T. Demetrion, Director,
Washington, DC 20560-0350; (202) 357-
3091

National Air and Space Museum, John R.
Dailey, Director, Washington, DC 20560-
0310; (202) 357-1745

National Museum of African Art, Roslyn A.
Walker, Director, Washington, DC
20560-0708; (202) 357-4600

National Museum of the American Indian,
W. Richard West, Director, Washington,
DC 20560-0935; (202) 287-2525

National Museum of American History,
Spencer R. Crew, Director, Washington,
DC 20560-0622; (202) 357-2510

National Museum of Natural History, Robert
W. Fri, Director, Washington, DC 20560-
0106; (202) 357-2664

National Portrait Gallery, Marc Pachter,
Director, Washington, DC 20560-0213;
(202) 357-1407

National Postal Museum, Miguel A. Bretos,
Acting Director, Washington, DC 20560-
0570; (202) 633-9360

National Zoological Park, Lucy H. Spelman,
Director, Washington, DC 20008; (202)
673-4721

Smithsonian American Art Museum and the
Renwick Gallery, Elizabeth Broun,
Director, Washington, DC 20560-0210;

(202) 357-1959

80

RESEARGHEGENTERS

Archives of American Art, Richard
Wattenmaker, Director, Washington, DC
20560-0937; (202) 314-3900

Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage,
Richard Kurin, Director, Washington, DC
20560-0953; (202) 275-1150

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory,
Irwin I. Shapiro, Director, 60 Garden St.,
Cambridge, MA 02138; (617) 495-7100

Smithsonian Center for Latino Initiatives,
Refugio I. Rochin, Director, Washington,
DC 20560-0448; (202) 357-1600

Smithsonian Center for Materials Research
and Education, Lambertus van Zelst,
Director, Washington, DC 20560-0534;
(301) 238-3700

Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center, Ross B. Simons, Director, Box 28,
Edgewater, MD 21037; (443) 482-2200

Smithsonian Institution Archives, Edie
Hedlin, Director, Washington, DC 20560-
0414; (202) 357-1420

Smithsonian Marine Station at Fort Pierce,
Mary Rice, Director, 701 Seaway Drive,
Fort Pierce, FL 34949-3140; (561) 465-6630

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
Ira Rubinoff, Director, Unit 0948
APO AA 34002-0948; 011 (507) 212-8110

PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

National Science Resources Center, Douglas
M. Lapp, Director, Washington, DC
20560-0403; (202) 357-4892

Office of Fellowships and Grants, Roberta
W. Rubinoff, Director, Washington, DC
20560-0902; (202) 275-0655

Office of Sponsored Projects, Ardelle Foss,
Director, Washington, DC 20560-0903;
(202) 275-0840

Program for Asian Pacific American Studies,
Franklin S. Odo, Director, Washington,
DC 20560-0440; (202) 786-2963

Smithsonian Affiliations, J. Michael
Carrigan, Director, Washington, DC
20560-0455; (202) 633-9157

The Smithsonian Associates, Mara Mayor,
Director, Washington, DC 20560-0701;
(202) 357-2629

Smithsonian Center for Education and
Museum Studies, Stephanie L. Norby,
Acting Director, Washington, DC 20560-
0402; (202) 357-2425

Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Nancy
Gwinn, Director, Washington, DC 20560-
0154; (202) 357-2240

Smithsonian Institution Press, Peter F.
Cannell, Director, Washington, DC
20560-0950; (202) 275-2300

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, Anna Cohn, Director,
Washington, DC 20560-0706; (202) 357-
3168

Smithsonian Year is available online at

www.si.edu/opa/annualrpts.

To request this publication in an
alternative format, call (202)
357-2627, ext. 124 (voice) or
(202) 357-1729 (TTY).

FRONT COVER: Detail of George
Washington’s general officer's uniform,
17905, from the exhibition The American
Presidency: A Glorious Burden at the National
Museum of American History, Behring
Center

INSIDE FRONT COVER: Museum staff
install Thomas Moran’s monumental land-
scape Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone, 1872,
in the Renwick Gallery’s newly refurbished

Grand Salon.

S DILLON RIPLEY, 87, the eighth Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution and a well-known biologist, ecol-
ogist, and authority on the birds of India, died of pneumo-
nia at George Washington University Hospital in
Washington, D.C., on March 12, 2001. Mr. Ripley was
appointed Secretary of the Smithsonian in February 1964.
Upon his retirement on Sept. 18, 1984, he was named
Secretary Emeritus. Following his retirement, Mr. Ripley
returned full time to the study of ornithology in an office
(“birdlab”) in the National Museum of Natural History.
Under Mr. Ripley’s stewardship, the Smithsonian
Institution experienced growth and expansion unparal-
leled in its more than 155-year history. During his tenure,
eight new museums, seven new research facilities, and
numerous Smithsonian outreach programs were launched.
From 1964 to 1984, the number of annual Smithsonian vis-
itors nearly tripled, growing from 10.8 million to

more than 30 million.

; Pane ag:
piiagiil
si aa

“S. Dillon Ripley threw the doors of the
Smithsonian wide open and made it clear
that all Americans were welcome to enter.
With his limitless curiosity and vast intel-
lect, he expanded the scope, reach, and
impact of this institution in many impor-
tant ways. To this day, we are still trying
to live up to his legacy. He will be sorely
missed, but never forgotten. His influence

1S all around US. i LAWRENCE M. SMALL
THSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

wii

3 9088 01558

