BOSTON
PUBLIC

ie ee
ate ie

7 by *
Ste ¥

a ty

Ata yi h

o aang n

‘
7
Lay
SMITHSONIAN

YEAR

1969
Smithsonian Year
1969

ANNUAL REPORT OF
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1969

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
City of Washington
1969
SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATION 4765

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402 - Price $3.00
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of England,
who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust, Con-
gress determined that the federal government was without authority to
administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted an “‘establish-
ment,” whose statutory members are “the President, the Vice President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive departments.”

The Establishment

RicHarpD M. Nixon, President of the United States
Spiro T. AGNEw, Vice President of the United States
WarrEN E. Burcer, Chief Justice of the United States
Wi1..1AM P. Rocers, Secretary of State
Davip M. KEnnepy, Secretary of the Treasury
MELvIN R. Lairrp, Secretary of Defense
Joun N. MitcHELL, Attorney General
Winton M. Biount, Postmaster General
WALTER J. HickeEt, Secretary of the Interior
Cuirrorp M. Haropin, Secretary of Agriculture
Maurice H. Stans, Secretary of Commerce
GerorcE P. ScHuttTz, Secretary of Labor
Rosert H. Fincuw, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
GrorceE W. Romney, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development

Joun A. Votre, Secretary of Transportation
Board of Regents and Secretary

Presiding Officer ex officio

Regents of the Institution

Executive Committee

The Secretary

Assistant Secretaries

30 June 1969

RicHarD M. Nixon, President of the
the United States, Chancellor

WarreEN E. Burcer, Chief Justice of
the United States, Chancellor

Spiro T. AGNEw, Vice President of
the United States

Cimnton P. ANDERSON, Member of
the Senate

J. Witu1Am Fu.sricHt, Member of
the Senate

Hucu Scott, Member of the Senate

Frank T. Bow, Member of the House
of Representatives

MicHAEL J. Kirwan, Member of the
House of Representatives

Grorce H. Manon, Member of the
House of Representatives

Joun NicHotas Brown, citizen of
Rhode Island

WiLtutiAM A. M. BurDEN, citizen of
New York

CrawForp H. GREENEWALT, Citizen
of Delaware

Cary P. HAskIns, citizen of Wash-
ington, D.C.

Tuomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of
Connecticut

Chancellor (Board of Regents)

CuinTon P. ANDERSON

CaryL P. Haskins (Chairman ad
interim )

S. Ditton RIPLEY

JamEs BraD ey, Assistant Secretary
Stoney R. GA.uer, Assistant Secre-
tary (Science)
Cuar.eEs BuiTzer, Assistant Secretary
(History and Art)
Wiiiiam W. Warner, Assistant Sec-
retary (Public Service)

A listing of the professional staff of the Smithsonian Institution, its
bureaus, and its offices appears in Appendix 4.
Contents

The Smithsonian Institution
Board of Regents and Secretary .
Statement by the Secretary . .
Financial Report . .

‘Office of Academic Programs .

Science
National Bisciin of Rotnal History.
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute . . .
Radiation Biology Laboratory .
National Zoological Park . P
Office of Oceanography and Limnology eae
Office of Ecology .. . : PO eae cts ee oe :
Center for the Study neni : Loe eeme BUN been ocities 2
Center for the Study of Short-Lived Pecoodena . Star ree ea eas gaia Fears

0) er Seeks CLE On TA
National Museum of History and Technology, . ... .
Preer Gallery of Art... .. 2 en eerste, Seay ba ok
National Collection of Fine Ars Serie Reree
National Portrait Gallery . z
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and ‘Scalstine Ganiew
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design. .
National Air and Space Museum :

National Armed Forces Museum Aartaaty Board
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
American Studies Program .

The Joseph Henry Papers

Special Programs . . :
Office of the Director Geuccal ne Nios ‘
Office of Exhibits Programs te
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory .
Office of the Registrar .

Traveling Exhibition Service .

171
219
235
245
Pat
289
SS
319

323
325
S19
387
405
435
443
463
477
483
485
489

491
493
497
513
Biz
521
Public Service and Information Activities ..........2.2...
Smithsonian Associates =. 2. 6 . « 6 52 6 as 3
Office of Public Affairs eee
Office of International eniees S480 £4. 60 eee
Divisionios Rerformimnp) Arts) es Si: :) een nee
Smithsonian Museum Shops
Belmont Conference Center
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum .
Smithsonian (Magazine) .
Archives. . : ae
Smithsonian Tastitadon Tabeavics
International Exchange Service .
Information Systems Division. .........
Smithsonian Institution Press .
Science Information Fixchange < - = :: 9: : =). 2 = seme

Administrative Management 32. = 5 3 5 3 o @ =) oe
National Gallery of Art : : 2 6: « = . 2. O22 @
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

PIPBENGER fs cy eS : es ars
1. Smithsonian Forign Chinrency Praga
2. Members of the Smithsonian Council .
3. Academic Appointments. -)-- <2) li aigs \ nies ee
4. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution .

VI

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

S. DILLon RIPLEY
OTe ere
er ee eo
rye iF Fairy: alii
Pelee tb Uh tik Fala)

ine wh Py tas ay ae
Resins, Vittles ws
bey si | ee
a) '
phi ktie
Mi ate Oe aaa ke a |
* r vey
Statement by the Secretary

N AN AGE OF FRAGMENTATION, when there seem to be more nations
I and nationalities than ever before, when scientists and artists alike
are concerned with myriad specialties and subsects, how may the
Smithsonian live up to its mandate? There are curious countervailing
currents at large in the world today. On the one hand the knowledge
of things—technological and scientific—is growing exponentially and
forcing all of us apparently to live more and more in an homogenized
state as we become universally more dependent on our crutches, in-
dustrial and private power, communications and transportation. On
the other hand the spirit of independence, of “doing your own thing”
at all levels from individuals to communes, tribes and on to nations, is
having a strong revival. Beyond producing discontent and tension, will
these antagonistic currents finally clash, or will they seek out an integra-
tive middle course? Can man live with himself and still be part of a
world community?

At the Smithsonian we seek to study and hope to explain areas
which can increase man’s knowledge of his environment as well as his
knowledge of himself. From the point of view of environment the single
most important need of humans today is a grasp of the patterns, the
functioning of ecosystems, the total environmental milieu in any one of
our major climatic zones. On this understanding our physical future
depends.

The nature of man continues to evade definition, although we seem
to come closer each year. It is worth pointing out in this regard, as
Jaryl Haskins, the President of the Carnegie Institution, did recently,
that man’s innate mental equipment is still superior to any known
computer and that no one has been able to invent a single interlocking
system with as many as ten billion discrete units, or the equivalent of
the neural potential of a single human brain.

In many ways this Institution’s history of research and study has been
elping to set the stage for some of the most engrossing and enthralling
chievements of the present. Let us at least as Americans take credit
or some triumphs in this age of questioning and confusion. We can
ingle out one supreme feat of the past year, the flight around the
oon—the dawn of a new age—followed in July by a very tangible

1
D SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

triumph indeed. That prescient moment this past year was the one dur-
ing which perhaps half the world’s human population watched, in ap-
parently full realization of what was happening, while a foot in a clumsy
shoe and then a leg encased in wrappings, but obviously a human leg,
emerged from the bulky shadows in the television screen, and edged
its way downward into bright light toward what moonground,
grayish-white and staring as if in some deathly lamplight. The light—
twenty times brighter than that we see at the time of the full moon—
was earthlight. And so man touched the lunar surface and the rest of
us saw it and felt it palpably. Through the astronauts all of us have’
now somehow touched the moon.

There was a new truth in all this besides the touch, the contact. That
was the screen. It was more real to watch it than to read about it.
We are perhaps in the beginning of an age when the printed word
will suddenly be less like holy writ. All of us have been brought up to
believe printed words. From the Bible, or religious writing of some so
right on, we are educated to believe what we read. In the welter of
ignorance in which we exist, we still feel that to obtain facts one only
need use his training, and so we read history as written by historians, and
we read newspapers for instant facts. We use words in the same way,
words like “war,” “love,” and “country.” We use words like “environ-
ment,” “race,” and “enemy,” and we think they have a meaning even
though they are incapable of providing one to our senses. When we use
such words—even though they are mere ideas or generalities—and
when we believe exactly what we read we are proving a rather sad
point about education and textbooks today, namely that, as Jules Henry
puts it, much of education serves to confirm us in a state of legitimate
social stupidity. It is hard to conceive of this as a goal of education.
even though Henry appears to believe this is all some sort of plot.
At the same time, constant repetition of slogan phrases—like so many
steg heils—as well as the numbing belief that what we read is true
even if our senses tell us otherwise, does tend to create a penumbra,
a twilight zone in which the reassurances of conformity can dwell.

When they turned homeward the astronauts affirmed that our planet
earth had a warm and receptive look. Not only was it this earth of ours,
“this precious stone set in a silver sea,” but it was the only planet around
which looked colorful and homey. Home is the hunter, home from
outer space. Neil Armstrong reminded us in a moving phrase that the
effect of that noble adventure for him had been to generate the hope
that as man sets out to know more about space, he may come in the
process to learn somewhat more about himself.

In this moment of shared pride and renewed dedication, we of the
Smithsonian have our own small part. We can identify ourselves as

b
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 3

concerned with the origins of this whole vast achievement. Charles D.
Walcott, fourth Secretary of the Smithsonian, worked for the passage
of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics enabling act of
1915, served as Chairman of its first executive committee until 1917, and
as a member of the committee until his death in 1927. The National
Advisory Committee was transformed into the National Air and Space
Administration in 1958. From such small beginnings, organized by Wal-
cott as a mark of scientific respect to his predecessor, former Secretary
Samuel P. Langley, have sprung the whole vast panoply of NAsa—this
creator of the “Spirit of Appollo” as President Nixon has termed it.

We live in a biological universe, that of the earth, and so far as we
know it is the only one we will ever live in. Our own age of enlighten-
ment, our own mastery of facts as distinct from ideals or slogans, has
shown us that everything in the cosmos—from heavenly bodies to
human beings—has developed and continues to develop through evo-
lutionary processes. Thus theoretical biology now pervades all of west-
ern culture indirectly through the concept of progressive historical
change. Man and his culture have evolved simultaneously, certainly
after some finite point, if not before. Increases in brain size must have
occurred simultaneously with the unfolding of patterns of social behav-
ior. Primitive forms of art, of religion and even forms of scientific dis-
covery also must have played their part in affecting the development of
neural processes and capacity, and their integration. New reaction pat-
terns provide physiological adaptations to man’s own evolving culture.
What would seem to be almost certain is that the various components
of human culture are now required, not only for the survival of man
but also for his existential realization. In our biological universe, man’s
continuing evolution helps create his evolving culture, and thereby the
two become interdependent, even as they continue to evolve.

A truism in evolutionary studies is the presence of diversity at all
levels of systems. In this past year, the Smithsonian opened the first Na-
tional Portrait Gallery, a long-awaited event, achieved only with the will-
willing cooperation of some of the Nation’s great art galleries, and
friendly private collectors, for famous portrait paintings have long since
been gathered up largely into state and local historical collections or pri-
vate institutions. The successful opening exhibition of the Gallery was
centered around the theme—what is the American, this man evolved in a
New Land? What is this new creation, this “promiscuous breed,” as
Oscar Handlin called Americans in his introduction to the catalogue of
the exhibition? Only a few were left out in this rich brew of portraits.
There were few poor men, no beggarmen to speak of, and perhaps only
a thief or two.
4 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

But the exhibition did give a clue to the student of populations. A
variety of disparate types of populations, set down in a variety of hetero-
geneously diverse environments, has demonstrated another truism in
evolution theory. Even though the original individuals may have sepa-
rate origins, there is a tendency for a continuing interplay both within
and without, so that segregated, small groups tend to develop small
cultural as well as physical resemblances. These resemblances aggregate
into regional resemblances. These last may eventually aggregate into
traits of culture, or character, which do in fact produce recognizable
characteristics. So subspecies are born, of geographical isolation, and
resulting cultural and physical resemblances in spite of a wide diversity
of original genetic combinations. At the same time other changing
influences may be at work to break down and recombine these combi-
nations, and so the melting pot continually forms and reforms, blending
and blurring the evolving differences.

Looking at this splendid panorama of Americans, one does receive an
impression that at least in past years our people had developed a certain
series of recognizable types with regional overtones. The New Eng-
lander has some shared resemblances with northeasterners. The south-
eastern mountains have their types, and the Texans are characteristic
with shared resemblances to the southwest in general. The differing
nationalities have preserved many of their customs as well as certain
morphological minor differences. Racial differences seem to have been
on a submerging course. Indian tribes have been slowly and steadily
losing their distinctness, sometimes stampeding themselves in the race
to be like everyone else. Negroes, following the predictions of Raymond
Pearl, have been gradually integrating and assimilating themselves into
the rest of the general population, especially in cities as they migrated
from the farms until recently. Now it remains to be seen if this gradual
evolutionary process can be arrested by a conscious effort of will by
racists among the blacks. Our great new National Portrait Gallery, so
ably started under the direction of Charles Nagel, and now to be con-
tinued under his talented successor, Marvin Sadik, is thus a scholarly
resource for the other branches of the Smithsonian in history and
anthropology as well as in portraiture. Its exhibits and its collections
extend in cross currents throughout the Institution.

In the meantime it would seem as if a portrait gallery or any art mu-
seum is in some ways more closely akin to what people accept nowadays
as the new inculcation by television, than it is to the previous learning by
reading and writing. Perhaps TV and museums are more closely allied
than we think. The new generation’s familiarity with ingestion by TV
may serve to habituate them to museum-like education. If this be so,
let us hope that museums realize it before someone else takes them over.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 5

The two basic themes which can be demonstrated in a museum setting
are perhaps central to our survival on our homey planet. On the one
hand there is man’s evolving culture, so closely tied in with man’s own
physical evolution. That culture can be demonstrated more effectively
by the use of objects than in almost any other way. And it is that very
culture which plays such a fundamental role in our second great theme,
man’s relation to his environment and the biosphere—that small existing
envelope of available land, water, and air within which we can survive.
For the present phenomenon is that our culture and our environment are
no more at war with each other on terms of rough equality, but that
rather our material culture is in danger of destroying our old presumed
enemy, nature.

Americans especially have been brought up to be at war with nature,
beginning with a European heritage in which it was assumed that nature
itself was an enemy against whose onslaughts one built houses and walls,
made fires, hunted wild animals, and ate whatever could be wrenched
out of the soil. Having hacked and burned our way across the frontier,
having been prompted to do this by everything from poetry and English
literature (whose word pictures constantly remind us to fear nature)
to our new technological culture, we have at last turned the scales.
As Ian McHarg and others have recently reminded us, we are about
to dominate and subjugate nature and in the process destroy it. Can we
demonstrate these facts through visual means, so long as people are
more or less unimpressed by reading about them? Can we teach people
to care about their future enough to stop the present relentless pro-
gression into war, starvation, or suffocation? How can we learn enough
about ourselves to stop in time?

During this past winter, the Smithsonian celebrated the third of its
annual symposia, this one on recent advances in the understanding of
social behavior of higher animals. The implications to be drawn from the
symposium, titled ““Man and Beast,” were fairly clear, even though no
one assumed that primate behavior research can tell us all we need to
know about man’s behavior. Quite obviously it cannot, and yet the con-

ference was a fine escape from anthropocentrism. There are many things
that other creatures from ants to birds to baboons can tell us, which can
serve as guides along the way to knowing ourselves. The event was a
splendid one, well attended, and the speakers were greeted with enthusi-
asm not always reserved for such occasions..Much of the credit for all of
this must go to Wilton Dillon who took over the complex organi-
zation of seminars for us during the past year.

This seminar revealed a characteristic of the Smithsonian. A meeting
such as this, assaying relations between human social behavior and prin-
ciples drawn from the scientific study of animal behavior, seems instantly
6 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

to knit together so many common concerns from within the Institution’s
disparate bureaux. The field is one in which the Smithsonian’s Tropical
Research Institute in Panama has done leading work for many years. In
addition the Office of Ecology, the National Zoological Park, and the
Primate Biology Program of the Museum of Natural History have all
been involved creatively.

From 13 through 16 May the eleven speakers, several hundred in-
vited participants, and staff members widely drawn from the Smith-
sonian explored the extent to which aggression, cooperation, competition,
and territoriality were common to man and other species. The sympo-
sium yielded a rich perspective on the emergence of cultural factors
whose operation attenuates the influence of our biological heritage, cor-
recting an overemphasis attributed to innate behavior by a number of
popular writers. The opening academic procession represented sym-
bolically the fulfillment of the ideal of a scholarly community which the
succeeding days of seminars, colloquia, formal papers, and social events
realized in strikingly tangible manner. We are most grateful to the
Russell Sage Foundation, The Grant Foundation, the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation, The Commonwealth Fund, and other contributing sponsors,
and also to the inspiring chairmanship of Dr. Alex A. Kwapong, Vice
Chancellor of the University of Ghana, who so ably presided. The pro-
ceedings of the symposium will shortly appear from the Smithsonian
Institution Press under the title Man and Beast: Comparative Social
Behavior.

An aspect of the Smithsonian’s ideal of functioning as a community
of scolars consists of improving communication among the complex of
universities and research establishments in the Washington area. In
July 1968 we inaugurated a regular bulletin, The Washington Academic
Calendar, listing seminars and lectures being given throughout the
metropolitan area. This bulletin is mailed as a service to university and
independent laboratory staff members. The mailing list for the Calen-_
dar, which now contains more than 6,000 names, will serve as the nu--
cleus of a continuing file of Washington area academic interests, listing
recipients by discipline and institutional affiliation. We hope eventually
to be able to correlate the pattern of academic events with the array of
interests in the city and its institutional patterns—a study, as it were, of
the academic ecology of an urban area.

As a visible manifestation of our function as a community I can think
of no better indication than the award, in a pleasant ceremony before
the Joseph Henry statue, on 5 June 1969, of Certificates of Academic |
Achievement to postdoctoral associates and graduate students on ap-
pointments from the Office of Academic Programs. Not a degree, and
awarded with advance approval of each student’s university, the Cer-
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 7

tificate attests to the satisfactory completion of an assignment chosen
by the student himself in consultation with a supervisor. Professor Henry
understood the Smithsonian to be a “College of discoverers,” with stu-
dents participating intensively in its work. To the extent that we have
helped to perpetuate his concept of the Institution as an auxiliary aca-
demic establishment we have helped to underscore one very important
objective of the Institution. Despite the monolithic tendency of our
federal government to wish to centralize and combine efforts and funds
continually in the name of efficiency, the administration of pure research
tends to elude such neat solutions. In connection with work on the
President’s Marine Sciences Council, all the members were asked to
comment on the council report at the end of 1968. I was struck by the
reference to the importance of small independent institutions such as
the Marine Biological Station at Woods Hole, Massachusetts. Like the
MBS, as it is called, the Smithsonian operates independently on its own
small budget, but serves as part of an interlocking network of a national
community of scholars. Dr. Leland Haworth, then Director of the
National Science Foundation, when writing to Vice President Agnew
on 10 March 1969 in regard to oceanographic research, said (speaking
of Woods Hole) ; “we can see merit in having such independent research
organizations.” The same seems to apply to the Smithsonian.

Our symposia can thus serve as points of focus for a wide range of
associated Institution activities, from seminar series to exhibits, from
productions for the media to special publications. The coming year will
be devoted in large measure to studies of cultural change and displays
bearing upon this theme. In the year following we hope to conduct an
intensive examination of the impact of technology upon society, in-
cluding a major exhibition on technology and art, the preparation of
curriculum materials for educational institutions, and a large number
of scholarly sessions devoted to detailed aspects of this general theme.
In this way we begin to bind together the different parts of the assem-
blage and orchestrate a theme uniting their efforts toward a given end.

A second major goal is to achieve reinforcement within our arrays of
reference resources. A curator’s expertise and personal knowledge, built
up over a lifetime of study, represent an information resource, as do the
books and reprints he has gathered around himself; then, as in an outer
concentric circle, come the ordered materials of a collection. We are
purposefully seeking ways to conduct these activities so that each rein-
forces the others to the maximum practical extent. Not books separate
from objects; not specialized information services separate from either,
but rather integrated reference systems which can unite all three. The
Smithsonian’s uniqueness and value depends upon our success in being
a different kind of marshalling center where recorded knowledge gives
8 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

wide access to pertinent inquiry and is not regarded as a burdensome
encumbrance or permitted to weigh down our ventures into ideas.

Out of this springs a kind of neo-economy. Our collections in biolog-
ical and geological materials—often gathered at random—may by their
very size and multiplicity end up being our single most important asset.
Our data bank of specimens, even though we may not today be able to
extract the ideal information we need, may turn out in a hundred years
to represent four or five times the genetic diversity then available to us,
for by that time seventy-five to eighty percent of the species of living
animals or plants may be extinct.

The very variety of resources of the Institution may have begun to
work against effectiveness in our exhibits. Too many aspects of a given
subject may be out of sight in other buildings where they are excluded
from consideration in preparing exhibits. This year I have appointed a
special commission to reappraise the exhibits function within the Insti-
tution and seek ways to unify our presentations, to make them more
responsive to visitors’ interests and more appealing to all of our citizens.
Exhibits that merely display objects from the collections, individually
labeled and placed behind glass, reinforce the fragmentation of the
Smithsonian, while those whose aim is to interpret a wider domain of
knowledge help to realize its converging interests.

Cohesive programs must be given concerted management. This year
an enormously important step was taken in re-establishing the position
of Treasurer of the Institution as a central office to oversee budgeting,
control, planning, development, and fiscal management. The Office of
Programming and Budget has begun an intensive analysis of the use
of Institution resources—both public and private—in the context of a
statement of objectives and the analysis of functions. We have been for-
tunate indeed that T. Ames Wheeler, formerly of the Allegheny-
Ludlum Steel Corporation, joined the Smithsonian staff as Treasurer in
September 1968. Under his care both public and private funds can be
marshalled to achieve true effectiveness.

This has been a year of continued questioning in America—insistent,
sometimes shrill, penetrating, skeptical, above all, iconoclastic. Critics
charge the entire educational system with grave deficiencies, doubt the
wisdom of our acceptance of technology, and find all too small a return
from massive social investments in government programs. The Smith-
sonian has not been invaded by angry protesters or disrupted by dissi-
dents but it cannot escape the need, which is becoming so general in
our time, to subject its activities to the most searching review and to
reappraise its objectives in the light of the more rigorous expectations
of the day. No institution is too venerable or too valuable to be exempted
from such scrutiny. In government jargon the phrase is, “let us get back
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 9

to the base.” An “open” university such as ours should thrive on
self-examination.

The first thing we must expect from any institution is that it frame
socially valuable objectives and conduct its affairs in accord with them.
Yet charitable and governmental establishments are shaped in large
measure by past legacies. Once-plausible aims may shrink with time
into nostalgic obsolescence. Bureaux, divisions, working groups, com-
mittees, and a host of other administrative entities are set up within
institutions, given separate charters, and thereafter pursue independent
and conflicting courses until what was meant to be an orderly flotilla
comes to resemble a park basin cluttered with children’s toy boats of
every conceivable description in total disarray. The word institution
comes from the Latin verb statuere, to set up, implying an end in view.
Only as ends are served can an institution be maintained as a viable
whole whose parts, like those of any functioning organism, must be
interdependent.

To many people the Smithsonian Institution must seem improbably
heterogeneous, built up over the years like a midden heap of collected
objects, many priceless and all interesting. As I have suggested, the
collections may be priceless but they are not the institution any more
than buildings are a university. It is the scholars who for one reason or
another have been attracted to us, full time or part time, as permanent
or transient workers, who can perhaps learn to grasp the meaning of the
collections. By being in touch with real objects and by being attentive to
the real situations in which these objects were placed or developed,
perhaps our scholars can develop what Kant, speaking of the spon-
taneous interplay of our own intellectual powers, called the “synthetic
unity of aperception.” This is learning, and curators are capable of this
even if teachers are not always so. But if a curator understands such a
situation in nature or in a culture coherently and wholly, then he is
better as a teacher than most teachers.

The whole problem of teaching today revolves around whether
teaching really teaches people how to learn, or whether it comes down
to getting people out of schools fast, having coerced them through fear
and competitive pressure into getting meaningless diplomas. Recently
graduate students in a survey conducted by the American Political
Science Association have been complaining about college work per-
formed under a climate of “threat and fear.’ Learning to learn must
certainly be a failure if it merely means aping the teacher, becoming an
“apple-polisher,’ or picking up the innate structure of a teacher’s
behavior. Or is that really what we all should do in order to get on in
life? I am inclined to think not, as I doubt that we can survive this way.

Museums teach us about real things, which is one reason why young

366-269 O—70——2
10 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

people like them. They also tend to put things in perspective, in a his-
torical context, which young people tend not to learn in other ways. One
failure of teaching in the social sciences has been to eliminate dates as
having any contextual value. Thus the steppingstones which an earlier
generation memorized, from the defeat of the Persian fleet at Salamis
right onward, tend to be left out. The Persian fleet might have been
defeated at the Battle of the Coral Sea for all young people today know.
One of the failures of TV is also in the scale of time. Everything is
instant. It is happening now in an existential manner, which fails to
convey reality.

Museums offer an opportunity for training in reality which few
pedagogues suspect or know. Musuems are open universities. Only ex-
amples really count, especially when they can be grasped in the round.
How then can young people plan for the future without tenable exam-
ples and a historical context? Planning is probably the most important
aspect of the future, along with the understanding of ecosystems. It
would seem that we may be heading into a form of civil war as far as
planning is concerned. Education today being reductionist in emphasis,
technology being dominant and reductionist in principle, there can per-
haps be no solution so long as our economics persists as it does. The quiet
voices of rational and studious students of the environment will prob-
ably not suffice. We may well be swept aside by the groundswell of opin-
ion of those—from militant students on through the middle-aged mid-
dle class living in quiet desperation—who, mindful of the futility of
growing old, finally reject our social and economic goals based on sub-
jective private initiative.

One major task of this Institution should be to experiment with
learning techniques. If this research could ever produce a method to
create a sense of reality, and to awaken interests in people, then the
Smithsonian would indeed have lived up to its mandate.

HISTORY AND ART

Another notable event of this year besides the opening of the Portrait
Gallery has been the ground-breaking ceremony for the Joseph H. Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Authorized under the 90th Con-
gress, the building with its sculpture garden should be completed in
another two years. The ceremony was performed 8 January 1969 by
President Johnson, the Smithsonian’s Chancellor, Chief Justice Earl
Warren, and the Secretary before a distinguished audience of members
of Congress, the Administration and the world of art.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 11

To the superlative collection of fine art he has donated to the United
States for the benefit of the people, in 1969 Mr. Hirshhorn’s continued
generosity resulted in the addition of more than five hundred new
paintings and sculptures—an average of over ten new works each week
received, cataloged, and stationed by Abram Lerner and his staff of three.
Since November 1966, the date of Mr. Hirshhorn’s gift, his generosity
has led to the acquisition of outstanding new paintings and sculptures
valued at over one million dollars each year, in addition to the one mil-
lion dollars he has agreed to donate for future purchases upon the
opening of the Hirshhorn Museum.

In this first year since its opening, exhibitions have been a major
part of the activity of the National Collection of Fine Arts in trying out
its new space. The first of these areas to be developed has been the low-
vaulted, crypt-like spaces of the Granite Gallery, which proved ad-
mirably suited to the bronze sculpture of an exhibition of the works of
Alexander Archipenko.

A major achievement of the year was the retrospective exhibition of
paintings, drawings, and photographs by Charles Sheeler organized by
the NcFaA staff, with its full and richly documented catalog as a per-
manent reminder of the exhibition and as a scholarly reference. The
Sheeler exhibition continued with showings at the Philadelphia Museum
of Art and at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York.

During the year David Scott—who had done so much to help in the
installation of the National Collection in its new quarters and who had,
with the NoFA staff done a great deal to attract interest to the collec-
tions—resigned. Robert Tyler Davis, a new member of the staff as assis-
tant director, took over as acting director, until late summer 1969, when
the appointment of Joshua Taylor, Professor of the History of Art at the
University of Chicago and a specialist in the history of American Art,
was announced.

During the year negotiations have proceeded to bring the Archives
of American Art to a new headquarters within the Smithsonian in
Washington, part of a proposed network of art historical reference
centers to be planned across the nation. This enormous resource, when
added to the holdings in the Smithsonian, will go far toward making
the National Collection what it should be, the heart of a documentation
and research center in the history of our own indigenous art.

Efforts of the Museum of History and Technology to expand the
scope of our activities beyond those traditional to museums have been
reflected in a number of directions. Under contract the Museum has
undertaken the collection of data on Afro-American history, and has
made a small beginning in the collection of materials for exhibition
in this field. A 19th-century sharecropper’s cabin has been acquired and
12 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

is presently being installed as part of an exhibit of the history of American
Negro culture. In other areas of ethnic cultural history our staff has
conducted research on the church of San Xavier del Bac (circa 1783)
near Tucson, Arizona, and on early pottery making in California. A
shopfront from a gold-rush period community near San Francisco is
presently being put on exhibit. The Museum has undertaken a program
of research and recording in the folk music of an eastern mountain com-
munity at Galax, Virginia.

The Computer History Project, supported by the American Federa-
tion of Information Processing Societies, is now in its second year, under
the direction of Dr. Uta Merzbach. This project comprehends the
collection of documents and tape-recorded interviews with persons
important in the development of the computer. Another major project
in its second year is the New England Textile Mill survey. A report of
the first summer’s work, chiefly at Manchester, New Hampshire, was
published this year.

This year our National Museum of History and Technology wel-
comes a new Director, Professor Daniel Boorstin, Preston and Sterling
Morton Distinguished Service Professor of Ancient History, of the
University of Chicago, and one of our most eminent living American
historians. The pleasant coincidence that Professor Boorstin has also
been reappointed to President Nixon’s Commission on the American
Revolution Bicentennial, affords us additional opportunity to cooperate
closely with the Commission on plans for the Nation’s observance of
renewed dedication to our founding principles of liberty and equality
before all men.

This has been a year of program formulation for the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum of Design in New York. A lease has been arranged with the
Carnegie Corporation, owner of the Andrew Carnegie mansion on
Fifth Avenue at Ninety-first Street, and it is hoped that the Museum
will be installed there in its own quarters by 1971.

The kinds of programs and services offered by the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum bring to the Smithsonian new educational opportunities in
the world of design. In today’s ever-rapidly evolving concept of fashion
and beauty, the need for a museum showcase, in which an endlessly
rich variety of historical decorative arts material can be drawn upon,
utilized, and enjoyed, provides a springboard which the Smithsonian can
be influential in offering guidelines to more beautiful design in everyday
life. The Museum’s future move to upper Fifth Avenue will place us
on New York’s “Museum Row.”’ Thus we hope the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum will be able eventually to assume its proper place as a show-
case of international reputation in the world of design. Particular thanks
are owing to the newly formed Advisory Board under Mrs. Alice M.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 13

Kaplan, in recognition of the hard work, enthusiasm, and generous con-
tributions, both in time and money, that it has made in reestablishing
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum as a new, visible entity in New York.

One of the ways in which the Smithsonian increases knowledge is by
stimulating those not on its staff to work on intellectual problems that
need solving. The Smithsonian is able to do this not only by offering
visiting appointments to outside scholars but by training graduate stu-
dents from universities with whom it maintains a relationship. The
Smithsonian has for many years guided small numbers of graduate stu-
dents in the sciences. More recently it has provided advanced training
for graduate students in the humanities, most notably through its Amer-
ican Studies Program, now in its fourth year of operation. Graduate
students in American history and American studies from four univer-
sities are this year pursuing courses of study under Smithsonian advisors.
Most of them are not receiving fellowships or scholarships from the
Smithsonian. Some are writing dissertations which when completed
will enlarge important areas of human knowledge and, in many cases,
interpret Smithsonian collections to the scholarly world for the first
time. By such means the Smithsonian with a minimum expenditure can
obtain a maximum effect in carrying out its historic mission.

Under the direction of our discerning editor, Nathan Reingold, the
Joseph Henry Papers staff has come nearly to the end of its extensive
search, in domestic and foreign archives, for documents on the life and
work of the first Secretary. Some 16,000 documents are in hand. The
staff is now beginning to edit material for the first volume (of an antici-
pated twenty on Henry’s years in Albany, New York (1797-1832),
where he educated himself, began his teaching career, and carried out
some of his most important work in electromagnetism.

In April 1969 Congressional Regent Frank T. Bow introduced House
bill H.R. 10001 incorporating the Smithsonian’s legislative proposal to
provide for the establishment of a National Armed Forces Historical
Museum Park and study center to be designated. the Dwight D. Eisen-
hower Center for Historical Research. The proposal also includes
authority for the Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Interior
to enter into an agreement for the joint use of lands now under the
jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior as the site for the museum
park. This legislation seeks to fulfill the goals of three presidentially
appointed panels of distinguished Americans, including the current
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board, dedicated to the con-
viction that an armed forces museum can be, as the late President
Eisenhower put it, “a dynamic educational venture . . . [making]

. substantial contribution to our citizens’ knowledge and understand-
ing of American life.”
14 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The choice of President Eisenhower’s name for the proposed study
center is most appropriate in that it was he who in 1958 convened the
President’s Committee on the Armed Forces Museum under the chair-
manship of former Chief Justice Earl Warren. The recommendations
of this Committee led to enactment of Public Law 87-186, establishing
a permanent Advisory Board and providing the concept on which the
pending legislation is based. Indeed, only a few weeks before his death,
President Eisenhower in a letter to our Chancellor reiterated his com-
mitment to a national armed forces historical museum and study center.

Our hopes for the Eisenhower Center received a most substantial
boost during the year, when the American Military Institute placed on
long-term deposit with the Smithsonian its large and valuable library.
The collection contains more than 15,000 volumes concentrated on
military history and other areas of social sciences having relevance to
military affairs. The amr collection will serve most admirably as the
nucleus around which to build the sort of reference library which will
be indispensable to the Center.

Two major events in the areas of air and space during the year focused
public attention on the National Air and Space Museum. The first was
the celebration—in collaboration with the United States Navy—of the
fiftieth anniversary of the first transatlantic flight by the NC—4, in May
of 1919. The second was the build-up of activity throughout the year
of the Apollo Program in preparation for the moon landing, including
the successful circum-lunar flights of Apollo 8, 9, and 10.

Although the NC-4 had been in the Smithsonians’ custody for many
years, it has recently been in protective storage, pending the avail-
ability of a new building large enough to house it. The Navy’s request
for its public display during the month of May 1969 necessitated an
accelerated restoration program. The job was completed, and the air-
craft was ready for public display on the Washington Mall for the entire
month. Many thousands of visitors were thus reminded of its famous
flight across the Atlantic, now fifty years ago.

With the accelerating interest in the Apollo program as it approached ~
its great objective of a manned lunar landing our 1967 Agreement with _
NASA began to pay significant dividends. The opportunity to see full-
scale Saturn and Apollo artifacts—including Apollo 4 (with the related
F-1 and J—2 engines), plus “Surveyor” and the Lunar Orbiter—all of
which would have been impossible without our close cooperation with
NASA—attracted thousands of visitors to the South Hall of the Arts
and Industries Building. These large hardware items were exhibited in
a setting of space-oriented TV display, photography, paintings and
sculpture which were continuously updated to keep visitors informed —
of significant events as they occurred.
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 15

In addition the operation of the Nasa agreement has brought into
the Air and Space Museum’s inventory a large amount of material for
future use, from which can be drawn display material for loans to other
museums. During the year such Smithsonian artifacts were on display
in London, Lucerne, Barcelona, Munich, Tokyo, and Brisbane, as well
as in a number of cities of the United States.

SCIENCE

Scientific activities of the Smithsonian commence locally with the
National Museum of Natural History and spread out widely in fields
as superficially diverse as astrophysics and ecology. In this past year,
the Natural History Museum has acquired a Scanning Electron Micro-
scope (SEM) a major step in the planned research activities of our
staff. This marvelous new instrument is able to magnify the images
of tiny objects from 20 to 140,000 times and with several hundred times
greater resolution than the conventional light-optical system. For the
first time, the basic architecture of thousands of species of organisms,
can be seen and studied as whole individuals, whereas formerly elabo-
rate sectioning and replication techniques were required.

The sem which was developed at Cambridge University in Eng-
land represents a major breakthrough in the field of microscopy. In
only four years since it became commercially available, it has become
a dominant research too] in such diverse fields in biology as pollen
analysis, microfossil identification, and textile fiber-wear studies. In one
area of basic research being done at the Smithsonian, Dr. R. H. Ben-
son is using the sem for the study of the history of a minute fossil
crustacean, the ostracode, which has lived on the floor of the deep
ocean basins. His recent discovery of these microfossils in the rocks of
the Alps suggests new dimensions to the ocean that once separated
Europe from Africa during the time when dinosaurs dominated the
landscape. The sem allows for much greater precision in the identi-
fication and analysis of the living as well as fossil deep-sea ostracodes.
Through their study it is hoped that massive movements of the ocean
floor, which took place during the formation of mountain systems, can
be discovered. This instrument will be available for use, when needed,
by scientists in all departments of the Museum, many of whom have
already made plans to use it in their research.

One does not ordinarily imagine collaboration between researchers
in volcanology and archeology but a joint field effort of the Depart-
ments of Anthropology and Mineral Sciences is underway to establish
the historical background for the eruption of Mt. Arenal in Costa
16 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Rica last year, as well as to study the volcanic phenomena it presented.

Similarly, the sedimentologists in the Department of Paleobiology
have collaborated with Mineral Sciences to contribute to a rapidly
growing accumulation of evidence favoring the theory of continental
drift. The spatial relationships between sedimentary rocks and the
crustal ones along the mid-Atlantic Ridge have clearly indicated the
phenomenon of sea-floor spreading.

Meanwhile two teams of Smithsonian investigators, one at Cam-
bridge in the Astrophysical Observatory, the other at the Natural His-
tory building in Washington are preparing for interdisciplinary research
on lunar samples, one of soil, the other of rock, jointly to be studied by
geochemists, meteorists, petrologists, and physicists.

A signal triumph this year has been that of G. Arthur Cooper who
has successfully devised means of sampling the entire brachiopod fauna
of the Glass Mountain beds of the Permian era. His work will have
significant consequences for all students of population biology as well
as for paleontologists.

ECOLOGY

The Smithsonian’s concern with ecology spreads across a number
of scientific disciplines as well as organizations and finally comes home
to rest in the social sciences, within the purview of our new concern
in post-doctoral research. The Office of Ecology participates directly
in research, sponsors other research, and is related to other departments
and offices through interdisciplinary programs. On its own, the Office
has participated in investigations of the ecology and ethology of wild
elephants in Ceylon.

In the past year emphasis was placed on studies of the population
dynamics, inter- and intra-specific competition, food habits, patterns
of movement and land use, reproduction state, and the density of
habitat usage. Also in Ceylon, the basic structure of the domestic
elephant reproductive cycle was worked out for the first time.

As Smithsonian participants in the International Biological Program
(1BP), Lee Talbot and Raymond Fosberg assisted with an inventory
of Pacific islands and parts of islands as preserves of rare scientific
resources. Areas are being listed for conservation where they have been
relatively uninfluenced by human activity and contain unique flora
and fauna. As a result of the pp conservation section meetings on Palau
and Guam, data have been assembled and will be published.

Requests for advice and consultation on ecological problems were
answered from the National Park Service and the United States Fish
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 17

and Wildlife Service of the Department of Interior; the Pacific Science
Board, the Environmental Sciences Board, and the Division of Behav-
ioral Sciences of the National Academy of Sciences and the National
Research Council; the Office of Science and Technology, the Depart-
ment of Defense, the Department of Agriculture, the Congress, and
such international organizations as the International Union for Con-
servation of Nature and Natural Resources, the International Council
for Bird Preservation, the World Wildlife Fund, the United Nations,
and the Pacific Science Association.

The Chesapeake Bay Center for Field Biology completed one level
of its laboratory building and operated as a research arm of the Smith-
sonian through a consortium with the Johns Hopkins University and
the University of Maryland. Studies of the physical conditions and the
populations of organisms in the estuary continued. Dr. Charles South-
wick of the Johns Hopkins University found that the Rhode River
estuary apparently was heavily enriched in September. Drs. William
D. McElroy (on leave as Director of the National Science Foundation) ,
Howard H. Seliger and William G. Fastie, also of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, began measurements of the night and day patterns of bio-
luminescence as an index of primary productivity. In the past year a
further effort to raise funds for land acquisition for this most valuable
field station has met with remarkable success. Nearly fifty percent of
our goal of $800,000, to increase our holdings on the western shore of
Chesapeake Bay to some 2000 acres, has been met. We are deeply
grateful to the farsighted foundations; the Ford Foundation, The Re-
search Corporation, the Scaife Foundation, the Old Dominion Foun-
dation, the Fleischmann Foundation, and the Prospect Hill Foundation;
all of whom have helped us in our project to create a national resource
in ecological research, not only near Washington but also as part of a
network of comparative study areas, an environmental consortium of
universities and private and public institutions from Massachusetts to
the Caribbean and Panama. Dr. George Watson completed a three-
year study of the productivity of breeding ospreys at Poplar Island,
a Chesapeake Bay Center property near the eastern shore of the Chesa-
peake Bay. The osprey population is believed to be holding its own
in the Bay despite its susceptibility to pesticides. Whistling swans mean-
while are being studied by Dr. William J. L. Sladen of Johns Hopkins.
More than half of the North American population of these birds winters
in the bay. Studies of their local and long distance movements, feeding
ecology, social behavior, and diseases are being achieved by observation
of unmarked, conspicuously dyed, and radio-tagged birds.
18 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
HYDROBIOLOGY

In oceanography and limnology, direct observations of plants and
animals living on the bottom of the shallow ocean and in the upper
pelagic areas received considerable attention during the year. A wide
spectrum of activities ranged from sponsorship of a special Edwin A.
Link lecture on underwater man by Jon Lindberg and Dr. Joseph B.
MacInnis and the offering of diver-training courses to field investigations
using scuba apparatus, submersible diving chambers, and small research
submersibles. A multidisciplinary study of sharks and the coral reef
environments was undertaken under the sponsorship of Edwin A. Link,
Seward Johnson, William Mote, Ocean Systems Inc., and the Smith-
sonian Institution in February and March of 1969. Five small vessels
and a submersible diving chamber were assembled off British Honduras
for the project known as sHARK 1969.

Sponsorship through working group 23 of the Scientific Committee
on Ocean Research of the International Council of Scientific Unions
resulted in a definitive study of plankton preservation being under-
taken at the Smithsonian. Dr. Hugh Steedman of the University of
Bath spent the months of July, October, November, March, and June
planning and conducting experiments at the Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center. Plankton preservation has sometimes been
excellent and sometimes unsatisfactory using the traditional preserva-
tives under differing field conditions. Histochemical and other work on
carefully preserved collections will provide information on the causes
of the variable results. Tests will be made to attempt to find better
preservatives.

An “Ocean Acre” research program has been initiated by Drs. William
Aron, Robert Gibbs, and Clyde Roper in cooperation with the Navy
Underwater Sound Laboratory, the University of Rhode Island, and
the Naval Oceanographic Office. Four cruises, using navy ships Gillis,
Sands, and Trident of the University of Rhode Island, were undertaken
during this fiscal year. The area selected for achieving a fuller under-
standing of its total biology is southeast of Bermuda in water depths
greater than 2000 meters. Preliminary analyses of the distributions of
cephalopods and fishes reveals variations in their migratory behavior
patterns which may be associated with sound-scattering layers.

This year was one of great progress in converting the older manual
records of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center into an auto-
matic data-processing system. Specimen labels are prepared in an auto-
matic typewriter system which simultaneously produces duplicate labels
and punches the data on paper tape. This tape is converted to magnetic |
tape automatically and goes into storage with a minimum of error.

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 19

Nearly all of the several years production of Antarctic data covering
thirteen million specimens has been entered in the machine system.

Installation of basic petrographic laboratory equipment was com-
pleted in the Sorting Center. A specimen inventory has been prepared
to meet the needs of specialists interested in specific mineralogic, tex-
tural, or lithologic features of oceanic rocks. As a backup for the speci-
mens being distributed, a major catalog of oceanic rocks has been pro-
duced to include all that have been described in the scientific literature.
Specific mineral groups and lab information in the literature may be
found through the catalog.

RADIATION BIOLOGY AND ASTROPHYSICS

The Radiation Biology Laboratory of the Institution has participated
actively in interdisciplinary ecology during the year. Under the Labora-
tory, the third seminar series sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution
and the Consortium of Universities of the Washington Metropolitan
Area was introduced on 6 February by Dr. Sidney Galler, Assistant
Secretary for Science. The Seminar in Environmental Biology was pre-
sented for graduate credit and attracted large audiences of students and
other interested people from the community. Thirteen lectures were
presented by authorities in ecology and environmental biology from
all over the United States, with topics ranging from arid-land to arctic
ecology and from fresh-water productivity to aspects of controlled
environments for space biology.

For the past year the Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory has
recorded continuous daily measurements from sunrise to sunset of
several color components of the white-light spectrum in those wave-
bands that control growth and development of plant and animal orga-
nisms. This is the only complete set of data of this kind obtained for
biologists to use in studying photobiological responses. Under the joint
sponsorship of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Physical
Laboratory of Israel, a station in Jerusalem has begun operation to
obtain similar information for that latitude. The measurements from
the two stations will provide comparative records on ratios of color
bands present in natural incident daylight and resultant cycles of growth
and reproduction, leading to new interpretations of the effects of
light stimuli as a factor in the environment controlling physiological
development.

In the course of recording measurements of normal incident solar
radiation at the Smithsonian, it was discovered that the amount of the
sun’s energy falling on Washington, D.C., now is approximately fifteen
20 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

percent less that that measured and recorded here by Dr. C. G. Abbot
in 1907 at the same time of the year. Measurements are continuing to
be taken and efforts are in progress to confirm the preliminary data.
The results should be of the greatest interest to those ecologists con-
cerned with the energy-exchange phenomena between biological sys-
tems and the atmosphere, as well, indeed, to urban planners concerned
with human health.

During the past year the Center for Short-Lived Phenomena, an
organization set up by the Astrophysical Observatory, participated in
127 geological, astrophysical, and biological events including 21 major
earthquakes, 18 volcanic eruptions (one involving the birth and disap-
pearance of an island), 21 fireballs, 11 major oil spills, 9 fish kills, 4
rare-animal migrations, 3 freshly fallen meteorite recoveries, the dis- —
covery of a stone-axe tribe, and several dozen other land and marine
ecological events.

The Center assisted in the coordination of activities for reconnais-
sance missions and scientific field expeditions to the Fernandina Caldera
collapse in the Galapagos Islands, the Mt. Arenal volcanic eruption
in Costa Rica, the Cerro Negro volcanic eruption in Nicaragua, the
Applachian squirrel migration in the eastern United States, the Mt.
Merapi volcanic eruption in Indonesia, and the Pueblito de Allende
meteorite shower in Mexico.

During the Apollo 11 Manned Lunar Mission, the Center arranged
communications between 207 astronomical observers in thirty countries
and maintained daily contact with the Manned Spacecraft Center,
NASA, at Houston, Texas. Reports from ground-based observers were
relayed to the msc for transmittal to the astronauts en route to and
orbiting the moon; this mission provided an opportunity for astronauts
to confirm (by observation and photography) ground-based observa-
tions of transient lunar events.

The Center has established an effective global reporting network
of 1510 scientists in many disciplines and from 118 countries.

During the past year the Center issued 127 event notification reports,
764 event information reports, 16 final event publications, and 11.
preprints of scientific papers on the preliminary results of field |
investigations.

By all odds it would seem the Center for Short-Lived Phenomena
(a Gilbertian title if ever there was one) is here to stay. In addition
to its brainchild, the Smithsonian’s Astrophysical Observatory has had |
a notable year. On 23 October 1968, the Observatory opened its Mount |
Hopkins, Arizona, facility, a celebration presided over by Representative
Morris K. Udall of Arizona. The station will have a tracking camera,
a pulsed ruby-laser ranging system, a 12-inch telescope already installed |

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 21

preparatory to a 60-inch telescope for investigation of stellar and
planetary atmospheres, and a 10-meter light collector designed for the
detection of gamma rays from celestial sources. In conjunction with
“NASA, experiments have been started at Mount Hopkins to establish
criteria for the selection of sites for future ground-based astronomy
research.

On 7 December 1968, the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration launched the second Orbiting Astronomical Observatory
(OAO-2) from Cape Kennedy, Florida. The two-ton satellite con-
|tained two major scientific experiments, including Project Celescope,
/a Smithsonian-designed, television-telescope system for observing stars in
ultraviolet light.

One week later, at 2:49 a.m., 14 December, the Celescope cameras
made the first ultraviolet photographs of the heavens, showing three
6th-magnitude stars in the constellation Draco.

Between launch and the end of June 1969, the Celescope experi-
ment obtained nearly 2500 photographs of stars. Although one camera
has stopped operating and the three remaining systems are experiencing
some loss of sensitivity owing to prolonged exposure to space radiation,
‘the Celescope experiment is expected to continue to return valuable
scientific data for several more months.

_ An early evaluation of the photographic data indicates that very few
‘of the stars measured by Celescope are appreciably brighter than
expected. Also, about twenty percent of the objects found by Celescope
near the plane of the Galaxy do not appear in identification atlases,
whereas nearly every object more than ten degrees from the plane
‘does. Presumably, the extra stars are mostly faint O and B stars; but,
-additional ground-based observations may be necessary to confirm this
theory.

_ The optical tracking network of the sao participated in all the
‘Apollo manned-spacecraft missions during this period.

_ The most spectacular result of this participation occurred on 21
December 1968, when the sao camera station at Maui, Hawaii, photo-
graphed the burn of the booster rockets that injected the Apollo 8
spacecraft into the translunar phase of its flight to the moon. The same
day, the sao tracking station at San Fernando, Spain, photographed
the cloud of excess fuel dumped by the Apollo 8 spacecraft some 30,000
miles from earth.

On 4 March 1969, the sao stations at Hawaii and Mount Hopkins

gain photographed an Apollo 9 fuel-release cloud at a distance of
approximately 70,000 miles from earth. The photographs of these fuel
‘dumps proved highly valuable to Nasa engineers and scientists attempt-
‘ing to understand the behavior of liquids in space.

/

|

29 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

TROPICAL BIOLOGY

Environmental studies continued at an increased rate at the Tropical
Research Institute in Panama. The nation’s unique tropically based
laboratory has been working on interspecific and intraspecific competi-
tion in terrestrial and marine organisms. An event of the past year,
tragic yet perhaps fortuitous was the grounding of oil tanker Witwater
off the Galeta Station of the Institute on the Atlantic coast of the Canal
Zone. Research on recovery rates of marine organisms subjected to oil,
may prove to be beneficial in the long run to studies of oil spills, bound
to become more frequent round the world as time goes on. Meanwhile
comparative base-line studies in tropical ecosystems remain our primary
goal for this Institute.

For many years a large but rather scarce impressive looking, spiny,
poisonous, multi-armed starfish has been observed from the coral reefs
of the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and from the Red Sea to Hawaii.
Little was known of its habits, life history, or ecology. It is commonly
known as the Crown of Thorns Starfish, zoologically as Acanthaster
planci.

In 1960, near Green Island on Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, a
sudden population explosion occurred. Acanthaster began to swarm in
large numbers over the reefs, and was seen to feed on the living coral
animals, leaving nothing but the bare limestone skeletons. Under the
stress of hunger, as their food supply diminished, the starfish changed
from nocturnal habits to venturing out in broad daylight in their search
for food.

Large areas of the famous Great Barrier Reef were changed from
living animal communities to masses of bare dead limestone skeletons.
All of the multitudes of animals that depend directly or indirectly on
the corals for food were starved out of the affected areas. These include
large numbers of fish, lobsters, crabs, and other economically important
reef animals.

Two years ago a similar outbreak occurred on the reefs that line the
coast of Guam in the western Pacific. Here it spread rapidly until at
last report, an area twenty-six miles off the Guam coast was practically
stripped of living corals. More recently outbreaks have been reported
from a number of other areas in the Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands administered by the United States.

The citizens of Guam, fearing the loss of the reefs, brought the catas-
trophe to the attention of an International Biological Program meeting
on island conservation problems (November 1968), which included two”
Smithsonian biologists. Subsequently the Interior Department under- |
took a crash survey of the situation in Micronesia to develop a synoptic
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 23

picture of the phenomenon and try to isolate the causal factors. This
investigation now being conducted by Westinghouse Ocean Research
Laboratory, includes three Smithsonian marine scientists, Dr. Porter
Kier, Dennis M. Devaney, and Thomas F. Phelan, as well as other
United States and foreign experts. These men are specialists, some of
the very few in the nation, and the Smithsonian is proud to be able to
participate in such an important study. Potentially a starfish explosion
could undermine and destroy fringing reefs throughout the Pacific
threatening the entire economy of the area. Fortunately present evidence
indicates that the starfish can conquer coral reef animals only in areas
that have been disturbed by dynamiting. Controls can presumably be
worked out to prevent man’s wreaking further hardship upon himself
and his environment for short-term gains.

Interdisciplinary research continues to develop effectively within the
Natural History and Anthropology disciplines. Not only has primate
biology proved a useful bridge between these broad areas of science, but
also geology and paleoclimatology are closely related to archeological
research in Central and South America.

Of great interest in this connection is the work of Drs. Evans and
Meggers of the Anthropology staff, with Dr. Melson of the Mineral
Sciences division, in dating volcanic ash falls and determining special
characteristics and age of volcanic activity at El Arenal, Costa Rica,
and Quijos Valley, eastern Ecuador, with the archeological specimens
from levels in the sites that had been covered by volcanic materials.

Similarly petrographic studies have been made, especially by electron
microprobe analysis, of obsidian artifacts that had been used in obsidian
dating of the archeological cultures from sites in the Quijos Valley to
determine unique features of composition that might be affecting the
hydration rates. Through this technique new information on dating for
archeology and volcanology has been obtained.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

One of the aims of the National Zoological Park is to have a truly
professional staff. The addition of a pathologist, Robert M. Sauer
VMD, has been a step toward achieving this goal. We now have a
trained zoologist at the head of the department of living vertebrates,
another in charge of the bird collection, another heads the reptile
division, and still another has been appointed as assistant to Dr. John
F. Eisenberg in the scientific research department.

The National Zoo has continued its efforts to protect and conserve
wildlife and natural resources. In addition to cooperating with national
24 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

and international organizations devoted to wildlife protection, the Zoo
has made its special contribution. The International Union for the
Conservation of Nature publishes a list of rare and endangered species
throughout the world. The list mentions golden marmoset, orangutan,
scimitar-horned oryx, Pére David’s deer, Laysan duck, Hawaiian duck,
and Swinhoe’s pheasant. Each of these has been born or hatched at
the National Zoological Park during the past year.

PUBLIC SERVICES

Through the impetus established several years ago by the Institution’s
undertaking to direct and coordinate research for United States anthro-
pology and biology programs overseas, using dollar equivalents of stated
excess currencies, the Smithsonian has been able to help more than
forty-four American learned institutions and universities in the conduct
of original research.

The initial implementation of the Smithsonian’s role as executive
agent for the Iran-United States science cooperation agreement occurred
this year with the exchange of visits between Dr. Faryar, Underminister
of Science and Education in Iran, and the Director of the Office of
International Activities. Methods of disseminating research plans of |
scientists from each country interested in cooperative work have been |
established and efforts are now underway to locate funding sources.

The Smithsonian’s expertise in assessing the environmental conse-—
quences of an isthmian sea-level canal was recognized by the appoint- |
ment of Dr. David Challinor of our Office of International Activities
to the National Academy of Sciences special Committee on Ecological
Research for the Interoceanic Canal.

During the past year Morocco was added to the list of “excess” cur-
rency countries and already several projects have been initiated by
Smithsonian scientists for work there. The addition of Morocco has
been particularly welcome because of the pending removal of Tunisia
and Ceylon from the list of countries in which the Smithsonian’s Foreign
Currency Program operates.

The Smithsonian Associates membership now stands at 9,200 com-
pared with 6,500 a year ago. This includes individuals, double and
family membership, meaning that our memberships serve approximately
20,000 people. Our renewal average stands at a phenomenal 89 percent.

Some of the Associates activities have included luncheon talks on
collecting (painting, sculpture, prints, drawings, ceramics, glass, and
furniture) now in its third year. Once again this has proved extremely
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 25

popular with 375 members attending the talks each month over a
period of six months.

The Ancient Crafts Revived series was oversubscribed. Our work-
shops included batik, weaving, mosaic, stained glass, bookbinding, paste
paper, marble-and-paste, cloisonné, enamel, plique-a-jour, decoupage
and tole. For the first time this series was offered to young people (ten
to thirteen years). The classes included enameling, puppet making,
papier maché, wire sculpture, Egyptian paste, and paper weaving.

A particularly memorable event was that of the New York Chamber
Soloists’ performance of music from the Court of the Sun King, Louis
XIV, with recitations from Moliére, Racine, and La Fontaine given
by Jean Louis Barrault and Madaleine Renaud.

This year marks the signing of an official agreement between Mrs.
Merriweather Post, to whom the Institution owes so much, and the
Smithsonian on the maintenance of her wonderful house, “Hillwood.”
The tours to Hillwood have had a continuous waiting list and are
repeated as often as possible.

One of the most popular activities in which the Smithsonian has
engaged continues to be its division of Performing Arts. To bring the
instruments out of glass cases, to evolve the magic of folk crafts and
music, all this is to communicate directly to all people. How better can
our Institution demonstrate the worth of collecting things.

Our highlight of the year was the Festival of American Folklife
which was enhanced this past year by the addition of several continuing
programs. To the half million people who attended the four-day festival
of craft demonstrations and concerts we added five programs con-
ceived for the National Park Service’s “Summer in the Parks.” These
mobile art demonstrations, jazz concerts, folk concerts, puppet theater,
and film theater, traveled to twenty different city parks over a period
of ten weeks.

The Smithsonian libraries continue to command a high priority in
our efforts to increase the Institution’s research and education capability.
Many times throughout the year various departments of the Institution
assisted in financing the purchase of library materials vital to the sup-
port of their research programs. The professional staffs of the museums
and the libraries displayed their mutual concern for maintaining the
high quality of the libraries’ collections by working diligently together
to use their limited funds for the purchase of only those titles that were
of immediate and long-term importance to research. The same coopera-
tion, along with strong policy guidance and management by the office
of the Director of Libraries was applied to the negotiations and acquisi-
tions of five gift collections of research materials that contribute directly
to current bureau programs. This ability to attract donors remains one

366-269 O—70-—3
———<—-

26 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

a a a

of the most essential characteristics of the libraries. Even without a full-
time team of specialists, the libraries have been able to continue the
inevitable introduction of automation of library processing routines,

albeit rather slowly. ;

The libraries’ training program concentrated on improving the data-
processing skills of their staff members at various organizational levels.
With the assistance of the Information Systems Division, the libraries
attained a design for an automated serials purchase system and have
begun data input for the creation of machine-readable records. Still
ahead, but very much in the libraries future, is work on a system for the
integration of files of information in the literature with those pertaining
to specimens and artifacts in the museums, to create a totally responsive
and integrated computerized information storage and retrieval system.

Computers comprise one of the most important frontiers of science
today. The science of computer technology offers a means whereby the
storage of data accumlating throughout the museum complex may be
reduced to useful information. In recognition of this fact, the Informa-
tion Systems Division has continued to develop computerized systems
and techniques to make information more available. The expanding
volume of information, the increasing complexity of concepts, and the
demands for rapid application of knowledge to useful ends require an
increasing coordination of effort in the management of information.

Efforts this year revolved around enlarging the area in which the
Information Systems Division’s technology could be put to use. In a
cooperative effort with historians, researchers, and scientists our
computers and the technical expertise of our staff are joined to solve
problems. Like all technical contributions thus far invented by man,
computers represent an extension of man’s physical and mental capabili-
ties. Calculations, comparisons, and in-depth analysis that would
ordinarily cost many man hours, or even years of toil, can now be
accomplished in seconds with the help of a computer programmed to
the particular need. A few examples of this may be seen in the systems
developed this year for resarch in the fields of biology, paleobiology,
anthropology, botany, and the fine arts where time consuming tasks of
sorting, analyzing, and coordinating have been conducted by the com-
puter, freeing scientists and researchers to pursue more intellectual
activities based upon the information supplied by the automated process-
ing of data.

This was a year of major progress, for the Institution as a public
communicator. It began with establishment of the st motion picture
unit through a contract with Eli Productions. At the end of the year
we were engaged in discussions with the Corporation for Public Broad-
casting to support a number of productions, including our long-sought ;
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 27

definitive visitor’s orientation film. This obviously flowering relationship
with the cps is built upon a foundation with three primary components:
intellectual resources, the national collections, and a demonstrated
film-making capability.

Another aspect of film and television programs was represented by
the continuing conversations in which the Institution has been involved
over a period of months with regard to increasing our contribution to
public television in Washington and throughout the nation. Public tele-
vision, which itself is in an early stage of development in most parts of
the United States, appears to be moving toward a real accomplishment
with the support of the new Corporation for Public Broadcasting, as
well as from foundations and private companies. The Smithsonian,
with a continuing concern for the diffusion of knowledge dating to its
very origin, looks with great interest on future developments in this
area.

In the closely related field of educational radio, the Smithsonian
moved energetically during this year, once again combining an enhance-
ment of its own in-house capabilities and a most gratifying relationship
with the public broadcasting community. An educational radio service
designated “Radio Smithsonian” was established and began the con-
tinuing process of producing and making available recorded material
covering the full range of the Smithsonian’s enlightening and exciting
activities.

Coupled with development of the Smithsonian magazine, this evolu-
tion of our radio, television, and film programs helps to bring a new
dimension to the Institution in its ability to create channels from its vast
academic-cultural reservoir to people in their homes throughout the
nation.

Turning to another aspect of our public affairs, I believe it is clear
that the Smithsonian has during the past several years once again
assumed the central status within the Washington community, and
indeed the national community, that it occupied at least until the end
of the 19th century. There is a broad body of evidence that this is the
case. The Inaugural Ball for President Nixon in January, for example,
echoed the earlier inaugural festivities for President Garfield at the
A & I Building. Not only was the Museum of History and Technology
the scene of one of this year’s Inaugural Balls and other such celebra-
tions marking the start of a new administration, but the Institution was
also the scene of a number of farewell events for top officials in the
outgoing administration, including several members of the Cabinet,
and an unofficial farewell for President and Mrs. Johnson themselves.

Every department in the Cabinet held at least one, and in most cases
several, conferences, meetings or other events at the Smithsonian this
28 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

year, as did fourteen other governmental agencies ranging from the
FBI to the Weather Bureau to the Peace Corps. Fourteen foreign
nations—geographically ranging from Ceylon to Brazil to the Nether-
lands—sponsored or played a principal role in exhibitions or other
events. A considerable number of major national corporations, par-
ticularly in the areas of advanced technological and communication
fields, sponsored events in relation to Smithsonian exhibits or other
activities.

Can it be that the Smithsonian has a mission to make a real contri-
bution toward public understanding through a union of exhibits and
TV, as I have suggested earlier? Once television can be related to
everyday learning, once open education is understood for what it is, I
suspect that pedagogues will realize that like a mystical third eye—
the Buddhist concept of the survival of the pineal neural apparatus—
we may be able to translate aperceptive techniques into reality.

At present TV is merely floating on the edge of aperception, and
making money. But perhaps, that pale cyclopean staring eye, possessed
subjectively by everyone, in kitchen, bedroom, or parlor can be realized
to be merely in its infancy, the tin lizzie of what it could be for the
future, wedded to a continuing series of object-oriented exercises in a
neighborhood museum.

It is the mission of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (SITES) to make the museum experience a living one to mil-
lions who do not come to the central setting.

A recent check of contracts with educational institutions in the
United States revealed that sires had sent exhibitions to 240 schools,
universities, or junior colleges in all of the fifty states in the last eighteen
months. It is becoming increasingly clear that s1rEs could render much
greater service all over the country if some subsidy could be found to
finance exhibitions for very small communities which cannot secure
the prorated costs of the most modest exhibitions. As a conservative
estimate, however, more than three and a half million people saw
Smithsonian traveling exhibits in the United States and Canada in
1969. These exhibits were of painting, sculpture, architecture, photog-
raphy, history, science, decorative arts, and children’s art.

An extension of the Mall institutions has been the Anacostia Neigh-
borhood Museum, described in detail in last year’s report.

This concept of neighborhood museums located in large urban cen-
ters where massive social, economic, and political problems abound,
gives direction and purpose to every division previously situated in the
central museum complex. The natural scientist, historian, anthropol-
ogist, and ethnologist can make their research and exhibits relevant
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 29

to current human situations. The neighborhood museum must meet the
practical needs of its community; indeed, its existence is predicated
upon the proposition that there are close-up, person-to-person tech-
niques to meet critical neighborhood needs. The neighborhood museum
must attract a significant number of neighborhood people at all levels
to insure its involvement and strengths. It should also make every effort
to analyze and interpret the history of its community.

This past year the educational programs, directed by Miss Zora
Martin, covered a broad spectrum from guiding children and adults
through exhibits and workshops for Community Reading Assistants of
the Anacostia Model School Project to special science units led by a
part-time teacher on loan from the District of Columbia Board of
Education.

In February of this year, the educational staff provided a well-
organized series of lectures, discussions, films, and dramatic perform-
ances for our celebration of Negro History Week. In addition to this,
the staff provided guided tours for the exhibit “The Sage of Anacostia,”
a graphic history of the Afro-American featuring the life of Frederick
Douglass. This was the most successful exhibit executed by the Anacostia
Museum and, undoubtedly, one of the most informative. It was attended
by approximately twenty-seven thousand metropolitan area school
children.

This year also saw the establishment of the museum’s Research Center
and Library for the purpose of furthering the development of the neigh-
borhood museum concept. The center will serve not only the needs of
Anacostia but a wider area as well. The Research Center and Library
is directed by Larry Erskine Thomas, the museum’s research and design
coordinator. The development of this research facility will enable the
community, the general public, and all who make use of its services to
understand the true significance of the black man’s social and cultural
environment and his influence on the progress of a great nation. The
Center has already consulted with and provided services to a wide
variety of museums and organizations as they seek to reshape their
programs and exhibits.

ASSOCIATED ACTIVITIES

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars was estab-
lished by Act of Congress (P.L. 90-637) on 24 October 1968, to be
be “a living institution expressing the ideals and concerns of Woodrow
Wilson. . . . symbolizing and strengthening the fruitful relation
30 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

between the world of learning and the world of public affairs.” Congress
placed the Center in the Smithsonian Institution under the administra-
tion of its own fifteen-man Board of Trustees, subsequently appointed
by President Johnson and President Nixon.

The Trustees met at the Museum of History and Technology on
6 March 1969, and created an executive committee consisting of
Messrs. Humphrey, McPherson, Moynihan, Ripley, and Rogers. In
addition, they approved the selection of Mr. Benjamin H. Read, for-
merly Executive Secretary of the Department of State, as acting
director, and accepted with thanks temporary quarters in the Smith-
sonian Institution Building.

Concurrently, a contract has been let with Smithsonian Institution
planning funds under which the Urban Design and Development Cor-
poration, a new District of Columbia nonprofit corporation established
by the American Institute of Architects and headed by Mr. Ralph G.
Schwartz, will explore the feasibility of the recommended site for the
Center on the future Market Square at 8th Street and Pennsylvania
Avenue. The feasibility study is due on 1 September 1969.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars has obtained
a $45,000 grant from the Ford Foundation to permit it to get started,
and an initial appropriation request of $100,000 for fiscal year 1970
has been submitted to the Congress.

A milestone in the life of our affiliated Institution, the National
Gallery of Art, has been the retirement, after thirty years of devoted
service of John Walker, the Gallery’s second Director. The Smithsonian
through its Secretary has served on the Gallery’s guiding Board since
its inception, and has watched with marvelling eyes, sometimes tinged
with human envy, the remarkable development of the collections under
his able hands. Would that other art collections in this city had been
able so to increase their holdings!

To his ability, must be added Mr. Walker’s prescience in the guidance
of the Gallery’s assistant director, Carter Brown, who now succeeds him.
We salute Carter Brown as a brilliant successor to the indefatigable
John Walker.

The “topping out” of the Kennedy Center’s massive steel framework
in September launched a year of continuing tangible progress for the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. As the steel contract
was completed, the contract for the erection of hundreds of tons of the
marble from Italy for the building’s facing began, and the Center took
on a new look. |

Although construction proceeded at a good pace, the Kennedy Center
has not been immune to the meteoric rise in construction costs. In
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY 31

October, Roger L. Stevens, Chairman of the Board of Trustees,
announced that an additional $15 million was needed in order to com-
plete the building. In the spring, after a private fund-raising campaign
was well along, Representative Kenneth Gray introduced H.R. 11249
in the House of Representative providing for an increased matching
federal grant to the Kennedy Center and an increased loan from the
United States Treasury.

Plans for the Center’s opening early in 1971 progressed as George
London assumed his position as Artistic Administrator last September.
In December it was announced that the American Ballet Theatre, one
of world’s foremost dance groups, would be the Center’s resident ballet
company.

Perhaps the most historic moment of the year was the announcement
last October that the Center’s Theater would be named in honor of
General and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower. It was President Eisenhower,
of course, who initiated the Center in 1958.

More than a score of ancillary activities will be reported on in later
pages, not least of which is the development of the museum shops pro-
gram, the continued planning for a conservation-analytical laboratory
of major national proportions and our traditional program of exchange
of information through the publication of books and research reports,
the shipping of documents, and the maintenance of a conference center
at Belmont.

To the vital participation of the Regents this past year should be
added the special news of the reappointment for a six-year term of Mr.
John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island, and the new appoint-
ment of Mr. Thomas J. Watson Jr., citizen of Connecticut.

These multifarious extensions of a central theme to “increase and
diffuse knowledge” are part of the Smithsonian. They form a core
of the knowledge industry which we attempt to generate. It will be
imperative in years to come that young people keep up with the chang-
ing world of technocracy. But this cannot be done by slave driving
pedagogical means. It must be done by waves of ambient illumination.
I do not know that this principle has been grasped as yet by sociologists
or economists. It has been intuitively grasped by the so-called “media”
professionals, but without a strong sense of commitment, except the
laws of individual enterprise. These are to some extent outmoded, how-
ever, hence the conflict and the tension of everyday life. It is our hope
in the Smithsonian to bridge this intelligence gap, for this surely we
Owe, as a consequence of our original creation.
32 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was held on 15 January
1969 at Hillwood, the home of Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post. Hill-
wood has been deeded to the Smithsonian Institution and the transfer
of the property and collections was formally accepted on this date by
Secretary Ripley on behalf of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was held on 21 May
1969 in the Fine Arts and Portrait Galleries Building. This meeting
was the last one to be attended by Earl Warren, retiring as Chief Justice
of the United States and Chancellor of the Board of Regents. The
Regents unanimously voted the following resolution, a copy of which
was presented to Mr. Warren:

Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United States and Chancellor of
the Smithsonian Institution: Your fellow regents wish to express their
deepest appreciation for your devoted friendship and extend to you
their warmest good wishes for the years ahead.
/s/ S. Ditton RiPLey
Secretary
FINANCIAL REPORT

T. AMES WHEELER
Treasurer
4 L/ io 6 |
AF i A ho i ’
a ¢ i
hoes Tf

Ok
.
‘

Ny i

eal

‘of!

Wein fs: hi
Pear ON

+

Financial Report

While the Smithsonian is a private institution, its private financial
resources are distinctly limited. Operating costs of its museums, art
galleries, and educational and research centers are largely met by annual
federal appropriations. The same is true for necessary construction
programs and, through the government of the District of Columbia, for
support of operations of the National Zoological Park. In addition,
federal appropriations of “excess” foreign currencies are granted to the
Smithsonian for the purpose of financing academic grants to various
universities and educational institutions throughout the United States
to enable the latter to carry out research studies in the related overseas
nations.

As a private educational and research institution, the Smithsonian
may and sometimes does receive a substantial volume of gifts, grants,
and contracts from private individuals and foundations and from fed-
eral agencies for the acquisition of collection items or the performance
of specific projects in areas of special Smithsonian capability. These
cover such diverse fields as the tracking of satellites in outer space, and
underwater exploration for oceanographic research and ecological stud-
ies here and abroad. Finally, earnings on the Smithsonian’s endowment
funds provide private fund income of moderate proportions.

For the year ended 30 June 1969, this category of financial support
for Smithsonian operating expenses may be summarized as follows:

Federal appropriations

Salaries and Expenses—normal activities $26, 443, 000
Special Foreign Currency Program 2, 316, 000
District of Columbia—Operation of National Zoological Park 2, 528, 000
Research grants and contracts (federal and private) 11, 400, 000

Private funds
Gifts (excluding gifts to endowment funds; entire amount _1, 987, 000
restricted to specific projects and hence unavailable for
general operating purposes)
Income from endowments and current fund investments 1, 365, 000

Total: $46, 039, 000

In addition, federal appropriations to finance construction projects
were received as follows:

35
36 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

National Zoological Park $ 300,000
Restoration and Renovation of Buildings 400, 000
Toward construction of Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and 2, 000, 000**

Sculpture Garden —_—_——_————_

Total: $ 2, 700, 000

**Plus $12,197,000 as contract authorization

Financial statements for the private funds, as audited by independent
public accountants, are shown below together with a statement of gifts
received in the current fiscal year.

The gifts received for both endowment and immediate program pur-
poses have been extremely helpful and are again gratefully acknowl-
edged. Major contributions included the $685,000 of funds received
from Cooper Union and the Committee to Save Cooper Union Museum
in connection with the Smithsonian assumption of responsibility for that

Museum; $150,000 from the Scaife Family of Pittsburgh and $75,000
from the Old Dominion Foundation for the Chesapeake Bay Center

project; Ford Foundation grants of $208,500 and $45,000, respectively,
for “Reading Is Fun-damental” and the new Woodrow Wilson Center
for International Scholars; $230,000 from the Morris and Gwendolyn
Cafritz Foundation for the new Calder setting on the Mall; and a
bequest of $235,000 and a valuable collection of hemiptera-heteroptera
from the Carl Drake estate.

The Smithsonian has been fortunate in securing increases in its
federal appropriations for operating purposes in recent years. For its
normal activities in fiscal year 1969, however, the increase amounted
merely to about eight percent. Increasingly severe federal budgetary
restraints are now seriously limiting efforts to keep up with the inflation-
ary rise in salaries and supplies, to meet the difficulty of accommodating
steadily rising numbers of visitors to our museums, and to maintain even
minimum support of research and educational projects.

Under these circumstances, private-fund support becomes doubly
valuable. The book value of private Smithsonian endowment funds
increased during the fiscal year by $1,740,000 (principally $1,250,000
gain on sales of securities and $437,000 from gifts), to a total of
$26,490,000 on 30 June 1969 (market value $31,800,000). The income
from roughly one half of these endowment funds is directed to the sup-
port of the Freer Gallery, and income from another one fourth of the
funds is restricted to other valuable endeavors in specific fields of re-
search and education. The remaining funds ($6,414,000) are unre-
stricted as to use of income; together with other investments in current
fund accounts they produce about $400,000 of income annually.

These private funds, even in such limited amounts in relation to the |
overall operating requirements of the Institution, are extremely valuable
in permitting experimental improvements, change, and modernization
FINANCIAL REPORT 37

in a variety of operating programs. It is essential to the future success
of the Institution that such private fund income be substantially in-
creased if the Smithsonian is to fulfill its mandate and keep abreast
of rapidly changing needs.

Some examples of a few specific large requirements for the immediate
future include purchase funds to expand our Chesapeake Bay Center
for Field Biology which is conducting fundamental ecological studies.
In addition we need building renovation and operating funds for the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design in New York
City. Finally we need funds to expand the Smithsonian Associates pro-
gram on a national scale. This pressing need for additional private
support has not previously been made known to our friends and well-
wishers. To this end, therefore, there has now been initiated an
expanded program to attract important private financial support. The
Institution will seek directed and unrestricted gifts, grants, and bequests
from private individuals, foundations, and corporations. Some success
has already been achieved. We intend to work harder.

Financial Statement
For the Year Ending 30 June 1969

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and
bequests received from the following:

$100,000 or more:

Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post
Foundation The Scaife Family of Pittsburgh
The Ford Foundation

$10,000 or more:

American Federation of Information Old Dominion Foundation

Processing Society Russell Sage Foundation
American Petroleum Institute Hattie M. Strong Foundation
Frank Caplan Irwin-Sweeney-Miller Foundation
John A. du Pont Tai Ping Foundation
Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Charles Ulrick and Josephine Bay
Foundation Foundation, Inc.
J. Seward Johnson Howard Weingrow

National Geographic Society
$1,000 or more:

Allison Division, General Motors American Council of Learned
Corporation Societies

American Committee for Internationa) Andrew Archer
Wildlife Protection R. Arundel
38

Mrs. Edward Ayers
Robert Baker
Bell Aerospace Corporation

The Louis and Henrietta Blaustein

Foundation
Estate of Mrs. Bliss
Boeing Company
Capital Cities Broadcasting
Coca Cola Company
Columbia Broadcasting System
The Commonwealth Fund
Corn Refiners
Clarence A. deGiers
Mrs. Robert Dunning
Earth Science Imports
Martin Ehrmann
William Elkins
Harvey Firestone

Foundation for Voluntary Service

Garrett Corporation

Geigy Chemical Corporation

General Dynamics

General Electric Company

Grant Foundation

Grumman Aircraft Corporation

Hughes Aircraft Corporation

International Business Machines
Corporation

International Music Council

International Telephone and
Telegraph Corporation

James Ellwood Jones

Junior League

Francis Keppel

Hoffmann LaRoche Foundation

J. Lavalend

Dr. George Lawrence

M. Lebowitz

Eli Lilly & Company

Charles A. Lindbergh

$500.00 or more:

Acquavella Gallery
Walter Annenberg

John Beck

Bell & Howell Foundation
Leigh Block

George Brown

William A. Burden

H. Curtis

C. Douglas Dillon

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Ling-Temco-Vought Aerospace,
Incorporated

The Link Foundation

Litton Industries

Lockheed Aircraft Corporation

Louwana Fund, Incorporated

Marriott Foundation

L. Marschael

Mead Corporation

Fearson Meeks

The Merck Company

Irene Morden

National Home Library

Olympia Airways

Sidney Printing & Publishing
Company

Josephine Bay Paul and C. Michael

Paul Foundation
Charles Pfizer Company
Population Council
Raytheon Company
Research Corporation

Herbert and Nannette Rothchild

Foundation
Ryan Aeronautical Foundation
Tom Sawyer
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation
Sperry Rand Corporation
Dr. Walter Stryker
Eugene Thaw
Allen Tucker Memorial Fund
United Aircraft Corporation
University of Michigan
Lila Acheson Wallace Foundation
Washington, D.C., Library
The Washington Post
Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Weedon Foundation
Westinghouse Corporation
Xerox Corporation

Mrs. Robert Dranign

Electric Indicator Company,
Incorporated

H. Elwell

Fairchild Hiller Corporation

Faoun

Dr. Gordon D. Gibson

Arnold Gingrich

Cecil Green
FINANCIAL REPORT 39

Wenner-Gren Foundation Martha Love

Donald Hall Arjay Miller

Gordon Hanes J. Irwin Miller

Henry Heinz J. Jefferson Miller

Mrs. Oveta Culp Hobby Roy Neuberger

Hughes Tool Company North American Rockwell
Edgar Kaiser Pan American Airways
Kamen Corporation PRD Electronics, Incorporated
Alice Kaplan Reader’s Digest

David I. Kreeger Dr. Harold Rehder
Estee and James Lauder David Rockefeller
Dorothy Lee Shorewood Products

The Lilliputian Foundation Arthur O. Sulzberger
James Ling Joseph Wilson

John Loch Anne Windfohr

We also gratefully acknowledge other contributions in the amount
of $16,655.92 received from 201 persons during 1969.

Peat, Marwick, MiTcHELL & Co.

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
1025 CONNECTICUT AVENUE, NW
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036

The Board of Regents,
Smithsonian Institution:

We have examined the balance sheet of private funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of June 30, 1969 and the related statement of
changes in fund balances for the year then ended. Our examination
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.

In our opinion, the accompanying statement of changes in fund bal-
ances presents fairly the operations of the unrestricted funds of Smith-
sonian Institution for the year ended June 30, 1969, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles; and, with respect to all other
funds, subject to the matters referred to in note 1, the accompanying
balance sheet of private funds and the related statement of changes in
fund balances present fairly the assets and fund balances of Smithsonian
Institution at June 30, 1969, and changes in fund balances, resulting
from cash transactions of the private funds for the year then ended, all
on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.

| Peat, Marwick, MITcHELL & Co.

October 27, 1969
40 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

SMITHSONIAN
BALANCE SHEET OF PRIVATE

Assets
Current funds:
Cash:
In U.S. Treasury $492, 380
In banks and on hand 577, 687
Total cash 1, 070, 067
Receivables:
Accounts $268, 120
Advances—travel and other 156, 963
Reimbursements—grants and contracts 1, 261, 875
——S == 1, 686, 958
Inventories at net realizable value 618, 804
Investments—stocks and bonds at cost (market SSS
value $3,030,124) 3, 250, 305
Prepaid expense 19, 907
Equipment—museum shops (less accumulated
depreciation of $26,407) 86, 397
Total current funds $6, 732, 438
Endowment and similar funds:
Cash 98, 932
Notes receivable 99, 128
Investments—stocks and bonds at cost (market
value $29,281,837) 23, 955, 702
Loan to U.S. Treasury in perpetuity 1, 000, 000
Real estate (at cost or appraised value at date of
gift) 1, 336, 175
Total endowment and similar funds $26, 489, 937

See accompanying notes to financial statement
FINANCIAL REPORT

INSTITUTION
FUNDS, 30 JUNE 1969

Liabilities and Fund Balances

Current funds:

Accounts payable
Accrued liabilities
Unrestricted fund balance
Restricted fund balance:

Gifts

Grants

Contracts

Unexpended income:
Freer
Other
Total current funds
Endowment and similar funds:
Endowment funds—income restricted:
Freer

Other

Current funds reserved as an endowment—income
unrestricted

Total endowment and similar funds

Commitment (note 2)

366-269 O—70——4

$1, 074, 983
1, 034, 867

270, 087

472, 272

321, 092

13, 170, 032
6, 905, 852

41

$667, 754

39, 972

2, 851, 411

25319) 937

793, 364

$6, 732, 438

20, 075, 884

6, 414, 053

$26, 489, 937
492 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

SMITHSONIAN
Statement of Changes
Year Ended
Current funds
Total current Unrestricted
funds funds
Balance at beginning of year $5, 491, 751 $3, 086, 153
Adjustment: to reflect unexpended funds held by
principal investigators 220; 117 10, 718
Adjusted balance at beginning of year 5, 711, 868 3, 096, 871
Additions:
Grants and contracts—net of refunds 11,398, 918 . eee eee
Investment income 3029532 379, 150
Gifts and bequests 1, 986, 830 181, 143
Gross profit on sales 413, 561 413, 561
Rental 1, 118, 951 1, 118, 951
Dues and fees 904, 957 904, 957
Reimbursement from grantors or contractors 16, 632 (109, 989)
Other 503, 813 304, 002
Net gains on sales and exchanges of investments 62, 098 62, 098
Total additions 17, 708, 292 3, 253, 873
Deductions:
Salaries and benefits:
Administrative 3, 138, 543 3, 138, 543
Research 6, 069,693). see renee
Purchases for collection 764, 833 210, 175
Travel and transportation 689, 020 132, 274
Equipment and facilities 723, 286 63, 518
Supplies and materials 668, 776 268, 436
Rents and utilities 918, 468 319, 566
Communication 297, 243 102, 416
Contractual services 3, 118, 926 1272522
Computer rental 918, 039 40, 068
Depreciation 21, 462 21, 462
Admin. expenditures applicable to other funds .............. (2, 196, 569)
Total expenditures 17, 328, 289 3, 372, 411
Transfers to (from):
Income added to principal (49, 614)5 5 52 Gee
Wransfers for'designated purposes | in ee (109, 377)
Transfers to endowment funds (17, 545) (17, 545)
Total transfers (67, 159) (126, 922)
Balance at end of year $6, 024, 712 $2, 851, 411

See accompanying notes to financial statements.
FINANCIAL REPORT 43

INSTITUTION
in Fund Balances
30 June 1969

Current funds—Continued
Restricted funds Endowment and similar funds
Gifts, Unexpended Total Endowment Current funds
Grants, and income endowment and funds reserved as
Contracts similar funds an endowment
$1, 526, 607 $878,991 $24,749,750 $18, 553, 392 $6, 196, 358
191, 030 Pee I ier eielaeteae ey mi |) ans etapa liysl A you Maat tev
1, 717, 637 897, 360 24, 749, 750 18,553, 392 6, 196, 358
Ee acl ip eid DR ee a «eed ee a ae
See 923, 382 ister Sparen aes 2 Sa tar ne sited ene leta
USS of 419, 507 PESO. 0 Macrolarts etic
Ee Cl NAR Se a es ee eee ee ee
99, 408 100, 403 3, 330 (77) 3, 407
ee 1, 250, 191 1, 035, 903 214, 288
13, 430, 634 1, 023, 785 1, 673, 028 1, 455, 333 217, 695
5, 659, 758 5 SE SRI ah ng ay SMe aE a al cl ps ety
253, 389 SOO is ween tes Bere et) REN Ee ee
508, 022 Ree nae accent A inet aaa s in| > ph Retr ae
627, 885 Ce REY ea eee a sere stash iB eesioc Aare arky |) VRS anelal Mt ap
354, 281 SEEN Denne eye Seas trawl at ae idle Paras Witten 1? ‘nee Rgaayseaeragteiors
SraEMne TREND WEP retire, 2 red SES SEI Bs A et RAY atch OS eee
183, 469 AES! Fe ERE) ch Vee es BR SR ae ak Pe,
1, 704, 671 PEE are 2A ee el DE Pera « MEE Ge TRE),
ee Eee melee eee ily Sok Se, ae WRI AR So
2, 117, 504 ORR AP Toor ae eRe NOUR Tote Oh NER Gs os
12, 885, 852 Rena ernest ea eae eae y 1 lacie canal oRa Utena ala ay aca
| ee (49, 614) 49, 614 49, 614 Demat eet.
117, 518 (Sot) aries Ree as auvey tat: oma PAs ary, cere. 10%).
Me eacstce yr soy o claRaled » 17, 545 17, 545 Tend seohte Sh.
117, 518 (a7, 755) 67, 159 ig Re sates.

$2, 379, 937 $793, 364 $26,489,937 $20, 075, 884 $6, 414, 053

44 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Summary of Grants and Contracts
Year Ended June 30, 1969

Department of Health, Education, Total Grants Contracts
and Welfare $272, 397 $272; 397 == ee
Department of Defense 1, 667, 184 50,616 $1, 316, 568
National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration 7, 265, 134 4, 900, 423 2, 364, 711
National Science Foundation 2, 098, 267 120;,391 1, 977, 876
Other 320, 635 131, 423 189, 212
Total Grants and Contracts...... $11, 623,617 $5,475,250 $6, 148, 367

Summary of Endowment and Similar Funds Investments

Book Values at June 30, 1969

Consolidated
Total Fund Freer Fund

Short-term bonds $2, 650, 279 $1, 096, 371 $1, 553, 908
Medium-term bonds 1, 361, 226 617, 060 744, 166
Long-term bonds 8, 518, 126 3, 113, 624 5, 404, 502
Preferred stocks 878, 151 565, 840 312, 311
Common stocks 10, 534, 534 5, 381, 263 5, 153, 278

Motalsesmnt eee oe $23, 942,316 $10, 774, 158 $13, 168, 158
Other Stocks & Bonds 13, 386

otal Art merece geben euneos $23, 955, 702

Note 1. Basis of Accounting.—The accounts for unrestricted funds are maintained
on the accrual basis of accounting. Accounts for other funds are maintained on the
basis of cash receipts and disbursements, except that reimbursements for work
performed pursuant to a grant or contract are accrued and certain real estate is
carried at cost or appraised value as explained below.

Except for certain real estate acquired by gift or purchased from proceeds of gifts
which are valued at cost or appraised value at date of gift, land, buildings, furniture,
equipment, works of art, living and other specimens, and certain other similar
property, are not included in the accounts of the Institution; the amounts of
investments in such properties are not readily determinable. Current expenditures
for such properties are included among expenses. The accompanying statements
do not include the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, nor other departments, bureaus and operations administered by
the Institution under Federal appropriations.

Note 2. Commitment.—Pursuant to an agreement, dated October 9, 1967,
between the Institution and The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and
FINANCIAL REPORT 45

Art, the Institution acquired, on July 1, 1968, all funds belonging to The Cooper
Union for use exclusively for museum purposes, and certain articles of tangible
personal property as defined in the agreement.

The agreement provides, among other covenants, that the Institution will
maintain a museum in New York City and has pledges in excess of $800,000 for the
support of such a museum. During the year pledges of $200,000 were collected.
OFFICE OF ACADEMIC
PROGRAMS

Puitie C. RITTERBUSH

Director
The Office of Academic Programs

Puitie C. RitrersusH, Director

EARNING IS INTENSELY INDIVIDUALISTIC. Yet teaching is almost al-
L ways offered to groups. Formal education is organized for economy
of teaching effort, not for maximum learning. Like the formal set-piece
battle, which was the only way some generals knew how to fight, the
formal curriculum too often reflects the inability of faculties to teach in
any other way. The course given in sequence to a group of students
marching through it in tight formation for some predetermined interval
is obsolete. And so are school tours in museums if children are made to
stop obediently at successive stations to absorb doses of facts soon to
be forgotten. Educational programs must afford proper scope to the
rhythms of interest and respond to the directions of curiosity prompting
each student.

The basis of higher education within the Smithsonian is the mature
scholar conducting research in a field and helping to guide the efforts
of a student seeking greater competence. Starting this year, applicants
for educational appointments at the Institution have been asked not
only for records of previous achievement but also for essays specifying
their intellectual goals, enabling prospective supervisors to judge which
students will most benefit from the Smithsonian. Terms of admission
and the award of fellowship support are determined by steering com-
mittees of professional staff members, to whom these powers have been
delegated for the first time this year. Within each major field of study,
programs of associated tutorials and seminars are being developed to
foster more intensive exchanges of ideas and to serve community interests
of investigators whose work is related.

The summary of higher education for academic year 1968-69 is given
by each discipline, as follows:

In American Studies the equivalent of fourteen credit hours of instruc-
tion has been offered, including the graduate-level survey course in
American material culture, conducted by Harold Skramstad, a teaching
associate whose extensive knowledge of our nation’s development has
enabled him to draw widely on Smithsonian resources. Of the twenty-

49
50 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

six professional staff members whose primary concern is American his-
tory, four hold ancillary university appointments.
In Anthropology a total of thirty-two credit hours (equivalent) of

instruction has been offered and three PhDs and two master’s degrees

have been earned from the universities of students holding academic
appointments. Of eighteen professional staff members, two hold univer-
sity appointments.

A program in Cultural Studies is being established to serve the Insti-
tution’s scholarly enterprises in art and music history and the study of
folk culture. Three PhDs have been earned in this area and one master’s
degree, while the equivalent of twenty-one credit hours of instruction
has been offered by a total of twenty-three professional staff members.
Dr. William Gerdts has been appointed a teaching associate and has
conducted a graduate seminar on 19th-century American art in the
National Collection of Fine Arts.

In Environmental Biology, with twenty-three professional staff mem-
bers, of whom five hold joint university appointments, the equivalent
of eight credit hours of instruction has been offered, including the third

year of the spring lecture course in environmental biology, conducted in

cooperation with the D.C. Consortium of Universities.

In Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology (Tropical Zones) , the grow-
ing interest of biologists in unique tropical ecosystems and evolutionary
patterns has resulted in a group of excellent students taking advantage
of consultation with the Panama staff of seven scientists, of whom one
held a university appointment. Seven PhDs have been earned and a
total of forty-three credit hours (equivalent) of instruction have been
offered.

In Evolutionary and Systematic Biology, comprising the biological re-
search departments of the National Museum of Natural History and
sixty-five investigators, with twenty-four holding university appoint-
ments, the level of instruction offered has been equivalent to ninety-
four credit hours. Six PhDs and two master’s degrees have been earned.
Dr. Richard Boardman has conducted a widely praised seminar on
bryozoa, covering techniques of study as well as analyses of fine
structure.

In the History of Science and Technology, defined broadly to include
technology as applied to social needs such as agriculture, coinage, and
the postal system, the Institution employs thirty investigators, of whom
three hold university appointments. The equivalent of nineteen credit
hours of instruction has been offered and one PhD has been earned.

Museum Studies comprises three broad concerns of the modern mu-
seum: display systems including communications arts, reference sys-
tems including data management, and preservation systems including
OFFICE OF ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 51

all aspects of the analysis of materials. The program being developed in
this area looks beyond traditional approaches to museum training to-
ward a wider academic foundation. Internships at the grade level for
academic credit are now regularly arranged with George Washington
University and the University of Maryland.

Miss Joyce Perry, participant in the Office of Academic Programs’ 1969 Summer
Institute in Museum Display Systems has a lively discussion with a group of
inner-city sixth graders as part of an experiment in pupil reactions to museum
objects. Data obtained will be used in the development of new teaching exhibits
at the Smithsonian.

Almost any curator might be counted as a potential contributor to
the study of these practical museum arts, as well as a dozen or so staff
members for whom they are the primary professional commitment, as
is true for conservators and reference system analysts. One PhD and
one master’s degree have been earned. Dr. Robert Organ, director of
the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, has offered a course of lectures
on chemistry. The equivalent of eighteen credit hours of instruction
has been offered. Two staff members hold university appointments.

In the Physical Sciences, forty-seven of seventy research staff members
have held academic appointments, reflecting the close interdependence
of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and Harvard University.
52 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Fourteen PhDs have been earned and two master’s degrees. In all, the’

equivalent of 188 credit hours of instruction has been offered.

SCHOOL SERVICE PROGRAMS

The Smithsonian’s school tour program has provided almost 1,600.

escorted tours, serving more than 45,000 school students, in the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology, the National Museum of
Natural History, and the National Air and Space Museum. At the Na-

tional Collection of Fine Arts 135 tours have been provided, serving’

4,050 pupils. Tours at the National Zoological Park have numbered
165, serving 9,390 children. Of these, 130 tours have been prescheduled,

and 35 have been unscheduled classes that docents have been able to:

assist once they arrived at the Zoo.

These tours have been made possible through the volunteer activities
of about 150 women recruited from many parts of the Washington
metropolitan community. By giving, on the average, one morning a week
during the school year, the volunteer docents are able to offer a wide
variety of tours in eighteen areas of the Smithsonian Institution.

A central scheduling office has now been set up for the tours, allow-
ing the instructor staff to devote more time to special class visits and
the production of educational materials. Mrs. Joan Madden has joined
the staff as Volunteer Representative and has greatly improved all as-
pects of scheduling. The number of volunteer docents has more than
doubled this year and the school tour total has increased by 235 per-

cent. Far more important than numbers have been the efforts to trans- —

form the tours into freer learning experiences. Within the National:

Collection of Fine Arts, for example, young children are encouraged to
act out their responses to works of painting and sculpture. Under the
guidance of Miss Susan Sollins the docents have worked up a remark-
able improvisational tour.

Exciting new departures in education were discussed for the entire
cadre of docents in a day-long meeting in May 1969: “Museum Edu-
cation Day,” which brought six inspiring speakers, who described ways
to use the museum as an effective environment for visual learning. At
an appreciation ceremony in June 1969 the docents were given a de-
lightful concert on period musical instruments, a wonderful example
of the museum come alive, which is of course the mission they seek to
perform for youngsters.

The Division of Elementary and Secondary Education “Tailored
Tour’ program has seen much activity during the year. This program,
one which provides carefully custom-designed museum experiences
OFFICE OF ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 53

planned in terms of specific needs of subscribing school groups, has
\continued to gain popularity among teachers and curriculum specialists
in the Washington, D.C., public, private, and parochial school com-
munity. During the year approximately 1,260 pupils representing forty-
jtwo schools have taken part in the program. Slightly more than fifteen
\percent of the Office of Academic Programs instructional staff time has
‘been spent in planning sessions with classroom teachers and in direct
teaching of visiting classes. Eight volunteer docents have been involved
iin implementation of certain of these special museum experiences when
‘the design was one that touched upon museum exhibits within the
scope of their general preparation.

In addition to a museum staff of instructors available to consult with
school people, the availability of two classrooms in the Division of Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education complex in the National Museum of
Natural History makes the tailored tour concept functional. This facility
‘permits discussions, use of various types of media, participation of visit-
ing resource persons, demonstrations, creative activities (such as clay
modeling, painting, creative writing), and other teaching and learning
techniques to be planned as part of a comprehensive teaching plan.

Groups participating in the tailored tour program during the past
year include the Model Schools Innovation Team, Pupil Personnel
Department Tutorial Program, United States Department of Labor
Day Nursery School, and Project Headstart.

The school service program introduces groups of young Americans
to educational opportunities outside of school that will be available
‘to them for life. In hopes of improving the effectiveness of museums
in providing educational experiences, the Institution has issued an in-

-vitation to encourage research by psychologists and others into the learn-
‘Ing process as it may actually be observed in our halls and galleries.
Effective learning necessarily involves pupils in active responses and
free discussion of exhibits, which can be studied for clues to questions
of interest and comprehension. To see children come alive with the
joy of knowing is to share in a museum’s greatest success. But as Hans
Zetterberg argues in his recent book, Museums and Adult Education,
there has been far too little discerning study of who comes to see what
and how they profit by it. Here the Smithsonian has a special responsi-
bility to sponsor studies that will be of value throughout the world of
education. An experimental student information guide program and an
invitational conference on innovation and relevance in museum exhibits
‘are other special activities devoted to this objective, which will also be
of primary concern within the higher education program in museum
| studies.
54 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

An acute shortage of financial resources has blocked expansion of

education programs for the past three years. Outside support from the

National Science Foundation, the National Endowment on the Hu-—

manities, the Junior League of Washington, and the Home Library
Foundation has helped to maintain the program level. Support for the
Third International Symposium has been generously provided by the
sponsors. The United States Congress has approved a centralization
of educational funding within the Office of Academic Programs, which

is expected to result in better communication of student numbers and .
program needs. More effective administrative procedures for scheduling

school tours, for making appointments in higher education, and for
certifying instruction to universities have been worked out and put into
effect, made possible by an unusually dedicated staff. Wilton S. Dillon,

a versatile social anthropologist who has seen distinguished service with —

the Phelps-Stokes Fund and the National Academy of Sciences, became
Director of the Division of Seminars in January 1969. He is ably as-
sisted by Mrs. Ruth Frazier. David Chase and Mrs. Grace Murphy
direct the production of the Washington Academic Calendar and other
special projects in urban and environmental affairs. Edward Davidson,
a paleontologist who has done much of the work for his doctorate within
the National Museum of Natural History, has joined the Division of
Graduate Studies as a Program Associate, bringing to it an intimate
knowledge of Smithsonian research.

Director Ritterbush has joined the deliberations of the working
group on intellectual] institutions of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences-sponsored Commission on the Year 2000 and also a com-
mission on governance of universities cosponsored by the Academy and
the Danforth Foundation. He also has organized a symposium on the
relations of art and science to biological form for the annual meeting
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, has pre-
sented a number of scholarly papers. has addressed the sesquicentennial
of the University of Cincinnati (“The Educated Man in the Year
2000”), the silver anniversary observance of the National Science
Teachers’ Association (“Science Teaching and the Future”), and has
consulted on education with the governments of Israel and the United
Kingdom.

Staff Publications

Ditton, Witton S., Gifts and Nations. Foreword by Talcott Parsons. The
Hague and Paris: Mouton and Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, 1968.

RirrersusH, Purp C., The Art of Organic Forms. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1968.

OFFICE OF ACADEMIC PROGRAMS 55

. “Environment and Historical Paradox.” Yearbook of the Society for
General Systems Research (1968), volume 13.

. “The Biological Muse.” Natural History (October 1968), volume 77,
number 8, pages 26-31.

. “The Educated Man in the Year 2000.” American Oxonian (January
1969), volume 56, number 1, pages 1-13.

. “The Educated Man in the Year 2000.” Vital Speeches (1 March 1969),
volume number 10, pages 295-300.

Kye A ek i
+ = eh

Me sy’ She

SCIENCE

SIDNEY R. GALLER

Assistant Secretary

366-269 O—70 5
S50 AR tO?
atic FB rane

Met rad aii
National Museum of Natural History ’

RicuHarp S. Cowan, Director

NE NEEDS TO HAVE ONLY SOME AWARENESS of the world around
him—and a conscience—to recognize that enormous, often
traumatic, changes of many kinds are demanding attention. Demands
for change in social institutions, reversal of environmental degradation,
and changing values in the face of rapid scientific and technological
advances provide us with challenges well beyond anything that has ever
been faced by civilized man. Directly and indirectly, the disciplines of
natural history can, and must, contribute to the solution of these prob-
lems. The first step in the application of science to human problems is
that scientists must care, must be concerned. The research staff of this,
the largest natural history museum in the country, increasingly reflects
a growing involvement with today’s problems in today’s world.

Perhaps the single concern of greatest magnitude is the accelerating
impact of man on his surroundings or, in many cases, the actual destruc-
tion of the environment. Formal direct action, through participation
in organizations of national and international scope, is evidenced by our
participation in such undertakings as the International Biological Pro-
gram, the Charles Darwin Station in the Galapagos Islands, the joint
effort with British scientists to protect the biota and habitats of Aldabra
Island. At the personal level, however, numerous individuals of the
research staff at the year’s end were: (1) planning a colloquium on the
threatened biota of Hawaii; (2) organizing preliminary exploratory
field studies of a starfish population explosion that threatens the coral
Pacific islands; (3) preparing for a reconnaissance of the Marshall
Island Test Area; (4) developing plans for massive biological research
programs in Southeast Asia that can serve as the foundation for an
expanded standard of living for the people of that area; (5) completing
plans for large-scale systematic studies in collaboration with ecologists,
geneticists, physiologists, and others concerned with the complexity and

1 Formerly Museum of Natural History. Name change effective 24 March 1969.
59
*

60 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

potentials of the tropical forest ecosystem; and (6) conducting experi-
ments similar to those that will be used in our studies of the first lunar
samples.

If one is truly involved in current problem-solving, he realizes that
today’s research programs, by themselves, do not provide for the future,
even if they were adequate to meet today’s problems (and they are not).
This realization has produced an involvement by the Museum staff in
educational activities far beyond all expectations of a few years past.
High school students, doctoral degree candidates, scores of volunteer
workers of all ages, and serious visiting researchers use the facilities of
the Museum in ever-growing numbers. It is noteworthy that they come
not only because of the more than fifty million specimens that serve
as the documentation base for a full panoply of research but also
because of a vital research climate in the Museum.

With the increase of interdisciplinary use of the collections-tool, there
has been generated a vast demand for the information they contain. If
museums are to continue to serve a vital role in the biological research
process, they must contribute fully to the research-educational process
by making the collections and their accompanying data more accessible
to the community of scholars. Rising costs of collections maintenance—
along with large numbers of new materials obtained in the course of
major, large-scale biological programs—have discouraged, or even pre-
vented, museums from fulfilling this function as adequately as required.
Electronic data-processing techniques, though costly both in time and
money provide the means by which museums may meet these problems.
Under the direction of Donald F. Squires,” pilot studies have been under-
way for the last two years with the support of the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare (HEW) and with the collaboration of the
Smithsonian’s Information Systems Division. The information that com-
prises the data base is derived from the collections of sea birds, marine
crustaceans, and rocks. Data recorded in the field and in the laboratory
are prepared in machine-readable form as a part of the specimen
documentation process, read into a computerized system of storage,
and retrieved according to the requirements of the researcher. The sys-
tems devised are now being applied in other parts of the collections by
the Museum and the future expansion into many of the national
collections is a long-term, high-priority objective that may serve as a
model for the entire museum community.

Application of the techniques of data processing to the enormous
bibliographic needs of biology is a closely related goal that is also being

*Formerly deputy director of the Museum but now in charge of the marine
research programs at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 61

studied for future development. Already, the data base may be queried
successfully in specific areas, and at the end of the year a study was
underway of the economic factors involved—how much it costs to put a
set of data in the base and to retrieve that information.

One final example of the Museum’s deep commitment to the study
of fundamental human problems is provided by a Smithsonian-National
Institutes of Health program initiated several years ago to study the
occurrence of cancer-like, abnormal growths in lower animals. The
project has much potential significance to other larger, broad-gauged
research programs in the Museum, as well as to medical research on
tissue abnormalities. The implications and accomplishments of this pro-
gram are described later in this report by the project director, John C.
Harshbarger.

While major concepts in the understanding of disease processes (par-
ticularly in infectious disease, immunity, and genetics) have been made
in studies of the lower animal phyla, much of the work has been done
by independent investigations widely separated in time and location,
and very little coordinated support for bio-medical research has been
extended to animals below mammals.

In the field of oncology (the study of tumors) the paucity of informa-
tion regarding neoplasms in invertebrates has stimulated a search for
anti-tumor materials in these animals and some success has been
reported.

The thymic-dependent defense system of cellular immunity, which
phylogenetically appeared at about the level of the cyclostomes (lam-
preys), is claimed by some researchers to have evolved because of the
survival value it provided as a surveillance system against aberrant (neo-
plastic) cell populations. Neoplasia, therefore, must not have been much
of a threat to primitive animals and should be rare in the lower phyla
today.

The majority opinion, however, as to why neoplasia seems rare in
invertebrates and cold-blooded vertebrates is that these tumors are
seldom recognized and the small size of many of these animals dis-
courages autopsy even when illness and death is observed. Moreover,
there has been little attempt to survey lower animal populations specif-
ically for neoplasia since many zoologists discard abnormal specimens
in favor of more normal ones for study.

There was no center for the collection and study of the pathology
of animals in the lower phyla until 1965, when the Registry of Tumors
in Lower Animals was activated by the National Cancer Institute at
the National Museum of Natural History under a contractual arrange-
ment. The primary objectives of the Registry are: (1) to collect and
study neoplasms and related disorders of growth and form in inver-
62 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969 _

tebrate and cold-blooded vertebrates, (2) to serve to collect the per- ;
tinent tumor-related literature, and (3) to serve a liaison role among the
various workers in the field. Another, secondary objectve of the Registry
is to carry out field collections of neoplasms where these are of special
interest to pathologists. A study of epithelial papillomas of the mouth—
enzootic in white croakers off the coast of California—is in progress.
A study of invertebrates exposed to radioactive fallout at the Bikini
Atoll has just been initiated.

The Registry now has 244 accessions, only about one fourth of which
have been classified as neoplasms. Another fourth are problematic lesions
of indeterminate nature, illustrating the degree of difficulty experienced
in identifying disease processes in unfamiliar species. One half of the
specimens represent inflammatory, parasitic, reparative, developmental,
and other types of non-neoplastic phenomena.

One of the most valuable of the Registry’s accomplishments has been
the organization of an international symposium conducted at the Smith-
sonian Institution 19-21 June 1968. This was the first such symposium
devoted entirely to neoplasms of invertebrates and cold-blooded
vertebrates and the proceedings will be published (National Cancer
Institute Monograph 31).

Largely as a result of the Registry’s efforts, a reevaluation of the oc-
currence of tumors is being made. It is now recognized that neoplasms
occur in the vertebrates as low as the cyclostomes and that neoplasms
apparently comparable to those in mammals occur in insects and
mollusks. For example, in two laboratories transplantable, although
not invasive, growths have been found in the fruit fly, Drosophila
melanogaster. These tumors arise from the continual proliferation of
imaginal disk cells that have lost their ability for maturation. Another
transplantable tumor of Drosophila arises in the larvae of a specific
strain. In this case the larval neuroblast cells proliferate rapidly, in-
vade, and replace the host tissues. Because of the wealth of knowledge
of Drosophila genetics and the occurrence of polyteny in the salivary
gland chromosomes, these transplantable tumors are likely to become
valuable tools for the cancer researcher and the developmental biologist.

Since naturally occurring leukemias, epitheliomas, and a variety of
mesenchymal tumors have been found in oysters, mussels, clams, snails,
and crabs, one can begin to see potential advantages of cancer research
on these lower animals. Suspicion has been raised, for example, that
environmental factors will be found to explain the high incidence of
some neoplasms in particular populations of a species, which factors
may be of importance in explaining the distribution of cancer in human
populations. We already know that the epizootic of liver cancer in
hatchery-reared rainbow trout led to the discovery that aflatoxin, the
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 63

by-product of a fungus, was its cause, and aflatoxin is now under care-
ful scrutiny as a possible carcinogen in man. A similar situation is the
association of a herpes-like virus with the Lucké renal tumor (adeno-
carcinoma) of frogs. This animal s;stem is being used to obtain infor-
mation that may be useful in explaining the association of a similar
virus with the leukemic disease in Africans known as Burkitts’
lymphoma.

With the growth of aquaculture as a means of food supply, pathology
of marine animals is becoming a growing science. As greater numbers
of animals come under careful observation, it is inevitable that new
epizootics of neoplasia will be discovered and will require investigation
of their relationship to human disease.

Investigation of the natural occurrence of neoplasms in the lower
phyla eventually may enable us to make some generalizations concern-
ing trends toward higher incidences of neoplasia in species of more
recent evolutionary origin, in species with more numerous systems, or
in species with greater degree of specialization in particular organs and
tissues. A board overview of neoplasia on the phylogenetic scale is not
now possible, for the current state of knowledge covers less than three
percent of the animal species on earth and only about twenty percent
of evolutionary time.

The relationship of carcinogenesis to immunologic effectiveness is a
question that may prove more readily answerable by investigating lower
animals. The invertebrates offer special advantages because they do not
produce humoral antibodies—by classical definitions—but they do have
cellular responses that are effective in “recognizing” foreign cells and
may be effective in “recognizing” tumor antigens. Since these animals
lack antibody formation as a complicating factor, they represent a
simplified experimental system for study of cellular immunological
mechanisms.

The study of neoplasia in lower animals has enormous potential. The
Tumor Registry has taken the lead by putting together a collection of
specimens which demonstrate that neoplasms exist widely in the animal
kingdom. Primarily through this collection and the symposium held
last year, considerable interest has been stimulated throughout the
world. We should now proceed to use populations with endemic neo-
plasms to answer some of the pertinent questions of etiology and the
influences of environmental factors, as well as to expand our knowledge
of tumor formation in the lower animal phyla.

Although today’s problems seem staggering, they may be viewed as
opportunities for extending man’s understanding of the natural world,
which is the ultimate objective of the National Museum of Natural
History.
:

64 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969 |
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
Specimen Transactions — Fiscal Year 1969
(Prepared by Office of the Registrar)

Ex- Trans-
New changed ferred Re- Lent
Departments acces- with other toother ceived for Identi-
sions institu- govern- onloan study fied
tions ment
agencies
Anthropology 79 325 0 47 458 4, 176
Botany 225 8, 892 428 4,984 23, 580 8, 025
Entomology 412 3, 274 oe O 61,143) )41,338
Invertebrate
Zoology 392 Deal 0 4,535 12,039" 37,2
Mineral Sciences 333 6, 095 82 10 686 388
Paleobiology 145 2, 651 0 856° T1yoa7 4, 800
Vertebrate Zoology 184 849 0 2,155 25/2767? Yaraae
Totals 1, 770 24, 417 514 12,587 73,576 141, 381

Specimens in the National Collections 10 June 1969

Department of Anthropology:
Archeology
Ethnology
Physical Anthropology

Totals
Department of Botany:
Cryptogams
Ferns
Grasses
Phanerogams
Plant Anatomy

Totals

Department of Entomology:
Total in former Division of Insects, 1963
Totals for new divisions. since 1963:
Coleoptera
Hemiptera and Hymenoptera
Lepidoptera and Diptera
Myriapoda and Arachnida
Neuropteroids

Totals

Additions Totals
4, 471 815, 575
2) 125 195, 935

39 37, 929

6,635 —-1, 049, 439

8, 556 552, 434
2, 239 265, 461
2, 441 403, 936

32,895 2, 114, 001
1, 989 50, 771

48,120 3, 386, 603

15, 978, 513
165, 149 723, 390
131, 981 595, 071
127, 982 569, 278

2,913 440, 095
32, 585 406, 280

460,610 18,712,627
| NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 65

Additions T otals

‘Department of Invertebrate Zoology:

Crustacea 24,129 = 1, 594, 328
Echinoderms 19, 105 111, 065
Mollusks 20,513 10, 114, 238
Worms 44, 087 716, 343

Totals 107,834 12,535,974
Department of Mineral Sciences:
Meteorites 248 11, 393
Mineralogy 5, 415 167, 639
Petrology 3793 303, 198
Totals 9, 416 482, 230

Department of Paleobiology:

Invertebrate Paleontology bby S20) 1584520790
Paleobotany 614 6, 138
Sedimentology 0 1, 908
Vertebrate Paleontology 5, 653 58, 687

Totals 62,799 13,519, 489

Department of Vertebrate Zoology:

Birds 8, 440 537, 084
Fishes 23, 509 2, 108, 958
Mammals 25, 946 411, 300
Reptiles and Amphibians 1, 612 172, 609

Totals 59,507 3, 229, 951

Grand Total S296 513

OFFICE OF SYSTEMATICS

Because of general budgetary restrictions in the National Museum of
Natural History, much of the activity of this Office has been directed
toward support of systematic research within the Museum, especially
innovative techniques.

The Office has continued to assist with the development and applica-
tion of data-processing technology to research problems by its support
of the type-registry project in the Department of Botany. The location
and status of type collections of plants constitute information that con-
ventionally requires a large investment of time and effort. The avail-
ability of a unified, computerized data-base—including such informa-
tion from the major botanical collection-centers—can ultimately release
very significant amounts of professional research time for more produc-
tive activities.

The Office has joined the Office of Ecology in sponsoring an inter-
national research study of a group of grasses, involving investigations
66 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969.

of their cytology, karyology, anatomy, and morphology. Such broadly
based projects have a large potential significance for an understanding
of the evolution and relationships of this, the largest and economically
most important flowering plant family.

The single most externally directed activity of the Office has been
the organization and execution of the third Summer Institute in System-
atics, held 23 June-11 July 1969. Again the National Science Founda-
tion jointly supported this highly successful series with the Office of
Systematics. The Society of Systematic Zoology and the Smithsonian
Institution were cosponsors and the Institute was held at the Smith-
sonian. The best, most provocative speakers available presented “lec-
tures” on a wide range of subjects: “The Current Diversity of System-
atic Methods and Philosophy” (Charles D. Michener), “Statistical
Approaches to Phylogenetic Approaches” (Lynn H. Throckmorton),

“Growth and Form in Systematics” (Stephen J. Gould), “Molecular

Systematics” (Morris Goodman), “Ecological Strategies and the Evolu-
tion of Ectoparasites” (Rodger D. Mitchell), “Behavioral Studies and
Systematics” (Howard E. Evans), and “Experimental Zoogeography”
(Daniel Simberloff). In addition to the twenty-five selected partici-
pants, many of the systematists from the Museum, from government
agencies, and from the Washington academic community attended
some or all of the sessions. As usual, the presentation of continuing

research projects by many of the participants in informal afternoon

and evening seminars was one of the important benefits.

Finally, the Office of Systematics has joined the National Museum

of Natural History in providing funds for the purchase of an exciting
new research tool, the scanning electron microscope, which was ordered
near the end of the year. Researchers in paleobiology, invertebrate
zoology, and botany, among others, eagerly await its arrival for appli-
cation in their studies.

Future efforts of the Office will be directed toward the establishment
of palynological research in the Museum and to the expansion of exper-
imental approaches to both the gathering and use of biological data
for solving the complex interrelationships of the natural world about us.

ANTHROPOLOGY

On 29 October 1968, the Office of Anthropology resumed its status
as the Department of Anthropology.

At the end of the year the River Basin Surveys were transferred to

the National Park Service as the result of negotiations between that
agency and the Smithsonian. Although administratively separate hence-
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 67

Long strips of floating artificial islands on Dal Lake, Kashmir, on which
watermelons, melons, cucumbers, and tomatoes are grown.

forth, many of its records and files have been added to the Smithsonian’s
National Anthropological Archives. Smithsonian anthropologists will
continue to provide scientific advice and on occasion may conduct re-
search studies under contract with the Park Service.

Departmental chairman Saul H. Riesenberg spent the summer of
1968 in research on Micronesian ethnohistory in the documentary ar-
chives of museums, historical societies, and libraries at New Bedford,
Nantucket, Martha’s Vineyard, and Providence. Most of the rest of
the year has been devoted to the description of the native systems of
navigation and to a remarkably involuted and circumlocutory mode
of speech and oral literature that occurs on Puluwat in the Caroline
Islands, where Riesenberg had done field work two years before.

_ Henry B. Collins, archeologist emeritus, has been engaged in organiz-
ing his Eskimo archeological materials from the Canadian Arctic for
|

;

68 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

William C. Sturtevant collecting ethnobotanical specimens on a floating
artificial island on Dal Lake, Kashmir.

incorporation in the Museum collections. This is an extensive collection
of prehistoric Dorset and Thule culture artifacts of stone, bone, ivory,
baleen, wood, and other material resulting from four seasons’ excava-
tions, conducted jointly with the National Museum of Canada at old
sites near Resolution Bay, Cornwallis Island, Northwest Territories.

Aided by a grant from the Wenner-Gren Foundation, senior eth-
nologist John C. Ewers has studied early examples of Plains Indian
painting and carving in museums in Paris, Stuttgart, Offenbach-Main;
Toronto and Calgary in Canada; and Rochester, New York. These
studies have been important in enlarging and revising his standard
work, Plains Indian Painting (1939), out-of-print for more than a
decade. The data will also be used in preparing a pioneer work on
Plains Indian carving.

A large part of a manuscript dealing with archeological field re-
searches during 1964—67 in central and southwestern Kansas has been
completed by senior archeologist Waldo R. Wedel. Concerned largely
with the historical and environmental background and with general
descriptions of the sites involved, the results of the four field seasons
of work will be combined into one monograph focused on the human
ecology and prehistory of the region, complementing his introductory
monograph on Kansas archeology published in 1959. The nature and ex-
tent of cultural contacts between the prehistoric and early historic Indian
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 69

Farmer collecting weeds and mud from the bottom of Dal Lake, Kashmir, for
use as mulch on floating artificial islands.

populations of Kansas and their contemporaries in the Pueblo Indian
communities in the Rio Grande valley of New Mexico are becoming
clearer as the research in Kansas goes forward. There are archeological
indications that the semi-arid southwestern section of the state may have
been of greater importance to nonhorticultural, hunting peoples in pre-
historic times than it was to maize-growing peoples; farther east, with
increased rainfall and improved conditions for growth of domestic crops,
the reverse appears to have been true.

A research paper has been accepted for publication, based on studies
some years ago by Wedel and the late John R. Swanton, that presents
the documentary evidence concerning the route of the first European
exploring expedition under Coronado into central Kansas in 1541. Two
other manuscripts by Wedel are nearing completion—one dealing with
the hafting of stone scraper blades as revealed for the first time by
direct evidence gathered during 1965 field work, the second with
Pueblo trade pottery in the central Plains and its cultural and chrono-
logical implications.

Associate curator Eugene I. Knez has consulted with Sindhi scholars
and officials in the Lower Indus Valley, West Pakistan, to obtain views
and suggestions for initiating a binational research program on the
social implications of disappearing traditional crafts, industries, and
technologies. Most of the sketches, based upon field drawings, for his
70 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969 _

manuscript An Illustrated Study of Korean Material Culture, have been
compared by Knez in the South Korean village previously studied with —
the original objects. Supplementary information and maps have been
obtained to update the presentation of land ownership. His current
research activities include the preparation of a report on Ensign John
B. Bernadou, usw, a pioneer ethnographer in Korea, and a brochure
on Sindhi textiles, costumes, and accessories of West Pakistan.

Associate curator William Trousdale, who has served as assistant
director of the University of Michigan Expedition to Qasr al-Hayr in
central Syria, has worked on preparation of preliminary reports of the
third season of excavations that took place in June of 1968. He has been
in the field again this year for the fourth season of work at this early
Islamic site. He also has completed research on Hellenistic bronze mir-
rors in Egypt, at the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, and at the Greco-
Roman Museum in Alexandria. During the early part of the year, he
conferred with government officials in Kabul, Afghanistan, on plans
to conduct an ecological project in southwestern Afghanistan and con-
tinued his preliminary survey of this region. In September 1968 he
visited Bhutan to explore the possibility of arranging an exhibition of
the arts and crafts of that country to be shown at the Smithsonian and
at other American institutions. During the year Trousdale has completed
revision for publications of a work on the origin and diffusion of the
equestrian long iron sword in Asia. He also has completed papers on
Chinese jade, a folk tradition in Afghanistan reflected in a peculiar
manner of clipping donkey manes, and an inscribed Achaemenian stone
weight from the 6th-century-s.c. reign of Darius I, the first identifiable
Achaemenian find from Afghanistan.

In July 1968 Curator Clifford Evans and Research Associate Betty J.
Meggers, directors of the archeological survey of Brazil, with support
of the Smithsonian Research Foundation and in collaboration with
the Patriménio Histérico e Artistico Nacional and the Conselho
Nacional de Pesquisas, convened the eleven Brazilian survey partici-
pants for a two-week working seminar at the Museu Paraense Emilio
Goeldi in Belém. This second seminar of the program was held at the
end of the third year of field work to review current scientific results
and to select the regions for the remaining two years of field work. By
the end of the third year, twenty-three detailed regional chronologies
had been constructed, permitting relative dating of more than a thou-
sand archeological sites and extending from the pre-ceramic through the
Neo-Brazilian periods. A volume of preliminary reports by the survey-
participants, based on the second year of field work, appeared as a
publication of the Museu Goeldi in May 1969. A general summary of
the archeological cultures recognized and their distribution in time and
a MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 7A

space has been accepted by American Antiquity. A resumé of the results
was given at the 34th Annual Meeting of the Society for American
Archaeology in 1969.

In August 1968 Evans and Meggers met with Peruvian archeologists,
Ramiro Matos M., Hernan Amat O., and Hermilio Rosas L. in Lima
and Huancayo to review the results of the archeological survey train-
ing program for the central and north highlands of Peru, with special
reference to the Formative Period. Preliminary work has revealed
important early archeological sites in highland valleys at distinct alti-
tudes and in special ecological niches. A grant from the National
Geographic Society to the Smithsonian Institution for the Andean
Project in May 1969 will permit the work to move ahead. Evans and
Meggers went to Peru in late June 1969 to consult with the three
archeologists to coordinate the field research and to work out fiscal
matters.

Himba Wedding, an edited film in color and with commentary and
natural sound effects, derived from motion picture footage, slides, and
tapes obtained by curator Gordon D. Gibson during field work among
the Himba people in South-West Africa, was produced in 1969 under
Gibson’s direction. This ethnological document has been shown to
audiences at the annual meeting of the American Athropological Asso-
ciation in Seattle and at an anthropological film festival at Temple
University in Philadelphia. An annotated bibliography of anthropologi-
cal bibliographies of Africa, prepared under Gibson’s direction and now
in press, provides information on more than 800 listings of references
on the peoples, cultures, languages, history, and related human aspects
of Africa. This compilation is expected to be especially useful in the
development of programs of African studies at both the university and
secondary school levels. At the year’s end, he was writing up ethno-
graphic materials derived from field work, collated with such data as
is available from the published literature, on the Gciriku, a little-known
Bantu people who occupy the banks of a section of the Okavango River,
where it forms the boarder between Angola and South-West Africa.

Curator Richard B. Woodbury spent the summer of 1968 in New
Mexico doing research on the changing patterns of land use and
resource exploitation in the Zuni Valley, in collaboration with Mrs.
Woodbury. He has completed three manuscripts, which have been
accepted for publication. At the end of July 1969, he left the Smith-
sonian to become chairman of the Department of Anthropology at the
University of Massachusetts.

The first half of the year has been spent by associate curator Paul H.
Voorhis at the Mesquakie Indian settlement near Tama, Iowa, study-
ing the language of the Mesquakie Indians. He has spent the remainder
72 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969 —

J pam

Farmers spreading earth on a field on a nonfloating artificial island, Dal Lake,
Kashmir.

of the year analyzing the data collected and preparing it for publication.

After a year’s sabbatical leave as Fulbright Lecturer at Oxford Uni-
versity, curator William C. Sturtevant returned by way of Germany
(for the International Congress of Americanists at Stuttgart-Munich),
India (where he conducted brief field work on a system of artificial-
island agriculture in Kashmir), and Japan (to attend the International
Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences in Tokyo-
Kyoto). The remainder of the year has been spent in Washington on
research, and on planning connected with the new Smithsonian Center
for the Study of Man.

The first season of an archeological survey of Nejran, a major wadi
in the southernmost region of Saudia Arabia, has been completed by
curator Gus W. Van Beek. The purpose of the project is to determine
the extent to which the pre-Islamic civilization—often referred to as
Himyaritic Culture—penetrated this region from its center in Yemen
and South Yemen, and to assess the degree of its influence on the local
cultures of the Asir (along the Red Sea coast) and Nejran. Further-
more, the project should shed light on man’s use of his environment
by probing the nature and means of subsistence and the effects of trade.
Altogether, four pre-Islamic town sites have been recorded, three of
which are new discoveries; in addition, a mountain fortress of the same
period has been discovered in the Asir. The remains of ancient rock-cut
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 73

Brazilian archeologists and Smithsonian coordinators Evans and Meggers
attending the second seminar of the National Archeological Survey of Brazil
Research Program, held at the Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi in Belém, Para,
Brazil, July 1968.

sluices for water control were investigated, and several hundred pre-
Islamic rock drawings and inscriptions were recorded. Field work
resumed in the autumn of 1969 in the wadies and on the plateau to
the north of Nejran. En route from his field work, Van Beek examined
ten archeological projects, financed by the Foreign Currency Program,
in Egypt and in Israel; he has prepared an evaluation of these projects
for the Office of International Activities of the Smithsonian Institution.

During the year, Van Beek, in collaboration with Mrs. Colyn Van
Beek, completed nearly one half of the manuscript and about one third
of the drawings of a volume entitled The Timna’ Temple. This volume
is to be published by the Johns Hopkins Press in the Arabian Publica-
tion series of the American Foundation for the Study of Man.

Associate curator Robert M. Laughlin has made two field trips to
Chiapas, Mexico, to prepare maps from aerial photographs of
Zinacantan, Chiapas. Working with local informants, he has pinpointed
on the maps 1,200 place names occurring in the community. This
material will form part of a Tzotzil-English, English-Tzotzil ethno-
graphic dictionary that now contains over 30,000 entries and that
presently is being prepared for computerization and editing prior to
publication.

_ 366-269 O—70 6
74 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

In August 1968, associate curator William H. Crocker presented
two papers on taboo practices of the Canela Indians of Brazil to the
38th International Congress of Americanists in Stuttgart, Germany.
He then visited several museums in Western Europe in search of Canela
artifacts produced in earlier periods, and in February 1969 he went on
sabbatical leave to prepare for final field work with this savanna tribe
of the Brazilian planalto, which he has been studying since 1957.

Senior Physical Anthropologist T. D. Stewart, participated by invita-
tion in a symposium on Pleistocene Man in Asia, during the VIII
International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences
in Tokyo and Kyoto, Japan. He gave a paper on the evolution of man
in Asia, and in the section on museology he also spoke concerning
methods used for exhibiting physical anthropology in the National
Museum of Natural History.

By arrangement with the Support Services, Department of the Army,
Stewart organized a seminar on Personal Identification in Mass Dis-
asters, which was held in the National Museum of Natural History in
December 1968. The 105 registrants included, in addition to some of
the country’s top forensic pathologists, a number of officers engaged in
identification work in United States Army Mortuaries around the world.

At the request of the National Park Service, Stewart assisted Erik K.
Reed, Park Service research anthropologist, in the identification of the
skeletal remains (which were believed to have been molested) of
Osceola, the leader of the Seminole uprising in the late 1830s. Osceola
died a captive in January 1838 at Fort Moultrie, Charleston, South
Carolina, shortly after George Catlin painted the portrait owned by the
Smithsonian. Upon opening the grave, the investigators found the
skeleton to be in a good state of preservation and to conform to the
available descriptions of Osceola.

In April 1969, Stewart presented a paper on the Laguna Beach man
at the annual meeting of the American Association of Physical Anthro-
pologists in Mexico City. The human skull described in this study is
the most ancient thus far recognized in America; the Carbon-14 age of
17,150 + 1,470 years was obtained from the bone collagen by Rainer
Berger of the University of California at Los Angeles.

Curator J. Lawrence Angel’s research on paleodemography and dis-
ease in the eastern Mediterranean has concentrated on extending the
story of man’s biological adaptation from the critical hunting-to-farm-
ing period transition up to the beginning of large cities. After the decline
in health of the early farming period, with its new disease incidence,
especially malarias, there was a considerable and steady improvement
from the third millennium to the first millennium s.c. Longevity rose,
despite stresses of childbearing; the death ratio of infants to adults
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 1D

PROYECTO
ANDINO
OE
EsTuDIOS
ARQUEOLOGICOS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Peruvian archeologists participating in Andean Archeological Project with one
of three vehicles given to the Smithsonian Institution by the Kaiser Jeep
International Corporation for use on the project.

dropped; stature increased almost to the modern level; arthritis and
dental disease decreased; and anemia almost vanished, indicating dis-
appearance of falciparum malaria. This real biological advance was
reached at the time when the Olympic Games began and city states
flourished and struggled. Diet was adequate, with importation of grain
from rich soils in the Ukraine and adequate local pasturage still avail-
able for domestic animals. Population density was not overwhelming and
the socio-economic problems of slavery and warfare were relatively new
stimuli. With the development of cities like Rome, Alexandria, Antioch,
and Ephesus, health declined again. In the Eastern Mediterranean,
longevity, juvenile deaths, dental disease, and anemia all have returned
to approximately their higher Bronze Age levels. One of the villains
certainly is malaria.

In the bone biology laboratory, with support of a National Institutes
of Health grant entitled “Developmental Variations in Human Osteon
Chemistry,” the amino-acid analyzer nears completion, awaiting delivery
of a specially sensitive recorder for signals of color-intensity changes as
these traverse the spectrophotometer. When the laboratory is fully
equipped, it will be possible to determine the amino-acid composition of
single, excised osteons. Besides the application of this technique to the
76 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

study of age change, which Donald J. Ortner and David Von Endt are
developing, determination of changes in the ratio betwen amino acids
should provide a measure of time in dating of buried skeletons, espe-
cially where the protein is relatively protected, as in the enamel of
teeth.

Ortner, currently completing his requirements for the PhD degree
in physical anthropolgy at the University of Kansas, is working on the
developmental phases of the osteon in their relation to effects of age,
disease, and dietary deficiency in individuals ranging from birth to old
age. Pilot research, which indicates that the frequency of different types
of osteon is affected predictably by these three factors, opens new areas
of research in evaluating health status in ancient populations. This
research also will aid identification of unknown skeletons in forensic
osteology by helping to identify dietary or disease influences on the
physiological aging processes.

David W. Von Endt has focused on a third problem: to determine
the effect of external conditions on the rapidity of protein breakdown
and nitrogen loss from human bone buried for periods ranging from
several months to millennia. This project, supported by a Smithsonian
Research Foundation grant, depends upon strict standardization of the
Kjeldahl-Nesslerization method. Mrs. Barbara Fairfield has set up a
standard curve for known amounts of nitrogen with proper statistical
limits, has tested against this curve bone samples ranging from fresh
bone to archeological samples, and has started burial simulation experi-
ments using varying dry or wet heat levels to simulate decay over long
periods of time. With a theoretical nitrogen-decay curve, nitrogen
values from Byzantine, Roman, and Middle Bronze Age skeletons, as
well as those from wet sites in prehistoric Turkey and the eastern United
States, can be compared. Empirical observation on preliminary curves
last fall suggests that nitrogen loss is retarded under arid conditions in
Egypt and the southwestern United States.

Associate curator Lucile St. Hoyme has completed a manuscript on
the origins of New World diseases in which she has presented evidence
that organisms causing pathological changes in prehistoric American
Indian bones are probably native to the New World and not brought
with man from the Old. She also has begun the statistical analysis of a
large series of Maroon men, women, and children living in Mooretown,
Accompong, and other communities in Jamaica, measured in 1966 in
cooperation with Jane Philips of Howard University. Toward the end
of the year she was working with Richard 'T. Koritzer, a local practicing
dentist, on a survey of the etiology of caries, periodontal disease, and
other dental problems in American Indian, Egyptian, and other crania
in our collections.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Vi.

M. Yasar Iscan from Ankara University is the first recipient of the
Ale$ Hrdli¢ka Memorial Scholarship. During the last half of the year
he has conducted a study of race differences in the pelvis, using skeletal
material from the Terry collection, which is an assemblage of remains
of people with birth dates ranging from the mid 19th century to about
1920. The results confirm the sensitive response of pelvic depth to nutri-
tion and show race differences that have not been clear before.

George Metcalf, museum specialist in the Anthropology Processing
Laboratory, supervised the excavation of a site in the near vicinity of
Volcan Arenal, Costa Rica, with the joint support of the National
Geographic Society and the Smithsonian Institution. He accompanied
William Melson, Department of Mineral Sciences, who is engaged in a
study of this volcano, which erupted last year for the first time in re-
corded history. It is hoped that data from the excavation of the site,
which was buried by an ash fall of a previous eruption, will allow dating
of the eruption that buried it.

Research associate Theodore A. Wertime was in the field from 29 July
to 26 September 1968 with a team of experts on a pyrotechnical recon-
naissance of Afghanistan, Iran, and Turkey, a project that was financed
by a National Geographic Society grant and a foreign currency grant
from the Smithsonian Institution. The specialists from several different
countries included geologists, archeologists, metallurgists, a ceramicist,
and a glass expert. The team inspected old mines where gold, iron, lead,
zinc, and copper had been obtained in the countries visited. They pro-
cured metallurgical samples and slags at premodern smelting sites, ob-
tained old glass samples for analysis, and observed the survival of ancient
technologies and crafts in bazaars and small villages. The significance
of this pyrotechnological reconnaissance and the need to expand the
work into more detailed research projects is just now being realized as
some of the reports are being prepared.

The study of disappearing traditional crafts, small household indus-
tries, and technologies of South Asia has continued in collaboration with
the University of New South Wales, Australia, supported by funds
from Public Law 480, the Department of Anthropology of the National
Museum of Natural History, and the Department of Industrial Arts
of the University of New South Wales. Two independent field teams
have operated this year. One was in Ceylon, under the direction of
Leslie M. Haynes with J. M. Waddell as associate investigator, in coop-
eration with the National Museums of Ceylon and other officials. Field
data and craft objects have been collected, reflecting the arts and tech-
nologies that are rapidly changing as a result of industrialization and the
large tourist influx. Official Ceylonese bureaus have been very interested
in the practical aspect of the research in order to upgrade and to make
78 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

more authentic and accurate the crafts and arts of the various ethnic
and caste groups. In addition to Sinhalese crafts, attention will have to
be given to those of the minority groups, such as the Tamils and the
Muslims. Significant collections have been obtained for both the Uni-
versity of New South Wales and the Department of Anthropology.

The other team has spent a second field season in Pakistan, directed by
Donald M. Godden, assistant to the late Hans Wulff, with his co-
investigators, Charles Walton and Roswitha Wulff. Official cooperation
has been excellent, for the provincial government of West Pakistan
appointed a full-time staff member, who served as guide, interpreter,
and consultant, and the West Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
appointed a full-time liaison officer. Some of the most significant data
has come from northern states such as Swat and Peshawar. Fifty-eight
crafts have been investigated, a total of 339 artifacts have been col-
lected for the Smithsonian, and another representative collection has
been made for the University of New South Wales.

Research associate Victor A. Nunez Regueiro from Argentina has
spent the full year at the Smithsonian working with Evans and Meggers
as a fellow of the Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. He has com-
pleted the classification and has prepared a monograph on material
acquired during earlier field work in the Provinces of Misiones and Cor-
rientes, Argentina, in collaboration with the archeological studies going
on in Brazil under the Smithsonian direction of Evans and Meggers.
His site sequence correlates excellently with datable colonial European
artifacts from the sites, as well as with various dates in Spanish historical
documents.

Research associate Edwin N. Wilmsen, with National Science Foun-
dation support, has conducted a comprehensive study of the collections
and field data from the seven years’ work by the late Frank H. H.
Roberts, Jr., at the Lindenmeier site, Colorado. This is the largest and
best documented, but unstudied, body of material from an “early man”
site in the United States. Wilmsen will complete the work at Ann Arbor
where he will become curator of archeology at the University of
Michigan.

Research associate Olga Linares de Sapir has actively renewed her
earlier interest in the archeology of Panama and nearby regions. With
the appearance of two publications, her monograph Cultural Chronology
of the Gulf of Chiriqui, Panama and her article “Ceramic Phases for
Chiriqui, Panama and Their Relationships to Neighboring Sequences,”
the significance of this area to a better understanding of aboriginal cul-
tural development of Central America has been revealed.

The monograph An Archeological Survey of Southwest Virginia,
resulting from the research conducted by research associate C. G. Hol-

:
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 79

land, has been completed and accepted for publication in Smithsonian
Contributions to Anthropology. Holland also has conducted an archeo-
logical survey of the reservoir for two dams to be built by the Appala-
chian Power Company on the New River in southwest Virginia and
northwest North Carolina.

Ecuadorian archeologist Pedro I. Porras G. has spent a year in the
department with the support of the American Philosophical Society
and the Guggenheim Foundation. During this period he has classified,
analyzed, and described archeological materials excavated in the Baeza
region, Province of Napo-Pastaza, and in the Ecuadorian highlands.
The former area is significant because it sheds light on cultural connec-
tions between the highlands and eastern lowlands in pre-European
times. The abundance of obsidian artifacts and chipping debris from
the archeological sites, as well as a series of charcoal samples, has pro-
vided a basis for testing the correlation between these two independent
methods of dating and the relative sequence established by ceramic
seriation. Colonial pottery at several sites links the prehistoric with the
historic occupation, which is well documented by 16th-century chroni-
cles. A monograph on this culture, known as the Cosanga Phase, is being
prepared in collaboration with Evans and Meggers for publication.

Numerous college and high school students have worked on research
projects with staff members. John Bear, senior at the University of
Pennsylvania, has worked as a National Science Foundation summer
fellow to complete his report on Iron Age skeletons from Afghanistan;
D. Gentry Steele, a doctoral candidate at the University of Kansas, as
an NSF summer research fellow advised by T. D. Stewart, has worked
on the estimation of stature from incomplete long bones, using land-
marks on identified bones of people of known stature in the Terry col-
lection; Mrs. Catherine Wimsatt Mecklenberg (University of Wash-
ington), research fellow under Lucile St. Hoyme in the Summer Re-
search Assistant Program of the Smithsonian Research Foundation, has
worked on demographic and population analysis of a Virginia Indian
cemetery, interrelating cultural customs, disease, nutrition, and physical
differentiation in a study used as a master’s thesis.

Michael Blakey, sophomore student at Coolidge High School sup-
ported by a research grant from the American Dental Association
through Howard University, has worked on a correlation of dental and
facial structure with diet in American Indians from Florida (Canav-
eral) and New Mexico (Hawikuh), with the advice of Donald Ortner.
Reed A. Mathis, junior at Langley High School supported by the NsF
American University Training Program for high school students, has
worked with J. Lawrence Angel on aging and sexing techniques as
80 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

observable in sorting the Terry collection, and occasionally he has as-
sisted in the bone biology laboratory.

The Collections

Among the larger and more important collections accessioned and
placed in storage for study during the fiscal year is one illustrating the
traditional crafts of Iran, and another of the same type from West
Pakistan. Both were collected by a team headed by the late Hans Wulff
and Donald Godden of the University of New South Wales, Australia.

Also worthy of mention is a collection of 521 African objects collected
by Miss Genia de Galberg and one of 31 ethnological specimens of
carved wood from New Guinea. Three other important ethnographic
collections from Africa have been acquired: Walter Deshler of the Uni-
versity of Maryland has assembled examples of Tuareg clothing for the
Smithsonian Institution during a trip to the central Sahara; Miss Janet
Stone has sold to the Museum a group of carvings and ornaments that
she had acquired in Mali and Ivory Coast; and Miss Katherine Lavery
has donated a portion of her collection of masks and sculptures from
Upper Volta. A particularly important collection accessioned during the
past year has been that made by Province M. and Eleanor R. Henry
from the Paiwan and Atayal tribes of Taiwan. These are particularly
valuable in that the objects are accompanied by unusually complete data.
Also accompanied by complete records is a collection, mainly clothing,
made in several highland communities in Ecuador and archeological
collections from the Valdivia, Machalallila, Guangala, and Jambali cul-
tures of coastal Ecuador. Two other large, documented collections are
the Phebus collection of 2,912 items from California and the Hruschka
collection, 984 items, from Prince Georges, Charles, and St. Marys
counties, Maryland. The collections of named types of southwestern
sherds has been increased by additions from Mesa Verde National Park,
Gran Quivera National Monument, Jemez State Park, and from Casas
Grandes, Chihuahua, Mexico. Eleven accessions of skeletal material
have been added to the collections of Physical Anthropology during the
year.

In the Conservation and Restoration Laboratory more than 1,200
specimens have been processed. Both Joseph Andrews and Mrs. Bethune
Gibson have received certificates for completion of a course in the
chemistry of conservation. At the end of the year, Mrs. Gibson was in
London attending a course sponsored by the British Council on the con-
servation of antiquities.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 81

Effective 1 November, 1968, the archives of the former Bureau of
American Ethnology and the former Smithsonian Office of Anthropology
were designated the Smithsonian Institution National Anthropological
Archives. This documentation center will preserve, and encourage the
preservation elsewhere, of records that document anthropological re-
search and the history of anthropology. The Archives now serve as a
repository for field notes, photographs, and personal papers of anthro-
pologists throughout the world, whatever their topical or geographical
specialties, as well as the records of anthropological societies and
organizations.

Exhibits

At the request of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York,
curator Van Beek prepared an exhibition of pre-Islamic South Arabian
Art, which was shown there from 23 March to 10 May 1969. The
objects were selected from the finest collection of South Arabian an-
tiquities in the world, owned by the American Foundation for the
Study of Man (Wendell Phillips, President). This collection is on loan
to the Smithsonian Institution for purposes of research and exhibition.

During the winter and spring Van Beek coordinated activities and
arrangements as curator-in-charge of the mammoth exhibition, ‘“Mas-
ada.” The Washington showing is jointly sponsored by the Washington
Jewish Foundation and the Smithsonian Institution with active support
by the Embassy of Israel. The exhibition deals with events that took
place at the Herodian fortress overlooking the Dead Sea in Israel,
where in a.D. 73 a group of 953 Jewish zealots chose to commit suicide
rather than submit to Roman slavery or death. It weaves together the his-
torical narrative of the contemporary Jewish historian Flavius Josephus
with the results of the archeological excavations and vividly presents
the story of Masada by means of graphics, objects, models, slides, and
tape recordings. In addition, a portion of the exhibition deals with finds
recovered from caves on the west side of the Dead Sea from the period
of the Second Jewish Revolt, a.p. 132-135. The exhibition was opened
formally by Chief Justice and Smithsonian Chancellor Earl Warren,
who was presented a bronze plaque in honor of his indefatigable service
in the cause of human freedom and the furtherance of civil rights.

A new exhibit on Yoruba textiles and clothing has been conceived and
written by Mary S. Thieme. Mrs. Thieme, who was granted a Museum
internship for the year by the National Foundation for the Arts and
Humanities, prepared her script under the general scientific supervision
82 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

of Gordon Gibson. The exhibit was installed in the Hall of the Cultures
of Africa and Asia in June 1969.

Much of John C. Ewers’ time during the winter and spring has been
devoted to planning two special exhibitions. One, entitled “Jean Louis
Berlandier, a French Scientist among the Indians of Texas 140 Years
Ago,” opened in March 1969 to coincide with the publication by the
Smithsonian Institution Press of Berlandier’s The Indians of Texas in
1830. A larger exhibition, “The Indomitable Major John Wesley Powell,
Scientific Explorer of the American West,” will comprise the Smith-
sonian’s major contribution to the observance of the Powell Centennial
Year of 1969. It will present Powell’s remarkable and varied career as
an important contributor to both basic and applied science and as a
scientific administrator in government.

Staff Publications

ANGEL, J. LAwreNceE. “Human Remains at Karatas.” In Machteld Mellink,
“Excavations at Karatas-Semayuk, 1967.” American Journal of Archaeology
(1968), volume 72, pages 260-263, plate 86.

. “Human Skeletal Remains from Slovenia.” In Hugh Hencken, editor,
“Mecklenberg Collection, Part I.’ American School of Prehistoric Research
Bulletin 25 (1969), pages 75-108.

Crocker, WiLi1AM H. Review article: Indians of Brazil in the Twentieth Cen-
tury, Janice H. Hopper, editor and translator. Journal of Inter-American
Studies (October 1968), volume 37, number 4, pages 662-668.

Crocker, WILLIAM H., and E. R. Sorenson. Canela Dancing and Fish Festival
Rites: Northern Brazil (Forest), 1964. Research Cinema Film 64—CRO-1.
Archives for the Study of Child Growth and Development in Primitive Cul-
tures, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, 1968.

Evans, Cuirrorp. Obituary: ‘James Alfred Ford: 1911-1968.” American
Anthropologist (December 1968), volume 70, number 6, pages 1161-1167.

Evans, Cuirrorp and Betty J. Meccers. “Archeological Investigations on the
Rio Napo, Eastern Ecuador.” Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology
(1968), volume 6, xvi+127 pages, 80 figures, 94 plates, 11 tables.

“Introducao.” Programa Nacional de Pesquisas Arqueoldégicas, Re-
sultados Preliminares do Segundo Ano 1966-67. Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldt,
Publicagées Avulsas No. 10 (1969), Belém, pages 7-10.

Ewers, Joun C., editor and author. Introduction and concluding chapters. In
The Indians of Texas in 1830 by Jean Louis Berlandier. xii+209 pages, 20
color plates, 39 figures. Smithsonian Institution Press, 1969.

. “Thomas M. Easterly’s Pioneer Daguerreotypes of Plains Indians.”
Bulletin Missouri Historical Society (July 1968), pages 329-339, 8 plates.

FRIEDMAN, IrviNG, and CLiFForD Evans. “Obsidian Dating Revisited.” Science
(15 November 1968), volume 162, pages 813-814.

GotpsTEIn, Marcus S. “Anthropological Research, Action, and Education in
Modern Nations: With Special Reference to the U.S.A.” Current Anthro-
pology (1968), volume 9, number 4, pages 247—269.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 83

/Knez, Eucene, I., with CHANc-su Swanson. A Selected and Annotated
Bibliography of Korean Anthropology. 235 pages. Seoul, Republic of Korea:
National Assembly Library, 1968. [Entries in Korean, Japanese, or Chinese,
with English.]

LAUGHLIN, Rosert M. “The Tzotzil.” Pages 152-194, volume 7, in Handbook
of Middle American Indians, E. Z. Vogt, editor. Austin: University of Texas
Press, 1969.

. “The Huastec.” Pages 298-311, volume 7, in Handbook of Middle
American Indians, E. Z. Vogt, editor. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1969.

LinaREs DE Sapir, Ouca. “Cultural Chronology of the Gulf of Chiriqui, Panama.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology (1968), volume 8, xiii+119 pages,
55 figures, 20 plates, 12 tables.

.“Ceramic Phases for Chiriqui, Panama and their Relationship to

Neighboring Sequences.” American Antiquity (April 1968), volume 33, num-

ber 2, page 216-225.

.‘Diola Pottery of the Fogny and the Kasa.” Expedition, The Bulletin
of the University Museum, volume 11, number 3, pages 2-11, 1969.

Meccers, Betty J. [“Prehistoric New World Cultural Development.’’] Pages
5-95, part 3, volume 3, in History of Mankind: Cultural and Scientific De-
velopment UNESCO 1968. [Greek Language edition.]

. Obituary: “James A. Ford, 1911-1968.” Etnia, (1968), Olavarria, Pcia,

de Buenos Aires, number 8, pages 3—5.

.[Translated from Portuguese.] The Civilizational Process by Darcy

Ribeiro. Foreword (pages V—X) by Betty J. Meggers. xviii+201 pages, 3 fig-

ures. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

. “Prefacio 4 Edigao Norte-Americana.” In O Processo Civilizatorio by

Darcy Ribeiro. Pages 5—11. Rio de Janeiro, 1968.

. “Greeting on Behalf of the English-speaking Countries.” XXXVII
Congreso Internacional de Americanistas, Actas y Memorias. Volume 1, pages
XLV-LXVI. Buenos Aires, 1968.

Meccers, Betty J., and Ciirrorp Evans. “Speculations on Early Pottery Dif-
fusion Routes Between South and Middle America.” Biotropica (June 1969),
volume 1, number 1, pages 20-27.

Mertcatr, Georce. “A Mail Shirt of the Fur Trade Period.” Museum of the
Fur Trade Quarterly (1968), volume 4, number 4, pages 2-8.

. “Some Notes on an Old Kiowa Shield and Its History.” The Great

Plains Journal (1968), volume 8, number 1, pages 16-30.

. “Archeology: Western Hemisphere.” Page 82 in The Americana An-
nual. New York, 1969.

Metcatr, Georce, and STEPHEN F. pe Boruecyi. “Un Hacha Tallada Poco
Frecuente de Kaminaljuyu.” Anthropologia e Historia de Guatemala (1967)
[March 1969], volume 19, number 2, pages 15-19.

Moopy, Louisr, and C. G. Hoiianp. “Archeological Folklore in Piedmont
Virginia.” Quarterly Bulletin, Archeological Society of Virginia. (September
1968), volume 23, number 1, pages 31-36.

RriesenBeERG, SAUL H. “The Native Polity of Ponape.’ Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Anthropology (1968), volume 10, viii+115 pages, 4 figures, 12 plates,
5 tables.

.“The Tattooed Irishman.” Smithsonian Journal of History (spring

1968), volume 3, number 1, pages 1-18.

}

84 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Stewart, T. D. ‘Human Behavior in the Fossil Record.” The Torch (1968),
volume 41, number 3, pages 15-18.

. “Notes on the Human Bones Recovered from Burials in the McLean

Mound, North Carolina.” Southern Indian Studies (1968), volume 18 [for

October 1966] pages 67-87.

. “Fossil Evidence of Human Violence.” Trans-action (1969), volume 6,

number 7, pages 48—53.

, and Lawrence G. Quape. “Lesions of the Frontal Bone in American
Indians.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology (1969), volume 30,
number 1, pages 89-110.

STURTEVANT, WILLIAM C., and SAMUEL STANLEY. “Indian Communities in the
Eastern States.” The Indian Historian (1968), volume 41, number 3, pages:
15-19.

Tosin, Witu1am J. ‘An Atlas of the Comparative Anatomy of the Upper End
of the Femur, Part I: Further Evidence and Confirmation of Wolff’s Law of.
Bone Transformation.” Clinical Orthopaedics (1968), number 56.

TrouspaLe, WiLuiaM. “‘The Crenelated Mane: Survival of an Ancient Tradi- |
tion in Afghanistan.” East and West (1968), volume 18, numbers 1-2, pages |
169-177. |

VAN Beek, Gus W. Hajar Bin Humeid: Archeological Investigations at a Pre-
Islamic Site in South Arabia. 421 pages, 69 plates, 135 figures. Baltimore: The
Johns Hopkins Press, 1969.

. Survey and Bibliography on Arabian Archeology, 1966 Council of Old
World Archaeology Survey and Bibliographies. Western Asia (1969), area 15,
Number III, pages 3-5, 5-7.

WevEL, WaLpo R. “Some Thoughts on Central Plains-Southern Plains Archeo- ©
logical Relationships.” The Great Plains Journal (1968), volume 7, num-—
ber 2, pages 53-62.

. “After Coronado in Quivira.” Kansas Historical Quarterly (1968),
volume 34, number 4, pages 369-385.

WEDEL, WALDo R. “A Shield and Spear Petroglyph from Central Kansas: Some
Possible Implications.” The Plains Anthropologist (1969), volume 14, num-
ber 44, part 1, pages 125-129.

Papers, Lectures, and Seminars

ANGEL, J. LAwRENCE. “Demography and Health in Bronze Age Greece.” Torch
Club of Washington, Washington, D.C. 24 September 1968.
. “Evaluation of Evidence from the Skeleton.” Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology, Fifth Forensic Dentistry course under Colonel William G. Sprague.
Washington, D.C. 7 October 1968.
. “Skeletal Identification and Demography.” Graduate Colloquium in |
Anthropology at University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 11 Octo- —
ber 1968. |
. “Early Man’s Adaptation to Disease.” George Washington University |
Medical School Anatomy Department Seminar, Washington, D.C. 7 November
1968. .
. “Ancient Demography and Health.’ Catholic University Anthropology
Seminar, Washington, D.C. 12 November 1968.

bP)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 85

. “Early Man’s Adaptation to Disease.” Symposium on Urban Anthro-

pology, Santa Fe, New Mexico. 18-20 November 1968.

. “Early Man’s Adaptation to Disease.” Symposium on Man Adapting

to the City, 67th Annual Meeting of American Anthropological Association,

Seattle, Washington. 21-24 November 1968.

. Workshop participation in Seminar on Personal Identification in Mass

Disasters. (Organized by Dr. T. D. Stewart at Smithsonian Institution by

arrangement with the chief of Support Services, Department of the Army.)

Washington, D.C. 11 December 1968.

. “The Role of Disease in Human Evolution.” Luncheon talk, Armed

Forces Institute of Pathology, at Officers’ Club, Walter Reed Army Hospital,

Washington, D.C. 16 January 1969.

. “Biological Relations of Egyptian and Eastern Mediterranean Popula-

tions During Predynastic and Dynastic Times.” Symposium on Population

Biology of the Early Egyptians at Castle Montaldo, Torino, Italy. 15-18 April

1969.

. “Skeletal Identification.” Armed Forces Institute of ‘Pathology Annual
Course in Forensic Pathology, Washington, D.C. 20 May 1969.

Crocker, WILLIAM H. “The Canela (Brazil) Taboo System: A Preliminary
Exploration of an Anxiety-reducing Device” and “Observation Concerning
Certain Ramkokamekra-Canel (Brazil) Indian Restrictive Taboo Practices.”
38th International Congress of Americanists in Stuttgart, Germany. August
1968.

Evans, Cuirrorp. “The Organization and Development and Progress of the
National Program of Archeology in Brazil.” Joint Annual Meeting of Kent
County Archaeological Society, Delaware and the Sussex Society of Archaeol-
ogy and History, Delaware, at Dover, Delaware. April 1969.

Evans, Cuirrorp, and Betty J. Meccers. “Brazilian Archaeology in 1968.”
34th Annual Meeting of the Society for American Archaeology, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. 1-3 May 1969.

Ewers, Joun C. “Plains Indian Proteges of White Artists During the 19th Cen-
tury.” 38th International Congress of Americanists in Stuttgart, Germany.
August 1968.

. “The First Century of the White Artists’ Record of the Blackfoot Indians,

1832-1932.” Annual Meeting of the Glenbow-Alberta Institute. September

1968.

. Participation in a symposium on Indian Oral History, Annual Meeting
of the Western History Association in Tucson, Arizona. October 1968.

Gipson, Gorpon D. Introduction and discussion, Himba Wedding, a motion
picture, shown at 67th Annual Meeting, American Anthropological Associa-
tion, Seattle, Washington, November 1968; also Anthropological Film Festival,
Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, April 1969.

Kwez, Eucene I. “Cultural Change in Japan and Korea.” (Under the auspices
of the American Anthropological Association Visiting Lecturer Program.)
Allegany Community College, Cumberland, Maryland. April 1969.

. “Religious Orientation in East Asian Cultures.” (Same program as
above.) Gettysburg College, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. May 1969.

LaucHuin, Rospert M. “What’s in a Name: An Underground View.” Joint
Anthropology-Linguistics Department Colloquium, Cornell University, Ithaca,
New York. 9 December 1968.

i

86 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Meccers, Betty J. “The Oldest Pottery in the New World.” Joint Annual Meet-
ing of Kent County Archaeological Society, Delaware and the Sussex Society
of Archaeology and History, Delaware, at Dover. April 1969.

St. Hoymeg, Lucite E. “Opportunities in Physical Anthropology.” Goucher Col-
lege Jobs and Careers Forum, Baltimore, Maryland. 29 January 1969.

. Seven lectures. (Under the auspices of the American Anthropological
Association Visiting Lecturer Program.) Mary Washington College, Fredericks-
burg, Virginia. 28—29 April 1969.

Stewart, T. D. “The Evolution of Man in Asia as Seen in the Lower Jaw.”
International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences, Tokyo,
Japan. 3-10 September 1968.

. “The Method of Showing Physical Anthropology in the U.S. National

Museum.” International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological

Sciences, Tokyo, Japan. 3-10 September 1968.

. “Laguna Beach Man Re-examined in the Light of Direct C-14 Dating.”

American Association of Physical Anthropologists, Mexico City. 10-12 April

1969.

. “Alés Hrdlitka’s Place in the Field of Human Evolution.” Joint Atlantic
Seminar in the History of Biological Sciences, Washington, D.C. 22 March
1969.

STURTEVANT, WiuiAM C. “Agriculture on Artificial Islands in Burma, Kashmir,
and Elsewhere.” International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological
Sciences, Tokyo, Japan. 6 September 1968.

. “Does Anthropology Need Museums?” Biological Society of Washing-

ton Autumn Meeting, Washington, D.C. 11 October 1968.

. “Force and Constraint in Acculturation Programs.” American Anthro-

pological Association Annual Meeting, Seattle, Washington. 22 November 1968.

. “Iroquois Ritual.” Philadelphia Anthropological Society. 6 December

1968.

. “Semiology and Material Culture.” Anthropology Seminar, State Uni-

versity of New York, Albany. 10 December 1968.

. “Troquois Ritual.” Anthropology Seminar, Southern Illinois University,
Carbondale. 11 March 1969.

TROUSDALE, WiLL1AM. “The Ruins of Sistan.” Archeological Institute of America,
at Pittsburgh; at the Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Penn-
sylvania; at Lancaster, Pennsylvania; and at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
February 1969.

. “The Archeological Exploration of Afghanistan.” Archeological Institute
of America, at Pittsburgh; at the Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, Pennsylvania; at Lancaster, Pennsylvania; and at Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. February 1969.

Van Beex, Gus W. “Frankincense and Myrrh in Ancient South Arabia.” Royal
Ontario Museum and Scarborough College of the University of Toronto,
Canada. October 1968.

. “Dido’s Heritage: A Survey of Tunisian Archaeology.” Walters Art
Gallery, Baltimore, Maryland. April 1969.

Woopsury, Ricuarp B. “Twenty-eight Centuries of Irrigation at Tehuacan,
Mexico”; “Social Science and the Utilization of Arid Lands.” International
Conference on Arid Lands in a Changing World. June 1969.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 87
RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

Research and laboratory activities at the Lincoln, Nebraska, head-
quarters have continued during the year at an attenuated pace owing
to reduced staff and budget. The large-scale program of field records
microfilming initiated in fiscal 1968 has been completed after photo-
graphing and indexing over 3,700 sites. Laboratory personnel have con-
tinued processing specimens that now number well over 1.75 million.
Staff archeologists have concentrated on interpretation and synthesis
of data from a number of major excavated sites, chiefly in the Dakotas.

Five monographs by River Basin Surveys scientists have appeared in
the Publications in Salvage Archeology: “Big Bend Historic Sites,” by
G. Hubert Smith, delineated certain aspects of early social and com-
mercial history of central South Dakota; “Bibliography of Salvage
Archeology in the United States,” by Jerome E. Petsche, was published
with the fiscal aid of the American Council of Learned Societies and the
Committee for the Recovery of Archaeological Remains; “The La
Roche Site,” by J. J. Hoffman, discussed late prehistoric cultural con-
tinuities in the middle range of the Missouri River; “Big Horn Canyon

Smithsonian River Basin Surveys field crew making initial excavation of
House 6 at the South Cannonball Site in North Dakota. The village site is about
500 years old.

1}
88 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Advanced stage of excavation of the pit of House 6 at the South Cannonball
Site. Postholes that once held posts forming a wall of the house have been
cleared of their earth fill. House 6 was a large semi-subterranean lodge with a
rectangular plan.

Archeology,” by Wilfred M. Husted, synthesized Paleoindian and later
data from north central Wyoming and suggested correlations over a wide
area of western United States; and “The Grand Detour Phase: Early |
Village Sites in the Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota,’ by Warren
W. Caldwell and Richard E. Jensen, reported the finding at several
early village sites and formulated a regional sequence from the data.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 89

Smithsonian River Basin Surveys excavators exploring postholes, pits, and
other features near the entryway at the front of House 6 at the South Cannonball
Site, North Dakota.

Four River Basin Surveys field parties have operated within the Mis-
souri Basin during the year:

1. A three-man party has spent three weeks in shoreline survey of
Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota, in order to locate newly exposed
sites and survey damage to known occupations. This activity has been
carried out in cooperation with the South Dakota State Historical Society
and the W. H. Over Dakota Museum of the University of South Dakota.
New information has been gathered that appears to show a potential
relationship between prehistoric occupations, soil horizons, and climatic
interpretations.

2. One man has spent two days surveying prehistoric hunting camps
in the southern Couteau du Missouri of South Dakota to assess their
relationship to major village sites in Fort Randall Reservoir.

3. An eight-man party has spent nine weeks in the third and final
season of excavation at South Cannonball Village in the upper Oahe
Reservoir of North Dakota. Two additional structures, one of possible
ceremonial function, have been uncovered, as well as several interhouse
utility and storage areas. The accumulated data from this site promises

366-269 O—70——7
90 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

| fe aay SaaE &

———_

“

Completed excavation of House 7 at the South Cannonball Site. Postholes and
pits are exposed on the old house floor of this semi-subterranean structure.

to reveal important information regarding early village horizons on the
Northern Plains.

4. Again in cooperation with the W. H. Over Dakota Museum, a
fourth party has made test excavations at Ludlow Cave, South Dakota,
to determine feasibility of re-investigation. Tests have revealed that the
critical cave deposits are far too despoiled to warrant further action.
The same party has spent one week in a shoreline reconnaissance of
Bowman-Haley Reservoir, North Dakota, pursuing previous investiga-
tions of McKean Complex occupations in this area.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 91

For the second consecutive year two Smithsonian Institution-National
Science Foundation undergraduate summer research assistants have
participated in River Basin Surveys field operations. ‘The students, from
the University of North Carolina and Wake Forest University, were
assigned to the field party excavating the South Cannonball Village,
where they gained a thorough grounding in excavation technique,
methodology, and management of site data. At the end of the season
they returned to Lincoln, where they familiarized themselves with
technical operations of the laboratory and office. A manuscript com-
piled by st-NsF summer research assistants last year was published
during the year as an article in the Plains Anthropologist; it described
a salvaged site in Oahe Reservoir and synthesized the data with previous
reports.

At the close of the year the field season was well underway. One
archeologist, on detail with the National Park Service, conducted nine
days of excavation at Fort Laramie, Wyoming, with a five-man crew
for the purpose of salvaging remains in advance of construction. A nine-
man crew, under the direction of an archeologist on detail to the
National Park Service, was engaged in major excavations at Fort
Union, North Dakota, preparatory to reconstruction of this famous
historic trading post.

Staff Publications

CALDWELL, WARREN W., with Ricuarp E. JENsEN. “The Grand Detour Phase:
Early Village Sites in the Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota.” Smithsonian
Institution, River Basin Surveys, Publications in Salvage Archeology (1969),
number 13, 140 pages.

HorrMan, J. J. “The La Roche Site.” Smithsonian Institution, River Basin Sur-
veys, Publications in Salvage Archeology (1968), number 11, 123 pages.

Hustep, WILFRED M. “Bighorn Canyon Archeology.” Smithsonian Institution,
River Basin Surveys, Publications in Salvage Archeology (1969), number 12,
138 pages.

Jounston, Ricuarp B. “Archaeology of Rice Lake, Ontario.” National
Museum of Canada Anthropology Papers (1968), number 19, 49 pages.

Smit, G. Husert. “Big Bend Historic Sites.” Smithsonian Institution, River
Basin Surveys, Publications in Salvage Archeology (1968), number 9, 111
pages.

BOTANY

The main thrust of research in the department continues to center on
tropical floras. Curator J. J. Wurdack has nearly completed a study of
the Melastomataceae for the Flora de Venezuela. He has also completed
92 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969 —

revisions of the Polygalaceae and Melastomataceae of Guayana and the —
Brazilian Planalto and Tibouchina sect. Barbigerae. The flora of
Santa Catarina, Brazil, and preparation of manuscript on the Bromeli-
aceae for Flora Neotropica contiune to occupy the attention of senior
botanist L. B. Smith. A revision of the Acanthaceae for the Flora of
Santa Catarina has been completed by assistant curator D. Wasshau-
sen. These long-term studies have clarified the taxonomy and evolution
of several large tropical families.

The largest of all plant families, the Compositae, is being studied by
associate curator H. E. Robinson and collaborator R. M. King by an
application of micro-morphological research techniques. A number of
previously unrecognized relationships have led to the description of
both new species and new genera. Research associate J. Cuatrecasas
has continued field and herbarium studies on the flora of Colombia,
especially the Compositae, with emphasis on cytological surveys.

Further expanded studies on the flora of Dominica have been made
possible through the generosity of Mrs. William J. Morden. A Morden-
Smithsonian expedition of three weeks’ duration has surveyed the newly
developed logging areas, with Mrs. Morden, D. H. Nicolson, R.
DeFilipps, and M. E. Hale participating. It is hoped that a basic under-
standing of vegetational change after logging can be gained that will
lead to more intelligent land utilization. Curator M. E. Hale has made
the first extensive lichen collections. Surprisingly, two crustose families,
the Graphidaceae and Thelotremataceae, comprise almost half of the
lichen flora and show a high degree of speciation. Under the Bredin-
Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica, D. H. Nicolson
and collaborator R. DeFilipps have made considerable progress on the
final manuscript of the Dominican flora.

Botanical interests in Old World tropical plants by the staff are
increasing: D. H. Nicolson has visited Mysore State in India to initiate
a collaborative project with C. J. Saldanha. Curator V. Rudd has begun
a revision of Ceylonese legumes in preparation for field work there.
Associate curator T. R. Soderstrom has begun to make similar back-
ground studies of the grasses of Ceylon. Three staff members have
worked in Africa: associate curator W. R. Ernst has carried out some
field work in Morocco and explored possibilities of future involvement
in the flora of North Africa. T. R. Soderstrom has collected grasses in
Tunisia and consulted with local botanists in developing a program on
agrostology. Associate curator E. S. Ayensu has conducted field work
in Tunisia and Ghana in continuation of his anatomical studies on the
yam family (Dioscoreaceae). |

Associate curator Stanwyn G. Shetler has nearly completed his mono- —
graph on the variation and evolution of the circumpolar Campanula —
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 93

rotundifolia complex and intensified his planning efforts, as project
secretary, for the long-term Flora North America Project. General pro)-
ect definition has been completed in order that the necessary resources
could be sought; the pilot phase of the automated bibliography, includ-
ing the perparation of a trial data base and full documentation, has
been completed; a computer analysis has been made of worldwide
herbarium resources, and the main results of this study are being
published.

Associate curator E. S. Ayensu has assembled equipment needed for
the newly developed technique of cinematography for study of stem
anatomy. Successive serial sections of stems are photographed with a
movie camera and made into a film. Analysis of the four-minute film
strips has helped unravel complex nodal anatomy of xylam and phloem
glomeruli in the yams and related monocotyledons. Associate curator
R. H. Eyde has begun collaboration with C. C. Tseng of Windham
College, Vermont, on a comparison of floral structures in the Araliaceae,
which it is anticipated will lead to a better understanding of the evolu-
tionary relationships of the family.

Curator C. V. Morton has finished a major work on the ferns of the
Galapagos Islands. He spent June 1969 furthering studies on fern type
specimens at herbaria in England.

Curator M. E. Hale has begun a monographic revision of the lichen
family Graphidaceae with research assistant B. J. Moore. The basic
approach is to analyze a large, highly speciated group by comparing
morphological and chemical features. Thin-layer chromatography is
being employed and microscopic sections of fruiting bodies have been
prepared.

Research associate F. Raymond Fosberg, assisted by Marie-Héléne
Sachet, has been engaged in various activities concerning insular floras
and ecology, ranging from the western Indian Ocean eastward to the
Marquesas and Hawaiian islands. The new genus Lebronnecia (Mal-
vaceae) , discovered during the course of these investigations and almost
extinct in its native habitat in the Marquesas Islands, has been success-
fully brought into cultivation in Tahiti and is now flowering. It will
now be possible to go much further in clarifying relationships of the
genus than has been possible from material heretofore available for
study.

Fosberg was chairman of the meeting on conservation in the Pacific
Islands held by the Conservation-Terrestrial Section of the International
Biological Program in Palau and Guam in November 1968. Attention
was focused at the meeting on a number of serious threats to both ter-
restrial and marine island ecosystems and strong recommendations were
made to the governments involved to take remedial measures. A pro-
94 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Botanists and entomologists collecting in Colombia.

posal was advanced to preserve as scientific reserves a number of unin-
habited islands under international jurisdiction.

Work is progressing on the floras and vegetation of Aldabra and
neighboring atolls in the western Indian Ocean, where a surprising
number of new plants and interesting distributional relationships have
been revealed. Other coral island studies are in progress and fifteen
numbers of the Atoll Research Bulletin have been edited and published,
making recent information available to students of coral islands and
reefs. The scope of the Bulletin has been broadened somewhat to
include tropical oceanic islands other than low coral islands.

The revision of Trimen’s Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon is making
substantial progress. Ten specialists have worked in the field during
the year and important collections have resulted. A number of drafts
and one final manuscript have been submitted.

Dieter Mueller-Dombois, of the Ceylon Ecology Project, has com-
pleted his own studies, resulting in vast amounts of information es-
pecially on Ruhuna and Wilpattu national parks and on the “patana”
grasslands of the Ceylon mountains. Vegetation, soils, geological, and
animal activities maps of the two national parks have been prepared and
are in course of publication. A climatic map of the island, with ac-
companying text, has been published.

The department has been host to two postdoctoral fellows, Hui-Lin

Li (Morris Arboretum, Philadelphia), who is completing studies on the
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 95

flora of Taiwan, and Elias de la Sota (La Plata, Argentina), who is
studying the ferns of Argentina.

The staff has continued to participate in Smithsonian Associates
activities, this year emphasizing a series of nature walks coordinated by
S. G. Shetler.

A one-day conference was held in the department in early May 1969
on automation of herbarium collections. Six participants from large
herbaria (T. Crovello, H. Irwin, W. H. Lewis, J. Mickel, D. J. Rogers,
and J. Soper) attended and ten others joined the discussions. This is
the first time that such a group has assembled to broadly assess the
status and possible directions of automation in the herbarium.

The Flora North America Editorial Committee met for four days in
late April and early May 1969. Discussions centered on progress so far in
literature automation (S. G. Shetler) and the overall philosophical base
for the flora (P. Raven). Organizational problems also were discussed.

The Collections

Field work by staff members has been carried out in Columbia (J.
Cuatrecasas, H. R. Soderstrom), in Dominica (D. H. Nicolson, M. E.
Hale), in Mexico (V. Rudd), in Morocco (W. R. Ernst), in Tunisia
(E. S. Ayensu, T. R. Soderstrom) , and in the United States and Canada
(M. E. Hale).

Additions of Old World collections have continued in significant
quantities: 1,474 Nepalese plants (through P. R. Pande), 1,278 Tai-
wanese plants (through Hui-Lin Li), 1,067 samples of Australian woods,
1,329 African collections, and 895 Philippine plants. Important collec-
tions of Neotropical plants have been received in exchanges with the
New York Botanical Garden, the University of California at Los Ange-
les, Stanford University, Texas Research Foundation, Gray Herbarium,
and the Field Museum.

A continuing problem has been the curating of the large new ac-
cessions. While 26,550 specimens have been mounted during the year,
approximately 38,000 that should be mounted have been received, leav-
ing an unmounted backlog of about 12,000 specimens.

All outstanding loan records have now been computerized to provide
more complete access and flexibility in updating. Exchange records are
being treated in a similar way in order to gain a better overall view of
the directions of our exchange program.

The Type Register, a cooperative, long-term, computer-based project
to collect all available information on the types in the herbaria of the
United States, has received support from several sources during the
96 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Crustose lichen on a felled tree in Dominica.

year. More than 2,000 entries are on magnetic tape and another 3,000
wait for input. A trial sending to other herbaria of the information
on types of Mzmulus species has been made to prove out the systems
design. Response has been generally favorable and the broad design of
the project is being reassessed for future development.

Finally, the extensive and valuable research materials of the great
tropical family Piperaceae (peppers) have been received as a bequest
from T. G. Yuncker, through his wife.

Staff Publications

AYENSU, Epwarbp S. “Aspects of the complex nodal anatomy of the Dioscorea- —
ceae.” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum (1969), volume 50, number 1, pages |
124-132, 5 plates. |

. “Leaf Anatomy and Systematics of Old World Velloziaceae.” New
Bulletin (1969), volume 23, number 1, pages 315-335, 4 plates.

Brizicky, G. K. and W. L. Stern. ‘Notes on the distribution and habitat of
Columellia.” Journal of the Arnold Arboretum (1969), volume 50, number 1,
pages 76-79.

CAMARGO, F. C., and LyMan B. Smiru. “A New Species of Ananas from Vene-
zuela.” Phytologia (1968), volume 16, number 6, pages 464, 465, plate 1.

Cuatrecasas, J. “Dos aralidceas nuevas de Colombia.” Collectanea Botanica
(1968), volume 7, pages 221-226.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 97

.“Paramo Vegetation and Its Life Forms.” Colloquium Geographicum
(1968), volume 9, pages 163-186.

Ernst, WALLACE R. “(239) Proposal to Conserve the Generic Name 7650.”
Lamourouxia H. B. K., 1818 (Scrophulariaceae), against Lamourouxia C. A.
Agardh, 1817 (Delesseriaceae).” Taxon (1968), volume 17, number 4, pages
449, 450.

Eype, Ricuarp H. “The Peculiar Cynoecial Vasculature of Cornaceae and Its
Systematic Significance.” Phytomorphology (1968), volume 17, number 1-4,
pages 172-182.

Farr, Marie L. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica:
Myxomycetes from Dominica.” Contributions from the United States National
Herbarium (1969), volume 37, part 6, pages 397-439.

Fosserc, F. R. “Systematic Notes on Micronesian Plants, 3.” Phytologia (1968),
volume 15, number 7, pages 496-502.

.“A Pragmatic Approach to the Practical Vegetation Mapping.” Geo-

botanical Mapping (1967), pages 9-17 [in Russian].

. “Observations on Vegetation Patterns and Dynamics on Hawaiian and

Galapageian Volcanoes.” Micronesica (December 1967), volume 3, pages 129-

134.

. “Succession and Condition of Ecosystems.” The Journal of the Indian

Botanical Society (1967), volume 46, number 4, pages 351-355.

. “Polypodium Vulgare on Long Island.” American Fern Journal (Octo-

ber—December 1968), volume 58, number 4, pages 153-154.

. “Studies in Pacific Rubiaceae: VI-VII.” Brittonia (October-December

1968), volume 20, pages 287-294.

.“Some Relations between Ecosystem Size and Cultural Evolution.”
Pages 702-704 in Proceedings of the Symposium on Recent Advances in Tropi-
cal Ecology (January 1967), Varanasi, 1968.

Fosperc, F. R., and Marie-HELENE SacuetT. “Wake Island Vegetation and
Flora, 1961-1963.” Atoll Research Bulletin (30 March 1969), volume 123,
pages 1-15.

Hate, Mason E. “Biochemical Systematics in Lichens: Another Viewpoint.”
International Lichenological Newsletter (1968), volume 2, number 1, pages
1-3.

. “Single Lobe Growth Rates in Parmelia caperata” [abstract]. Association
Southeastern Biologists Bulletin (1969), volume 16, page 53.

Kinc, Rosert M., and Harotp E. Rosinson. “Studies in the Compositae-
Eupatorieae, VIII: Observations on the Microstructure of Stevia.” Sida
(1968), volume 3, number 4, pages 257-269.

. “Macvaughiella King & Robinson, Nomen Novum for Schaetzellia Sch.-
Bip., Not Klotzsch (Compositae).” Sida (1968), volume 3, number 4, page
282.

Knostock, Irvinc W., and Davin B. Leiincer. “A New Species of Cheilanthes
from Mexico.” American Fern Journal (1969), volume 59, number 1, pages
8-10.

.“Cheilanthes castanea and Its Allies in Virginia and West Virginia.”
Castanea (1969), volume 34, number 1, pages 59-61.

LELuncer, Davw B. “A Note on Aspidotis.” American Fern Journal (1968),
volume 58, number 3, pages 140, 141.

. “Notes on Ryukyu Ferns.” American Fern Journal (1968), volume 58,

number 4, pages 155-158.

98 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. “The Identity of Polypodium salicifolium Vahl.” American Fern Journal

(1968), volume 58, number 4, page 179.

.“The Correct Name for the Button Fern.” American Fern Journal
(1968) , volume 58, number 4, page 180. |

Morse, Larry E., Joun H. BEAMAN, and STANWYN G. SHETLER. “A Computer
System for Editing Diagnostic Keys for Flora North America.” Taxon (1968),
volume 17, pages 479-483.

Morton, C. V. “A Proposal to Emend Article 7 of the Code.” Taxon (1968),
volume 17, number 2, page 236.

. “Proposal for an Addition to Article 26 of the Code.” Taxon (1968),

volume 17, number 2, pages 236, 237.

. “Proposed Addition to the ‘Guide to the Citation of Botanical Litera-

.” Taxon (1968), volume 17, number 2, page 237.

ture’.

. “The Genera, Subgenera, and Sections of the Hymenophyllaceae.” Con-

tributions from the United States National Herbarium (1968), volume 38,

number 5, pages 153-214.

. “A Typification of Some Subfamily, Sectional, and Subsectional Names

in the Family Malpighiaceae.” Taxon (1968), volume 17, number 3, pages

314-324.

.“The Correct Name of a Common Tropical American Oleandra.”

American Fern Journal (1968), volume 58, number 3, pages 105-107.

. “The Fern Collections in Some European Herbaria.” American Fern

Journal (1968), volume 58, number 4, pages 158-168.

. “A New Name for Columnea costaricensis Raymond.” The Gloxinian

(1969), volume 19, number 2, page 17.

. “The Fern Collections in Some European Herbaria, II.” American Fern
Journal (1969), volume 59, number 1, pages 11—22.

Nicotson, Dan H. “The Genus Xenophya Schott (Araceae).” Blumea (1968),
volume 16, number 1, pages 115-118.

.“The Genus Spathiphyllum in the East Malesian and West Pacific

Islands (Araceae).” Blumea (1968), volume 16, number 1, pages 119-121.

.“A Revision of Amydrium (Araceae).” Blumea (1968), volume 16,
number 1, pages 123-127.

Nicotson, D. H., and TirtuHa B. SurestHa. “Gamopetalae and Monochlamy-
deae.”” Pages 1-80, part II, in Keys to the Dicot Genera in Nepal. Kath-
mandu, Nepal: Ministry of Forests, 1968.

Ruyne, Cuarves F., and Haroxp E. Rosinson. “Struveopsis, a New Genus of
Green Algae.” Phytologia (1968 [1969]), volume 17, number 7, pages 467-472.

Rosinson, Haro.p E. ‘Notes on Bryophytes from the Himalayas and Assam.”
Bryologist (1968), volume 71, number 2, pages 82-97.

Rupp, Vetva E. “A New Ormosia (Leguminosae) from Peru.” Annals of the
Missouri Botanical Garden (1968), volume 55, page 79.

. “Leguminosae of Mexico — Faboideae, 1: Sophoreae and Podalyrieae.”

Rhodora (1968), volume 70, number 784, pages 492-532.

. “Mimosa bahamensis, a Bahama-Yucatan Disjunct.” Phytologia (1969),
volume 18, number 3, pages 143-146.

SacHeT, Marie-HE LENE. “List of Vascular Flora of Rangiroa.”’ In D. R. Stod-
dart, “Reconnaissance Geomorphology of Rangiroa Atoll, Tuamotu Archi-
pelago.” Atoll Research Bulletin (1969), 125, pages 33-44.

. “Coral Islands as Ecological Laboratories.’ Micronesica (1967), volume

3, number 1, pages 45-49.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 99

SHETLER, STANWYN G. “Flora North America Project.” Annals of the Missouri
Botanical Garden (1969), volume 55, pages 176-178.

. “The Crisis of Herbaria” [abstract]. Association of Southeastern Biol-
ogists Bulletin (1969), volume 16, page 67.

SHETLER, STANWYN G., editor, assisted by Larry FE. Morse, James J. Crockett,
Shigeko I. Rakosi, and Elaine R. Shetler. Preliminary Generic Taxon Catalog
of Vascular Plants for Flora North America. iv+-69 pages. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution, 1969. [Computer-printed and photocopied for dis-
tribution by Flora North America Project.]

Smitu, Lyman B. “Nidumea, a New Bigeneric Hybrid.” Bromeliad Society Bul-
letin (1968), volume 18, number 3, pages 62, 63.

. “Tillandsia Subgenus Allardtia.’’ Bromeliana of the Greater New York

Chapter of the Bromeliad Society (1968), volume 5, number 5, pages 26-29,

16 figures.

. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXVIII.” Phytologia (1968), volume 16, num-

ber 6, pages 459-463, plate 1.

. “The Identification of Sterile Bromeliaceae.” Bromeliad Society Bulletin

(1968), volume 18, number 4, pages 87-89.

. “Tillandsia Subgenus Pseudo-Catopsis.” Bromeliana of the Greater New

York Chapter of the Bromeliad Society (1968), volume 5, numbers 8 and 9,

pages 48-52.

. “Margaret Mee’s Bromeliad Paintings.” Bulletin of The National Capital

Area Federation of Garden Clubs (1969), volume 16, number 4, pages 1, 10.

1 plate.

. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXIX.” Phytologia (1969), volume 18, number
3, pages 137-142.

SmitTH, LyMAN B., and Rosert J. Downs: “‘Xyridaceae.” Flora Brasilica (1968),
volume 9, part 2, pages 1-215, figures 1-1288.

Soperstrom, T. R. Appendix III, “Impressions of Cereals and Other Plants
in the Pottery of Hajar Bin Humeid.” Pages 399-402, 5 plates, in Van Beek,
Hajar Bin Humeid, Investigations at a Pre-Islamic Site in South Arabia. Balti-
more: The John Hopkins Press, 1969.

STERN, W. L. “Kleinodendron and Xylem Anatomy of Cluytieae (Euphor-
biaceae).”’ American Journal of Botany (1967), volume 54, pages 663-676.

. “The Expert on Wood.” Bulletin of the International Wood Collectors

Society (1968), volume 21, pages 130-132.

. “Discussion of ‘Comparative Morphology in Systematics’ by Walter J.

Bock in Systematic Biology.” Pages 448—452 in Proceedings of an International

Conference Conducted at the University of Michigan, 1967. Publication 1692.

Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences, 1969.

. “George Konstantin Brizicky, a Personal Evaluation.” Taxon (1968),
volume 17, pages 661-662.

Stern, W. L., H. B. GInLENwATER, GERALD Eason, A. GarciA-QuINTANA, and
R. S. Cam. “Lindane and Dichlorvos for Protection of Herbarium Specimens
against Insects.” Taxon (1968), volume 17, pages 629-632.

STERN, WILLIAM L., Georce K. Brizicxy, and RicuHarp H. Eype. “(Compara-
tive Anatomy and Relationships of Columelliaceae.” Journal of the Arnola
Arboretum (1969), volume 50, number 1, pages 36-75.

100 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Wurpack, J. J. ‘““Melastomataceae.”’ In Steyermark, “Contribuciones a la flora
de la Sierra de Imataca, Amataca, Altiplanicie de Nuria y region adyacente
del Territorio Federal Delta Amacuro al Sur de Rio Orinoco.” Acta Botanica
Venezuelica (1968), volume 3, numbers 1—4, pages 146-148.

.“Certamen Melastomataceis, XIII.” Phytologia (1969), volume 18,

number 3, pages 147-163.

Papers, Lectures, and Seminars

AyYENSU, Epwarp S. “Current Program on the Anatomy of Monocotyledons.”
Botanical Society of Washington, D.C. November 1968.

. “The Optical Shuttle Analysis of the Complex Vascularity in Plants
with Special Reference to the Yams and Other Monocotyledons.” University
of Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana. October 1968.

Eype, R. H. “Fossil Record of Alangiaceae.” Annual meeting of American
Institute of Biological Sciences, Columbus, Ohio. September 1968.

Hate, M. E. “The Smithsonian Type Project in Botany.’ Duke University,
Durham, North Carolina. November 1968.

. “Single Lobe Growth Rates in Parmelia caperata.” Association of South-
eastern Biologists, Memphis, Tennessee. April 1969.

LeLiincER, D. B. “Proposals toward an Automated Index of Pteridophyte
Names and Type Specimens.” Annual meeting of American Institute of
Biological Sciences, Columbus, Ohio. September 1968.

SHeTLER, S. G. “Report of Electronic Data Processing Activities in American
Society of Plant Taxonomists (AsptT).’ Round Table on Information Prob-
lems in the Biological Sciences, annual meeting of American Institute of
Biological Sciences, Columbus, Oho. September 1968. (Official representative
for ASPT.)

. “Harebells, Environment, and Arctic Adaptation.” Botanical Society

of Washington, D.C. October 1968.

. “Flora North America Project.”” Symposium on the Practical Values

of Systematics, Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri. October 1968.

.“The Future of the Herbarium.” Symposium on Natural History

Collections: Past, Present, and Future, Biological Society of Washington,

D.C. October 1968.

. “The Golden Age of the Herbarium.” Joint Atlantic Seminar in the

History of Biology, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. March 1969.

. “Flora North American—A Computer-Age Flora.” Seminar, Depart-

ment of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio. March 1969.

. “The Crisis of Herbaria.”” Annual meeting of of the Association of

Southeastern Biologists, Memphis, Tennessee. April 1969.

. “Potomac Spring Wildflowers.” Evening lecture to Smithsonian Insti-
tution Associates, Washington, D.C. April 1969.

. “Plants and Soil.” Smithsonian Institution Associates Ecology Course,
Washington, D.C. April 1969.

. “The Appalachians—Geology, Natural History, and Folklore.” Lecture
to Smithsonian Institution Associates Appalachian Tour, Cumberland, Mary-
land, May 1969.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 101

. “Report on Smithsonian Institution Activities in Data Processing with
Respect to Museum Collections.”” Working Party of International Council of
Museums (1com), London, England. June 1969.

Wurpack, J. J. “Botanical Exploration of Northern Peru.” Audubon Natural
History Society, Washington, D.C. January 1969.

. “Plants of the Flatrocks of Southeastern United States.” Potomac

Chapter, American Rock Garden Society, Reston, Virginia. February 1969.

ENTOMOLOGY

Planning and supervision of the move of the Department of Ento-
mology from the Lamont Street building to the Natural History Build-
ing has seriously impaired research productivity during the year.
Personnel of the Divisions of Coleoptera, of Lepidoptera and Diptera,
and of Hemiptera and Hymenoptera have devoted large blocks of time
to planning for renovation of assigned areas, packing, moving, and
unpacking of collections and equipment at the new location. Approxi-
mately a third of the staff and collections remain to be moved during
next year. In spite of the time lost to the move, the Department has had a
reasonably productive year: staff specialists have published thirty-one
papers totaling more than five hundred pages.

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program Advisory Council has
recommended approval of the departmental proposal for a four-year
biosystematic study of selected groups of Ceylonese insects. If the
project is approved by the Ceylonese government, the field work will
begin during the next fiscal year.

Curator Oscar L. Cartwright has continued his revisional studies in
the scarabaeid subfamily Aphodiinae and has made progress on several
faunal studies of other scarabaeids. Much of Paul Spangler’s time has
been devoted to planning and supervising the divisional move to the
Natural History Building, but he has made some progress on his water-
beetle studies. In February 1969 he began nearly seven months of field
studies on water beetles in a number of countries in South America and
the West Indies.

Associate curator Richard C. Froeschner has spent three months
studying lace-bug types in museums in ten European countries to con-
firm or correct the generic assignment in connection with his manual
of world genera, on which substantial progress has been made; he also
has continued work on certain families of Hemiptera for the report on
the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica.

Chairman Karl V. Krombein has completed a paper on North
American cuckoo wasps describing two new genera and a new species
with biological notes. He also has devised a new trap to attract wood-
102 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

nesting solitary wasps and bees and has made satisfactory field tests
of it during a three-week period at the Archbold Biological Station in
Florida. Gerald I. Stage has analyzed initial population samples of
Lysimachia pollinators in the local area and has realized progress on
three manuscripts dealing with pollinators and pollination of Eucnide
and Mentzelia.

Senior entomologist J. F. Gates Clarke has completed his large sys-
tematic and ecological survey of the lepidopterous fauna of Rapa
Island. He left in May 1969 for four months of museum study in
Leiden and London in connection with a similar treatment of the
microlepidopterous fauna of the Marquesas Islands.

Associate curator Donald R. Davis has substantially advanced his
monograph of Nearctic Tineidae and has nearly completed the re-
vision of American Incurvariinae. His tineoid studies have been ad-
vanced by two months of study at the British Museum.

W. Donald Duckworth and
graduate assistant, R. E. Dietz,
collecting insects in rain forest
near Florencia, Colombia.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 103

Associate curator W. Donald Duckworth has expanded his studies
of stenomid reclassification by investigating genera of the Old World
Tropics in order to assess the zoogeographical trends. His pioneering
work on the Neotropical fauna has been advanced greatly by three
months of collecting in Colombia, Venezuela, and Guyana.

In the relatively limited time available after moving his division,
William D. Field has made some progress on revisions of the butterfly
genera Phulia and Vanessa and has added 5,000 entries to his catalog
of New World Lycaenidae. Field, with the assistance of divisional
preparator Vira Milbank, has added 5,600 titles to the divisional
bibliography of Lepidoptera.

Summer fellow Robert E. Dietz IV, working under Duckworth, has
completed research on the ctenuchid genus Horama for his MS degree
at Cornell University.

Ralph E. Crabill has made collections and ecological observations of
centipedes during two field trips in eastern Tennessee and adjacent areas
and to type localities in Virginia and North Carolina. Crabill has com-
pleted a number of manuscripts during the year and has nearly finished a
generic reclassification of the Mecistocephalidae and a faunal study of
the Nepalese centipedes.

Oliver S. Flint, Jr., has made substantial progress on a revision of a
subfamily of Central American microcaddisflies and on faunal reports
of large collections of caddisflies from the Amazon basin, Surinam, and
Chile. An early collecting trip of two weeks in southern and central
Arizona has provided Flint an opportunity to obtain valuable specimens
and information concerning the relationship of the Arizona fauna with
related areas in Mexico. His previous studies of West Indian caddisflies
were aided at the end of the year by four weeks of collecting in Puerto
Rico and the Dominican Republic.

The talented staff artists, Mrs. Elsie H. Froeschner and André Pizzini,
have provided illustrations for a number of manuscripts, but the depart-
ment still lacks adequate support in this area to match the research
productivity of its specialists.

The Southeast Asia Mosquito Project (SEAMP), a cooperative Smith-
sonian and Department of the Army project under the direction of
Botha de Meillon, has continued work on the systematics of mosquitoes
of that vast and medically important area. Prior to his retirement,
John E. Scanlon collected mosquitoes in Southeast Asia and studied
types of Oriental anophelines at the British Museum. E. L. Peyton and
Yiau-Min Huang also have studied the mosquito collections at the
British Museum. sEAMP consultants Peter F. Mattingly, Kenneth L.
Knight, J. Bonne-Wepster, J. M. Klein, Thomas Zavortink, and John F.
104 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969. —

Reinert have continued their taxonomic studies of various mosquito
genera.

Several resident research associates have continued to work actively
on systematic studies in their own areas of interest. Mrs. Doris H. Blake
has nearly completed her worldwide revision of the chrysomelid genus
Metachroma, and visited the Museum of Comparative Zoology twice
during the year to study types. K. C. Emerson has made progress on
taxonomic studies of the Anoplura of Nepal, Nigeria, Madagascar,
Senegal, Pakistan, and Botswana and of the Mallophaga of Nepal, Vene-
zuela, and Southeast Asia; many of the specimens have been collected
by personnel of the Division of Mammals. C. F. W. Muesebeck has
completed his large revision of the Nearctic species of the braconid genus
Orgilus and has continued his valued services as translation editor of
the Russian journal Entomological Review. Robert Traub has continued
his work on the ecology of viral and rickettsial infections based on the

Richard S. Cowan, W. Donald
Duckworth, Thomas R. Soder-
strom collecting insects and
plants in rain forest near
Florencia, Colombia.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 105

rodent hosts and their ectoparasites. He hypothesizes that these data can
be used to determine the geographic extent of scrub typhus infection
and to indicate where it may be expected to occur. He is also collab-
orating on the preparation of a glossary of scientific terms for the Cata-
logue of the Rothschild Collection of Fleas and has spent three months
collecting mammals and their ectoparasites in New Guinea.

Departmental specialists have received several honors and awards.
Duckworth was elected vice chairman of Section A (Systematics, Mor-
phology, and Evolution) at the annual meeting of the Entomological
Society of America. Spangler has been elected vice president of the
Society for Study of Coleoptera. Stage has been appointed to a three-
year term as secretary of the Society of Systematic Zoology. Krombein
has been elected president of the Entomological Society of Washington,
reelected vice president of the Washington Biologists’ Field Club, and
has been appointed a chief biomedical scientist in the United States
Air Force Reserve.

The Collections

The National Collection of insects has received more than 460,000
specimens during the year, bringing the total holdings to 18,712,627.
As usual, many of the new accessions have been of great significance in
that they filled gaps in regional representation, contributed directly to
continuing research programs of staff members and associates, consisted
of reared specimens with associated immature stages, or were of eco-
logical importance because of associated data on habitat, relationships
with other organisms, and so forth.

There have been some extremely valuable accessions from staff mem-
bers as a result of past field work. Notable among these are 10,953
specimens from Argentina and Chile collected by Oliver S. Flint, Jr.;
10,788 from Arizona collected by Flint and A. S. Menke, uspa (United
States Department of Agriculture) ; 13,609 from the Marquesas Islands
by J. F. Gates Clarke and Thelma Clarke; and 2,679 from Plummers
Island, Maryland, by Paul J. Spangler. Flint’s Chilean caddisflies have
been put to immediate use in his continuing study of the Chilean fauna,
and the Arizona specimens have provided valuable insights into the
relationship between the Arizona and Mexican faunas. The Clarkes’
accession have been particularly strong in Microlepidoptera and espe-
cially important because of the material reared by Mrs. Clarke; he is
currently engaged in working up the Marquesan fauna through study
of types in the Leiden and British museums.

366-269 O—70-—_8
106 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Several accessions have been most welcome inasmuch as they consti-
tute material from areas previously represented very poorly, if at all,
in the National Collection. A collection of Philippine mosquitoes from
Francisco Baisas, consisting of 6,700 adults and 4,000 slides, has been
of immediate use to SEAMP’s research program on Southeast Asia mos-
quitoes and has been particularly valuable because of the number of
associated immature stages. Gerald I. Stage has donated 1,395 bees
from all over the world, a gratifying addition because a large number of
species have not been in the collection before. Mrs. Mary H. Ripley has
collected 884 insects in Bhutan, most of them moths very meticulously
prepared. Curtis W. Sabrosky, uspa, and Krombein have obtained a
small but useful lot of some 2,500 specimens in the Uzbek Soviet Social-
ist Republic. The Reverend Rufus H. LeFevre has contributed 794
beetles, bugs, and moths collected during his missionary service in China.
T. H. Davies has continued to favor the Department with New Zealand
insects, this time with a lot of 668 specimens, mostly Lepidoptera.

SEAMP has received 72 lots of mosquitoes, comprising 23,391 adults
and 16,134 slides.

From uspa the Department has received by transfer 73,550 speci-
mens. As always, this has been a particularly noteworthy addition be-
cause so many of the specimens represent species not previously in the
collection, or bear associated host data, or consist of reared series of im-
mature and adult stages. This particular transfer has included some
7,000 specimens, mostly Coleoptera, from H. P. Lanchester. Other
colleagues in uspA have made personal donations that include 2,928
specimens from W. W. Wirth, mostly Diptera from the northwestern
United States; 4,000 Microlepidoptera by Ronald W. Hodges from
Arizona, Florida, Michigan, and New York; and 888 water beetles
from Robert Gordon.

Several research associates have enriched the collections by continued
donation of material. F. S. Blanton has deposited 5,000 specimens of
Ceratopogonidae, K. C. Emerson has sent in more than 2,000 slides of
Mallophaga and Anoplura from his personal collection and from the
Department of the Army, and H. F. Loomis has added types and other
material of millipedes.

Lack of space precludes mention of numerous other individual and
institutional donors who have made generous contributions of speci-
mens; several, however, are so outstanding they merit special recognition.
David G. Hall has donated some 18,000 Sarcophagidae, the result of a
lifetime of systematic work on these economically important flesh flies,
and a technical library on them requiring twenty feet of shelf space; the
specimens include some 24 holotypes, more than 600 paratypes, and
represent nearly 1,500 species. Dorald A. Allred has sent nearly 35,000
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 107

insects in numerous orders taken during faunal and ecological surveys
of the Nevada test site study areas. William Rosenberg has donated
nearly 6,000 Scarabaeidae from all over the world, an indispensable
adjunct to Cartwright’s taxonomic studies in this family. Mr. and Mrs.
George Lacy have sent 3,800 specimens from British Honduras, mostly
Coleoptera. Vincent D. Roth has furthered Flint’s Arizona studies by
a gift of some 2,000 caddisflies. Joseph W. Adams has made special
efforts and has collected about 2,000 insects on flowers in Pennsylvania;
the insects and associated flower-visiting data will be most useful in the
pollination studies by Stage and other staff members.

When Department specialists are in the field, they do not limit their
collecting activities to just the group of insects in which they are particu-
larly interested but make a strong effort to obtain specimens in other
groups on which their colleagues have research projects. For example,
Flint as a specialist on one group of aquatic insects, the caddisflies,
makes every effort to collect other groups of aquatic insects, thus for-
warding Spangler’s research interests on water beetles. Spangler’s and
Flint’s collecting of nocturnal beetles and caddisflies at lights also yields
many specimens of moths for the lepidopterists. Spangler’s lot of 2,500
insects from Plummers Island is not very large, but it is significant
because it consists of specimens obtained by operation of a Malaise trap
for a ten-day period, the first time that this collecting technique has
been employed for more than a day at a time at that famous biological
preserve in the metropolitan Washington area. This Malaise trap ma-
terial has provided eleven new Plummers Island records among the
wasps to add to the 274 specics previously known from the area.

The departmental preparator’s unit—consisting of Ron Faycik, Marc
Roth, and Gary Hevel—has continued its devoted service in the process-
ing of back lots not accessioned in previous years and in handling in-
coming lots. They have accessioned thirty-three lots consisting of nearly
93,000 specimens and have sorted and distributed them to the appro-
priate divisions. In addition, they have mounted some 40,000 specimens
that have not yet been accessioned. The major part of their effort, how-
ever, during the year has been directed toward assistance in preparing
collections for the move from the Lamont Street building to the Natural
History Building. Roth and Faycik, working with Mrs. Vira Milbank,
the divisional preparator, have transferred all of the Lepidoptera from
about 500 nonstandard drawers into uSNM drawers and cases in prep-
aration for the move. After the collections were moved, they assisted in
getting cases installed in the proper systematic arrangement.

In the Division of Coleoptera, Gloria House, the divisional preparator
has processed nearly 78,000 specimens, sorting 30,000 to family, mount-
108 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

ing 5,500, labeling 34,500, and transferring 28,000 from temporary
storage containers to USNM drawers. Mrs. Janice White, a part-time
preparator, has processed 29,000 specimens, sorting 12,800 to order and
family, mounting 7,400, labeling 5,600, and transferring 15,000 to usnm
drawers. Miss Ludmila Kassianoff, divisional preparator in Hemiptera
and Hymenoptera, has made a great reduction in the large backlog of
unmounted, unlabeled specimens that have accumulated over the years.
In Lepidoptera and Diptera, Mrs. Milbank, in addition to her many
services preparing collections for the move, has incorporated the large
exchange shipment from the National Museum of Kenya, consisting of
8,900 specimens and 5,700 species, of which 2,600 have not been repre-
sented previously by named material. Crabill, assisted by Mrs. Sophie
Lutterlough, divisional preparator in Myriapoda and Arachnida, has
continued the restoration work on older collections, rehousing specimens
in fresh alcohol, remounting old slides, treating desiccated specimens
in vacuo with trisodium phosphate, and verifying unsuspected type-
specimens; Crabill also has continued his attempts to develop a hydro-
philic mounting medium for slide mounts more satisfactory than the
standard Hoyer’s formula. Mrs. Nancy Heath, divisional preparator in
Neuropteroids, working part time, has continued the program of re-
mounting and relabeling the Odonata collection, and also has mounted
many thousands of small or fragile specimens collected in Africa by
Krombein and Spangler.

Several miscellaneous projects have been completed or begun during
the year. Concurrently with the move of the Division of Coleoptera, the
extremely valuable Casey collection of Coleoptera has once more been
moved into a separate “Casey Room” along with associated reprint and
map files. Old manuscripts and associated historical materials from two
pioneer federal entomologists, C. V. Riley and Townsend Glover, have
been sent to the Smithsonian Archives for cataloging and safekeeping.

Negotiations have been instituted with several other institutions look-
ing toward the extended long-term loan deposit in the Smithsonian of
collections in which the Institution has current research efforts and
where the lending institution has no specialist and, reciprocally, similar
long-term loan deposits of Smithsonian materials in other institutions
having a specialist where the Institution has none. Such deposits will
be undertaken only under the most careful stipulations providing for
proper curatorial care of the loans, access to the collections by interested
and qualified third parties, and recall of the collections when the lending
institution obtains a specialist in that group or when the borrowing in-
stitution no longer has a specialist in the group.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 109

A NEW TRAP-NESTING TECHNIQUE FOR WASPS

Trap Components and Habitats—(a) On the left, the routed-out channel for
the nest with its plastic and wooden strips unattached; in the center, the plastic
strip taped into position; on the right, the completed trap with the wooden
strip attached by rubber bands to form a light-tight cavity in which nesting
can occur. (b) A bundle of traps suspended from a dead limb. (c) Individual
traps suspended from the framework supporting a cultivated tropical bush.
Grass-carrying Wasp with Its Prey, a Bush Cricket—(a) At the entrance of
the nest, (b) tunneling through the closing plug, (c) dragging the cricket into
the brood cell, (d) ovipositing on the prey, (e) closing the plug. Note the
earlier prev. a shield-back katydid.
en tae

Larval Development in a Nest.—(a) The newly hatched larva, 11:30 a.m.,
18 April; (b) 8:20 a.m., 19 April; (c) 7:35 p.m., 19 April; (d) 11:55 a.m.,
20 April, the larva has eviscerated the prey. (e) Brood chamber at 12:25 a.m.,
20 April; (f) 8:00 p.m., 20 April; (g) 11:50 a.m., 21 April; (h) 8:00 p.m.,
21 April; (i) 4:05 p.m., 22 April, the larva pulling out strands of Spanish moss;
(j) 8:00 a.m., 24 April, spinning cocoons in the moss.
Li? SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Staff Publications

CARTWRIGHT, Oscar L. ‘Mark Robinson (1906—-1965).” Entomological News
(1969), volume 79, number 10, pages 285-286.

CiarkKE, J. F. Gates. ‘Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XVII: Notes and New
Species of Phaloniidae.” Proceedings of the United States National Museum
(1968), volume 125, number 3660, 58 pages, 4 plates, 30 figures.

CrasiL_, Ravpu E. “Concerning the Evolution of the Oryinae, with Description
of a Primitive New Genus.” Entomologische Mitteilungen (1968), volume 3,
number 61, pages 243-248.

. “Two New Species of Mesoschendyla from the Old World Tropics, with

Key to their Congeners.” Revue de Zoologie et de Botanique Africaines (1968),

volume 77, numbers 3—4, pages 283-288.

.“Revised Allocation of a Meinert Species, with Proposal of a New

Eurytion.” Psyche (1968), volume 75, number 3, pages 228-232.

. “A New Oryid Genus and Species from Africa, with Notes on Evolution

within the Family.” Entomological News (1968), volume 79, number 9, pages

248-253.

.“A Bizarre Case of Sexual Dimorphism in a Centipede, with Conse-

quent Submergence of a Genus.’ Entomological News (1968), volume 79,

number 9, page 286.

. “Revision of Arenophilus, with Proposal of a New Species and Key to

All Species.” Entomological News (1969), volume 80, number 1, pages 7-11.

.“On the True Identity of Chomatophilus, with Description of a New

Species, and with Key and Catalogue of All Sogonid Genera.” Proceedings of

the Entomological Society of Washington (1968), volume 70, number 4, pages

323-331.

.“On the True Identities of Tuoba and Nesogeophilus.” Proceedings of

the Entomological Society of Washington (1968), volume 70, number 4, page

345.

. “Revisionary Conspectus of Neogeophilidae, with Further Thoughts on
Phylogeny and Description of a New Species.” Entomological News (1969),
volume 80, number 2, pages 38-43.

Davis, Donatp R. “A Revision of the American Moths of the Family Carpo-
sinidae (Lepidoptera: Carposinoidea).” United States National Museum Bul-
letin (1969), 289, 105 pages, 122 figures, 11 maps.

De.Finapo, MercepeEs L., and ELarne R. Honces. ‘“Three New Species of the
Genus Tripteroides, Subgenus Tripteroides Giles.” Proceedings of the Ento-
mological Society of Washington (December 1968), volume 70, number 4,
pages 361-375.

Ducxwortu, W. D. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Do-
minica: West Indian Stenomidae (Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea).’’ Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology (1969), number 4, pages 1—21.

Emerson, K. C. ‘‘The Host of Stachiella retusa martis Werneck (Mallophaga:
Trichodectidae).’’ Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington
(1968), volume 70, page 191.

Emerson, K. C., and K. C. Kim. “Records of Anoplura from South-West
Africa.” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society (1968), volume 41,
pages 509-510.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 113

Emerson, K. C., and Borcr Peterson. “Mallophaga Collected by the Moona
Dan Expedition in the Bismark and Philippine Islands.” Entomologiske Med-
delelser (1968), volume 36, pages 338-340.

Emerson, K. C., and Rocer D. Price. ‘‘A New Species of Dennyus (Mallophaga:
Menoponidae) from the Malaysian Spine-tailed Swift.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington (1968), volume 81, pages 87-89.

.“A New Species of Parafelicola (Mallophaga: Trichodectidae) from

Mozambique.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1968),

volume 81, pages 109-110.

. “A New Species of Rhynonirmus from Thailand (Mallophaga: Phil-
opteridae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington (1968),
volume 70, pages 184—186.

Fuint, Oxiver S., Jr. “The Caddisflies of Jamaica (Trichoptera).” Bulletin,
Institute of Jamaica, Kingston (1968), science series, number 19, 68 pages.

. “New Species of Trichoptera from the Antilles.” Florida Entomologist

(1968), volume 51, pages 151-153.

. ‘Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica, 9: The

Trichoptera (Caddisflies) of the Lesser Antilles.” Proceedings of the United

States National Museum (1968), volume 125, number 3665, 86 pages.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, VII: Trichoptera from Masatierra,

Islas Juan Fernandez.” Revista Chilena de Entomologia (1968), volume 6,

pages 61-64.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, VIII: The Immature Stages of
Barypenthus claudens (Trichoptera: Odontoceridae).” Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington (1969), volume 71, pages 24-28.

Frorescuner, Ricuarp C. “Telamona archboldi, a New Treehopper from Florida
(Hemiptera: Membracidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington (June 1968), volume 70, pages 154—155.

. “Burrower Bugs from the Galapagos Islands Collected by the 1964 Ex-

pedition of the Galapagos Scientific Project (Hemiptera: Cydnidae).’’ Pro-

ceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington (June 1968), volume 70,

page 192.

. “Notes on the Systematics and Morphology of the Lace Bug Subfamily

Cantacaderinae (Hemiptera: Tingidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological

Society of Washington (September 1968), volume 70, pages 245-254.

. “Lace Bugs Collected during the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biologi-
cal Survey of Dominica, B. W. I. (Hemiptera: Tingidae).” Great Basin
Naturalist (December 1968), volume 28, pages 161-171.

Huanc, Yiau-Min. “Neotype Designation for Aedes (Stegomyia) albopictus
(Skuse).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington (December
1968), volume 70, number 4, pages 297-302.

Kr, K. C., and K. C. Emerson. ‘Description of Two Species of Pediculidae
(Anoplura) from the Great Apes (Primates, Pongidae).” Journal of Para-
sitology (1968), volume 54, pages 690-695.

. “New Records and Nymphal Stages of the Anoplura from Central and

East Africa, with Description of a New Hoplopleura Species.” Revue de

Zoologie et de Botanique Africaines (1968), volume 78, pages 5—45.
KromseEIn, Kart V. “A Fifth Species of Nitela from North America (Hymenop-
tera: Sphecidae).” Le Naturaliste canadien (1968), volume 95, pages 699-702.
114 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Oman, Paut, and Kart V. KromsEIN. “Systematic Entomology: Distribution
of Insects in the Pacific.” Science (5 July 1968), volume 161, pages 78-79,
Peyton, E. L., and R. H. Hocuman. “A Revised Interpretation of the Proctiger
of Male Uranotaenia with a Related Note on Hodgesia.” Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington (December 1968), volume 70, number 4,

pages 376-382.

ScANLon, Joun E., E. L. Peyton, and Douctas J. Goutp. “An Annotated
Checklist of the Anopheles of Thailand.” Thai National Scientific Papers,
(1968), fauna series number 2, pages 1-35.

SNyDER, THomas E. “Second Supplement to the Annotated, Subject-heading
Bibliography of Termites, 1961-1965.” Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections
(1968), volume 152, number 3, 188 pages.

SPANGLER, Pau J. “A New Species of Laccobius from the Greater Antilles
(Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae ) .” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington (1968), volume 81, pages 751—754.

. “Biosystematic Studies of African Water Beetles.” American Philosophical
Year Book 1968 (1969), pages 334-336.

Tuorp, Rossin, W., and Geratp I. STacr. “Ecology of Andrena placida with
Descriptions of the Larva and Pupa.” Annals of the Entomological Society of
America (November 1968), volume 61, number 6, pages 1580-1586.

TRAvB, R. “Smitella thambetosa, N. Gen. and N. Sp., a Remarkable ‘Helmeted’
Flea from New Guinea (Siphonaptera, Pygiopsyllidae) with Notes on Con-
vergent Evolution.” Journal of Medical Entomology (1968), volume 5, pages
375-404.

. “Evansipylla thysanota, a New Genus and New Species of Flea from
Nepal. (Siphonaptera: Hystrichopsyllidae).” Journal of Medical Entomology
(1968), volume 5, pages 411-421.

Traus, R., M. Napcuatram, and P. LaxsHana. “New Species of Chiggers
of the Subgenus Trombiculindus from Thailand (Acarina, Trombiculidae-
Leptotrombidium).” Journal of Medical Entomology (1968), volume 5, pages
363-374,

Traus, R., and C. L. WIssEMAN, Jr. “Ecological Considerations in Scrub
Typhus, 1: Emerging Concepts.” Bulletin of the World Health Organization
(1968), volume 39, pages 209-218.

- “Ecological Consideration in Scrub Typhus, 2: Vector Species.” Bul-

letin of the World Health Organization (1968), volume 39, pages 219-230.

. “Ecological Consideration in Scrub Typhus, 3: Methods of Area Con-

trol.” Bulletin of the World Health Organization (1968), volume 39, pages

231-237.

Papers, Lectures, and Seminars

KromBEIN, Karu V. “Smithsonian Entomological Explorations in Africa.” De-
partment of Entomology, North Carolina State University, Raleigh. 18 No-
vember 1968.

Stace, GerALp I. “The Other Bees: Vicarious Snooping into their Private Lives.”
Catholic University Chapter of the Society of Sigma Xi. 7 May 1969.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 115
INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

The Department has made considerable progress in several important
areas of activity. Most notable has been its continuing expansion of the
use of computer techniques for accomplishing curatorial tasks, thus
freeing valuable time for research and other functions. The year has
also seen a further broadening of the systematic investigations that its
members carried forward.

As partial results of his two-year visit to Hawaii, New Zealand, and
Australia in 1967-68, J. Laurens Barnard has completed and submitted
for publication two manuscripts on the shallow-water gammaridean
amphipods of Hawaii and New Zealand. In addition to his research
and field activities, Barnard has served as secretary for the Americas of
the Charles Darwin Foundation for the Galapagos Islands.

In October and November 1968 Thomas E. Bowman visited the Indian
Ocean Biological Centre at Ernakulam as a consultant on Crustacea
and began a project with H. E. Gruner to prepare a synopsis of the
families and genera of hyperiid amphipods.

A survey of the littoral and sublittoral marine and freshwater shrimps
of the Caribbean has been considerably advanced by Fenner A. Chace,
Jr.; a manuscript on a new genus and five new species of shrimps from
the western Atlantic has been completed as part of this study. The ex-
tensive report on the freshwater and terrestrial decapods of the West
Indies, by Chace and Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., also has been published
during the year. Studies on the crayfishes and their entocytherid ostracod
associates, particularly those from the southeastern United States, have
been continued by Hobbs, who has completed a major study on the dis-
tribution and phylogeny of the seventy-two species of Cambarus. His
Georgia field studies in April 1969 resulted in the collection of several
important species.

Investigations on parasitic copepods and their hosts have been carried
out by Roger F. Cressey, Jr., who also has served as editor for the Pro-
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington. With Bruce R. Collette,
of the Ichthyological Laboratory, Bureau of Commercial Fisheries,
Cressey has completed a detailed study of the host-parasite relation-
ships between needlefishes and their parasitic copepods. He also has
completed a study with Ernest Lachner, Division of Fishes, on the rela-
tionship between parasitic copepods and echinoid fishes.

A computerized checklist of genera and higher taxa and a bibliography
of marine nematodes has been prepared by W. Duane Hope and re-
search associate D. G. Murphy, in collaboration with the Information
Systems Division in a form suitable for publication by photo-offset. In
addition, Hope has continued studies with the electron microscope on
116 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

the cuticle and somatic musculature of marine nematodes, studies that
are expected to help clarify phylogenetic relationships within the group.
During the year Hope has been appointed associate of the Graduate
Faculty of Rutgers University.

Studies on myodocopid Ostracoda based on collections from the Peru-
Chile Trench, the Antarctic Ocean, and the Philippine Islands have
been completed by Louis S. Kornicker. During the year Kornicker has
participated in a survey of the marine animals from the coastal shelf of
Cyprus, sponsored by the Smithsonian and the Hebrew University,
Israel. He served as chief scientist for part of the cruise.

The possibility of using differences in enzymal mobilities to elucidate
systematic interrelationships of the polychaetous annelids has led Mere-
dith L. Jones to study enzymes of worms from Florida and Woods Hole;
part of the summer of 1968 was spent at Woods Hole pursuing this study.
Jones also has presented a paper on boring of mollusk shells by the
sabellid worm Caobangia at the annual meeting of the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science. Study by Jones of collections
from Southeast Asia suggests that at least four species comprise Cao-
bangia, which previously was believed to be monotypic.

Systematics of Indo-West Pacific stomatopod crustaceans have been
continued by R. B. Manning, who has completed a review of Protosquilla
and allied genera in the family Gonodactylidae and also a review of
Harpiosquilla, family Squillidae. With the help of Mrs. Drina Byer, a
computer-generated catalog of the type specimens of stomatopods in
the National Collections has been prepared.

Relationships of American and Asiatic hydrobiid mollusks, based on
gross anatomy, have been investigated by J. P. E. Morrison; the hydro-
biids serve as the intermediate hosts of human Asiatic Schistosomiasis.
Morrison also has initiated a study of western Atlantic species of Donax.

David L. Pawson has completed a review of the holothuroid fauna of |
New Zealand and has continued work on the systematics of echinoids
and holothurians collected during the International Indian Ocean Expe-
dition and the United States Antarctic Research Program investigations.
In collaboration with G. Donnay, Carnegie Institution, the structure of
calcite crystals in echinoderms has been studied.

A monographic study on the scaled polychaetes of the superfamily
Aphroditoidea has been initiated by Marian H. Pettibone, who has com- |
pleted reviews of several genera, as well as members of the family
Eulepethidae. She also has described new, errant polychaetes from the |
Siboga Expedition, based on a draft manuscript prepared by the late |
H, Augener. |

Harald A. Rehder has continued his long-term investigation of the ©
zoogeography of the littoral mollusks of Polynesia, a vast area in the

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 117

tropical Pacific Ocean bounded by the Cook Islands, Palmyra Island,
and Easter Island. In June 1969 Rehder traveled to the central Pacific
to conduct field work necessary for the study.

A comparative study of the development of tropical sipunculid worms
of the genera Lithacrosiphon, Aspidosiphon, Phascolosoma, Sipunculus,
and Siphonosoma is being carried out by Mary E. Rice; field investiga-
tions have been conducted in Miami, Puerto Rico, and Curagao. A
study on the structure of possible boring organs in sipunculids was
presented at the annual meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in December 1968.

Representatives of several families of pelagic cephalopods have been
investigated by Clyde F. E. Roper; reports on representatives of the fam-
ilies Cycloteuthidae and Joubinoteuthidae from the North Atlantic have
been completed in collaboration with Richard Young. Roper has par-
ticipated in two cruises off Bermuda as part of the Ocean Acre project,
a long-term study (sponsored by the United States Navy) of the sys-
tematics and ecology or organisms occurring in a column of water under
a one-degree square of ocean surface. A cross-indexed bibliography of
cephalopod literature and a catalog of cephalopod names have also
been initiated during the year.

Joseph Rosewater has continued studies on the worldwide Periplo-
matidae and the Indo-Pacific Littorinidae and Cerithiidae, based on
materials studied in American, European, and Australian museums,
and during field work in the Indo-Pacific. The first portion of a mono-
graph on the Littorinidae should reach completion in 1969. He also has
served as president of both the Bibliological Society of Washington and
the American Malacological Union during the year.

Investigations on the systematics and physiological ecology of sponges
from the Caribbean and Mediterranean seas are among the studies
conducted by Klaus Ruetzler during the year; in this connection, he
has visited Barbados, Colombia, and several places in the Mediterranean
Sea as well. Current projects include a review of the genus Ircinia in
the Caribbean and investigations of symbiotic associations between algae
and sponges.

Research associates in residence and visiting research associates also
have made significant contributions to departmental research programs:
Roman Kenk has completed a review of the genus Planaria as part of
a long-term study of the freshwater triclad turbellarians of North
America; Isabel Canet [Pérez Farfante] has continued investigations on
American penaeid shrimps and has completed an important manu-
script that should simplify identification of juveniles of certain species
of Penaeus from the western Atlantic; Dennis M. Devaney has studied
the systematics and biology of chilophiurid ophiuroids and, as a partici-
118 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

pant in the “1969 Shark” expedition to British Honduras, he has initiated
a study of the larvae development of the brittlestar Ophiocoma pumila.

Departmental research activities also have been enhanced by the in-
vestigations of three graduate students in residence: Jackson E. Lewis
(Tulane University), studying calappid crabs under the guidance of
Fenner A. Chace, Jr., has completed a manuscript on reversal of sym-
metry in chelae of crabs of the genus Calappa; Nancy Cramer (George
Washington University) has completed her doctoral dissertation under
the supervision of Meredith L. Jones; and Catherine Kerby (George
Washington University) has conducted studies of the life history of a
polychaete under the guidance of Mary Rice and Meredith L. Jones.

The Collections

Among the more important activities for which the Department is
responsible are the care and development of the National Collections.
The extensive collections of invertebrates other than insects, now com-
prising in excess of twelve million specimens, are the focal point for
departmental research activities, as well as a major source of basic data
on invertebrates. All too often the collections and activities pertaining
to them are ranked below other kinds of endeavors, including research
and education in the broadest sense, in spite of the fact that the collec-
tions provide the basis for many staff research projects and are the main
reason for the large numbers of students and senior visitors who use the
facilities each year.

Emphasis on research as the primary activity of the professional staff,
broadening of the Institution’s educational activities, and severe restric-
tions on budget and personnel combined during the past year to increase
the work load of each curatorial unit in the Department. Government-
wide personnel ceilings have precluded filling several technical and
clerical positions and, in spite of efforts by. the curatorial staff, who have
assumed the burden of curatorial activities formerly carried out by the
professional staff, the backlog of materials awaiting processing and
identification has grown.

During the year a catalog of type specimens of echinoids in the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History and the Museum of Comparative
Zoology at Harvard, prepared by museum specialist Maureen Downey,
has been published. A similar catalog on ophiuroid type-specimens by
Miss Downey is in press, and catalogs of asteroid and holothurian types
are in preparation by Miss Downey and David Pawson, respectively.

Large collections of sponges and echinoderms from the Caribbean
and the Indian Ocean have been received from Paul R. Burkholder,
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 119

Lamont Geological Observatory ; 5,700 specimens of echinoids and holo-
thurians from the Indian Ocean and the Antarctic have been received
from the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center; and over 2,000
specimens of sponges, coelenterates, echinoderms, mollusks, and tunicates
have been received from the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center. Dur-
ing the year the collections of recent bryozoans have been transferred
from the Division of Echinoderms to the Division of Invertebrate
Paleontology.

The collection of Mollusks has been enriched by the addition of 2,855
specimens of nudibranchs from the northeastern United States, Alaska,
and Thailand, from the estate of the late George M. Moore, University
of New Hampshire; this gift from the Moore estate also includes a series
of transparencies of living nudibranchs. More than 1,600 specimens of
mollusks from the Indo-Pacific region have been obtained on exchange
from the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University. Rolf
Brandt, sEato Median Research Laboratory, has donated 2,150 speci-
mens of land and freshwater mollusks from Thailand, greatly enhancing
the division holdings of mollusks from Southeast Asia.

Under a contract with the Department of Agriculture, museum spe-
cialist Walter J. Byas has continued identification of specimens of mol-
lusks intercepted at United States ports of entry. As a result of this
service, a useful reference collection of exotic mollusks potentially haz-
ardous to crops or as vectors of parasites and diseases is being accumu-
lated. A project has been initiated to prepare the cephalopod collection
for cataloging and entry of specimen-associated data into the computer
in a system similar to that being used for Crustacea.

In the Division of Worms, Frances Paulson and George Ford have
combined efforts to streamline the cataloging operation and have suc-
ceeded in making substantial progress in cataloging current material,
as well as identified lots in the backlog. Technician Vernetta Williams
has worked primarily on the slide collection, including preparation of
slide mounts of interstitial organisms and sorting of nematodes. The
addition of 25,000 nematodes to the collections each year from various
sources has added significantly to the Division work load.

The single largest addition to the collection of worms has been a
valuable series of oligochaetes from the estate of the late William R.
Murchie, comprising over 24,000 specimens and 3,000 slides of sections.
Other additions include approximately 7,000 specimens of annelids from
Florida, the West Indies, and Central and South America, collected by
David W. Kirtley, and 6,000 marine nematodes from the Antarctic, col-
lected by James Lowry, Virginia Institute of Marine Sciences.

During the past year there have been many notable additions to the
collection of Crustacea. Major additions have been to the crayfish col-
120 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

lections, through the efforts of Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., who has made
extensive collections in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Georgia, as well as
through the generosity of many colleagues from other institutions. In
addition, the crustacean holdings have been enhanced by the addition
of a large collection of freshwater ostracods from the estate of the late
Edward Ferguson, Lincoln University. Arthur G. Humes, Boston Uni-
versity, has deposited more than 2,900 commensal copepods from
Madagascar, most of them representing types.

Specialist H. B. Roberts, who has assumed the major portion of de-
capod identifications, has initiated an important exchange of types with
the Museum National d’ Histoire Naturelle, Paris, through Mme Danielle
Guinot-Grmek. He also has begun a reorganization of the crustacean
reprint collection. Specialist C. Allan Child, whose primary responsibility
is the cataloging operation in Crustacea, has assembled data for a cata-
log of types of the Pycnogonida. Specialist Roland Brown has assumed
the role of departmental coordinator for purchasing, for development
and maintenance of curatorial supplies and equipment, and for meeting
visitors’ equipment needs.

Staff Publications

BARNARD, J. LAURENS. “Gammaridean Amphipoda of the Rocky Intertidal of
California: Monterey Bay to La Jolla.” United States National Museum Bul-
letin (1969) number 258, 230 pages.

. “The Families of Genera of Marine Gammaridean Amphipoda.” United

States National Museum Bulletin (1969) number 271, 535 pages.

, and W. Scotr Gray. “Introduction of an Amphipod Crustacean into

the Salton Sea, California.” Bulletin of the Southern California Academy of

Science (1968) volume 67, number 4, pages 219-232.

. “Biogeographic Relationships of the Salton Sea Amphopod, Gammarus

mucronatus Say.” Bulletin of the Southern California Academy of Science —

(1969), volume 68, number 1, pages 1-9.

Boss, KENNETH J., JOSEPH ROSEWATER, and FLorence A. Runorr. “The
Zoological Taxa of William Healey Dal!.” United States National Museum
Bulletin (1968) number 287, 427 pages.

BowMaANn, Tuomas E., and Louis S. Kornicker. “Sphaeronella hebe (Cope-
poda: Choniostomatidae), a Parasite of the Ostracod, Pseudophilomedes
ferulana.” Crustaceana (1968), volume 15, part 2, pages 113-116.

, and Austin Lonc. “Relict Populations of Drepanopus bungei and

Limnocalanus macrurus grimaldii (Copepoda: Galanoida) from Ellesmere

Island, N.W.T.” Arctic (1968), volume 21, number 3, pages 172-180.

, Rupotpu Prins, and Byron F. Morris. “Notes on the Harpacticoid

Copepods Attheyella pilosa and A. carolinensis, Associates of Crayfishes in the

Eastern United States.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington

(1968), volume 81, pages 571-586.

— a
IATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 121

Juace, F. A., Jr. “A New Crab of the Genus Cycloes (Crustacea; Brachyura;
Calappidae) from Saint Helena, South Atlantic Ocean.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington (1968), volume 81, pages 605-612.

. “Unknown Species in the Sea.” Science (1969), volume 163, page 1271.

. “A New Genus and Five New Species of Shrimps (Decapoda, Palaemoni-

dae, Pontoniinae) from the Western Atlantic.” Crustaceana (1969), volume

16, part 3, pages 251-272.

, and Horton H. Hosss, Jr. ‘“Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological

Survey of Dominica: The Freshwater and Terrestrial Decapod Crustaceans of

the West Indies, with Special Reference to Dominica.” United States National

Museum Bulletin (1969) number 292, 258 pages.

OressEY, R. F. “Caligus hobsoni, a New Species of Parasitic Copepod from Cali-
fornia.” Journal of Parasitology (1969), volume 55, number 2, pages 431-434.

DARTNALL, ALAN J., Davin L. Pawson, EuizapetTH C. Pope, and Brian J.
SmitH. “Replacement Name for the Preoccupied Genus Name Odinia Perrier,
1885 (Echinodermata: Asteroidea).’ Proceedings of the Linnaean Society of
New South Wales (1969), volume 93, part 2, 1 page.

DreEveEY GeorcIANA B. “Bathyconchoecia, a New Genus of Pelagic Ostracod
(Myodocopa Halocyprididae) with Six New Species from the Deeper Waters
of the Gulf of Mexico.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
(1968), volume 81, pages 539-570.

Donnay, GABRIELLE, and Davip L. Pawson. “X-ray Study of Echinodermata.”
Acta Crystallographica (1969), volume A25, page S 11 [abstract].

Downey, MAurREEN.—See Gray, I. E., Maureen E. Downey, and M. J. Cerame-
Vivas.

ForstNER, HELMuT, and ViLAus RuETz_ErR. “Two Temperature-Compensated
Thermistor Current Meters for Use in Marine Ecology.” Journal of Marine
Research (1969), volume 27, pages 263-271.

Gray, I. E., Maureen E. Downey, and M. J. CerAME-Vivas. ‘‘Seastars of
North Carolina.” United States Fisheries Bulletin (1968), volume 67, number
1, pages 127-163.

Hiccins, R. P. “Indian Ocean Kinorhyncha, 2: Neocentrophyidae, a New
Homalorhagid Family.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
(1969), volume 82, pages 113-128.

Hoxsss, Horton H., Jr. Crustacea: Malacostraca. Keys to Water Quality
Indicative Organisms. Pages K1-K36. Washington, D.C.: Federal Water
Pollution Control Administration, United States Interior Department, 1969.

.“Procambarus villalobosi, un nuevo cambarino de San Luis, Potosi,

México (Decapoda, Astacidae.” Anales del Instituto de Biologia, Universidad

Nacional Auténoma de México (1969), Serie Ciencias del Mar y Limnologia,

volume 38, number 1, pages 41-46.

. “Two New Crayfishes of the Genus Cambarus from Georgia, Kentucky,

and Tennessee, (Decapoda, Astacidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society

of Washington (1968), volume 81, pages 261—274.

,and Marcaret WALTON. “New Entocytherid Ostracods from the

Southern United States.” Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Science,

Philadelphia (1968), volume 120, number 6, pages 237—252.

.—See Chace, F. A., Jr., and Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.

Hout, Perry C. “The Genus Pterodrilus (Annelida: Branchiobdellida).’’ Pro-

ceedings of the United States National Museum (1968), volume 125, number

3668, pages 1-44.

366-269 O—70——9

122 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 196

Hottuuts, L. B., and RayMonp B. MAnninc. “Stomatopoda.” Pages R535-
R552, figures 343-363, in Moore, R. C., editor, Treatise on Invertebrate
Paleontology, part R, Arthropoda 4, volume 2, ii, pages R399-R651 Geologi-
cal Society of America and University of Kansas, 1969.

Hope, W. Duane. “Fine Structure of the Somatic Muscles of the Free-livin
Marine Nematode Deontostoma californicum Steiner and Albin, 1933 (Lepto:
somatidae).” Proceedings of the Helminthological Society of Washington’
(1969), volume 36, number 1, pages 10-29.

,and D. G. Murpny. “Rhaptothyreos typicus n. g., n. sp., an Abyssal

Marine Nematode Representing a New Family of Uncertain Taxonomic

Position.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1969)

volume 82, pages 81-92.

.—See Wright, K. A., and W. D. Hope.

Jones, MerepirH L. “Paraonis pygoenigmatica, new species, a new Anneli¢
from Massachusetts (Polychaeta: Paraonidae).” Proceedings of the Biologicai
Soctety of Washington (1968), volume 81, pages 323-334.

, Jor, Hepcretu, and Caper Hanp. “Pinuca Hupé in Gay, 1854
(Echiuroidea) ; Proposed Suppression under the Plenary Powers.” Bulleti
of Zoological Nomenclature (1968), volume 25, parts 2 and 3, pages 100-102)

Kornicker, Louts S. “Bathyal myodocopid Ostracoda from the Northeasterr
Gulf of Mexico.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1968)
volume 81, pages 439-472.

. “Station Data on Ostracoda Collected by the ‘Travailleur’ and ‘Talis:

man’ (1881—1883).” Crustaceana (1969), volume 16, part 1, pages 111-112

2 tables.

,and WiriiaAM R. Bryant. “Sedimentation on Continental Shelf of

Guatemala and Honduras.” American Association of Petroleum Geolog)

Memoir (1969), 11, pages 244-257.

.—See Bowman, Thomas E., and Louis S. Kornicker

Lewis, Jackson E. “Reversal of Asymmetry of Chelae in Calappa Weber
1795 (Decapoda: Oxystomata).” Proceedings of the Biological Society oj
Washington (1969), volume 82, pages 63-80.

MAnninG, Raymonp B. “Three New Stomatopod Crustaceans from the Indo-
Malayan Area.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1968),
volume 81, pages 241-250.

. “Notes on Some Stomatopod Crustacea from Southern Africa.” Smith-

sonian Contributions to Zoology (1969), number 1, pages 1-17.

. “Notes on the Gonodactylus Section of the Family Gonodactylidae

(Crustacea, Stomatopoda), with Descriptions of Four New Genera and a

New Species.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1969),

volume 82, pages 143-166.

. “Stomatopod Crustacea of the Western Atlantic.” Studies in Tropical

Oceanography (1969), number 8, pages viiiR—380.

.—See Holthuis, L. B., and Raymond B. Manning.

————.—See Tirmizi, Nasima M., and Raymond B. Manning.

, and R. SERENE. “Stomatopoda. Prodromus for a Check List of the
Non-Planctonic Marine Fauna of South East Asia.” Singapore National
Academy of Science, Special Publication (1968), number 1, pages 113-120.

Meyer, M. C. “Moore on the Hirudinea with Emphasis on His Type-Speci-
mens.” Proceedings of the United States National Museum (1968), volume
125, number 3664, pages 1-32.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 123

Morrison, J. P. E. “The Zoogeography of the Freshwater Cave Snails of the
Family Hydrobiidae.” Abstract mimeographed for 3rd European Malacological
Congress, Vienna, Austria, 2-6 September 1968.

. “Spiroglyplics: A Study in Species Association.” American Malacological

Union, Annual Report 1968, pages 45-46.

Pawson, Davin L. “A New Psolid Sea Cucumber from the Virgin Islands.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1968), volume 81, pages
347-350.

. “Echinoderms.” Australian Natural History (1968), volume 16, number

4, pages 129-133.

. “Some Holothurians from Macquarie Island.” Transactions of the Royal

Society of New Zealand (1968), Zoology, volume 10, number 15, pages 141-—

150, 13 figures.

. “Holothuroidea: Distribution of Selected Groups of Marine Inverte-

brates in Waters South of 30° S Latitude.” Pages 36—38 in folio 11, Antarctic

Map Folio Series. American Geological Society, 1969.

. “Echinoidea.”’ Pages 38-40 in folio 11, Antarctic Map Folio Series.

American Geological Society, 1969.

. “Astrothrombus rugosis Clark, New to New Zealand, with Notes on

Ophioceres huttoni (Farguhar), Hemilepis norae (Benham) and Ophiurogly-

pha irrorata (Lyman) (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea). New Zealand Journal

of Maine and Freshwater Research (1969), volume 3, number 1, pages 46-56.

. See Dartnall, Alan J., David L. Pawson, Elizabeth C. Pope, and Brian

J. Smith.

. —See Donnay, Gabrielle, and David L. Pawson.

PETTIBONE, Marian H. “Review of Some Species Referred to Scalisetosus McIn-
tosh (Polychaeta, Polynoidae).’’ Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington (1969), volume 82, pages 1-30.

. “Remarks on the North Pacific Harmothoe tenebricosa Moore (Poly-

chaeta, Polynoidae) and Its Association with Asteroids (Echinodermata,

Asteroidea).’’ Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1969),

volume 82, pages 31-42.

. “The Genera Polyeunoa McIntosh, Hololepidella Willey, and Three
New Genera (Polychaeta, Polynoidae).’ Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington (1969), volume 82, pages 43-62.

Reuper, Haro_p A. ‘“‘The Marine Molluscan Fauna of the Marquesas Islands.”
American Malacological Union, Annual Report (1968), pages 29-32.

. “Volutocorbis and Fusivoluta, Two Genera of Deepwater Volutidae

from South Africa.” The Veliger (1969), volume 11, number 3, pages 200—

209, plates 40-43.

. “New Species and Subgenera of Volutidae (Fulgorariinae) from the
South China Sea and Japan.” Venus: The Japanese Journal of Malacology
(1969), volume 27, number 4, pages 127-132, 7 plates.

Roper, Ciype F. E.—See Young, Richard E., and Clyde F. E. Roper.
Rosewater, Josepn. “Review: An English-Classical Dictionary for the Use of
Taxonomists.” Systematic Zoology (1968), volume 17, number 3, page 334.

. “Notes on Periplomatidae (Pelecypoda: Anomalodesmata) with a Geo-

graphical Checklist.” American Malacological Union, Annual Report (Decem-

ber 1968), pages 37-39.

124 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

- “Gross Anatomy and Classification of the Commensal Gastropod, Cal:
endoniella montrouzieri Souverbie, 1869.” The Veliger (1969), volume 11,
number 4, pages 345-350.

. —See Boss, Kenneth J., Joseph Rosewater, and Florence A. Ruhoff.

RueETZLER, Ktaus. “Fresh-water Sponges from New Caledonia. Cahiers
O.R.S.T.O.M. (1968), séries hydrobiologique, volume II, number 1, pages
57-66.

. See Forstner, Helmut, and Klaus Ruetzler.

. —See Towe, Kenneth M., and Klaus Ruetzler.

RunorrF, FLorence A.—See Boss, Kenneth J., Joseph Rosewater, and Florence
A. Ruhoff.

ScumiTT, WALDo L. “Colombian Freshwater Crab Notes.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington (1969), volume 82, pages 93-111.

Tirmizi, Nastma M., and Raymonp B. MANNING. “Stomatopod Crustacea from
West Pakistan.” Proceedings of the United States National Museum (1968),
volume 125, number 3666, pages 1-48.

Tower, KENNETH M., and Kraus Ruerzier. “Lepidocrocite Iron Mineraliza-
tion in Keratose Sponge Granules.” Science (1968), volume 162, pages 268-
269.

Wricut, K. A., and W. Duane Hope. “Elaborations of the Cuticle of Acanthon-
chus duplicatus Wieser, 1959 (Nematoda: Cyatholaimidae) as Revealed by
Light and Electron Microscopy.” Canadian Journal of Zoology (1968), vol-
ume 46, number 5, pages 1005-1011.

Younc, Ricwarp E., and Crype F. E. Roper. “A Monograph of the Cephalo-
poda of the North Atlantic: The Family Cycloteuthidae.” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Zoology (1969), number 5, pages 1-24.

Lectures

BarRNARD, J. LAurENs. “The Warm-Temperate Intertidal Fauna.” Australian
Society for Marine and Freshwater Research, Perth. August 1968.

Bowman, Tuomas E. “Modern Systematics.” Indian Ocean Biological Centre,
Ernakulam, India. November 1968.

.“Calanoid Copepod Distribution off the Southeastern Coast of the

United States.” Biology Club, Sacred Heart College, Thevara, India. Novem-

ber 1968.

. “The Distribution of Calanoid Copepods between Cape Hatteras and
Mid-Florida.” Chesapeake Biological Laboratory, Solomons, Maryland. May
1969.

Cressey, Rocer F. “A Survey of Marine Organisms.” Smithsonian Associates,
Washington, D.C. April 1969.

. “Intertidal Marine Organisms.” Smithsonian Associates, Washington,

D.C. April 1969.

. “Open-Ocean and Deep-Water Marine Organisms.’ Smithsonian Asso-

ciates, Washington, D.C. May 1969.

- “Symbiosis in the Marine Environment.” Smithsonian Associates, Wash-
ington, D.C. May 1969.

Hore, W. Duane. “Structure of the Nervous Systems of Nematodes.”’ National
Institute of Neurological Diseases and Strokes, National Institute of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland. February 1969.

ATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 125

. “Occurrence Tomofilaments and Microtubules in the Hypodermis of the
Marine Nematode Deontostoma californicum.” Helminthological Society of
Washington, Washington, D.C. April 1969.

Jones, MEREDITH L. “On the Biology of Caobangia (Polychaeta: Sabellidae).”’

Department of Invertebrate Zoology, Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods

Hole, Massachusetts. July 1968.

.“On the Reproduction and Reproductive Morphology, inter alia, of

Streblospio benedicti Webster.’ Systematics-Ecology Program, Marine Bio-

logical Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts. July 1968.

. “Boring of Shell by Caobangia spp. in Freshwater Snails of Southeast

Asia.” Symposium on Penetration of CaCO; Substrats by Lower Plants and

Invertebrates, Dallas, Texas. December 1968.

. “A Review of the Polychaetous Annelids.”” Sarah Lawrence College,

Bronxville, New York. January 1969.

. “A Review of the Polychaetous Annelids.’”’ Universidad Antonoma de

Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. February 1969.

.“On the Use of Electrophoretic Patterns in Systematics of the Poly-

chaeta.” Institute of Marine Science, Miami, Florida. March 1969.

. “The Adventures of El Terrifico and the Caobangia.” Goucher College,

Towson, Maryland. April 1969.

. “Marine Ecology.” Smithsonian Associates, Washington, D.C. April 1969.

. “Electrophoretic Patterns As Another Systematic Tool-A Help or a
Hindrance.” Department of Invertebrate Zoology, National Museum of Nat-
ural History, Washington, D.C. April 1969.

Manninc, Raymonp B. “Automation and Museum Collections.” Special Sym-
posium on Natural History collections, Biological Society of Washington.
October 1968.

. “Branches of a Museum — Location, Organization, and Goals.’ Sym-
posium on Museums, Virginia Academy of Science. May 1969.

Morrison, JosepH P. E. “Rare and Endangered Brackish Water Mollusks of
North America.”’ American Malacological Union 34th Annual Meeting, Corpus
Christi, Texas. 16 July 1968.

. “Spiroglyphics — A Study in Species Associations.” American Mala-

cological Union 34th Annual Meeting, Corpus Christi, Texas. 17 July 1968.

. “The Zoogeography of the Freshwater Cave Snails of the Family Hydro-

liidae.”” Third European Malacological Congress, Vienna Austria. 6 September

1968.

. “Sexual Dimorphism in Freshwater Mussels.” New York Shell Club.
12 January 1969.

Reuper, Haratp A. “The Marine Mollusks of the Marquesas Islands.” 34th
Annual Meeting American Malacological Union, Corpus Christi, Texas.
17 Fuly 1968.

. “The Marine Mollusks of the Marquesas Islands.’’ New York Shell Club.
9 March 1969.

Rice, Mary E. “Structure of Possible Boring Organs in Sipunculids.” Sym-
posium on Penetration of CaCO; Substrata by Lower Plants and Invertebrates,
Dallas, Texas. December 1968.

Roper, Crype F. E. “A Survey of the Mollusca.’”’ Regional Academic Marine
Program, Adult Lecture Series, Kittery, Maine. November 1968.

. “Multidisciplinary Oceanographic Cruises.’””’ Mathematics—Science Cen-

ter, Richmond, Virginia. July 1968.

33

126 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. “Cephalopoda.” Philadelphia Shell Club. February 1969.

. “History of Biological Oceanography.” Smithsonian Associates, Sea

Life Classes. 22 March 1969.

. “Cephalopoda.” Smithsonian Associates, Sea Life Classes. 17 May 1969.

RosEWATER, JosEPH. “Malacological Collections — Development and Manage-
ment.” Special Symposium on Natural History Collections of the Biological |
Society of Washington. October 1968.

. “Notes on Periplomatidae (Pelecypoda: Anomalodesmata) with a Geo-

graphical Checklist.” American Malacological Union, 34th Annual Meeting.

July 1968.

. “Expedition to Barrow Island, Western Australia (to Perth for Peri-

winkles).”? San Antonio and South Padre Island, Texas, Shell Clubs, February

1969.

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Research in the Department of Vertebrate Zoology represents a com-
bination of museum-based systematic revisionary and monographic
studies and field-oriented ecological, behavioral, and life history studies.
Because correct identification of animals and knowledge of their re-
lationships is fundamental to further studies, such identification aides
as handbooks and manuals are part of the Department's scientific effort.

Systematic revisions and monographs have been prepared in three
of the divisions, with the greatest emphasis on fishes, of which perhaps
only one half of the world’s species are known. Victor G. Springer has
completed research for a revision of the blenniid fish genus Ecsenius and,
with W. F. Smith-Vaniz, a graduate student at the University of Miami,
a synopsis of the blenniid tribe Salariini.

W. Ralph Taylor has continued his long-term studies of the marine
family Ariidae and a study of hybrids of the freshwater family
Ictaluridae.

Stanley H. Weitzman has nearly completed a comprehensive study on
the evolutionary relationships of the stomiatoid fish families Gonosto-
matidae, Maurolicidae, and Sternoplychidae. In addition, he has under-
taken further studies on the anatomy and relationships of the fish
suborder Characoidei. Han Nijssen of the Zoological Museum of the
University of Amsterdam is collaborating with him in a study of the cat-
fish genus Corydoras. Visiting research associate Ambat G. K. Menon
of the Zoological Survey of India returned to Calcutta in July 1968 after
completing a worldwide revision of the flatfish genus Cynoglossus.

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., has continued studies of bathypelagic stomiatoid
fishes, completing a worldwide systematic and zoogeographic study of the
genus Stomias and preliminary systematic work on the genus Batho-
philus. He has also nearly completed work on the family Astronesthidae.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 127

He has supervised the predoctoral research of Richard H. Goodyear, a
graduate student at George Washington University, on studies of the
family Malacosteidae. Gibbs’ work on flying fishes has resulted in the
preparation of a manuscript on the genus C'ypselurus from the eastern
tropical Atlantic, and he is working on flying fishes for the multi-volume
Fishes of the Western North Atlantic. The Smithsonian has been desig-
nated by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
(FAO) as world center for deposition of tuna-like fishes. Gibbs serves
as chairman of the FAo working group on tuna taxonomy, of which
Research Associate Bruce Collette is a member. Their definitive paper
on the “Comparative Anatomy and Systematics of the Tunas, Genus
Thunnus” has been recognized with an award as an outstanding scien-
tific contribution by both the Smithsonian and the Bureau of
Commercial Fisheries.

Richard L. Zusi has completed work with Joseph R. Jehl, Jr., of the
San Diego Natural History Society, on the relationships of three species
of the little-known shorebirds in the monotypic genera, Phegornis,
Aechmorhynchus, and Prosobonia, utilizing new evidence from anatomy
and downy young. S. Dillon Ripley, assisted by Gorman M. Bond, has
begun intensive work on a monograph of the rails of the world. J.
Fenwick Lansdowne has completed ten of a series of forty plates to
illustrate the monograph. Research associate Richard C. Banks is con-
tinuing his systematic studies of the tinamous. Charles J. La Rue has
continued his systematic study of skull morphology in the Ciconiiformes
for his PhD dissertation at the University of Maryland under Zusi’s
direction.

Charles O. Handley, Jr., has worked on revisions of bat genera. He
has completed the free-tailed bats, Molossops, and is continuing re-
visions of the long-tongued bats, Leptonycteryis, and, with Kay Ferris,
the white-lined bats, Vampyrops. Duane A. Schlitter has continued
work on his doctoral dissertation at the University of Maryland on a
revision of the rodent subgenus Gerbillus under Henry W. Setzer. John
R. Napier and his wife have almost completed research on color varia-
tion in coat color of the squirrel monkeys. During visits to museums in
the United States and Europe this year, he has accumulated data for a
long-term research project on limb proportions of primates.

Systematic studies of vertebrates often entail gathering information
on ecology and behavior in the field that may be used in conjunction
with morphological and anatomical characters studied in the laboratory.
In addition to observations and photographic or sound recordings, other
highly sophisticated technical equipment or instruments have been used
in some studies in the department.
128 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Gibbs has collaborated with Clyde Roper of the Department of In-
vertebrate Zoology and other biologists and oceanographers at the Uni-
versity of Rhode Island, Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, and the United
States Navy in “Ocean Acre,” an intensive study of life histories, vertical
distribution, and migration of midwater fishes and other organisms in a
single small area southwest of Bermuda. He has participated in two
cruises supported by a grant from the Office of Naval Research. Speci-
mens from the cruises are being sorted and identified prior to intensive
systematic study.

Ernest A. Lachner has spent most of the year on sabbatical leave study-
ing the breeding behavior of chubs of the genus Nocomis in several
streams in the eastern and midwestern United States. He has demon-
strated that numerous intergeneric hybrids involving Nocomis as one
parent are the result of the chubs’ tolerance of other fishes, such as dace,
at their nests. Because both species utilize the same rock pile for spawn-
ing, chance cross-fertilizattion may take place. Based on his field work,
he has nearly completed several parts of a major monograph on the
ecology, behavior, distribution, and systematics of chubs. With Roger
Cressey of the Department of Invertebrate Zoology, he has completed a
paper on the relation between diskfishes or sharksuckers of the family
Echeneiidae and their parasitic copepods, which also serve as their food.

George R. Zug joined the department in January 1969 as assistant
curator in the Division of Reptiles and Amphibians. He has revised for
publication his dissertation on locomotion and morphology of the pelvic
girdle and hind limbs of cryptodiran turtles and is currently analyzing
color patterns in snakes in relation to their ecology.

Zusi has finished a paper on the feeding niche and adaptations of the
Trembler (Mimidae) of the Lesser Antilles, based on his field work in
Dominica. He has pointed out that the species represents an ecological
counterpart of some ovenbirds and woodhewers of the mainland. Paul
Slud has terminated research in the Museum on methods by which to
conduct avifaunal surveys in the field. Next year he intends to apply this
study to field work in comparing representative avifaunas in Brazil and
Costa Rica and to relate them numerically to their respective
environments.

Jan Reese, a student at Chesapeake College, has completed a manu-
script on his six-year population study of Ospreys in Talbot County,
Maryland, in consultation with George E. Watson. This Maryland popu-
lation is reproducing at a rate well above that of other known popula-
tions in the United States, most of which currently have little success in
breeding.

Research Associate Crawford Greenewalt’s book, Birdsong: Acoustics
and Physiology, has been published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 129

After spawning, a male Bluehead Chub, Nocomts leptocephalus, carries stones in
is mouth to his gravel nest in a tributary of the James River in western Vir-
zinia. Most of the other smaller fishes over this nest represent a spawning school
of Mountain Redbelly Dace, Chrosomus oreas. Ernest Lachner’s field observa-
tions have shown that such compatible associations of breeding populations of
chubs and other cyprinid fishes is a primary factor for the high incidence of
natural intergeneric hybrids.

His laboratory analysis of recorded bird voices has provided new insight
into sound production by birds. He has demonstrated conclusively that a
single song may be produced by sounds from two vocal sources in the
bird.

For many years Charles Handley has been studying the flora and fauna
of Assateague Island off the Eastern Shore of Maryland and Virginia.

j

Assisted by his wife, he is attempting to define the biotic communities

and assess the impact of a growing tide of human visitors on the biotic
| communities and their components. Handley also has studied population
| dynamics and ecology of forest bats at Belém, Brazil. By marking more
jthan 1,500 individual bats, he has accumulated much information on

130 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

vertical and horizontal distribution and habitat selection. With a re-
capture rate of about ten percent, he has been able to demonstra
nocturnal movements of considerable distance.

Using night-vision equipment on loan to the Smithsonian from the
Department of Defense, research associate Arthur M. Greenhall h
been studying the feeding behavior of vampire bats in Mexico. Thi
FAO-sponsored research may have considerable economic importance
throughout Latin America, where vampires feed on the blood of cattle
and may transmit rabies to human beings.

James A. Peters has continued development of time-share compute
for research use, including a program for biogeographical analysis. H
gave a short course in use of the telephone-terminal computer in Jun
1969 to various other vertebrate zoologists interested in inter-museum
data communication. With Richard Van Gelder of the American
Museum of Natural History, he has established the first link in an inter-
museum computer network. Through their joint effort, the first national
meeting of the Museums and Universities Data, Program, and Informa-
tion Exchange (MUDPIE) group was held in New York.

Major interdisciplinary programs involving ecological studies of
mammals and birds and their role in the dispersal of viruses and other
diseases through ectoparasites are under way in northern South America,
Africa, the Pacific Ocean, and southeast Asia. The programs involve
local field collaborators as well as laboratory-based entomologists and
virologists in several countries.

Charles Handley’s research team has concluded three years of field
work on the distribution and ecology of mammals in Venezuela. Sys-
tematic studies of the vertebrates have begun, and visiting research as-
sociate Ralph Wetzel of the University of Connecticut has developed a
statistical technique for the recognition of taxa. Several hundred thou-
sand ectoparasites collected in the field have been distributed to special-
ists in the United States, Latin America, Japan, and Taiwan.

Three field teams of mammalogists have worked in Ghana, the Ivory
Coast, Upper Volta, and South Africa under the direction of Henry
Setzer. More than 60,000 mammal specimens have been collected under
this African project in the last three years. Approximately twenty-five
papers on preliminary studies of ectoparasites and virology have been
published. In the future, all data on specimens will be automated in
order that host identification lists may be sent out to parasitologists as
soon as the mammal specimens are cataloged.

The Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program, directed by research
associate Philip S. Humphrey, has continued surveying bird populations
and movements in the Pacific Ocean. Intensive studies at selected islands
have been accompanied by shipboard studies in the central Pacific and

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 131

off the west coast of North America. A survey of the birds at Eniwetok
and other atolls in the Marshall and Gilbert islands has resulted in
A. Binion Amerson’s comprehensive report on “The Ornithology of the
Marshall and Gilbert Islands.” Long-term studies of bird populations
have continued on Sand Island in Johnston Atoll and on Kure Atoll and
French Frigate Shoals in the Hawaiian Leewards, with major emphasis
on breeding biology and population dynamics through banding. More
than 33,000 birds have been banded this year. Two long-distance re-
coveries involved an Elegant Tern banded in San Diego and recovered
on Sand Island and a Common Tern banded on Long Island, New York,
and recovered in the Bay of Panama. Since February 1969 emphasis on
field work has been greatly reduced and the major effort is now directed
toward preparation of comprehensive island and species reports.

Site-oriented ecological studies have been under way at the Area de
Pesquisas Ecologicas do Guama (APEG) in Belém, Brazil since 1963 in
collaboration with the Brazilian Instituto de Pesquisas e Experimentagao
Agropecuarias do Norte, the Belém Virus Laboratory, and Yale Univer-
sity. Humphrey has served as principal investigator on two of the proj-
ects and is a member of the commission for coordination of research ac-
tivities in APEG. Data from the study area have been computerized in a
system of ten-meter grids, and information on vegetation, soil, clima-
tology, and the fauna, based on the same grid, is being collected. Thomas
E. Lovejoy, a graduate student at Yale University, is studying the
ecology and epidemiology of birds captured in mist nets set at varying
heights in the Belém forest.

Bird banding and collection of ectoparasites and blood samples have
continued in the Middle East by two field parties of the Palearctic
Migratory Bird Survey under the direction of George Watson. Approxi-
mately 20,000 birds have been banded and more than a thousand blood
samples have been returned to Yale University for virus testing. Anti-
body formation in response to a new virus has been demonstrated.

Another bird migration study is underway in India in collaboration
with the Bombay Natural History Society under Salim Ali and the Mi-
gratory Animal Pathological Survey under Elliott McClure. Recoveries
in the Soviet Union of waterfowl banded at Bharatpur in Rajajastan
have demonstrated several migration routes over the Himalayas. The
Poona Virus Laboratory took blood samples and ectoparasites from 500
birds trapped at Bharatpur in the spring of 1969 to survey the potential
for virus transmission by the migrants.

Because of the department’s concern for conservation and interest in
studies of migratory birds in the Far East and the Pacific basin, Watson
and research associate John W. Aldrich have participated in a meeting
of ornithologists in Tokyo to explore the possibility of a migratory bird
132 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Author George Watson and artist Bob Hines examine plates and specimens for
the Handbook of Antarctic Birds.

treaty with Japan similar to those that the United States already has in
effect with Canada and Mexico. Another meeting will take place in
Washington, D.C.

Handbooks and identification manuals can stimulate interest in a
group of animals or a geographic region and identify problems for in-
tensified study. Thus, the production of such compilations is often a
foundation for future research. Several projects of this type have been
completed or have seen substantial work in the Department this year.

George Watson, assisted by J. Phillip Angle and Peter C. Harper, has
completed the species-account section for a research handbook on Ant-
arctic birds. These researchers have worked concurrently on a set of
distribution maps of Antarctic birds for the Antarctic Folio Series,
assisted by visiting research associate Roberto Schlatter, a graduate
student from Chile at the Johns Hopkins University. Watson has been
assisted by Betty Jean Gray, a student at Mt. Holyoke College, in work
on the warblers, Sylviinae, for Peters’ Check-list of the Birds of the |
World.

Volumes one and two of the Handbook of the Birds of India and
Pakistan, by S. Dillon Ripley and Salim Ali, have been published and |
at least two more are in press.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 133

Twenty-seven sections of the Smithsonian Preliminary Identification
Manual to African Mammals have been completed under the editorship
of research associate J. A. J. Meester of Pretoria, South Africa. Two
other Smithsonian identification manuals, on the mammals and the
reptiles of Vietnam, which were written by United States Navy medical
personnel stationed at the Museum, will be published by the Smithsonian
Institution Press in the near future. James Peters and his collaborators,
Roberto Donoso-Barros of Chile and Braulio Orejas-Miranda of Uru-
guay, have finished the Catalogue of Neotropical Squamata, which will
be submitted to the Smithsonian Institution Press for publication.

The Primate Biology Program is concerned both with research and
education. A significant proportion of director John R. Napier’s time
this past year has been spent on the educational aspects of the program.
During the fall he gave lecture and demonstration courses in primate
biology at the following institutions in London: The London School of
Economics, the Institute of Archeology, and the Royal Free Hospital of
Medicine. In December 1968 the London office, the Unit of Primate
Biology (Smithsonian Institution) , moved to its new quarters at Queen
Elizabeth College at the University of London. After Napier returned
to Washington during the winter, he presented a weekly lecture series
on “Roots of Mankind” to the Friends of the National Zoo. These
lectures will be published as a book by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

The Collections

Work by Olga Rybak and Shirley Artis on entering specimen data on
seabirds has progressed through the HEW contract in the Division of
Birds under the supervision of George E. Watson and David Bridge.
Information on all National Museum specimens of the orders Sphenis-
ciformes, Procellariformes, and Pelecaniformes. has been recorded,
punched, and entered into the computer. The marine species of Charad-
riiformes remain to be entered. All new specimens collected by the
Palearctic Migratory Bird Survey and the orders Tinamiformes, Gavii-
formes, and Podicipediformes also have been entered. To provide infor-
mation of future use in computerization of bird specimens, Richard C.
Banks is making a survey of collections in the United States for the
American Ornithologists’ Union.

The Division of Mammais will utilize the bird data format and, for
the time being, the same computer program for entering mammal col-
lection records. A numericlature of mammals of the world has been pre-
pared by various specialists under the supervision of Henry W. Setzer,
and data entry should begin in the summer of 1969.
134 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Large segments of the National Collection of mammals have been
moved this year—some of them twice. Marine mammals and ungulates

first were moved to the Smithsonian storage facility at Silver Hill, Mary-
land, and then transferred to better quarters in Alexandria, Virginia,
where hopefully a Marine Mammal Study Center will be established
next year. Computerization of data on these specimens stored “off
campus” will facilitate their use until the new Center can be adequately
staffed. The primate and carnivore collections have been moved to new
locations in the Natural History Building to clear space for the return of
the Department of Entomology from Lamont Street. The ungulate
skeletons and the alcoholic collection have been reorganized. The divi-
sional administrative record-keeping system—especially that dealing
with accessions, loans, and other specimen transactions—has been
streamlined.

Accessions of note in the Division of Mammals are: 11,150 specimens
received through the Venezuelan Project; 14,500 mammals from west-
ern and southern Africa received through the African Mammal Project;
50 porpoises from the west and south coasts of South Africa from K. S.
Norris, Oceanic Institute, Honolulu; 75 porpoises of the genus Stenella
from W. F. Perrin, Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, La Jolla, Cali-
fornia; 1,656 mammals from Brazil through the Belém Virus Labora-
tory, Rockefeller Foundation; 6,000 bats from Colombia from C. J.
Marinkelle, Universidad de Los Andes, Bogota; over 200 East African
monkeys from Cynthia Booth, Tigoni Primate Research Center, Limuru,
Kenya; several hundred fluid-preserved specimens from the anatomical
research collection of W. C. Osman Hill, Yerkes Regional Primate
Center, Atlanta, Georgia; and a type of the bat Antrogous pallidus
obscurus from R. H. Baker, Michigan State University, East Lansing.

Among the accessions to the National Collection of birds are repre-
sentatives of two newly described species: a peculiar swallow Pseudo-
chelidon sirintarae, from Thailand, whose only close relative is an
African species, donated by Frank G. Nicholls and Kitti Thonglongya;
and an antpitta, Grallaria eludens, from Peru received on exchange
from George Lowery. Also received are eggs of the Gray Gull, Larus
modestus, from Chile donated by George M. Moffett, Jr., and casts of
California Condor bones from Stanton Cave, Arizona, given by Paul
Parmalee.

Large collections of bird skins have been received from the eastern
Mediterranean through the Palearctic Migratory Bird Survey; from
North America through the Fish and Wildlife Service, including collec-
tions donated by Bert Roberts and Elizabeth P. Bartsch; and from the
Pacific Ocean through the Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program.
Important additions to the skeleton and spirit collections, besides speci-
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 135

mens obtained by the Palearctic Migratory Bird Survey, include birds
from Antarctica, collected by George E. Watson and J. P. Angle, and
from Churchill, Manitoba, collected by Richard L. Zusi.

The Division of Reptiles and Amphibians has received two collections
from Thailand totaling 492 specimens, donated by Sergeant Kenneth
T. Nemuras, usar, and Major John E. Scanlon, usa. The Smithsonian
Oceanographic Sorting Center has transferred 130 specimens from the
Indian Ocean to the Division. A sizable collection of South American
reptiles has been given by Roberto Donoso-Barros. A collection of 32
Haideotriton wallacei, a rare subterranean salamander, and 26 paratypes
of the salamander Typhlotriton braggi have been given by David Lee
and Jeffrey Black, respectively. The North Carolina State Museum has
transferred five types of emydine turtles. Specimens cataloged this year
total 1,962.

Important accessions in the Division of Fishes have been a 512-foot
specimen of a coelacanth, Latimeria chalumnae, donated by H. N.
Schnitzlein, Department of Anatomy, University of Alabama Medical
Center; more than 10,000 fishes from the Tropical Atlantic Biological
Laboratory, United States Department of the Interior, Fish and Wild-
life Service, Miami, Florida, through Fred Berry; marine fishes from
Kenya received through Wolfgang Klausewitz, Senckenberg Museum,
Germany; and freshwater fishes from western Africa through Tyson
Roberts, Stanford University.

Staff Publications

Amerson, A. Binion, Jr. “Ornithology of the Marshall and Gilbert Islands.”
Atoll Research Bulletin (1969), number 127, 348 pages.

. “Tick Distribution in the Central Pacific as Influenced by Sea Bird
Movement.” Journal of Medical Entomology (1968), volume 5, number 3,
pages 332-339.

Banks, RicHArD C. “Relationships of the Avifauna of San Esteban Island,
Sonora.” Condor (1969), volume 71, pages 88-93.

. “The Peregrine Falcon in Baja California and the Gulf of California.”

Pages 81-91, chapter 6, in Peregrine Falcon Populations: Their Biology and

Decline. Edited by Joseph J. Hickey. University of Wisconsin Press, 1969.

, and Wayne H. Bou. ‘‘Pentland’s Tinamou in Argentina (Aves: Tina-

midae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1968), volume

81, pages 485-490.

, and Rosert L. BRownELL. “Taxonomy of the Common Dolphins of the
Eastern Pacific Ocean.” Journal of Mammalogy (1969), volume 50, number 2,
pages 262-271.

CaMppEN-Main, Simon. “The Subspecies of Calliophis maculiceps (Giinther).”
British Journal of Herpetology (1969), volume 4, number 3, pages 49-50.

. “Bibliography of the Herpetological Papers of Frank Wall (1868—

1950).” Smithsonian Herpetological Information Service (1969), pages 1-7.

136 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

CLApp, Rocer B. “‘Additional New Records from the Phoenix and Line Islands.”
Ibis (1968), volume 110, pages 573-575.

. “The Birds of Swain’s Island, South-Central Pacific.” Notornis (1968),

volume XV, number 3, pages 198-206.

, and Douctas C, Hackman. “Longevity Record for a Breeding Great

Frigatebird.” Bird Banding (1969), volume 40, number 1, page 47.

, and Rosert L. Py te. “Noteworthy Records of Waterbirds from Oahu.”
Elepaio (1968), volume 29, number 5, pages 37-39.

Couen, Dante M. “Names of Fishes.” Commercial Fisheries Review (1969),
volume 31, number 5, pages 18—20.

, and Samuet P. Atsaripes. “Additions to a Revision of Argentine
Fishes.” Fishery Bulletin, United States Fish and Wildlife Service (1969),
pages 13-36.

Davis, Epwarp L. “Bats and Bat Banding.” Atlantic Naturalist (1968), volume
23, number 4, pages 209-210.

Davis, WiLu1AM P., and DAniEL M. Couen. “A Gobiid Fish and a Palaemonid
Shrimp Living on an Antipatharian Sea Whip in the Tropical Pacific.” Bulle-
tin of Marine Science (1969), volume 18, number 4, pages 749-761.

De Lone, Rosert L., and Max C. Tuompson. “‘Bar-tailed Godwit from Alaska
Recovered in New Zealand.” Wilson Bulletin (1968), volume 80, number 4,
pages 490-491.

Fain, ALEx., and A. Brinton AMERSON, Jr. “Two New Heretomorphic Deuto-
nymph (Hypopi) (Acarina: Hypoderidae) from the Great Frigatebird (Fre-
gata minor). Journal of Medical Entomology (1968), volume 5, number 3,
pages 320-324.

Gisss, Rosert H., Jr. “Photonectes munificus, a New Species of Melanostomiatid
Fish from the South Pacific Subtropical Convergence, with Remarks on the
Convergence Fauna.” Contributions in Science, Los Angeles County Museum
(1968), number 149, pages 1-6.

, and Micwaet A. BarneEtTT. “Four New Stomiatoid Fishes of the Genus
Bathophilus with a Revised Key to the Species of Bathophilus.” Copeia (1968),
number 4, pages 826-832.

GoopyeEar, RicHarp H. “Records of the Alepocephalid Fish, Photostylus pycnop-
terus, in the Indian and Pacific Oceans.” Copeia (1969), number 2, pages
398-400.

GREENEWALT, CRAWFORD H. Birdsong: Acoustics and Physiology. 194 pages.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

GREENHALL, ARTHUR M., and Jounn L. Parapiso. “Bats and Bat Banding.”
Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife Resource Publication (1969) number
72, 48 pages.

Hanpb.ey, Cuar_es O., Jr. “Ungulata.” Pages 366-367, volume 27, in Encyclo-
pedia Americana. 1968.

. “Capturing Bats with Mist Nets.” Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wild-
life Resource Publication (1969), number 72, pages 15-19.

Hussarp, Joun P., and Cuartes Seymour, III. “Some Notable Bird Records
from Egypt.” Ibis (1968), number 110, pages 575-578.

LACHNER, Ernest A., and Martin L. Wiey. ‘Populations of the Polytypic
Species Nocomis leptocephalus (Girard) with a Description of a New Sub-
species.” Abstracts of Papers Presented to the 49th Annual Meeting of the
American Society of Ichtherologists and Herpetologists (1969), pages 38-39.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 137

Maa, Tsinc C. “Records of Hippoboscidae (Diptera) from the Central Pacific
Ocean.” Journal of Medical Entomology (1968), volume 5, number 3,
pages 325-328.

Manvi.te, Ricuarp H. “Meet the Mammals at Woodend.” Atlantic Naturalist
(1968), volume 23, number 4, pages 204-208.

Parapiso, Joun L. “‘Canids Recently Collected in east Texas, with Comments
on the Taxonomy of the Red Wolf.” American Midland Naturalist (1968),
volume 80, number 2, pages 529-534.

, and DonaLp ScurerRBAuM. “Recent Wolf Record from New York.”
Journal of Mammalogy (1969), volume 50, number 2, pages 384—385.

Peters, James A. “Computer Techniques in Systematics, Discussion.” In “Syste-
matic Biology,” pages 610-613, of Proceedings of an International Conference,
Ann Arbor, Michigan, June 14-16, 1967. National Academy of Science, 1969.

. “A Replacement Name for Bothrops lansbergii venezuelensis Roze, 1959

(Viperidae, Serpentes).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington

(1968), volume 81, pages 319-322.

. “Report of ATB ad hoc Editorial Evaluation Committee, 1967-1968.”

ATB Newsletter (1968), number 11, pages 19-21.

. “Herpetology in Modern China.” Copeia (1969), number 1, pages 214—

215.

. “Rare and Endangered Reptiles and Amphibians of the United States.”
Pages 1-16 in Rare and Endangered Fish and Wildlife of the United States.
Revised edition. Research Publication 34. Washington, D.C.: Department of
Interior, 1969.

Petrerson, Ricuarp S., Cart L. Husss, Rocer L. Gentry, AND Rosert L. DE
Lone. ‘Habitat, Behavior, Numbers, and Identification of the Guadalupe Fur
Seal.” Journal of Mammalogy (1968), volume 49, number 4, pages 665-675.

Ping, Ronatp H. “Stomach Contents of a Free-tailed Bat, Molossus ater.”
Journal of Mammalogy (1969), volume 50, number 1, page 162.

Riptey, S. Ditton. “Comments on the Little Green Heron of the Chagos Archi-
pelago.” Ibis (1969), volume 111, pages 101-102.

, and Sauim Aut. Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan. Volume 1.

380 pages. Bombay: Oxford University Press, 1968.

. Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan. Volume 2. 345 pages.

Bombay: Oxford University Press, 1969.

, and Gerp Hernricu. “Comments on the Avifauna of Tanzania II.”
Postilla (1969), volume 134, 21 pages.

Setzer, Henry W. “The Genus Acomys.” Pages 1—4, section 21, in Preliminary
Guide to the Mammals of Africa. Washington, D.C.: United States National
Museum, 1968.

Srptey, Frep C., and Ropert W. McFar.ane. “Gulls in the Central Pacific.”
Pacific Science (1968), volume 23, number 3, pages 314-321.

SLAUGHTER, Rosert H., and STEWART SpRINGER. “Replacement of Rostral
Teeth in Sawfishes and Sawsharks.” Copeia (1968), number 3, pages 499-506.

SPRINGER, STEWART. “Triakis fehlmanni, a New Shark from the Coast of
Somalia.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (1968), vol-
ume 81, pages 613-624.

, and RicuHarp A. WALLER. “Hexanchus vitulus, a New Shark from the

Bahamas.” Bulletin of Marine Science (1969), volume 19, number 1, pages

159-174.

366-269 O—70——10

138 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

SPRINGER, Victor G. “‘Osteology and Classification of the Fishes of the Family
Blenniidae.” United States National Museum Bulletin (1968), number 284,
85 pages.

Watson, Georce E., and J. Puituip AncLE. “Adélie Penguin with Three
Chicks.” Antarctic Journal, (1968), volume 3, number 5, page 221.

, and Betty JEAN Gray. “Replacement Name of Acrocephalus agricola
brevipennis (Severtzov).” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists Club (1969),
volume 89, number 1, page 8.

, and ALEXANDER WEeEtTMoRE. “The Generic Name for the Dovekie or
Little Auk.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists Club (1969), volume 89,
number 1, pages 6—7.

WEITZMAN, STANLEY H. “A List of Fishes from Duxbury Reef, Marin County,
California.”’ (Pages 54-55) in The Conservation of Marine Animals on Dux-
bury Reef. California State Lands Commission and Marin County Board of
Supervisors, 1969.

WETMORE, ALEXANDER. “The Birds of the Republic of Panama, Columbidae
(Pigeons) to Picidae (Woodpeckers).’’ Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions (1968) volume 150, part 2, 605 pages.

Zust, RicHArp L. “ ‘Ploughing’ for Fish by the Greater Yellowlegs.” Wilson
Bulletin (1968), volume 80, number 4, pages 491-492.

Papers, Lectures, and Seminars

ALDRICH, JOHN W. “Endangered Species Research of the Bureau of Sport Fish-
eries and Wildlife.” Audubon Naturalistic Society of the Central Atlantic
states. October 1968.

HANDLEY, CHARLES, O., Jr. ‘Distribution and Ecology of Bats in a Tropical
Forest.’’ University of Virginia. July 1968.

. Biological Explorations in Arctic America.

July 1968.

. “Behavior in Whales and Porpoises.’’ University of Virginia. August

1968.

. “Fire and Mammals.” Tall Timbers Fire Ecology Conference, Talla-
hassee, Florida. April 1969.

LacHNER, Ernest A. “The Kinds of Exotic Fishes and Other Organisms In-
troduced into North American Waters.’ Conference on exotic fishes and related
problems, American Fisheries Society and American Society of Ichthyologists
and Herpetologists. February 1969.

NapPiER, JOHN R. “Primate Biology and Human Evolution.” Series of 30 lec-

tures, University of London. September—December 1968.

bb)

University of Virginia.

. “Roots of Mankind.” Series of six lectures, Friends of the National
Zoo. January—March 1969.
Peters, JAMEs A. “‘Time-sharing Computers and Systematics.’ University of
Colorado. October 1968.
. “Approaches to Computerization of Systematic Keys.’’ California State
College at Fullerton. October 1968.
. “Problems in the Use of the Methods of Numerical Taxonomy in
Biogeographical Analysis.”” University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
October 1968.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 139

. “The Role of Time-share Computers in Research.”’ Los Angeles County

Museum of Natural History. October 1968.

. “Practical Applications of Systematic Keys and Key Construction.” Fif-

teenth Annual Symposium on Systematics, Missouri Botanical Garden, St.

Louis. October 1968.

. “Modelos y computadores en la investigacion zooldgica.”’ Cuarto Con-

greso Latinoamericano de Zoologia, Caracas, Venezuela. November 1968.

. “Past, Present and Future of a Museum and University Data, Program,
and Information Exchange.” First MupPprE (Museum and Universities Data,
Program, and Information Exchange) Conference, American Museum of Na-
tural History. June 1969.

Watson, Georce E. “Birds of the Antarctic.’ American Association for the
Advancement of Science, Lancaster Branch, Franklin and Marshall College.
January 1969.

WEITzMAN, STANLEY H. “Evolution and Relationships of Deep Sea Stomiatoid
Fishes.” Systematics Group, American Museum of Natural History. June 1969.

. “The Usefulness of Gross Anatomical Characters in the Classification of
Characoid Fishes.” American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists.
June 1969. ;

Zusi, Ricuarp L. “The Role of Collections in Ornithological Research.” The
Bibliological Society of Washington symposium on natural history collections.
October 1968.

. “Habits of the Trembler (Cinclocerthia ruficauda) on Dominica.”

Cooper Ornithological Society, Tucson. April 1969.

MINERAL SCIENCES

Research emphasis within the Department has undergone reevalua-
tion during the year, and significant redirection of parts of our program
has been accomplished. The expanded interests and activities of the Di-
vision of Petrology have been recognized by the addition of “and Vol-
canology” to its title. Staff members have investigated five important
eruptions during the year, and the program in submarine geology has
been expanded. Research on meteorites and tektites has continued at a
high level, stimulated in part by contracts from the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration for preparation for the examination of lunar
samples. The fall of the Allende, Mexico, meteorite in February 1969—
a meteorite of rare type recovered in large amount—was promptly in-
vestigated in the field and laboratory by staff members. Additional
research centering around the study of the Foote Lithium Mine in North
Carolina has been undertaken and important new observations are being
made. Some progress has been made in the area of electronic data stor-
age and retrieval.

Investigation of the complex mineral suite that occurs at the Foote
Mineral Company spodumene mine, Kings Mountain, North Carolina,
has been continued during the year by John S. White, Jr., in collabora-
140 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Devastation caused by the violent explosions of Arenal Volcano on 29 and
30 July 1968. This eruption has been studied extensively by W. G. Melson,
who has made three expeditions to the volcano in the past year.

tion with Peter B. Leavens of the University of Delaware and Richard
W. Thomssen, visiting research associate, Smithsonian Research Founda-
tion. A continually growing number (now about ten) of new mineral
species are being described for publication as separate papers. A mono-
graph that will contain descriptions of some eighty to ninety minerals
found at the mine, and giving their paragenesis, is under preparation.
A description of one of these, switzerite, a new manganese, iron phos-
phate, has already been published. The description of a new tin silicate
is nearly completed and an abstract of the paper has been submitted to
the International Mineralogical Association New Mineral Names Com-
mission for prepublication approval. Work on the rare mineral lithio-
phosphate has also been completed by White. Included among the new
species under study are two other tin minerals and several manganese,
iron phosphates. An April 1969 collecting trip to the Foote mine has
resulted in the addition of many specimens to the collections that will
be of value in the continuing studies.

R. W. Thomssen has undertaken research in connection with a pre-
doctoral internship on a project concerning the systematic variations in
the compositions of femic minerals in some porphyry copper deposits.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 141

Primary and secondary biotite micas from different porphyry copper
deposits have been examined with the electron microprobe. Significant
variations of Fe, Mg, and Ti have been found in step-scan analytical
traverses across the biotite flakes. Preliminary considerations of the
compositional data indicate that, as time passes, the solutions from
which the biotite crystals are precipitating are enriched in Fe and Ti
with respect to Mg. Near the end of crystallization of biotites a pro-
nounced reversal in the relative amounts of these elements took place.
Research is continuing in an effort to evaluate this phenomena and to
relate the biotite composition variations to the whole rock and minerali-
zation histories.

George Switzer has continued his studies of eclogite and other ultra-
mafic nodules from South African kimberlite pipes. He has completed
studies of the glass phase observed in kyanite eclogites from the Roberts
Victor mine, and these studies are being extended to include a similar
glass phase observed in other eclogite specimens from the same locality.
As part of this study, a large number of electron microprobe analyses
are being made of the major constituents of these nodules: garnet,
omphacite, olivine, diopside, enstatite, and chrome diopside. This
analytical data is being supplemented when necessary by partial wet
chemical analyses by Eugene Jarosewich.

Also under investigation by Switzer are specimens of andradite garnet
on serpentinite matrix dredged from the mid-Atlantic Ridge by Wil-
liam G. Melson, the first observed occurrence of this mineral assemblage
from this area.

Chemical and metallographic studies by Roy S. Clarke, Jr., continue
on the Campo del Cielo, Argentina, meteorites and related meteorites in
the hexahedrite-octahedrite composition range. Particular emphasis is
being placed on the role of phosphorus in the development of these
temperature-dependent structures and the interrelationships between
the minerals schreibersite and cohenite. A better understanding of the
low-temperature cooling history of iron meteorites should result. Studies
on several pallasite meteorites and the new Allende, Mexico, meteorite
are also in progress. The oxidation state in synthetic glass systems of
tektite composition is being studied too in the expectation of obtaining
information on metallic spherules in tektites.

Kurt Fredriksson has spent five months at the Manned Spacecraft
Center, nasa, Houston, Texas, assisting in preparation for the antici-
pated lunar samples. He also worked with the staff from the Geology
Branch at Houston on southwest Texas ashflow rocks and on glass
particles resembling micro-tektites from recent volcanic ashes from
Hawaii and Surtsey.
142 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Cerro Negro Volcano, Nicaragua, in eruption November 1968. Lavas and ash
from this eruption are under study by W. G. Melson, who was at the volcano
in November.

New instrumentation and techniques for nondispersive x-ray analysis
have been studied by Fredriksson and a system has been adapted to the
electron probe. The technique allows very rapid phase identification or
qualitative or semi-quantitative analysis of small multicomponent sys-
tems. Of special interest seems to be the possibility to analyze small
compositional differences (0.2 weight percent) in various minerals,
e.g., proton bombardment-induced oxygen deficiency in mineral phases
from the surface of the moon.

Fredriksson also visited India in January 1969 in order to coordinate
an extensive investigation of the Lonar Lake, a crater-like depression in
central India, suspected to be an astrobleme. En route to India he
studied the Mt. Mayon and Taal volcanoes in the Philippines and also
visited the Merapi Volcano in central Java immediately after its Janu-
ary eruption. These studies have been carried out in cooperation with
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 143

the Smithsonian Center for Short-Lived Phenomena and the results
have been communicated to interested scientists through the Center.

Fredriksson’s work on detailed phase composition in meteorites has
continued and a system for automatic data processing for all kinds of
meteorite research data has been worked out. Once implemented, this
system will not only facilitate “bookkeeping” in regard to the collection
but also will provide a powerful research tool.

Robert F. Fudali has continued experimental work bearing on crys-
tallization sequences of natural basalts and andesites and chemical
trends of the residual liquids. He also has continued study of the rela-
tions between divalent iron, trivalent iron, oxygen fugacity, and total
chemical composition of a given rock. This work involves subjecting
powdered samples of different rocks to extreme temperatures (800-
1300° C.) and very low oxygen partial pressures (10-° to 10-*° atmos-
pheres) to observe how variations in these two parameters change the
character of the resulting mineral assemblage.

Fudali has spent three weeks in Mauritania, primarily examining two
large circular features—Richat and Semsiyat domes. In the past these
have been suspected of being the root structures of ancient meteorite
craters. Extensive petrographic work has been performed on the re-
turned rocks in an effort to determine the nature of these domes. Based
on the complete lack of any effect in the rocks that can be attributed
to the shock waves that are generated by a meteorite impact, it has been
concluded that these features are not meteoritic in origin but must in-
stead result from unusual endogenic processes.

Curator emeritus Edward P. Henderson has conducted detailed
studies of four iron meteorites of the rare ataxite group. In cooperation
with Ananda Dube of the Geological Survey of India, he has studied
the meteorite that fell at Muzaffarpur, India, on 11 April 1964. The
other meteorites, Del Rio, Nordheim, and Monahans, are all from Texas
and have been studied in cooperation with Virgil Barnes of the Univer-
sity of Texas and Elbert King of the Manned Spacecraft Center, NASA,
Houston, Texas.

Eugene Jarosewich and Joseph Nelen have provided a number of
high-quality quantitative chemical and electron-microprobe analyses
essential to the research programs not only of the Division of Meteorites
but also of the Department of Mineral Sciences as a whole. Jarosewich
has performed complete analyses of seven stony meteorites and several
inclusions from meteorites (in cooperation with Anana Dube of the
Geological Survey of India), two stony meteorites (in cooperation with
K. Keil of the University of New Mexico), and one silicate inclusion
sample from the Weekaroo Station iron meteorite (in cooperation with
Edward Olsen of the Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago).
144 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Extensive work on the Allende, Mexico, meteorite has been completed
in cooperation with the staff of the Division of Meteorites. Four rocks
from the Arenal Volcano, Philippine Islands, have been analyzed, as
well as several minerals, and a number of partial analyses on various
materials. Nelen has done extensive electron microprobe work on several
meteorites in cooperation with Kurt Fredriksson; F. Kraut of the
Museum d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, and G. Kurat of the Naturhist-
otisches Museum, Vienna, Austria. Detailed microprobe work has
been performed on the Allende, Mexico, meteorite in cooperation with
the staff of the Division of Meteorites. Joseph Nelen also has studied
ignimbritic rocks, the distribution of carbon in meteorites, and has done
developmental work on an automatic data-processing procedure for the
meteorite collection. Much of Nelen’s effort also has gone into coopera-
tive work with Fredriksson and the Manned Spacecraft Center, NASA,
Houston, Texas, in preparatory work for the study of the returned
lunar samples.

Brian Mason has continued to work on the phase composition of
stony meteorites and has complemented this work with a study of ultra-
basic xenoliths from an extinct volcanic pipe near Kakanui, New Zea-
land. These xenoliths probably crystallized within the earth’s mantle,
the material of which may resemble meteorite compositions. Similarities
and differences between analogous compositions of terrestrial and
extraterrestrial derivation are significant for the elucidation of tempera-

Records of microearthquakes
created by the advancing lava
flow at Arenal Volcano, Costa
Rica. Record obtained by W.
G. Melson during an expedi-
tion cosponsored with the Na-
tional Geographic Society in
March 1969.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 145

Lava flow (background) and memorial to eighty people who perished in the
1968-69 eruption of Arenal Volcano, Costa Rica. This eruption, an unusually
explosive one, is still under study by W. G. Melson.

tures and pressures of crystallization. In collaboration with E. P. Hen-
derson, Mason has investigated the Australian tekites collected during
their expeditions in 1963-1965 and 1967. He reported on this work to
the Third International Tektite Symposium in New York in April 1969.

Vagn F. Buchwald, on leave from the Department of Metallurgy,
Technical University of Denmark, has been a research associate in
the Division of Meteorites for this past year and will be with the Divi-
sion for another year. He is working with the Smithsonian collection
of iron meteorites in order to compile a modern handbook of the
metallography and chemistry of iron meteorites. Photomicrographs,
critical historical data, and a list of references will be included. This
work will be a major contribution to the study of these meteorites and
will greatly increase the information on the collection available in pub-
lished form to scientific colleagues.

Research in the Division of Petrology and Volcanology has focused
on studies of rocks from the deep sea floor and their implications on
sea-floor spreading and continental drift. Considerable study also has
been directed toward certain recent volcanic eruptions. The latter
146 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Caldera of Isla Fernandina Volcano, Galapagos, before (upper) and after (lower)
its great collapse in 1968. This event has been investigated by a number of
scientists, including Thomas Simkin, research associate, Division of Petrology
and Volcanology.

research has continued to receive much assistance from the Smithsonian
Center for Short-Lived Phenomena.

The Division has planned and carried out a geophysical investigation
of the remarkable Juan de Fuca Ridge, a highly active zone of sea-floor
spreading that is but several hundred miles west of Oregon and Wash-
ington. The study has been conducted on one of the finest oceano-
graphic vessels in the United States, the United States Coast and
Geodetic Survey ship Oceanographer. This ship, equipped with some
of the most modern geophysical gear, including a narrow-beam echo
sounder, and staffed with excellent officers and men, has led to a num-
ber of important discoveries: (1) recognition of new evidence for the
hypothesis of sea-floor spreading and continental drift, (2) the nature
and probable delineation of the seaward extension of the San Andreas
fault, and (3) collection of a wide variety of volcanic rocks, some of
which reflect the very young age of the median part of the Juan de Fuca
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 147

Ridge. The dredging has been unusually successful. Thirteen of fifteen
dredges have yielded rock samples. This extensive collection is a valuable
source of materials for detailed petrographic and geochemical informa-
tion of the makeup of oceanic crust and thus is one of the division’s
major accessions. This study, carried out in conjunction with Jason
Morgan and John Duncan of Princeton University, has included
William G. Melson and Harold Banks of the Division’s staff and
Thomas Simkin of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center and
a research associate in the Division of Petrology and Volcanology.
Interagency cooperation has been a key part of the success of this study,
with the Environmental Science Services Administration providing
both technical advice and ship support.

Melson has continued his studies of rocks from the mid-Atlantic
Ridge, which are cooperative studies with the Woods Hole Oceano-
graphic Institution and Oregon State University.

One of the outstanding achievements of the year has been the
National Science Foundation-funded deep-sea drilling program, a joint
effort of a number of oceanographic institutions. Numerous holes have
been drilled to relatively shallow depths in the Atlantic Ocean and
Caribbean and core recovery has been remarkably successful. Although

An Allende, Mexico, meteorite individual found in the field 13 February 1969,
five days after it fell. The specimen was found by a schoolboy, one of a group
organized by Brian Mason and Roy S. Clarke to search for the meteorite.
(Knife handle shows scale.)

148 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

intended for recovery primarily of sedimentary materials, the drill has
penetrated a short distance into underlying basaltic lavas at a number
of stations. These lava samples, whose preliminary study is being per-
formed under the advisory panel on petrology on which Melson serves,
provide important information on the older lavas of the midocean
ridge system. The results of the sedimentary drilling support the theory
of sea-floor spreading and provide unusually complete stratigraphic
sections for paleontologic and other studies.

Two eruptions have been the focus of much field and laboratory
investigation. The devastating explosive eruption of Arenal Volcano,
Costa Rica, in 1968 and 1969 has been investigated by Melson and
Simkin. The 1968 eruption and collapse of the caldera of the great
shield volcano of Isla Fernandina, Galapagos, has been studied by
Simkin.

Arenal Volcano emitted a series of both laterally and vertically
directed explosions that devastated about eight square miles and killed
some eighty people in less than three days. Subsequent investigations
have shown that the eruption can be classified as nueés ardentes of the
explosion type and that Arenal Volcano, deemed to be extinct prior to
the eruption, had erupted last around a.p. 1500. Arenal and presum-
ably many other assumed extinct explosive volcanoes have very long
periods of repose between eruptions, periods that may range upward
from 500 years.

There have been two expeditions to Arenal—in July and August of
1968 under Smithsonian sponsorship, and in March 1969 under cospon-
sorship of the National Georgraphic Society. The field data and samples
are still under study, but preliminary results were preprinted and dis-
tributed by the Smithsonian Center for Short-Lived Phenomena shortly
after the first expedition. Howard Waldron of the United States
Geological Survey participated in the first expedition and acted as team
leader of the three scientists (Waldron, Melson, and Simkin) dis-
patched by the United States at the request of the President of Costa
Rica. The scientific aspects of the two expeditions will soon be described
in a Manuscript in preparation by Melson.

Dating of the prehistoric eruptions has been a key part in the study
of Arenal Volcano. Clifford Evans and George Metcalf of the Depart-
ment of Anthropology have provided dates on artifacts buried by prior
eruptions and the Smithsonian Institution Radiocarbon Laboratory has —
provided dates on trees buried by a prehistoric eruption.

In early June 1968 remote sensing devices throughout the hemisphere |
indicated unusually explosive volcanic activity in the Galapagos Islands.
A small expedition was organized by the Smithsonian, including biolo-
gists R. I. Bowman and P. A. Colinvaux, and geologists Keith A. How-
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 149

ard of the United States Geological Survey and Tom Simkin, a research
associate in the Division of Petrology and Volcanology. With the ex-
cellent help of the United States Air Force, the group reached the island
of Fernandina three weeks after the start of activity. They found that
the central caldera, an area approximately two miles in diameter near
the summit of Volcano Fernandina, had subsided roughly 100 feet upon
the withdrawal of lava from a large chamber within the volcano. Such
subsidence is not uncommon in the geologic record, but this event is
the largest known since the Katmai (Alaska) activity of 1912. Rock
avalanches down the oversteepened sides prevented descent to the floor
of the caldera, but observations from the rim showed that the floor was
little disturbed and fracturing was restricted to within one-fourth mile
of the elliptical boundary fault. The volume of volcanic ash was small
and no lava was extruded within the caldera although lava flows on the
outer flanks preceded the collapse. Laboratory work is continuing on
materials collected during field work in the summer 1968 and follow-up
studies of the collapse are planned.

In addition to the major programs of research, a small amount of
laboratory study has been devoted by Melson to experimental reduction
of basaltic magma by graphite, a study aimed at clarification of the
conditions and products of such reductions.

Philippa Black, a visiting post-doctoral associate from the University
of Auckland, New Zealand, has been studying the chemistry, mineral-
ogy, and phase relations of the blueschist facies. The so-called eclogites
commonly recorded in glaucophane schist terrains have been proven to
be part of the normal blueschist facies. Relations between calcic and
sodic amphiboles have been studied, and the partitioning of elements
between the two amphibole phases has been shown to be a potential
geothermometer. Papers are in preparation on the occurrence of a new
omphacitic pyroxene and a previously unrecorded member of the sodic
amphibole series.

The Collections

The meteorite and tektite collections have continued to grow during
the year at an encouraging rate. A large slice of the Mount Padbury,
Western Australia, mesosiderite has been obtained by exchange with the
Kalgoorlie School of Mines, Kalgoorlie, Western Australia. Specimens
of the Boaz, Alabama, iron meteorite have been obtained by gift and
exchange from Oscar Monnig of Fort Worth, Texas. Impactite speci-
mens from K6fels crater, Austria, have been obtained by exchange with
the Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna. Impact glass from Aoullouel
150 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Ee SI
ee

Large individual Allende, Mexico, meteorite specimens with Hidalgo del Parral,
Chihuahua, Mexico, in the background. These specimens were brought to
Washington by Roy S. Clarke and Brian Mason within eleven days of the fall.
Material from this collection has been distributed internationally for study to
all investigators requesting samples.

crater, Mauritania, and a suite of rock specimens from Richat Dome,
Mauritania, have been obtained for the collection by R. F. Fudali. An
important collection of australites from Motpena Station, Parachilna,
South Australia, has been added to the collection as a gift of Richard
Craigie. A major exchange has been completed during the year with
the Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago. Particularly important
specimens obtained in this transaction are specimens of the Indarch and
Mighei meteorites from the Soviet Union, the Barratta meteorite from
New South Wales, and the Agen and Vouillé meteorites from France.

Small specimens from two new falls have been obtained. The Juro-
manha, Portugal, meteorite is a new and unusual iron that fell on
14 November 1968. A small study specimen has been obtained through
the cooperation of the Center for Short-Lived Phenomena and the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. A fragment from the Schenec-
tady, New York, meteorite, a fall of 12 April 1968, has been obtained
as a gift from Robert L. Fleischer, General Electric Company,
Schenectady.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 151

Brian Mason (center) in San Juan, Chihuahua, Mexico, on 17 February 1969,
nine days after the Allende, Mexico, meteorite fall. He is holding a large
Allende individual just found nearby in a plowed field. Gunther Schwartz (left)
and Charles Tugas (right) of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s
Prairie Network Meteorite Recovery Project look on.

The Allende, Mexico, meteorite fall of 8 February 1969 undoubtedly
is one of the great meteoritic events of our time. Brian Mason and Roy S.
Clarke, Jr., visited the fall area east of Parral, Mexico, in February
1969. They have been successful in obtaining several hundred kilograms
of this new, rare-type meteorite. More of this valuable material is being
obtained through various channels. The collection not only is large but
also it is representative of the strewnfield which is at least 45 km in
length, and perhaps amounts to 200 square kilometers. The event
was brought to the Division of Meteorite’s attention by the Center for
Short-Lived Phenomena. Cooperation with the Center has greatly aided
the investigation. The Division also has worked cooperatively with the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Prairie Network Project on dis-
tribution of material in the field and phenomena of the fall.
A review of the specimen inventory of the Division of Petrology and
Volcanology has been completed and it has been decided that a number
of improvements are in order. The automatic-data processing (ADP) of
specimen information, a pilot program that began two years ago, is
still under way. The retrieval system is now operational, but much more
information must be processed and added to the data bank before it is
fully useful. Much progress has been made and use of the app system
will soon be routine. This will solve one of the most difficult curation
152 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

problems in rapid location of critical specimens for particular research
projects.

The research potential of the collections has been further increased by
choosing certain areas for intensive development. These are the reference
collections of deep-sea rocks and the volcanologic collections. In addi-
tion, much time has been devoted to requests for important specimens
in other areas of basic research in petrography. The United States
Geological Survey recently has instituted new mechanisms for routine
transfer of its important mineral and rock specimens. This is significant
because most of the petrology research collections have come, and must

continue to come, from the United States Geological Survey.

There have been a number of noteworthy additions to the collections

during the past year:

73 chemically analyzed igneous rocks, Silver
Peaks, Colorado

Extensive collection of ultrabasic and associ-
ated rocks, Southern Appalachians

1968-69 eruptives and prehistoric eruptives;
hypersthene-augite lavas and ash and nu-
merous basic plutonic xenoliths, Arenal
Volcano, Costa Rica

Basaltic lava and ash and acid xenoliths,
Cerro Negro Volcano, Nicaragua, 1968
eruption

Andesitic lava and ash specimens, Merapi
Volcano, Indonesia, 1969 eruption

Samples of a complex basalt-mugearite sill.
Piton des Neiges Volcano, Reunion Island,
Indian Ocean

50 chemically analyzed rock and ore samples,
Ore Knob Sulfide Deposits, Tennessee

Basaltic and other lava and ash samples, De-
ception Island, Antarctica, 1968 eruption

Volcanic rocks from the floor of the Northeast
Pacific

United States Geological Survey

Ross Johnson

United States Geological Survey

David Larrabee

Collected for the Museum by
W. G. Melson

Collected for the Museum by W.
G. Melson

Collected for the Museum by
K. Fredriksson

University of Edinburgh,
Scotland

B. G. J. Upton

University of North Carolina

Paul D. Fullagar

Instituto Antartico, Argentina

R. N. M. Panzarine

Collected for the Museum by
United States Coast and Geo-
detic Survey and Staff, Division
of Pathology and Volcanology
Staff

A new area has been added to the reference collection: the Volcano-

logic Study collection. This includes films, specimens, and geophysical
records pertaining to volcanic eruptions. Material for this collection
comes from Smithsonian expeditions, donations, and from the Smith-
sonian Center for Short-Lived Phenomena. Much interest has been gen-
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 153

erated in this collection, particularly in the films, which include a num-
ber of unique sequences of rare types of volcanic eruptions.

The mineral and gem collections have continued to grow at a satis-
factory and predictable rate. Growth and improvement during the year
has maintained the mineral collection in its leading position for research
and exhibition among world collections. A very active program of ex-
_ changes has been continued with other institutions and with individuals.
This has made it possible to keep up with newly discovered research
specimens as well as with extraordinary display pieces not available
through any other channels. Several species new to science and new
to the collection have been added, including weloganite, rodaguilarite,
raguinite, lithiophosphate, manganoan goldmanite, yamatoite, and
braitschite. Some of the additions have been new type specimens, in-
cluding magadiite, kenyaite, goldmanite, iowaite, hexastannite, humber-
stonite, and karelianite. Roebling endowment funds as usual have been
used primarily for acquiring new specimen materials for the research
collection. One notable exception is the finest specimen known of the
rare mineral legrandite. Canfield endowment funds have been used to
obtain several fine display specimens, including an extremely large Japa-
nese twin crystal of quartz from Brazil and a fine crystal of a new dis-
covery of tanzanite, a gem variety of zoisite, from Tanzania.

The gem collection has been enriched by several excellent gems, in-
cluding a 122.7-carat tanzanite, the largest known. Chamberlain endow-
ment funds have greatly improved representation in the collection of
the new gemstone tanzanite by the purchase of an 18.16-carat cat’s-eye
stone. Mrs. Kathryn Everhart has donated a beautiful white opal
cabachon weighing 345 carats. Harry Winston, Inc., has given a magnifi-
cent 858-carat emerald crystal from the Gachala mine in Columbia. It is
the finest emerald crystal on public exhibit anywhere.

Exhibits

R. F. Fudali has completed scripts for three exhibits in the Hall of
Meteorites, and production should be finished during this year. One
exhibit is composed of pictures of the lunar surface taken by the un-
manned Lunar Orbiter Spacecraft; one is an exhibit describing the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s Prairie Network; and one is
an exhibit on ancient meteorite impact craters. When these are opened,
they will complete the Hall of Meteorites, which was formally opened
two years ago.

366-269 O—70—_11
154 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Paul E. Desautels has continued his work on the preparation of scripts|
and exhibit materials for the new Physical Geology Hall. He also has
arranged for some changes in the gem displays. New cases for tanzanite,
the Bismark sapphire, and the Gachala emerald have been installed and
improvements have been made in other exhibit cases.

Staff Publications

CiFELLI, R., R. Blow, and W. G. MeEtson. “Paleocene Sediments from a Frac-
ture Zone in the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.” Journal of Marine Research (1968),
volume 26, pages 105-109.

DesauTEts, P. E. The Mineral Kingdom. 251 pages. New York: Grosset and
Dunlap, 1968.

FREDRIKSSON, K. “Standards and Correction Procedures for Microprobe Analy-
sis of Minerals.” Pages 305-309 in Proceedings of the IV International Con-
ference on X-ray Optics and Microanalysis. Paris: Hermann, 1968.

, J. NELEN, and B. J. Freprixsson. “The LL-Group Chondrites.” Pages
458-466, volume 30, in Origin and Distribution of the Elements. L. H. Ahrens,
editor. London: Pergamon Press Ltd., 1968.

JAROSEWICH, E., and B. Mason. ‘Chemical Analyses with Notes on One Meso-
siderite and Seven Chondrites.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta (1969),
volume 33, pages 411-416.

Mason, B. “Meteorites, Stony.” Pages 966-972 in International Dictionary of
Geophysics. 1968.

. “Kaersutite from San Carlos, Arizona, with Comments on the Para-

genesis of This Mineral.” Mineralogical Magazine (1968), volume 36, pages

997-1002.

. “Eclogitic Xenoliths from Volcanic Breccia at Kakanui, New Zealand.”

Contributions to Mineralogy and Petrology (1968), volume 19, pages 316-327.

. “Australian Meteorite Expeditions.” National Geographic Research Re-
ports (1968), pages 189-201.

ME son, W. G. “Note on the Petrography of Potsherds from Hajar Bin Humeid.”
Pages 409-413 in Investigations of Pre-Islamic Site, by Gus van Beek. Balti-
more: Johns Hopkins Press, 1969.

, G. THompson, and T. van ANDEL. ‘‘Volcanism and Metamorphism in
the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, 22°N.” Journal of Geophysical Research (1968),
volume 73, number 18, pages 5925-5941.

MoreELAnp, G. C. “Preparation of Polished Thin Sections.’’ American Mineralo-
gist (1968), volume 53, pages 2070-2074.

Switzer, G., and W. G. MEtson. “Partially Melted Kyanite Eclogite from the
Roberts Victor Mine, South Africa.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth
Sciences (1969), number 1, 9 pages.

. “Diamonds: Is the Supply Running Out.” Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone
(1968), volume 139, number 2, pages 44-47, 66-68.

TuHompson, G., W. G. MEtson, R. CirELu, and V. T. Bowen. “Lithified Car-
bonates from the Equatorial Atlantic.” Journal of Sedimentary Petrology
(1968), volume 38, number 4, pages 1305-1317.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 155
Papers, Lectures, and Seminars

CxiarKkE, Roy S., Jr. “Comments on Cohenite and Schreibersite in Iron Meteor-
ites.” 31st Annual Meeting, the Meteoritical Society, Cambridge, Massachu-
setts. 9-11 October 1968.

, and E. JARosEwicu. ‘Classification and Bulk Chemical Composition of

the Campo del Cielo, Argentina, Meteorite.”’ 31st Annual Meeting, the Meteor-

itical Society, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 9-11 October 1968.

, E. JARosEwicH, B. Mason, and J. NELEN. “The Allende Meteorite.”
American Geophysical Union Meeting, Washington, D.C. 24 April 1969.

Duncan, J., J. Morcan, W. G. MEtson, T. Stmxin, and H. Banks. “Bath-
metry of the Juan de Fuca Ridge: Independent Evidence of Sea-Floor Spread-
ing.” American Geophysical Union Meeting, Washington, D.C. April 1969.

Frepriksson, K. “The Sharps Chondrite-New Evidence on the Origin of
Chondrules and Chondrites.” International Symposium on Meteorite Re-
search, Vienna, Austria. August 1968.

. “A Model for Chondrule Formation.” 31st Annual Meeting, the Meteor-

itical Society, Cambridge, Massachusetts, October 1968; Australian National

University, Canberra, January 1969; University of Stockholm, February 1969.

. “The Origin of Chondrites.’’ Rice University Graduate Seminar, Hous-

ton. November 1968.

. “Meteorites, Impactites, Ignimbrites and the Moon.” Geological Survey

of India, Calcutta. January 1969.

. Introductory crystallography and mineralogy graduate seminars. Tata

Institute for Fundamental Research, Bombay. February 1969.

. “The Origin of Chondrites.” Asterreichisches Mineralogischen Gesell-

schaft, Vienna. February 1969.

. “Meteorites.” University of Stockholm. February 1969.

Howarp, K. A., and T. Simxrn. “1968 collapse of Fernandina Caldera, Galapagos
Islands.”” American Geophysical Union, Meeting, Washington, D.C. April
1969.

Mason, B. “Occurrence, Distribution, and Age of Australian Tektites.” Arizona
State University, Tempe. February 1969; Third International Tektite Sym-
posium, Corning, New York, April 1969.

. “Recent Advances in Meteorite Research.” Pennsylvania State Univer-

sity, University Park, October 1968; Bryn Mawr University, Bryn Mawr, Penn-

sylvania, November 1968; Southwest Center for Advanced Studies, Dallas,

Texas, November 1968; Rochester Academy of Science, Rochester, New York,

March 1969.

. “The Allende Meteorite.’ Geological Society of Washington, Washing-
ton, D.C., April 1969; Smithsonian Associates, Washington, D.C., May 1969.

Me tson, W. G., T. Smmxin, R. Fiske, J. G. Moore, and R. Decker. ‘‘Major
Volcanic Eruptions of 1968: Preliminary Contributions to Petrology and
Volcanology.”” American Geophysical Union, Washington, D.C., April 1969.

, J. G. Moore, and E. Jarosewicu. “Petrology of the Nueés Ardentes
Deposits of Mayon Volcano, Philippine Islands.” Geological Society of Amer-
ica Meeting, Mexico City. November 1968.

Tuompson, G. T., W. G. MEtson, and V. T. Bowen, “Bathymetry and Petrol-
ogy of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge at 4°S: Implications on the Nature of the
Oceanic Crust.” American Geophysical Union, Meeting, Washington, D.C.
April 1969.

156 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

PALEOBIOLOGY

Activity in the Department has continued to be marked by a primary
emphasis in research and an increased participation in educational activ-
ities. The Departmental staff of seventeen scientists, joined by more
than twenty research associates affiliated with university faculties or
the United States Geological Survey, are closely integrated in investiga-
tion that includes almost all aspects of paleobiology and related geolog-
ical sciences.

Walter H. Adey has concluded extended field investigations of the
crustose coralline algae of the North Atlantic. He has spent three years
studying the systematics and ecology of the corallines. Distributional pat-
terns of species have been traced on the shelf areas from the mid-Atlantic
states north through the Maritimes to Greenland, Iceland, and south
to Spain. His recent activities have been centered in the Baltic area
where scuba diving has been used along the coast of Norway and the
northern coast of Europe. These data will serve for compilation of a
monograph on the North Atlantic genera.

Automatic data processing has been utilized by Nicholas Hotton
III to determine statistical parameters of osteological variation in the
skulls of living lizards. The study is now sufficiently far advanced to
suggest modification of taxonomic procedures with respect to South
African dicynodont reptiles. It appears that some of the characters
studied in lizards serve to distinguish genera but not species within a
genus. The osteological differences, however, in both lizards and dicyno-
donts by which genera are recognized are so marked and so readily in-
terpreted as adaptive that use of quantitative procedures is not necessary
for generic description. Another group of characters does serve to dis-
tinguish between species of the same genus but, when pooled with extra-
generic data, fails to distinguish between certain species of closely related
genera. Theoretically, this suggests that either there is a great deal of
adaptive parallelism among species of different genera of lizards or that
such minor osteological features are not under strong selective pressures
and vary more or less at random from population to population.

Whatever the interpretations, the taxonomic result is the same. With
the characters in question, the investigator cannot use more standard
procedures of obtaining clusters that he can call species and clusters of
clusters that he can call genera. In order to use osteological characters
to distinguish species in these animals, the genera must be determined
first. The strongly adaptive basis upon which reptilian genera are estab-
lished suggests that this procedure will be effective in dealing with the
dicynodonts.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 157

A twice-weekly seminar was organized by bryozoan workers in the Department
of Paleobiology in the spring of 1968 and is continuing on a year-round basis.
Regular members during the past year include permanent staff A. H. Cheetham
and R. S. Boardman, predoctoral fellows O. B. Nye and Raman Singh of the
University of Cincinnati, T. G. Gautier of the University of Kansas, R. W. Hinds
of Columbia University, R. J. Scolaro of Tulane University, and United States
Geological Survey geologists O. L. Karklins and Helen Duncan. During the
year the seminar has been addressed by twelve visiting bryozoologists, including
Patricia L. Cook of the British Museum (Natural History), who is shown above
lecturing to the group during her three-month visit to the Department. Seminar
subjects have been wide ranging, from the details of bryozoan morphology to
the philosophy of evolutionary systematics. The seminar functions most success-
fully as a testing ground for new ideas resulting from continuing research of its
Participants. Ideas are presented, discussed, and modified by the seminar and
made available to all participants to use if acceptable and as appropriate to
individual projects. The seminar is, in effect, a research procedure that multiplies
the individual efforts of its members.
158 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Foraminiferal species recovered from the estuarine Choptank River of Mary-
land’s Eastern Shore have been maintained successfully in a culture laboratory
for more than two years. The program is directed by Dr. Martin A. Buzas,
who is currently involved in studies of distributional pattern and other ecologi-
cal factors concerned with low-salinity foraminifera. Laboratory technician
Miss Brenda Williams is shown transferring specimens.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 159

Erle G. Kauffman has continued research in four major areas of
paleontology and stratigraphy: (1) evolution, functional morphology,
biostratigraphy, and paleoecology of select Mesozoic-Cenozoic bivalve
lineages; (2) systematic, evolutionary, and ecologic study of the dom-
inant Mesozoic bivalve family Inoceramidae; (3) lithostratigraphic and
biostratigraphic studies of Mesozoic rocks in the western interior United
States; and (4) paleontology and stratigraphy of the Caribbean
Cretaceous. Completed studies on the Mesozoic and Cenozoic
Thyasiridae, Cretaceous Inoceramidae, and Paleogene Astartidae and
Crassatellidae demonstrate the evidence of detailed evolutionary patterns
and processes in fossils and equate biological aspects of living and fossil
populations, Studies dealing with inoceramids have resulted in the first
biostratigraphic zonation of North American and Caribbean forms, with
zonal durations approaching a quarter of a million years. The ultra-
structure of inoceramid and related shells has demonstrated the pres-
ence of daily and tidal growth increments discernible as far back as the
Jurassic. Prismatic calcite and biologic response are shown to be tools in
defining earth-moon relationship during post-Paleozoic time.

Kauffman’s western interior studies have aided in a redefinition of
the biostratigraphic system for the Cretaceous and is now centered on
analyzing lithologic and biologic facies for faunal zones. More than
one hundred zones are now recognized, and integration with radio-
metric data gives durations of 120,000 to 500,000 years per zone.

Studies of functional morphology, mode of growth, and evolutionary
systematics of cheilostome Bryozoa have been continued by Alan H.
Cheetham, By applying multivariate statistics and cluster analysis to a
lineage of specialized cheilostomes, the poricellariids, Cheetham has been
able to recognize the evolution of dimorphic characters from “random”
intracolony variation in phenotypes. He is attempting to determine the
extent to which this kind of variation is the precursor of polymorphism
by extending the analysis to related lineages. In another study he is
establishing the dependence of colony form on morphologic structure of
individuals in cheilostomes from moundlike accumulations of earliest
Tertiary age in southern Scandinavia.

Cheetham has completed, with Richard S. Boardman, a review of
skeletal growth, intracolony variation, and evolution in Bryozoa, in
which major differences in the method of colony growth in different
bryozoan groups have been suggested to have phylogenetic and tax-
onomic significance. Several students working toward graduate degrees
under the direction of Boardman and Cheetham have participated in
biweekly seminars that have been well attended by visiting researchers.
Educational activities have included four full-time predoctoral fellows
160 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

and a number of visiting students in bryozoology. This concentration
is indicative of the expanded staff participation in education.

Martin A. Buzas is currently completing a study on the homogeneity
of species distribution in Rehoboth Bay, Delaware. Sixteen stations,
each ten meters apart, have been sampled with five replicates each. —
These data are being statistically analyzed by using the facilities of the —
Smithsonian Information Systems Division at Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts. In another study, the distribution and abundance of Foramini-
fera in the Pleistocene of Maryland are being examined quantitatively.
Comparison of spatial distribution, density, relative abundance, and
diversity with other Pleistocene and Holocene faunas is under way
through utilization of the information function and multivariate
statistical techniques. A study is being made with T. G. Gibson of
foraminiferal diversity based on several hundred samples from the Arctic
to the Gulf of Mexico in water depths up to 5000 meters, using the
Shannon-Weiner information function and a measure of species
equitability.

Thomas Waller has completed a study of the evolution of the most
common groups of scallops—living and fossil—found along both coasts
of North America. By means of a detailed, automated morphological
study of the living bay and calico scallops and their fossil ancestors, it has
been possible to demonstrate that during the past eighteen million years
the group displayed examples of convergence, extinction, and adaptation
in response to changing geologic and hydrographic conditions. It also
has been shown that the group has evolved more rapidly on the eastern
side of North America than on the western side. The computer pro-
grams written for the scallop study have been modified in order to
make them adaptable to the analysis of shape and growth in a wide
variety of organisms.

Dominant patterns of sedimentation in deep Mediterranean basins
are being examined by Daniel J. Stanley. Sedimentary deposits ob-
served in these modern basins are being compared with those of similar
ancient marine rocks, known as flysch, exposed in the Alps, Carpathians,
and other mountain belts of the world. As part of this study Stanley
has participated on a seismic and core-collecting cruise sponsored by
NATO in the Alboran Sea between Morocco and Spain. He is also com-
pleting a preliminary regional reconnaissance of the recent marine geo-
logical history of the Mediterranean Sea and is making detailed studies
of the Wilmington submarine canyon off the east coast of the United
States. Projects in the canyon and adjacent slope, partly supported by
the United States Coast Guard, include an evaluation of sediment
texture and structures as influenced by such factors as bottom currents
and the influence of bottom-living organisms.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 161

The Collections

The departmental collections have been strengthened by the great-
est increase in many years of specimens from important foreign locali-
ties. Staff field excursions have added to previously weak parts of both
the invertebrate and vertebrate collections, while exchanges and pur-
chases through contacts made at foreign universities and museums sur-
pass any such activities in the Department’s recent history.

Porter M. Kier has visited many type-localities in England and
southern France while completing a tour at Cambridge University as a
Guggenheim Fellow. He was accompanied and guided by research
associate Anthony Coates through parts of France, accumulating large
collections of Mesozoic and younger invertebrates. The coelenterates
and echinoderms among these materials are particularly important as
they represent many species new to the Museum collections. In southern
France, Alan Cheetham has made extensive collections of Tertiary and
Upper Cretaceous Bryozoa from the Aquitaine Basin. Cheetham also
has visited localities in Italy, Denmark, England, and—of particular
importance—the area between the Holy Cross and Carpathian Moun-
tains in Poland. Samples prepared from these collections have yielded
many topotype suites of species.

In company with colleagues from the Carnegie Museum and the
University of Utrecht, Clayton Ray has collected Pleistocene mammals
in Sardinia, Sicily, Malta, and Mallorca. The most significant acquisi-
tion has been a series of specimens of the extinct artiodactyl Myotragus
balearicus from Mallorca, received from William Waldren.

Other valuable collections include general invertebrates from the
Cretaceous of the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico by Erle G. Kauffman;
fossil deep-sea ostracoda from localities in India, Israel, Czechoslovakia,
Yugoslavia, Turkey, Cyprus, and Sicily by Richard Benson; Brachiopods
from England and Poland by G. A. Cooper; mollusks from the Carib-
bean by Thomas Waller; and a major collection of fusulinid foraminif-
era from the upper Paleozoic of Yugoslavia, Tunisia, Cyprus, and Tur-
key collected for the Museum by Raymond C. Douglass and Merlynd
Nestell. In total, these field collections will produce thousands of speci-
mens new to the Museum.

The most outstanding single foreign collection has been added by
purchase as a gift of the Walcott Fund. It is composed of more than
6,000 specimens, most of them carefully prepared, which represent one
of the finest collections ever made from the classic Jurassic sequence of
the Swiss Jura. The collection represents more than forty years of work
by the collector, Zuber Oberlé, and is meticulously labeled and docu-
mented. The brachiopods and sponges are of exceptional importance
162 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Museum specialists assemble a composite skeleton of the wooly mammoth from
remains found in the frozen muck deposits in the vicinity of Fairbanks,
Alaska.

while the cephalopod species represented are used as a standard
throughout the world. This magnificent addition to the invertebrate
collection will aid in better fulfilling the responsibility of the Museum as
a repository of material used for cosmopolitan studies by staff and pro-
fessional visitors from throughout the world. Most of the species are
new to the collections and previously have been represented only sparsely
in any American collections.

Exchanges with the British Museum resulting from trips funded by
the Walcott bequest have been arranged by Frederick Collier, Porter
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 163

Museum technician Sigmund Sweda exposes the skeleton on an extinct peccary,
one of four individuals—probably a family—found together in a wind-blown
dust deposit near Hickman, Kentucky. The animals are thought to have died
by suffocation during an Ice Age dust storm. A mounted skeleton of the same
species, from Pennsylvania, is in the right background.

Kier, and G. A. Cooper. Several thousand specimens have been trans-
ferred in this program. Many new species of mollusca, brachiopods, and
echinoderms from Great Britain have been added to the collections and
the possibility of further exchanges is being arranged.

Notable additions to the collections from domestic sources include
tens of thousands of specimens comprehending thousands of type speci-
mens transferred from the United States Geological Survey or received
from researchers throughout the country. The Walcott bequest has
provided for a number of outstanding purchases or collecting trips.
These include the purchase of more than 12,000 deep-sea ostracodes
recovered from cores provided by Lamont Laboratories. The cores have
been taken from stations all over the world and represent an unprece-
dented sampling of these microfossils from depths as great as 4,000
meters and an age of more than 20 million years. Ostracodes are the
only group of higher invertebrates found in deep-sea sediments that
have a good fossil record with the resulting potential for geologic cor-
relation of time and environmental boundaries. Other significant addi-
164 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

tions include 24,000 Silurian and Devonian brachiopods from Nevada
and Southern California donated by research associate A. J. Boucot,
and more than 5,000 invertebrates from the Paleozoic of Oklahoma,
Mississippi, and Ohio made by G. A. Cooper and Thomas Phelan. The
paleobotanical collections have received many type specimens, includ-

ing palynomorphs from the Middle Cretaceous of Peru, the holotype of |
Williamsonia nizhonia -Ash with thirteen cuticle preparations, speci- |

mens of Cretaceous algae from the Black Escarpment and Israel, and
others of importance.

Intensified collecting of fossil marine mammals and less-abundant
vertebrates from the classical Miocene localities of southern Maryland
has produced numerous additions to the fossil vertebrate collections.
Close cooperation by residents and amateur collectors has enabled
early recovery of many pieces before weathering damage can occur.
Albert Myrick has represented the Department in organizing a volun-
teer collecting team and clearinghouse for information regarding new

exposures. Rare specimens added through these efforts include frag-

mentary mandibles of Hadrodelphis calvertense, about two dozen por-
poise skulls, several turtle and fish specimens, posterior rami of both
mandibles of the rare Miocene peccary Desmathyus, and an unerupted
gomphothere molar. Other notable additions include snake vertebrae
from a Eocene-Bashi formation and a cast of the skeleton of Paleopara-
doxia from the Museum of Paleontology, University of California,
Berkeley.

The Division of Sedimentology has acquired bottom-grab and dredge
samples and deep-sea cores from the continental slope and rise in the
vicinity of the Wilmington Canyon collected on joint Smithsonian-
United States Coast Guard cruises. Sediment samples added to the col-
lection include those obtained in coastal environments of North Caro-
lina (collected in conjunction with the University of South Carolina)
and in the Hatteras abyssal plain (collected on joint Smithsonian-
United States Coast Guard and NAvocEANo cruises). Also received are
bottom samples collected on the continental shelf of Argentina as part
of a cooperative project with the National Oceanographic Committee
of Argentina, the Hydrographic Service of Argentina, the United
States Coast Guard, and George Washington University.

Curation of the collections continues to center on the processing of
type specimens. In all divisions there has been movement toward
eventual automatic data processing, but type specimens must be fully
curated and verified against published descriptions and illustrations
before information can be put into any automatic system. The paleo-

botanical type-collections and fossil vertebrate types are not seriously —

backlogged in initial processing, but fossil invertebrate type specimens
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 165

continue to be received at an increasing rate. More than forty papers,
including some six to seven thousand specimens, have been processed
this year by cataloger (Mrs.) Beverly Tate. The procedures in recording
invertebrate specimens have been altered by changing to loose-leaf
catalogs with typewritten entries. The information in this form will be
more accessible for entry into an automated system and is more rapidly
recorded.

Several collections have been rearranged to facilitate storage or to
improve use and accessibility. The Paleozoic bivalve mollusks have
been moved into a biologically arranged system comprising several
thousand species, and the first biologically arranged Mesozoic ammonite
and bivalve collections have been formed. A start has been made on a
complete revision of the fossil mammal collection to be based on a
faunal-stratigraphic plan.

The greatest demand on collections and laboratory facilities of the
Department have involved the increased use of predoctoral and post-
doctoral fellows and visiting scientists and students. Ten study kiosks
and increased desk space in the range areas, as well as increased labora-
tory space and equipment, have been almost constantly in use.

Exhibits

Major emphasis in the Vertebrate Paleontology laboratories has con-
tinued to be placed on preparation of specimens for exhibition. Work
has continued on several individual glyptodonts, on a composite skeleton
of wooly mammoth, and on a family group of peccaries. A second
mounted individual of the giant ground sloth Eremothertum has been
completed.

Special attention in field work has been given to the acquisition of
specimens for exhibition. Large collections of the extinct lagomorph
Prolagus sardus have been made in Sardinia. Several skeletons have
been mounted by Daniel Opplinger at the Carnegie Museum under
the direction of Mary R. Dawson. One of these will be provided for
exhibit at the Smithsonian. Materials of extinct dormice and of Myotra-
gus balearicus also have been obtained in the Mediterranean for future
exhibit.

The Division of Paleobotany is cooperating with the Department of
Mineral Sciences in the construction of a Carboniferous swamp diorama
in the Hall of Physical Geology. Consultation with artists of the exhibits
staff also has involved the illustration of Mesozoic plants to be presented
in mural form in the dinosaur hall.
166 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
Staff Publications

ApEy, WALTER H. “The Distribution of Crustose Corallines on the Icelandic
Coast.” Scientia Islandica (1968), Anniversary Volume 1968, pages 16—25.

Benson, RicuHarpD H. “Post-Paleozoic Ostracoda.” Moore, R. C., “Developments,
Trends, and Outlooks in Paleontology.” Journal of Paleontology (1968),
volume 42, pages 1351-1352.

BoarpMaN, R. S. ‘Potential Use of Paleozoic Bryozoa in Subsurface Explora-
tion.” Atti della Societd Italiandi Scienze Naturale e del Museo Civico di
Storia Naturale di Milano (1968), volume 108, 4 pages.

. “Colony Development and Convergent Evolution of Budding Pattern

in “Rhombotrypid” Bryozoa.” Atti della Societa Italian di Scienze Naturale

e del Museo Civico di Storia Naturale di Milano (1968), volume 108, 6 pages.

, and A. H. CueetHam. “Bryozoa” in R. C. Moore, “Developments,

Trends, and Outlooks in Paleontology.” Journal of Paleontology (1968),

volume 42, pages 1352-1353.

, and A. H. Cueetuam. “Skeletal Growth, Intracolony Variation, and
Evolution in Bryozoa: A Review.” Journal of Paleontology (1969), volume
43, number 2, pages 205-233, 8 figures, 4 plates.

Buzas, M. A., and T. G. Grsson. “Species Diversity: Benthonic Foraminifera in
Western North Atlantic.” Science (1969), volume 163, pages 72-75.

CueetTHAM, A. H. “Evolution of Zooecial Asymmetry and Origin of Poricel-
lariid Cheilostomes.” In Proceedings of the First International Bryozoology
Association Conference, Milan, Italy, 12-16 August 1968. Atti della Societa
Italiana di Scienze Naturale e del Museo Civico di Storia Naturale di Milano
(1969), volume 106, pages 1-17.

, J. B. Rucker, and R. E. Carver. “Wall Structure and Mineralogy of
the Cheilostome Bryozoan Metrarabdotos.” Journal of Paleontology (1969),
volume 43, pages 129-135, 26 plates, 1 figure.

CiFELLI, RicHArRD.—See Thompson, G., V. T. Bowen; W. G. Melson; and
R. Cifelli.

Cooper, G. A., and R. E. Grant. “New Permian Brachiopods from West Texas.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology (1969), number 1, 20 pages, 5
plates.

Dane, C. H., E. G. KAUFFMAN, and W. A. Cossan. “Semilla Sandstone, a New
Member of the Mancos Shale in the Southeastern Part of the San Juan Basin,
New Mexico.” United States Geological Survey Bulletin (1968), 1254F (Con-
tributions to Stratigraphy), 21 pages, 4 figures.

Gazin, C. Lewis. “A Study of the Eocene Condylarthran Mammal Hypsodus.”
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (19€8), volume 153, number 4, pages
1-90, figures 1—10, plates 1-13.

. “A New Primate from the Torrejon Middle Paleocene of the San Juan
Basin, New Mexico.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
(1968), volume 81, pages 629-634, figures 1—3.

Haze, J. E., and T. R. Water. “Technical Comment: Stratigraphic Data and
Length of the Synodic Month.” Science (1969), volume 164, pages 201-202.

James, N. P., and D. J. STANLeEy. “Sable Island Bank off Nova Scotia: Sedi-
ment Dispersal and Recent History.”’ Bulletin of the American Association of
Petroleum Geologists (1968), volume 52, pages 2208-2230.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 167

KaurrMan, ERLE G. “Cretaceous Thyasira from the Western Interior of North
America.” Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (1967), volume 152, num-
ber 1, 159 pages, 18 figures, 5 plates, 7 tables.

. “Notes on the Cretaceous Inoceramidae of Jamaica.” Geonotes, Jamaica
Geological Survey (1967), 15 pages, 1 table.

KauFrMan, Erte G. “Coloradoan Macroinvertebrate Assemblages, Central
Western Interior, United States.’”’ Pages 67-143, 12 figures, in Paleoenviron-
ments of the Cretaceous Seaway in the Western Interior: A Symposium. E. G.
Kauffman, H. E. Kent, editors. Golden: Colorado School of Mines, 1967.

, and Kent, H. C., editors. Paleoenvironments of the Cretaceous Seaway
in the Western Interior: A Symposium. 217 pages, illustrated. Golden: Colo-
rado School of Mines, 1967.

KauFrMaNn, Erte G. “Form, Function, and Evolution.” In Treatise on Inverte-
brate Paleontology, edited by R. C. Moore. 147 pages, 17 figures. 1969.

Kier, Porter M. “Echinoids from the Middle Eocene Lake City Formation of
Georgia.” Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (1968), volume 153, number
2, 45 pages, 44 figures, 10 plates.

. “The Triassic Echinoids of North America.” Journal of Paleontology

(1968), volume 42, number 4, pages 1000-1006, 1 figure, plates 121-123.

. “Nortonechinus and the Ancestry of the Cidarid Echinoids.” Journal of
Paleontology (1968), volume 42, number 5, pages 1163-1170, 3 figures, plates
151-153.

NEwELL, N. D., and E. G. KaurrMan. “Bivalvia.” In Moore, R. C., editor, “De-
velopments, Trends, and Outlooks in Paleontology.” Journal of Paleontology
(1968), volume 42, number 6, pages 1367—1368, 2 figures.

Pierce, J. W., and James H. Howarp. “An Inexpensive Portable Vibrocorer.”
Journal of Sedimentary Petrology (1969), volume 39, pages 385-390.

, and Freperic R. Srece. “Qualification in Clay Mineral Studies of
Sediments and Sedimentary Rocks.” Journal of Sedimentary Petrology (1969),
volume 39, pages 187-193.

Ray, Crayton E., ALEXANDER WETMORE, Davip H. DuNKLE, and Paut Drez.
“Fossil Vertebrates from the Marine Pleistocene of Southeastern Virginia.”
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections (1968), volume 153, number 3, 25
pages, 2 figures, 2 plates.

, DonaLp Wituis and Joun C. Patmgutst. ‘Fossil Musk Oxen of IIli-
nois.” Transactions of the Illinois Academy of Science (1968), volume 61,
number 3, pages 282—292, 5 figures.

SIEGEL, Freperic R., Jack W. Pierce, Cartos M. Urten, and Irvine C. STONE.
“Clay Mineralogy in the Estuary of the Rio de la Plata, South America.”
International Geological Congress (1968), volume 8, pages 51-59.

STANLEY, D. J. “Graded Bedding-sole Marking-graywacke Assemblage and Re-
lated Sedimentary Structures in Some Carboniferous Flood Deposits, Eastern
Massachusetts. In symposium volume, ‘Continental Sedimentation, North-
eastern North America,” Klein, editor. Geological Society of America Special
Paper (1968) number 106, pages 211-240.

. “Reworking of Glacial Sediments in the North West Arm, a Fjord-like

Inlet on the Southeast Coast of Nova Scotia.” Journal of Sedimentary Petrol-

ogy (1968), volume 38, pages 1224-1241.

, and D. J. P. Swirt. ‘“Bermuda’s Reef-front Platform: Bathymetry and

Significance.” Marine Geology (1968), volume 6, pages 479-500.

168 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

, G. Drapeau and A. E. Cox. “Submerged Terraces on the Nova Scotian
Shelf.” Zeitschrift Geomorphologie (1968), volume 7, pages 85-94.

STANLEY, D. J. ‘‘The Atlantic Continental Shelf and Slope of the United States:
Color of the Sediments.’ United States Geological Survey Professional Paper
(1969), 529-D, 15 pages.

STANLEY, D. J., and G. Keiuinc. “Photographic Investigation of Sediment Tex-
ture, Bottom Current Activity, and Benthonic Organisms in the Wilmington
Submarine Canyon.” United States Coast Guard Oceanographic Report
(19G9))5 22.

Tuompson, G., V. T. Bowen, W. G. MEtson, and R. CiFeuu. “Lithified Car-
bonates from the Deep Sea of the Equatorial Atlantic.” Journal of Sedimentary
Petrology (1968), volume 38, number 4, pages 1305-1312.

Wa ter, T. R. “Two FORTRANII Programs for the Univariate and Bivariate
Analysis of Morphometric Data.” United States National Museum Bulletin
(1968) number 285, 55 pages, 2 figures.

WInG, ELIZABETH S., CHARLES A. HoFFMAN, JR., and CLAyTon E. Ray. “Verte-
brate Remains from Indian Sites on Antigua, West Indies.” Caribbean Journal
of Science (1968), volume 8, numbers 3 and 4, pages 123-139, 4 figures.

Lectures

Benson, RicHarp H. “Evolution of the Deep-Sea Ostracode Fauna.” University
of Leicester, England. October 1968.

. “Adaptive Radiation among Marine Ostracodes.” Hebrew National

University, Jerusalem, Israel. February 1969.

. “Scanning Electron Microscopy in Micropaleontology.” State University

of Indiana and Bowling Green University. March 1969.

. “Evolution in the Deep Sea.” State University of Indiana and Bowling

Green University. March 1969.

. Lectures on Marine Geology. Smithsonian Associates, Smithsonian In-
stitution, Washington, D.C. April 1969.

CHEETHAM, ALAN H. “Adaptive Morphology of Danian Cheilostome Bryozoa,
Mineralogic.” Geologic Museum, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Sep-
tember 1968.

, with R. S. Boarpman. “Recent Developments in Bryozoology.” Paleon-

tological Society of Washington. November 1968.

. “Morphology and Evolution of Cheilostome Bryozoa.’’ Department of
Geology, George Washington University. December 1968—January 1969.

Horton, Nicuoras, III. “Theories Relating to Vertebrate Extinction.” Mary-
land Academy of Sciences. October 1968.

. “Whatever Became of the Dinosaurs?’? Montgomery County Gem and
Mineral Society. February 1969.

Hueser, Francis M. “Plants through Time.” First-year botany students, Uni-
versity of Maryland. 16 and 17 December 1968; 7 and 8 May 1969.

. “Studies in the Devonian Floras of Australia.’ Staff-student seminar,
Botany Department, University of Connecticut. 17 March 1969.

KaAuFFMAN, ERLE G. “Biostratigraphy and Assemblages of Antillean Cretaceous
Bivalves.” Fifth Caribbean Geological Conference, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.
5-12 July 1968.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY 169

. “Cretaceous Biostratigraphy of Western Interior United States.” Geo-

logical Society of America annual meeting, Mexico City. November 1968.

. “Evolutionary Studies in Paleontology”; ‘“Macroinvertebrate Assem-

blages of the Western Interior Cretaceous.”” Waynesburg College. December

1968.

. Eight field trips with lectures in paleontology. Smithsonian Associates,

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. April, May, October, November

1969.

. Adult education class in paleontology involving ten lectures. Smithsonian

Associates, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. November 1968—Janu-

ary 1969.

. “Geological Interpretation of Cretaceous Macroinvertebrate Assem-

blages.” Southwest Center for Advanced Studies. 25 March 1969.

. “Cretaceous Biostratigraphy of the Western Interior United States;

Concepts and Methods of a New System.” Southwest Center for Advanced

Studies. 26 March 1969.

. “Major Evolutionary Patterns of Cretaceous Mollusks of the Western

Interior.” Paleontological Society of Washington. 16 April 1969.

, “Evolutionary Studies of Mesozoic-Early Cenozoic Bivalvia.” Smith-

sonian Mollusc Seminar. 20 March 1969.

. “Cretaceous Biostratigraphic System, Western Interior United States.”

Yale University. 3 March 1969.

. “Evolutionary Studies of Cretaceous Bivalves.” Yale University. 4 March

1969.

. “Cretaceous Macroinvertebrate Assemblages, Western Interior United

States.”” Yale University. 6 March 1969.

. Smithsonian Docent Classes: ‘“‘Systematics,’ 20 October 1968; “‘Bio-

stratigraphy,” 21 November 1968; “Paleoecology,” 19 December 1968; “Evo-

lution,” 13 January 1969; “Smithsonian Research in Paleontology,” 17 March

1969.

. “Fossils and Earth History.” Hardy School. 17 January 1969.

. “Ancient Environments.” Maryland Academy of Science. 18 March

1969.

. “Cretaceous Biostratigraphy of the Western Interior United States;
Concepts and Methods of a New System.” Indiana University. 7 January 1969.

Kier, Porter M. “Seminar in Functional Morphology and Paleoecology.” Uni-
versity of Rochester. December 1968.

Ray, Crayton E. “Collecting Fossil Vertebrates in Cave Deposits in the United
States and in the Antilles.” William Pengelly Cave Studies Association, Buck-
fastleigh, Devon, England. September 1968.

STan.Ley, Danret J. “Marine Geology of the Continental Margin off Nova Scotia,
Canada.” Lubbock, Texas, Geological Society; National Science Foundation
Sedimentological Seminar, Minas Basin, Nova Scotia; Department of Geology,
University of Illinois. 1968.

. “Marine Geology of the Wilmington Submarine Canyon.” Institute of

Oceanography, Old Dominion University; Offshore Exploration Group, Esso

Production Research Company, Houston, Texas. 1969.

. “Color of Sediments on the Atlantic Continental Margin of the United

States and Southeastern Canada.” Annual Meeting NE Section, Geological

Society of America, Washington, D.C. 1968.

366-269 O—70——12

170 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. “The Ten-Fathom Terrace on Bermuda: A Potential Datum for Meas-
uring Crustal Mobility and Eustatic Sea-Level Changes in the Atlantic.” Fifth
Caribbean Geological Conference, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. 1968.

. “Bioturbation and Organisms: Their Effect on Sedimentation in Some

Submarine Canyons.” Third European Symposium on Marine Biology, Archa-

chon, France. 1968.

. “Flyschoid—Not Flysch—Sedimentation on the Outer Atlantic Margin
off North America.” Annual Meeting, Geological Association of Canada, Mon-
treal. 1969.

STANLEY, D. J., P. FENNER, G. Keuuinc, and D. J. P. Swirr. “Underwater
Television as a Tool for Mapping the Outer Continental Margin.” NE Sec-
tion, Geological Society of America, Albany, New York. 1969.

STANLEY, D. J., and G. Keune. “Interpretation of a Levee-like Ridge and
Associated Features, Wilmington Submarine Canyon.” Eastern United States
of America Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique Symposium, Ville-
franche, France. 1968.

. “Neocurrent Trends and Structural Control of Sedimentation in the
Wilmington Submarine Canyon.” Annual Meeting sEpm, Dallas, Texas. 1969.

STANLEY, D. J., P. Swirt, and N. SILverBeErG. “Late Quaternary Progradation
on the Outer Continental Margin off Nova Scotia.” Annual Meeting, Geologi-
cal Society of America, Mexico City. 1968.

and R. Unruc “Coarse-channelized Deposits and Other Indicators of

Slope and Base-of-Slope Environments in Ancient Marine Basins.” Society _

of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists research symposium “Criteria

for Recognizing Sedimentary Environments in the Stratigraphic Record.”

Dallas. 1969.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Frep L. WuipPLe, Director

OR THE FIRST TIME, THIS REPORT of the work conducted by the

Astrophysical Observatory is limited to a close view of only a few
of the numerous areas in which great progress has been made during
the current year. This new policy permits examination in subsequent
years of other areas selected so as to give a full view of Observatory
activities in a sequence of four or five annual reports. The titles of staff
papers presented or published, as listed at the end of this report, give
a thumbnail sketch of the research completed.

No significant policy changes in the Observatory research program
have been initiated this year except that unusual effort has been ex-
pended toward the most efficient utilization of brainpower, funds, and

‘facilities with the goal of uncovering as much knowledge and under-
standing as possible about the universe in which we live and about
'man’s interrelationships with this universe.

)
GEODESY AND EARTH PHYSICS FROM SPACE

For a multitude of his enterprises, man must know the coordinates
of points on, above, or below the earth’s surface. Points on the earth
are not, of course, fixed in space and time. The earth-moon system
moves in its orbit about the sun while the earth and moon follow orbits
about their center of mass and while the earth rotates about a slowly
changing axis. Also, locations on the surface change because of processes
within the solid, liquid, and gaseous domains of the earth. To this com-
plex dynamical system, man has added spacecraft that sense the details
of the system without themselves influencing its workings.

Fundamental physics asserts that the only way to mark a point is by
reference to objects possessing mass. But all objects with mass are

171
172 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

attracted mutually in accordance with the laws of gravitation, and these
laws dominate in governing the complex motions in which the earth
and its satellites participate. Hence, the mass distribution and the gravi-
tational field of the earth are fundamentally linked to the problem of
locating points.

Traditionally, relative positions and gravity on the surface of the
earth, the motions of the earth, and the associated physical processes are
recognized as principal objectives of branches of the geosciences and
astronomy.

These disciplines have the common characteristic that they are based
upon measurements of distance and direction and their time dependence.
The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory has pioneered in the ap-
plication of space technology to a broad span of related metric problems.

Evolution of Instrumentation and Techniques *

Preparations to observe artificia] satellites and to calculate their posi-
tions were important aspects of the first satellite programs. By the time
satellites became a reality, special cameras developed under the direc-
tion of Fred L. Whipple were ready to photograph an illuminated
satellite against the star background. These Baker-Nunn cameras de-
signed for sao produce camera-to-satellite directions accurate to a few
seconds of arc. For a typical orbit, this angular uncertainty corresponds
to a positional uncertainty of a few tens of meters. Radio doppler tracking
also began with the first United States satellite; this technique as per-
fected by the Applied Physics Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity has demonstrated accuracy comparable to that of camera
tracking.

During most of the first decade of the space age, the 10-meter ac-
curacy characterizing the various photographic and doppler systems
surpassed the precision with which their data could be fitted by theory.

By about 1966, agreement between theory and data came into sight,
and interest in improved tracking systems grew.

Ranging to satellites with light pulses from a ruby laser was perhaps
the first new technique promising 1-meter resolution or better.* For this
system, the satellites need carry only retroreflectors in the form of cube-
cornered mirrors. At this writing, six satellites with retroreflectors are
in orbit, and several laser systems, including three at sao sites, are op-
erating, typically at the 1-meter accuracy level. No major obstacles seem
to stand in the way of 10-centimeter accuracy in a few years.

A second instrumentation breakthrough is long-baseline radio inter-
ferometry over thousands of miles, with independent atomic clocks.*
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

A Baker-Nunn photograph of S4-B fuel venting 30,000 miles above earth.

Phe sao-Harvard radio telescope is being equipped for these measure-
nents. As with any interferometer system, the fundamental measure-
ment is a range difference that can be translated into an angle relative
(0 the baseline.

The use of an altimeter on a satellite is an old idea that now seems
imely for implementation. As currently conceived by the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, this third instrumentation ad-
vance would use radar techniques over the ocean to attain meter-or-

174 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969.

better accuracies. Other systems being readied include devices to com-
pensate for surface forces on a satellite and instruments for satellite-to-
satellite tracking. sAo is preparing techniques to analyze data from such
systems.

Evolution of Geodetic Applications *

In 1964, with the establishment of the National Geodetic Satellite
Program, a set of national objectives was adopted, embracing goals rea-
sonably attainable with the systems then available. As currently formu-
lated, the two major objectives are (1) the establishment of a unified
world datum referenced to the center of mass of the earth, in which
about ninety station locations are to be positioned with an accuracy of
ten meters, and (2) the determination of values of the coefficients of the
spherical-harmonic representation of the gravitational field of the earth
to the 15th degree and order.

The objectives of the national program now seem within sight of
fulfillment. Results at sao reported during 1969 by Kurt Lambeck estab-
lish a world datum as required by the first objective and give positions
of some forty stations. Geopotential coefficients determined during this
year by Edward M. Gaposchkin of sao and Yoshihide Kozai of sao
and Tokyo University nearly satisfy the second objective. These results
are being compiled in the new Smithsonian Institution Standard Earth.

Thought and action toward other applications and objectives have
begun, stimulated in part by the progress toward the announced national
objectives. An equally significant stimulus has been the instrumentation
progress sketched above.

Geopotential and Mass Distribution *

The gravitational potential of the earth is a manifestation of the mass
distribution within the earth. As determinations of the potential improve
and as they come to represent smaller features of the field, their implica-
tions for geology rise sharply. Over the oceans, very fine geoid detail
from a satellite altimeter can have great geological significance for large
regions of the earth that have had little study.

Earth Tides *

Earth tides due to the sun and moon are prime examples of
phenomena whose investigation by satellite techniques became possible
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 175

only when orbit determination attained accuracies of a few seconds of
arc. In principle, at least two aspects of earth tides can be studied.

The most obvious effect is the motion of a tracking instrument as its
foundation rides with the tides in the solid earth. The radial deformation
of the earth under conditions of maximum change has a range of some
thirty centimeters. Motions of this amplitude should be detectable by
the most precise tracking instruments, but a suitable observing campaign
has yet to be mounted. Robert Newton of the Applied Physics Labora-
tory and Kozai have detected the satellite orbital perturbations cor-
responding to the mass displacement. Analyses by both authors have
obtained a measure of the gross elastic properties of the earth.

The elastic coefficients derived from satellite orbits agree reasonably
with the value derived from astronomical observations and the theory
of the Chandler wobble of the earth’s pole.

Polar Motion *

The earth rotates about an axis that continually changes. First, the
direction of the angular momentum vector in space has a 26,000-year
cycle caused mainly by torques from lunar and solar gravitational inter-
tions with the oblateness of the earth. This is called astronomical
recession and nutation.

Second, the axis about which the earth rotates at any instant, ex-
oressed relative to body-fixed coordinates, performs a precession. This
can have an amplitude of roughly 0.5 arcsec. The motion involves two
periods, one of twelve months and the other of about fourteen.

Third, the position of the principal axis of inertia for the earth,
Le., its current rotation axis, is not necessarily fixed relative to some set
of axes attached to the earth. Besides the obvious possibilities of mass
displacement in the fluid domains of the earth, there recently has been
a suggestion that mass displacements associated with earthquakes may
contribute observable changes.

Satellites offer several new but untried avenues for further investi-
gations of polar motion. If the conventional corrections for polar motion
are not introduced into the analysis of satellite observations, station
positions should show an apparent variation corresponding to the wobble
of the earth beneath the satellite. Polar-motion measurements of
superior accuracy may result from long-baseline interferometry with
independent atomic clocks at two or more radio telescopes.

An exciting possibility from satellite observations concerns the deter-
mination of the location of the principal axis with maximum

>
176 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
moment of inertia, using analysis techniques developed for geopotential
determinations.

Rotation of the Earth *

The rate of rotation of the earth about its instantaneous axis is not
a constant when measured against atomic clocks; that is, the sidereal.
length of the day is not constant. There is some possibility that those
variations may be determined from the satellite analyses themselves.
It is more likely that improved techniques, such as long-baseline radio
interferometry, will eventually provide refined tabulations.

Satellite techniques may also contribute to an understanding of the
origin of these variations. There may be mass displacements that change
the moment of inertia of the earth, and these changes should be
accompanied by changes in the geopotential coefficients.

Crustal Motions *

An attempt to measure the relative motion of crustal blocks, ie..
continental drift, is by far the most difficult task seriously contemplated
for techniques of satellite geodesy. Yet this phenomenon is one of the
most actively discussed today in earth science. Two recent global models
can be applied to predict the relative horizontal velocities that might
be expected for any two points on the earth’s surface. These have been
applied to sao sites by Paul A. Mohr. The maximum rate is about ten
centimeters per year. Because laser and interferometer techniques are
approaching this accuracy and because an observing campaign could
cover several years, measurement of crustal block motion is a reasonable
goal for the second decade of the space age.

Ocean Profile *

In the open ocean, the sea level averaged over wave structure should
be an equipotential surface within an uncertainty of a few meters.
Dynamical variations due to tides, currents, cyclones, and similar
phenomena of great interest in oceanography seem to have amplitudes
of less than a few meters. Hence, the use of satellite-borne altimeters
to sense sea level might progress through two phases. In the first, the
equipotential surface corresponding to mean sea level would be deter-
mined to an accuracy of one meter or better. In the second phase,
refined altimeters would probe dynamical changes in the ocean surface.
MITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY Ds
oordinated Observation Campaigns *

Clearly, the problems discussed above are intimately interrelated in
complex ways, and certainly there are other related topics not discussed
ere that will emerge later with major importance. Many investigations
of a broad range of questions can be based on the same observational
material if the design of the observing campaign anticipates this need.
Iso, some of the investigations may require coordinated observations
Tom quite different instruments—e.g., laser networks and radio inter-
erometers. Still further, most of the topics are global in scope and there-
Ore require that observing sites be well distributed geographically.
The organization of a coordinated observation and analysis effort of
he scale required is a formidable problem in itself, to which sao is
Ow expanding its attention.

MAJOR METEORITE RECOVERIES OF 1968-69

The scientific value of information gathered from a meteorite is
sreatly enhanced if the object can be analyzed within a few weeks or
ven a few days after its fall. Such material fresh from interplanetary
pace contains traces of radioactivity that afford unique information
‘bout the solar system’s history. ;

This past year has been an unusually productive one for scientists
aterested in the quick recovery of meteorites. Four large meteorites
iave been recovered, each within a few days of its fall.

On Friday, 12 April 1968, at 8:30 p.m., a meteorite struck the roof
f the home of Joseph W. Kowalski in Schenectady, New York, splinter-
4g a portion of the eaves and rebounding onto the ground. Mr. Kowal-
ki, who was watching television at the time, heard what he later
lescribed as a sound “like a firecracker going off in the attic.” Two
lays later, on returning home from church, he observed the broken
aves, noted the nature of the damage, searched the grounds adjacent
2 his home, and recovered from alongside his house a single chrondritic
tone meteorite of mass 283.3 grams. Its exterior consists primarily of

dull black fusion crust plus a fracture surface that was apparently
roduced by breakup in the atmosphere.

During its existence in space (in this Case, as a small body of one-
aeter radius or less), a meteoroid is exposed to cosmic rays, which
ause nuclear reactions and produce radioactive and stable atomic
pecies. After it has fallen, however, the meteorite is protected from
Osmic rays by the earth’s atmosphere and there is little subsequent
iotope production. From laboratory measurements of a stable product

;
;
-
178 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

and a radioactive one, it is possible to determine the duration of cosmic-
ray exposure, which is called the exposure age.

Edward L. Fireman ® has measured the cosmic-ray exposure age of
this meteorite and has placed it at 31.4 million years. This age plus
measurements of the densities of cosmic-ray tracks in olivine and
pyroxene crystals at four positions in the meteorite give evidence that
the specimen came from a depth between 5 and 10 centimeters in 2
preatmospheric body of greater than 15-centimeter radius. Th
uranium/helium-4 and krypton/argon-40 ages, which are 4.1 billion
years and 4.35 billion years, respectively, indicate that the meteorite
underwent very little heating in space since it became solid.

On 14 November 1968, at about 6 P.m., a 25-kilogram iron meteorite
fell only thirty meters from where a farmer was standing in a field neai
Alandroal, Portugal. Robert A. Citron, director of the Smithsonian
Center for Short-Lived Phenomena, learned about this fall on 2 Decem:
ber and arranged for a specimen to be sent to sao for analysis.® Ii
arrived on 14 December, only thirty days after the fall. The meteorite
is called both Alandroal and Juromenha. |

Matthias F. Comerford has investigated its metallography 7 and ha.
found that if the object had ever had the octahedral pattern normall
expected of iron meteorites, the pattern had been destroyed by at least i
single-stage melting event and more probably by a two-stage melting
freezing plus deformation-and-annealing history. His investigation ha’
further indicated that the structure of the meteorite is similar to tha
of the Washington County iron, which is an unusual meteorite becaus'
it has 8.7 percent nickel but no Widmanstatten pattern, a distinctiv:
crystallization feature usually found in irons.

Because study of Alandroal began only one month after fall, certain o
the short-lived radioactivities could be measured with considerable ac
curacy, giving new information about cosmic rays in interplanetar
space. Fireman has measured the argon-37, argon-39, and tritium radio
activities and the rare-gas content.® He has found that the argon-37,
argon-39 ratio in Alandroal is the lowest ever measured in am
meteorite.

From this ratio, Fireman has found that the exposure age of Alan
droal is 33 million years. This means that Alandroal was covered witl
protective material until 33 million years ago, when it collided with an
other body or otherwise had its protective covering ripped away anc
the present meteoritic material exposed to space. Another conclusior
is that the cosmic-ray flux per unit time bombarding Alandroal durin;
the fifty days before the meteorite struck the earth was only half as grea
as the average flux during the last 400 years. This ratio means that the
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 179

cosmic-ray flux at 3+1 astronomical units from the sun is twice as high
as at 1 astronomical unit.
_ Less than three months later, on 8 February 1969, at 1:05 a.m., a
spectacular fireball lit up the sky over Arizona, New Mexico, and north-
ern Mexico. A shower of stones fell over an area of approximately 100
square miles around Pueblito de Allende in Southern Chihuahua, Mex-
ico, approximately twenty miles east of the city of Hidalgo del Parral.

When news of this event reached sao, the Center for Short-Lived
Phenomena immediately alerted the Air Force. A B—57 aircraft fol-
lowed the winds over the Gulf of Mexico for seven hours to collect
airborne dust ablated from the meteoroid. Citron quickly located peo-
ple who had recovered specimens and he notified scientists of the fall.
Charles A. Tougas and Gunther Schwartz traveled to the site to obtain
trajectory data; from these data and from the distribution of material
on the ground, Richard E. McCrosky has been able to deduce that the
preatmospheric mass of the meteorite exceeded twenty tons.°

An intensive study of a piece of this meteorite has been carried out by
Ursula B. Marvin, John A. Wood, and John S. Dickey, Jr.® It has
proved to be a rare type III carbonaceous chondrite containing
chondrules and irregular masses that depart radically in mineralogy and
chemistry from the matrix and from the bulk composition of other stony

Dr. Fireman examines the meteorite Pueblito de Allende in his laboratory.

180 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

meteorites. Patches of material abnormally rich in aluminum have been
discovered, along with one mineral (hercynite, FeAl,O,) new to meteo-
rites. Also a melilitic glass has been found that is new to meteorites.

Fireman has determined from the neon in Allende that the cosmic-ray
exposure age of this meteorite is five million years. Evidently this is the
interval since it broke out of a larger object during a possible collision
in space. The exposure ages of other carbonaceous chondrites range
from 0.2 to 50 million years.

The most unusual feature of the rare gases contained in Allende is
the isotopic composition of the xenon in the chondrules. Chondrules
are spherical globules, a few millimeters in diameter, of what looks like
rock that once was melted but is now embedded in a fine-grained dust-
like matrix. Fireman has found that the xenon in the chondrules is
practically pure xenon-129, with only 1/100 as much xenon-132. This
is in sharp contrast to the xenon in the earth’s atmosphere, where these
two isotopes are nearly equally represented. Excesses of xenon-129 have
been found in other chondrules, but never so pronounced as in the
present case. The xenon-129 is believed to have arisen from the long-
extinct radioactive isotope of iodine-129, which was created when the
elements were formed. If this is true, then to have contained such a high
amount of xenon-129, the chondrules of Allende must have been
formed very soon after the creation of the elements.

To judge from the amount of material recovered, Pueblito de Allende
has the distinction of being the largest carbonaceous chondrite known.
The first known meteorite of this type fell near Alais, France, on 15
March 1806, only a few years after scientists accepted the reality of
“stones from the sky.” Allende is the 27th carbonaceous chondrite found.
Since the total weight of material in collections from the 26 previous
cases is only slightly greater than 100 kilograms, the world supply of
carbonaceous chondrite matter has been more than quadrupled by the
addition of over 350 kilograms recovered from this meteorite.

On 25 April 1969, a farmer saw a large fireball streak across the sky
near Belfast, Ireland. It was seen to fall in a bog in Sprucefield, and
several pieces of the meteorite were recovered. A sample has been ana-
lyzed by Fireman for radioactive and stable rare-gas isotopes. The radio-
activities of argon-37 and argon-39 have been measured in the magnetic
and nonmagnetic phases. The argon-37/argon-39 ratio gives a value of
0.900.009 for the iron phase, which is considerably higher than the
ratio measured in Alandroal. Since Sprucefield and Alandroal both fell
during the same period of the same solar cycle, Sprucefield’s orbit must _
have been different from that of Alandroal. In order to have a higher |
argon-37/argon-39 ratio, Sprucefield’s orbit must have had a smaller
semimajor axis. The stable rare-gas isotopes of helium, neon, and argon

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 181

are very low, indicating that the meteoroid was recently heated. The
exposure age of 1.6 million years obtained from helium-3 and neon-21
is less than one tenth the age obtained from xenon-126, which is 20
million years. This recent heating is in accord with an orbit with a small
semimajor axis.

Several of the analyses of these meteorites have been made in part
with special equipment designed and built by sao for the study of
lunar samples, beginning in the fall of 1969.° °

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PROCESSES

In a very general sense, the study of atomic and molecular processes
refers to the collisions of an atom, molecule, electron, or proton with
another such particle. Because of the quantal nature of these particles,
a variety of interesting effects can be observed.

The knowledge both of the different types of atomic and molecular
processes and of the rates at which these reactions proceed is essential
to the basic understanding of many aspects of modern science and tech-
nology. There are numerous applications in astrophysics, geophysics,
aeronomy, meteors, controlled fusion, magnetohydrodynamic power
conversion generators, plasma motors, and gas lasers that impose
stringent requirements on both identifying and determining accurate
probabilities of various atomic and molecular processes. For example,
the impact of atoms evaporated from a meteor with the atmospheric
atomic and molecular constituents causes the optical and ionization
phenomena produced when a meteor enters the upper atmosphere. In
addition, the ionosphere of the earth is produced mainly by the ioniza-
tion of the neutral-particle constituents of the atmosphere by solar ultra-
violet radiation. This ionization process leads to the production of free
‘electrons and positive ions, which cause excitation of the neutral par-
ticles, with the subsequent emission of light (dayglow). Knowledge of
atomic and molecular processes further enhances our understanding
of such fields as health physics and biochemistry.

Alex Dalgarno and his group have carried out theoretical studies of
a wide range of collision processes involving the interaction of radiation
with electrons, atoms, and molecules found in the atmospheres of the
planets, in the solar corona, and in the interstellar medium.’® Space
science has opened up a new, wide field of observation in the far ultra-
violet where these processes produce direction radiation.

One of the areas of atomic and molecular physics to which they have
given special attention is the absorption of ultraviolet radiation by
helium and hydrogen molecules. In addition to their importance to
182 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

molecular spectroscopy, the absorption processes in hydrogen provide
an efficient mechanism for the dissociation of a hydrogen molecule into)
two hydrogen atoms. The calculation by Arthur C. Allison of accurate:
transition probabilities for the Lyman and Werner systems is the neces-
sary first step in the calculation of the dissociation of molecular hydrogen:
by radiation with ultraviolet wavelengths around 1000 angstroms. The:
cross sections he has computed have been used in a discussion of the
abundance of hydrogen in the atmosphere of Venus. Kenneth M. Sando
has completed a detailed analysis of both the absorption and the emis-
sion of radiation in specific helium transitions that have been studied in
the laboratory. Dalgarno and his group have also begun a study of
the quadrupole emission spectrum that results from the primary ultra-
violet absorption.

Further, this group has continued studies of the processes controlling
the decay of excited states of the helium-like ions in the solar corona
and has completed the first purely theoretical predictions of the proba-
bilities of intercombination of spectral transitions. Gordon W. F. Drake
has carried out variational calculations to determine accurately the rates
of these radiative processes as a function of nuclear change. He also has
calculated spin-orbit mixing parameters and relativistic corrections to
the energy levels. In addition, he has developed a theory of induced
radiative deactivation of metastable ions by collision with charged par-
ticles. This theory has been used to obtain results for the metastable
helium-like ions.

The group also has explored the effects of collision-induced fine-
structure transitions that give rise to infrared emission. Robert H. G.
Reid has devoted particular attention to this work and has been in-
volved in the development of a new theoretical formulation that predicts
the occurrence of oscillations in the collision probabilities arising from a
resonance-like phenomenon.

Methods for calculating the effects of collisions between electrons
and heteronuclear molecules such as cN and oH have been developed
this year. Calculations on cn have been completed.

Several members of this group have continued fundamental studies
of the quantum mechanics of atomic and molecular structure. By means
of extension of the z-expansion technique to high order, Drake has
provided accurate wavefunctions for the entire isoelectric sequence
in a single calculation. Paul Blanchard has carried out a theoretical
investigation of quantum defects in 2- and 3-electron atomic systems
with the aid of the z-expansion perturbation theory, as developed by
Dalgarno and David Layzer (of Harvard College Observatory).
Michael Jamieson has completed his PhD dissertation, entitled Time-
Dependent Hartree-Fock Theory, on this subject. Dalgarno believes

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 183

that this construction of a general form of perturbation theory shows
much promise as a procedure for studying correlation effects.

Investigations of collision broadening effects in the wings of spectral
lines have continued. Sando has begun a study of the contribution to the
absorption in the Lyman-alpha wing. Dalgarno and his coworkers have
completed a study of the luminosity appearing in the upper atmosphere
of the planet earth as a consequence of collisions of the fast photo-
electrons released by the action of solar ultraviolet radiation.

M. Raymond Flannery and Hiram Levy II have continued their
tudies of atomic and molecular processes as they relate to meteor
trails?! They have developed an analytic form for the interaction matrix
elements in the hydrogen-hydrogen collision system and have prepared
impact-parameter calculations of cross sections for the excitation of both
atoms.

Flannery has continued investigations of various recombination
mechanisms that contribute to the electron loss from a meteor trail.
The rate of decay of the radar echo from the meteor trail gives a meas-
ure of the decrease of electron concentration in the trail.

Levy is currently working on two calculations of particular impor-
tance. The first is a method for determining first Born-wave excitation
and ionization cross sections for the collision of two atoms. The second
calculation involves multistate impact-parameter cross sections.

Theoretical studies of atomic and molecular processes are supported
not only by laboratory work but also by means of astronomical instru-
ments and space experiments.

Anthony R. Lee and Nathaniel P. Carleton have completed a series
of laboratory measurements on the excitation by electron impact on
the ions of calcium, barium, and strontium. Thus far, there have been
no laboratory measurements of this collision process, which is vitally
important in the formation of the spectral lines of these ions.

Ashok Sharma, Wesley A. Traub, and Carleton also have been con-
structing a three-etalon Fabry-Perot interferometer system for high-
resolution spectrometric work at Agassiz Station and at Mount Hop-
kins.1? This instrument is designed to be very flexible in terms of wave-
length coverage and resolving power, having specially designed reflecting
coatings on the etalons. It will be used to continue the program of high-
resolution planetary spectroscopy that is currently under way, with in-
vestigations of methane rotational temperature on Jupiter and of photo-
chemical processes involving oxygen on Venus and Mars. A search is
so planned for deuterium in the spectrum of Jupiter and in certain
planetary nebulae.
184 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

STUDYING THE SUN

The sun, a star among unimaginably many others, is uniquely close.
We can observe what it is and how it behaves much more thoroughly
than we can any other star. Yet the data we have already accumulated |
raise at least as many questions as they answer, for they reveal the enor-
mous complexity of the solar atmosphere. Theoretical studies have:
now progressed to the point where they account for many separate solar
phenomena, but many of the most fundamental aspects of the sun re-
main unexplained. Familiar examples include sunspots and the solar
corona, the origins of which are still not understood. sao is contributing)
heavily to our understanding of these and related phenomena.

Exciting new observations of the infrared region of the spectrum of!
sunspots are now available. This material is being obtained by Robert W.
Noyes and Donald N. Hall (the latter of the Harvard Astronomy De-
partment) , who have jointly initiated a major program of high-resolution
infrared spectroscopy of sunspots, using the vacuum spectrograph at
the McMath Solar Telescope of Kitt Peak National Observatory.

These infrared observations have enabled Noyes and Hall to make the
first identification of solar fluorine in the form of hydrofluoric acid)
molecules in sunspots. They also have mapped the first-overtone spec-
trum of carbon monoxide to very high quantum numbers and have ob-
tained high-resolution observations of highly excited levels of overtone
bands of on. They are in the process of extending their observations
farther into the infrared with a new infrared spectrograph under con-
struction at Kitt Peak National Observatory.

In order to interpret the new sunspot data, Noyes has begun to cal-
culate theoretical sunspot models, using a computer program developed
by Owen Gingerich and Duane F. Carbon at sao. There has resulted a
rather precise value for the abundance of fluorine in the sun as well as
information on sunspot structure.

Solar physicists have long worked to establish satisfactorily how the
temperature varies with height in the sun’s atmosphere. The procedure
is as follows: The details of many observed features of the radiation
from a star, such as the continuous spectrum or individual absorption
lines, are determined in part by the star’s temperature structure. Using
theories that specify how the spectrum and the temperature structure
are related, we build computer programs to calculate (hypothetical)
model solar atmospheres and synthetic solar spectra. With such programs
we attempt, largely by trial and error, to construct a temperature struc-
ture that causes the model to give rise to synthetic spectra that agree in
all essential details with the observed ones. The more complete our
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

The solar corona photographed during an eclipse.

observational material, the better fixed are the details of the temperature
structure.

New observations have been obtained by the Harvard College Ob-
servatory spectroheliometer on board the fourth Orbiting Solar Ob-
servatory (oso) .1* These data have enabled Harvard and Smithsonian
scientists to make new studies toward understanding the structure of the

upper solar atmosphere. Gingerich, in part jointly with Noyes and

366-269 O—70 13

186 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Yvette Cuny, has used new data to derive a new empirical model of the
temperature structure of the solar atmosphere.

Because of its position outside the atmosphere, oso 4 has provided
new observations in the far ultraviolet spectrum of the sun’s hydrogen.
Any model of the solar atmosphere should not only reproduce this spec-
trum at any point of the sun’s disk but also give its variation from center
to limb. Noyes and Wolfgang Kalkofen, using the latter’s model atmos-
phere program, have obtained for the low solar chromosphere a tempera-
ture and density structure that produces correctly the general features
of this radiation: emission of the continuum radiation from a region
where the kinetic temperature is about 8500°K, with a decrease in the
intensity for wavelengths near the head of the continuum as we look
from the center to the limb (limb darkening), and a corresponding in-
crease (limb brightening) at shorter wavelengths. Eugene H. Avrett,
using a program he and Rudolf Loeser have been developing over sev-
eral years, also has tried to obtain a temperature structure conforming
to the observed Lyman radiation; his results differ from those of Noyes
and Kalkofen. Reasons for the discrepancy may become clear as Avrett’s
work continues.

Casual observation discloses that neither the sun’s atmosphere nor
those of other stars resemble what we must assume in our calculations:
a series of flat layers of unlimited extent, the same everywhere, and never
changing. Even this apparent simplicity has necessitated several decades
of development of mathematical procedures, much of it here at sao, to
allow us to compute effectively. But we need to treat more complex
geometries: in the large, atmospheres are shells, not planes; in the
small, the shapes of relevant segments are more complex still. And we
need to take inhomogeneities and dynamics into account: We can ob-
serve atmospheric motions, such as convection currents and flares in
the sun, and motions of entire atmospheres, in pulsating stars. Sunspots
remind us that the solar atmosphere is not the same everywhere.

THE CELESCOPE EXPERIMENT *

Until very recently, astronomers have been forced to conduct their
observations from the bottom of the earth’s atmosphere, which signifi-
cantly limits the accuracy, sensitivity, and scope of their observations.
Important classes of objects, such as the x-ray stars, lay undiscovered
pending man’s ability to place the necessary instruments above the
absorbing layers of the atmosphere. In order to confirm and refine
the relevant theoretical concepts, important physical processes, such as
those occurring in the atmospheres of the hotter stars, require observa-

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Model of OAO 2 showing Celescope experiment.

tions in that part of the ultraviolet spectrum that is totally absorbed by
the atmosphere. Studies of remote galaxies, needed for refining our
theories of the universe, have been hampered by the blurring effects of
the atmosphere. Studies of faint objects have been hindered by the
brightness of the surrounding sky. Understanding of the sun requires
that it be studied in the ultraviolet and x-ray regions of the spectrum
and that it be studied with higher resolution than any available from
the ground. Seen from the highest mountains, not even the sun is bright

188 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

enough to provide detectable radiation below a wavelength of 2850
angstroms.

Some of these observational handicaps are being overcome by Project
Celescope. That experiment, initiated by Whipple and carried out under
the direction of Robert J. Davis, is addressed primarily to the study ol
the atmospheres of the hotter stars by means of photometric measure-
ments in those regions of the ultraviolet that are accessible only from
above the earth’s atmosphere. Named for its pioneering as a truly celes-
tial telescope, the Celescope concept originated from a series of meet-
ings in February 1958 involving the scientific staffs of Harvard College
Observatory and Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Project Cele-
scope has been supported by the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration as part of their Orbiting Astronomical Observatory (oao)
program. Other experimenters in the program are the University of

Wisconsin, Goddard Space Flight Center (csFrc), Princeton University, —

and University College in London. The program reached a climax on
7 December 1968, when nasa launched the second oAo, containing
the sao Celescope experiment as well as that of Wisconsin.

The manner chosen for accomplishing the primary mission of the
Celescope project is to conduct a sky survey, with reasonable photo-
metric accuracy, in four ultraviolet bands. One of the most important
aspects of this survey is the generation of a catalog containing ultraviolet
photometric data for the 25,000 or more stars expected to be observed.

Description and Operation of Celescope

The Celescope instrument consists of four 12.5-inch f/2 Schwarz-
schild telescopes that focus starlight on ultraviolet-sensitive television
cameras. Each telescope covers one of four separate bands of wave-
lengths centered at 2600, 2300, 1600, and 1500 angstroms. The 440-
pound optical assembly is housed in a cylinder 57 inches long and 40
inches in diameter. From this, a ten-foot cable leads to 87 pounds of
electronic gear inside a 9 x 16 x 26-inch box.

The four telescopes are identical, with the central 6.25 inches of
each 12.5-inch primary mirror obscured by its secondary. The image is
focused on the ultraviolet-sensitive surface of a special television camera
tube called a Uvicon. Although the field of view on the photocathode
is 2.8 degrees, not all of it is covered by the television raster, so the
usable field is about 2 degrees on a side. Each telescope assembly has
an additional optical system to focus light from a calibration lamp upon
the photocathode.

For the Celescope experiment, two kinds of Uvicons were specially
designed with sensitivity from 1050 to 3200 angstroms and from 1050 to
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 189

2150. By means of appropriate filters, the four wavelength ranges are
achieved. Also, each field of view is divided into two halves of different
wavelength sensitivity by means of a semicircular arrangement of the
filters in front of the cathodes, thus enabling each wavelength to be
recorded on two cameras.

Although the experiment requires 54 commands to operate the elec-
tronics, no mechanical adjustments are needed in flight. The telescopes
have been designed to remain in satisfactory focus under all antici-
pated conditions. The Uvicon tubes produce single-frame pictures,
rather than a continuous “motion picture” such as is customary in com-
mercial television. To produce one such frame, 17 different commands
must be transmitted to the satellite at carefully controlled time inter-
vals. Each frame, relayed to earth by digital code, is equivalent to a scan-
ning raster of 256 lines with 256 elements in each. The reliability testing
of this system was under the direction of Yasushi Nozawa.

The Celescope experiment is operated primarily in real time, since
the command and data-storage systems on board oao 2 do not have a
large memory. Telling the spacecraft what to do is not an easy task.
Several different kinds of commands can be sent to the experiment
itself and many to the spacecraft. There are signals to control the
storage of engineering telemetry data; commands to turn on backup
subsystems should primary systems fail; commands to select analog,
digital, or stored digital modes of operation; operating instructions for
the camera whose video signal is being fed into the system; operating
controls for the voltages on each camera; and calibration commands.
The spacecraft itself can be told to connect or disconnect Celescope
power and can be given commands to store or transmit Celescope and
other data.

To convert the signals received on the ground into meaningful meas-
urements of ultraviolet flux, all optical parts have had to be carefully
calibrated—an extensive and critical undertaking.

The Celescope equipment can observe about 0.8 percent of the entire
sky per week. Since only half of the oao’s time will be used by the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, a complete survey would
take more than four years. This is considerably longer than the expected
lifetime of either the spacecraft or the experiment. Hence, Smithsonian
scientists plan to concentrate on a set of fifty sky regions that should
provide a reasonable statistical sampling of stars.

The oao 2 satellite carries an orientation and stabilization system that
guides on stars. Its six 2-axis trackers can be set on appropriate stars as
the spacecraft is turned to observe a desired area. The experiments
on board oao 2 may never be allowed to point directly at the sun, nor
may the paddles carrying the solar-power cells turn away from the
190 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

sun. These constraints mean that the observing program must be care-
fully planned well in advance. This task is being performed under the
direction of William A. Deutschman.

Determination of Stellar Atmospheres

One of Celescope’s goals is the measurement of the brightnesses of at
least 25,000 main-sequence early-type stars in four spectral bands. The
datum of interest is the shape of the spectral-energy distribution curves
of the different types of stars. Only for the atmospheres of main-
sequence early-type stars do we now have a reasonably clear picture of
what to expect. As was the case with the great sky surveys of the past—
for example, the Henry Draper Catalogue and the Palomar Sky Atlas—
we plan to acquire our data by sampling the entire available portion
of the celestial sphere and thus increase our chances of making impor-
tant unexpected discoveries. We have planned our instrumentation and
observational program in order to balance the payload limitations of
Celescope with these scientific objectives.

Experiments from rockets and satellites have already given astrono-
mers a considerable amount of observational information concerning
ultraviolet stellar spectra. These observations indicate ultraviolet fluxes
that for most stars are consistent with the most recent theories of stellar
atmospheres and interstellar absorption, but interesting exceptions are
numerous.

Observation of the ultraviolet fluxes from the hot stars is of great
importance to theoretical astrophysics. One goal of Celescope is to
strengthen the observational foundation and to chart the path for
observing programs and instrumentation for future, more specialized
satellites now being planned.

Observations

As of 30 June 1969, we had scheduled 3,000 pictures in 1,000
different positions and had obtained 2,500 pictures in 900 different
positions. The reliability and performance of the Celescope experiment
in orbit have followed almost exactly the prelaunch predictions. Our
first pictures, obtained during checkout, indicated that all cameras met
or exceeded performance specifications. Three of the cameras continue
to obtain valuable scientific data, with all four wavelength bands still
in use; one camera failed after 77 days in orbit. The three cameras still
in use are exhibiting loss of sensitivity, owing partly to the effects of
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

CONTACT [0. 00692
TAPE NO. A037
FRAME NO. 2

CAMERA NO. 3

097

Celescope pictures of the Sword of Orion.
192 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

space radiation on our optics and partly to the effects of prolonged
operation on the performance of the camera tubes. The present per-
formance of the equipment is such that we expect to continue receiving
useful scientific information from the Celescope experiment for several
more months.

The accompanying figure is a sample of the pictures now being
received from Celescope. The 5-second exposures show the stars in the

Sword of Orion, with the Orion Nebula surrounding Theta Orionis, |

the third bright star from the top of the picture. Since these are

extremely hot young stars, of spectral types B and O, they appear |
brighter in the shorter wavelengths (Camera 4) than in the longer —

wavelengths (Cameras 1 and 3).

The Orion Nebula is one of the brightest objects we have observed
to date. On the 60-second exposure (frame d), it is strongly over-
exposed. The bright background in the upper portion of the 60-second
exposure is hydrogen Lyman-alpha light, sunlight scattered by the earth’s
atmosphere into the otherwise dark night sky.

An early evaluation of the results indicates that very few of the
stars measured by Celescope are appreciably brighter than expected.
Although many stars lie below the normal spectrum-color relationships
predicted for the Celescope ultraviolet color system, those measurements
that we have reviewed in detail have been for the most part consistent
with a straightforward interpretation such as interstellar reddening or
known spectral peculiarities. About twenty percent of the objects found
by Celescope near the plane of the Galaxy do not appear in our identi-
fication atlas, whereas nearly every object more than 10 degrees from
the plane does. Presumably, the extra stars are mostly faint O and B
stars, but additional analysis of ground-based photographs and addi-
tional measurements using ground-based telescopes will be needed before
we can be certain.

The reduced data will be distributed, beginning early next year, as a
series of Celescope Observational Data Reports. Full interpretation of
these data must, of course, await completion of analysis for the bulk of
the observational material, since most of the scientific value of broad-
band photometric measurements such as those provided by Celescope
depends on the intercomparison of the results from measuring large
numbers of stars, rather than on the separate measurements of individual
stars.

NOTES
* Supported by grant NGR 09-015-002 from the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA).
* Supported by NAsA contract NSR 09-015-039.
* Supported by NASA contract NSR 09-015-079.

|

|

|
|
|
|

|

|
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 193

* Supported by nasa contract NSR 09—015-054.

° Supported by NasA grant NGR 09-015-004.

® Supported by grant 1105 from the Smithsonian Research Foundation.

7Supported by contract DA—31-124-ARO-D-473 with the United States
Army.

® Supported by nasa contract NAS 9-8105.

® Supported by NASA contract NAS 9-8106.

Supported by contract F 19628-68—-C-0234 from the United States Air
Force.

™ Supported by nasa contract NSR 09-015-033.

® Supported by NAsA grant NGR 09-015-047.

8 Supported by nasa grant NASw-—184 to Harvard College Observatory.

* Supported by nasa contract NAS 5-1535.

STAFF CHANGES

During the year, the staff of the Observatory have welcomed physicists
Michael R. Pearlman, Irwin Shapiro, and Richard B. Wattson; astrono-
mers Frederick Chaffee and Lawrence W. Mertz; and geologists John S.
Dickey, Jr., and Benjamin Powell.

The Observatory also has continued its program of postdoctoral
fellowships in cooperation with the National Academy of Sciences-
National Research Council. Robert H. G. Reid, Gordon W. F. Drake,
and M. V. Krishna Apparao have had their fellowships renewed. David
Hearn is the new appointee. Wattson has completed his fellowship and
has accepted an appointment to our staff. Michel Henon has returned
to France, and Zdenek Ceplecha to Czechoslovakia.

Resignations have been received from Yvette Cuny, Bishun Khare,
Walter Kohnlein, Barbara Kolaczek, Anthony R. Lee, Robert H.
McCorkell, James Pollack, Carl Sagan, and Ashok Sharma. Sagan,
Khare, and Pollack have taken positions at Cornell University; Cuny
has returned to France; Kohnlein is studying in Germany; and Kolaczek
has gone back to Poland.

Appointed as research associates are Zdenek Ceplecha and Carl
Sagan.

Staff Publications and Papers

Auuison, A. C. See also Dalgarno and Allison; Dalgarno, Crawford, and Allison.

.“A Program to Calculate Franck Condon Factors.” Computer Physics
Communications (1969), volume 1.

Apparao, M. V. K. “Pulsars as Possible Sources of Cosmic Radiation.” Bulletin
of the American Physical Society (1968), volume 13, page 1433.

194 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. “Upper Limits on Low Energy Cosmic Ray Photons and Heavy Nuclei in

Interstellar Space.” Nature (1968), volume 220, pages 1015-1016.

. “Upper Limits on Universal Microwave Radiation Below A=1.7 mm.”

Nature (1968), volume 219, pages 709-710.

. “Implications of Observations of Very High Energy Gamma Rays from

Pulsars.” Nature (1969), volume 221, page 645.

. ‘Very Heavy Nuclei in Cosmic Rays.” Sky and Telescope (1969), vol-
ume 37, pages 23-24.

Atnay, R. G., E. H. Avrett, H. A. Beese, H. R. Jounson, A. I. Potanp, and
Y. Cuny. “Calculations of Solar Hydrogen Lines: Comparative Solutions for
a Standard Line Transfer Problem.” Pages 169-212, in Resonance Lines in
Astrophysics. Boulder, Colorado: National Center for Atmospheric Research,
1968.

Averett, E. H. See also Athay, Avrett, Beebe, Johnson, Poland, and Cuny.

. “Questions of Consistency and Convergence in the Solution of Multi-
level Transfer Problems.’ Pages 27-63, in Resonance Lines in Astrophysics.
Boulder, Colorado: National Center for Atmospheric Research, 1968.

Benima, B., J. R. CHERNIACK, B. G. MarspeEn, and J. G. Porter. “The Gauss
Method for Solving Kepler’s Equation in Nearly Parabolic Orbits.” Publica-
tions of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific (1969), volume 81, pages 121—
129.

Brown_eE, D. E., P. W. Hopcr, and F. W. Wricut. “Upper Limits to the
Micron and Submicron Particle Flux at Satellite Altitudes.” Journal of Geo-
physical Research (1969), volume 74, pages 876-883.

Carson, D., O. J. GincEericH, and D. W. LatHam. “Model Atmospheres for
Cool Dwarf Stars.” Pages 435-455, in Low-Luminosity Stars, edited by S. S.
Kumar. New York: Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, Inc., 1968.

Car.eTton, N. P. See also Lee and Carleton.

, W. Litter, and F. L. Roeser. “A Search for Stellar Carbon Dioxide.”

Astrophysical Journal (1968), volume 154, pages 385-387.

, A. SHARMA, R. M. Goopy, W. L. Litter, and F. L. Roeser. “Measure-
ment of the Abundance of CO: in the Martian Atmosphere.” Astrophysical
Journal (1969), volume 155, pages 323-331.

CrpLecua, Z. See McCrosky and Ceplecha.

CHERNIACK, J. R. See also Benima, Cherniack, Marsden, and Porter.

, and E. M. Gaposcukxin. “Computer Derivation of Short-Lived Lunar
Perturbations.” XII Plenary Meeting of cospar, Prague, May 1969.

Cotomso, G. See Franklin and Colombo.

Comerrorpb, M. F. “Phosphide and Carbide Inclusions in Iron Meteorites.”

Atomic Energy Agency International Symposium on Meteorite Research, —

Vienna, August 1968.

. “Alandroal: An Anomalous ‘Ataxite’.”’ 50th Annual Meeting of the
American Geophysical Union, Washington, D.C., April 1969.

,and P. S. DeCarui. “The Effects of Explosive Shock and Annealing in
Meteoritic Alloys and Iron-Silicon Single Crystals.” 7th National Fall Meeting
of the American Geophysical Union, San Francisco, December 1968.

Crystals.” Spring Meeting of the Metallurgical Society of ArmeE, Pittsburgh,
May 1969.

, J. J. Ryan, and P. J. Fortano. “Shock Loading of Iron-Silicon Single ©
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 195

Contr, P. S., and S. E. Strom. “The Early A Stars, III: Model-Atmosphere
Abundance Analysis of Four Field Stars.” Astrophysical Journal (1968), vol-
ume 154, pages 975-982.

Cook, A. F. See Franklin and Cook.

Cuny, Y. See Athay, Avrett, Beebe, Johnson, Poland, and Cuny.

Datcarno, A. See also Drake, Victor, and Dalgarno; Lane and Dalgarno; Reid
and Dalgarno; Victor and Dalgarno.

. “Radiative Transitions.” Pages 161-198 in Atomic Physics, edited by

B. Bederson, V. W. Cohen, and F. M. J. Pichanick. New York: Plenum

Publications, 1968.

. “Inelastic Collisions at Low Energies.” Canadian Journal of Chemistry

(1969), volume 47, pages 1723-1729.

. “Infrared Day and Night Airglow of the Earth’s Upper Atmosphere.”

Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London (1969), volume

A264, pages 153-160.

,and A. C. Atttson. “Band Oscillator Strengths of the Lyman System

of Molecular Hydrogen.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) (1968), volume

154, pages L95—-L97.

, O. H. Crawrorp, and A. C. Atuison. “Low Energy Electrons in Polar

Gases.” Chemical Physics (Letters) (1968), volume 2, page 381.

, and A. S. Dickinson. “Hydrogen Ion Cooling in Helium Gas.” Planetary

and Space Science (1968), volume 16, pages 911-914.

, and G. W. F. Drake. “Two Photon and Forbidden Single Photon Tran-

sition Probabilities in Helium-Like Ions.” Mémoires de la Société Royale des

Sciences de Liége (1969), volume 54, pages 69-77.

, G. W. F. Drake, and G. A. Victor. ‘‘Nonadiabatic Long-Range Forces.”

Physical Review (1968), volume 176, pages 194-197.

, and S. T. Epstein. “Sum Rules for Variational Wavefunctions.” Jour-

nal of Chemical Physics (1969), volume 50, pages 2837-2841.

, M. B. McE troy, M. H. Regs, and J. C. G. WALKER. “The Effect of

Oxygen Cooling on Ionospheric Electron Temperatures.” Planetary and Space

Science (1968), volume 16, pages 1371-1380.

, and E. M. Parkinson. “Properties of the Lithium Sequence.” Physical

Review (1968), volume 176, pages 73-79.

, and R. H. G. Rem. “Excitation of Forbidden Lines by Dissociative

Recombination.” Mémoires de la Société Royale des Sciences de Liége (1969),

tome XVI, pages 157-159.

,and G. A. Victor. “Van der Waals Coefficients for the Ground and
Metastable States of He and Li*.” Journal of Chemical Physics (1968), vol-
ume 49, pages 1982-1983.

Davis, R. J. “Far-Ultraviolet Photometry of Stars Obtained with the Celescope
Experiment in oao-2.” American Astronomical Society Meeting, Hawaii,
March-April 1969; American Physical Society Meeting, Washington, D.C.,
April 1969; International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 36, Lunteren,
Holland, June 1969.

Deutscuman, W. A. “Ultraviolet Intensities of Stars Observed in Vela by the
Celescope Experiment on the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory.’’ American
Astronomical Society Meeting, Hawaii, March—April 1969.

Dickey, J.S., Jr. See also Marvin, Wood, and Dickey.

. “Exsolution in Aluminous Pyroxenes’’ [abstract]. Transactions of the

American Geophysical Union (1969), volume 50, page 358.

196 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Dickinson, D. F. See Litvak, Zuckerman, and Dickinson; Penzias, Jefferts,
Dickinson, Lilley, and Penfield; Zuckerman, Ball, Dickinson, and Penfield.

Drake, G. W. F. See also Dalgarno and Drake; Dalgarno, Drake, and Victor.

. “Singlet-Triplet Mixing in the He Sequence.” Physical Review (1969),

volume 181, pages 23-24.

, G. A. Victor, and A. Daucarno. “Two-Photon Decay of the Singlet
and Triplet Metastable States of Helium-Like Ions.” Physical Review (1969),
volume 180, pages 25-32.

Fazio, G. G., H. F. HeEtmKeEn, G. H. Riexe, and T. C. Weekes. “A Search for
Discrete Sources of Cosmic Gamma Rays of Energies near 2x10” eV.”
Astrophysical Journal Letters (1968), volume 154, pages L83—L89.

, H. F. Hermxen, G. H. Riexe, and T. C. Weekes. “Upper Limits to
Gamma Ray Fluxes from Three Pulsating Radio Sources.” Nature (1968),
volume 220, pages 892-893.

FireMan, E. L. See also McCorkell, Fireman, D’Amico, and Thompson.

. “Ar®?, Ar, and H?® in the Alandroal Meteorite.” 50th Annual Meeting

of the American Geophysical Union, Washington, D.C., April 1969.

. “Freshly Fallen Meteorites from Portugal and Mexico.” Sky and Tele-

scope (1969), volume 37, pages 272-275.

, and J. DEeFeEtice. ‘‘Rare Gases in Phases of the Deelfontein Meteorite.”
Journal of Geophysical Research (1968), volume 73, pages 6111-6116.

FLANNERY, M. R. “Theoretical and Experimental Three-Body Ionic Recombina-
tion Coefficients.” Physical Review (Letters) (1968), volume 21, pages 1729—
1730.

. “Impact Parameter Treatment of H—H Excitation Collisions, I: Two-

State Approximation.” Physical Review (1969), volume 183, pages 231-240.

. “Notes on Three-Body Ionic Recombination.” Journal of Chemical
Physics (1969), volume 50, pages 546-547.

FLANNERY, M. R., and D. R. Bates. ‘‘Three-Body Ionic Recombination at
Moderate and High Gas Densities.” Journal of Physics B (1969), volume 2,
pages 184-190.

FLANNERY, M. R., and H. Levy, II. “H—H Interaction Potentials.” Journal of
Physics B (1969), volume 2, pages 314-321.

. “Simple Analytic Expressions for General Two-Center Coulomb Inte-
grals.” Journal of Chemical Physics (1969), volume 50, pages 2938-2940.
FRANKLIN, F. A., and CoLtomso, G. “A Dynamical Model of Saturn’s Rings.”
Symposium on Nongravitational Forces and Evolutionary Problems in the

Solar System, Rome, November 1968.

FRANKLIN, F. A., and A. F. Coox. “A Search for an Atmosphere Enveloping
Saturn’s Rings.” Icarus (1969), volume 10, pages 417—420.

GaposcHKIN, E. M. See also Cherniack and Gaposchkin.

. “Improved Values for the Tesseral Harmonics of the Geopotential and

Station Coordinates.” XII Plenary Meeting of cospAr, Prague, May 1969.

, and L. Seunat. “Air Drag and Solar Radiation Pressure Effects on

Close Earth Satellites.” XII Plenary Meeting of cospar, Prague, May 1969.

, and J. P. Wricnut. ‘Measurable Effect of General Relativity in Satellite
Orbits.” Nature (1969), volume 221, page 650.

Gincericu, O. J. See also Carbon, Gingerich, and Latham; Strom, Gingerich,
and Strom.

. “The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.” Physics Today

(1968), volume 21, pages 36-40.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 197

. “Model Atmospheres for Cool Stars.” Pages 83-89, in Infrared Astron-
omy, edited by P. J. Brancazio and A. G. W. Cameron. New York: Gordon
and Breach Science Publishers, Inc., 1968.

. “Stellar Astronomy.” Pages 272-274, in Science Year: The World Book

of Science Annual. Chicago: World Book Encylopedia, Inc., 1968.

, and E. Poutte. “Les Positions des Planétes au Moyen Age: Application
du Calcul Electronique aux Tables Alphonsines.” Comptes Rendus de l’Acad-
emie des Incriptions et Belles Lettres (1968), pages 531-458.

Go.pserc, L., R. W. Noyes, W. H. Parkinson, E. M. REEvEs, and G. L.
Wirusroe. “Ultraviolet Solar Images from Space.” Science (1968), volume
162, pages 95-99.

, R. W. Noyes, W. H. Parkinson, E. M. REEvEs, and G. L. WITHBROE.
“The Results and Interpretation of Some of the Harvard oso-1v Observations.”
Advanced Space Experiments (1969), volume 25, pages 531-532.

Go.psTEIN, S., S. GupERMAN, and M. Lecar. “Numerical Experimental Check
of Lyden-Bell Statistics for a Collisionless One-Dimensional Stellar System.”
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society (1969), volume 143,
pages 209-221.

Grossi, M. D. See also Harrington, Grossi, Goff, and Langworthy; Pearlman
and Grossi; Shear, Bravoco, Grossi, and Langevin.

. “Preliminary Results of a Satellite-to-Satellite Long-Range Propagation
Experiment Conducted at HF and VHF in the Lower Ionosphere.” Fall
meeting, United States National Committee/Union Radio Scientifique In-
ternationale, Boston, September 1968.

Hamn, S. E. “First-Order Planetary Theory” [abstract]. Astronomical Journal
(1968), volume 73, pages $181—-S182.

, B. G. Marspen, and F. L. Wuippte. “Influence of a Comet Belt
Beyond Neptune on the Motions of Periodic Comets.” Astronomical Journal
(1968), volume 73, pages 727-729.

HarrincTon, J. V., M. D. Grossi, R. W. Gorr, and B. M. Lancworrtuy.
“Radio Occulation Measurements of Planetary Atmospheres and Ionospheres
from an Orbiting Pair.’ American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics
7th Aerospace Sciences Meeting, New York, January 1969.

Hawkins, G. S. Splendor in the Sky. Revised edition. New York: Harper &
Row, 1969.

Hearn, D. R. “Consistent Analysis of Gamma-Ray Astronomy Experiments”
[abstract]. Bulletin of the American Physical Society (1968), volume 13, page
1435.

. “Consistent Analysis of Gamma-Ray Astronomy Experiments.” Nuclear
Instruments and Methods (1969), volume 70, pages 200-204.

HetmMkeEn, H. F. See Fazio, Helmken, Rieke, and Weekes.

Hopce, P. W. See also Brownlee, Hodge, and Wright; Wright and Hodge.

. “The Radial Distribution of H II Regions in Spiral Galaxies.” Astro-

physical Journal (1968), volume 155, pages 417-427.

. “Some Optical Properties of Seyfert Galaxies and Related Objects.”

Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, pages 846-847.

. Concepts of the Universe. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1969.

. “Distribution of H II Regions in Irregular Galaxies.” Astrophysical

Journal (1969), volume 156, pages 847-852.

, “H II Regions in Twenty Nearby Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal,

Supplement Number 157 (1969), volume 18, pages 73-83.

198 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

, and D. E. BRown.ee. “Meteor Physics and the Density of Particles at

Satellite and Balloon Altitudes.” Pages 116-17, in Space Research IX, edited

by K. S. W. Champion, P. A. Smith, and R. L. Smith-Rose. Amsterdam:

North-Holland Publishing Company, 1969.

, and R. W. Micuitg. “The Structure of Dwarf Elliptical Galaxies of the

Local Group.” Astronomical Journal (1969), volume 74, pages 587-596.

, and F. W. Wricut. “Evolution of the Cluster System of the Large

Magellanic Cloud” [abstract]. Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, page

$184.

, and F. W. Wricut. “Studies of the Large Magellanic Cloud, X: Pho-

tometry of Variable Stars.” Astrophysical Journal, Supplement Number 153

(1968), volume 17, pages 467-490.

, and F. W. Wricurt. “Studies of Particles for Extraterrestrial Origin, 6:

Comparisons of Previous Influx Estimates and Present Satellite Flux Data.”

Journal of Geophysical Research (1968), volume 73, pages 7589-7592.

, and F. W. Wricurt. “A Semiempirical Estimate of the Micrometeorite
Flux at the Earth’s Surface and Its Implications.”’ Icarus (1969), volume 10,
pages 214-219.

Hummer, D. G., and G. B. Rysicxi. ‘‘Line Formation in Differentially Moving
Media with Temperature Gradients.” Pages 213-223, in Resonance Lines in
Astrophysics. Boulder, Colorado: National Center for Atmospheric Research,
1968.

, and G. B. Rysicxr. ‘“‘Redshifted Line Profiles from Differentially Ex-
panding Atmospheres.” Astrophysical Journal (1968), volume 153, pages
L107-L110.

Jaccuia, L. G. “The Neutral Atmosphere Above 200 km.” Pages 478-486, in
Space Research IX, edited by K. S. W. Champion, P. S. Smith, and R. L.
Smith-Rose. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 1969.

. “Recent Advances in Upper Atmosphere Structure.” XII Plenary Meet-

ing of cospar, Prague, May 1969.

, J. W. SLtowey, and I. G. CAMpBELL. “‘A Study of the Semi-Annual Den-
sity Variation in the Upper Atmosphere from 1958 to 1966, Based on Satellite
Drag Analysis.” Planetary and Space Science (1969), volume 17, pages 49-60.

KALKoFEN, W. See also Peterson and Kalkofen; Noyes and Kalkofen.

. “Mapping Methods in Radiative Transfer.”’ Pages 65-77, in Resonance

Lines in Astrophysics. Boulder, Colorado: National Center for Atmospheric

Research, 1968.

. “The Simultaneous Solution of Strongly Coupled Transfer Equations.”
Pages 3-26, in Resonance Lines in Astrophysics. Boulder, Colorado: National
Center for Atmospheric Research, 1968.

Kroox, M., and G. B. Rysicxi. ‘Radiative Transfer in Fluctuating Media.”
Transport Theory, Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society Sym-
posium in Applied Mathematics (1968), volume 1, pages 237-248.

Kuruaz, R. L. See also Maran, Kurucz, Strom, and Strom.

. “A Matrix Method for Calculating the Source Function, Mean Intensity,
and Flux in a Model Atmosphere.” Astrophysical Journal (1969), volume
156, pages 235-240.

LamBEcK, K. ‘“‘A Hypothetical Application for the Geometric Method of Satellite
Geodesy.” Australian Surveyor (1968), volume 22, pages 281-309.

. “Scaling a Spatial Triangulation with Laser Range Measurements.”

Studia Geophysica et Geodetica (1968), volume 12, pages 339-349.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 199

. “Comparisons and Combinations of Geodetic Parameters Estimated from
Dynamic and Geometric Satellite Solutions and from Mariner Flights.” XII
Plenary Meeting of cospar, Prague, May 1969.

. “Position Determination from Simultaneous Observations of Artificial

Satellites: An Optimization of Parameters.” Bulletin Géodésique (1969),

number 92, pages 155-167.

. “A Spatial Triangulation Solution for a Global Network and the Posi-
tion of the North American Datum within It.” Annual Meeting of the Ameri-
can Geophysical Union, Washington, D.C., April 1969.

Lang, N. F., and A. Datcarno. “Electron Cooling by Vibrational Excitation of
O2.” Journal of Geophysical Research (1969), volume 74, pages 3011-3012.

Latuam, D. W. See also Carbon, Gingerich, and Latham.

. “Some Performance Data for Eastman Kodak IIa Emulsions.” Astro-
nomical Journal (1968), volume 73, pages 515-517.

Lecar, M. See also Goldstein, Cuperman, and Lecar.

. “An Exactly Soluble Problem of Radiative Transfer without Redistribu-
tion in Frequency in an Inhomogeneous Atmosphere.” Journal of Quantitative
Spectroscopy and Radiative Transfer (1969), volume 9, pages 1017-1024.

Ler, A. R., and N. P. Carveton. “Excitation of N2* Ions by Electrons at Near
Threshold Energies.” Physics Letters (1968), volume 27A, pages 195-196.

Lenr, C. G. “Geodetic and Geophysical Applications of Laser Satellite Ranging.”
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Symposium on Geoscience
Electronics, Washington, D.C., May 1969.

, L. A. Marstre, and R. R. Downer. “Laser Ranging to Satellites:

The Smithsonian System on Mt. Hopkins.” Conference on Refraction Effects

in Geodesy and Electronic Distance Measurement, University of New South

Wales, November 1968.

, and M. R. PrearitMman. “Laser Ranging to Satellites.” XII Plenary

Meeting of cospar, Prague, May 1969.

, M. R. Peartman, M. H. Sauissury, and T. F. Butier, Jr. “The Laser

System at the Mount Hopkins Observatory.” International Symposium on

Electromagnetic Distance Measurement and Atmospheric Refraction, Boulder,

Colorado, June 1969.

, M. R. Pearitman, J. L. Scott, and J. Woun. “Laser Satellite Rang-
ing.’ Symposium on Laser Applications in the Geosciences, Douglas Advanced
Research Laboratories, Huntington Beach, California, June 1969.

Levy, H., II. See Flannery and Levy.

Littey, A. E. See Palmer, Zuckerman, Penfield, Lilley, and Mezger; Penzias,
Jefferts, Dickinson, Lilley, and Penfield; Zuckerman, Palmer, Penfield, and
Lilley.

Litvak, M. M., B. M. ZucKkerMAn, and D. F. Dickinson. “Conditions for
Microwave Radiation from Excited OH A-Doublet States.” Astrophysical Jour-
nal (1969), volume 156, pages 875-886.

Lunpguist, C. A. “Geodesy.”” American Association for the Advancement of
Science General Symposium on Space Applications, Dallas, December 1968.

. “Photometry from Apollo Tracking.” XII Plenary Meeting of cospar,
Prague, May 1969.

Maran, S. P., R. L. Kurucz, K. M. Strom, and S. E. Strom. “The Rocket
Ultraviolet Spectra of A Stars.” Astrophysical Journal (1968), volume 153,
pages 147-150.

200 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

MarsbdEN, B. G. See also Benima, Cherniack, Marsden, and Porter; Hamid,
Marsden, and Whipple.

. “Reports on the Progress of Astronomy. Comets.” Quarterly Journal of

the Royal Astronomical Society (1968), volume 9, pages 304-321.

“Comets and Nongravitational Forces. II.” Astronomical Journal
(1969), volume 74, pages 720-734.

Marvin, U. B., J. A. Woop, and J. S. Dickey, Jr. “Alumina-Rich Phases in
the Pueblito de Allende Meteorite.” 50th Annual Meeting of the American
Geophysical Union, Washington, D.C., April 1969.

Matuur,N. C. See also Swenson and Mathur.

. “Design of a Correlator Supersynthesis Array.”’ Institute of Electrical

and Electronics Engineers International Antennas and Propagation Sympo-

sium, Boston, September 1968.

. “A Pseudodynamic Programming Technique for the Design of Corre-
lator Supersynthesis Arrays.”’ Radio Science (1969), volume 4, pages 235-243.

McCorkELt, R. H., E. L. Frreman, J. C. D’Amico, and S. THompsown. “Radio-
active Isotopes in Hoba West and Other Iron Meteorites.” Meteoritics (1968),
volume 4, pages 113-122.

McCroskxy, R. E., and Z. CepLtecua. “Photographic Networks for Fireballs.”
Atomic Energy Agency International Symposium on Meteorite Research,
Vienna, August 1968.

MeEcruveE, G. H. “A Report for the International Union of Geological Sciences on
the Symposium on Meteorite Research.” Geological Newsletter (1968), vol-
ume 4, pages 12-15.

. “Distribution and Origin of Primordial Helium, Neon, and Argon in
the Fayetteville and Kapoeta Meteorites.” Pages 809-817, in Meteorite Re-
search, edited by P. M. Millman. Dordrecht: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1969.

MEnzeEL, D. H. “Long Period Variables and Planetary Nebulae.” International
Astronomical Union Symposium No. 34 (1968), pages 279-281.

. “The Nature of Solar Flares.” Pages 183-187, in Nobel Symposium 9.

Mass Motions in Solar Flares and Related Phenomena, edited by Y. Ohman.

Stockholm: Almquist and Wiksell, 1968.

. “The Role of Magnetic Fields in the Origin and Structure of Planetary

Nebulae.” International Astronomical Union Symposium No. 34 (1968),

pages 386-389.

. “Calendars and the Meaning of Leap Year.” Highlights for Children

(1969), volume 24, page 38.

. “The Moon as an Abode of Life?” Proceedings of the American Philo-

sophical Society (1969), volume 113, pages 102-126.

. “Oscillator Strengths, f, for High-Level Transitions in Hydrogen.”

Astrophysical Journal, Supplement Number 161 (1969), volume 18, pages

221-246.

. “Radio Emission from High-Level Transitions in Hydrogen.” Philo-

sophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London (1969), volume A264,

pages 249-250.

. “Temperature Distribution of the Moon.” Philosophical Transactions of

the Royal Society of London (1969), volume A264, pages 141-144.

. “Venus Past, and the Distance of the Sun.” Proceedings of the American

Philosophical Society (1969), volume 113, pages 197-202.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 201

. “What Day is Today?” Highlights for Children (1969), volume 24,

pages 16-17.

. “What We Hope to Find on the Moon.” Highlights for Children

(1969), volume 24, pages 6-7.

, and J. M. Pasacuorr. “On the Obliteration of Strong Fraunhofer Lines

by Electron Scattering in the Solar Corona.” Publications of the Astronomical

Society of the Pacific (1968), volume 80, pages 458-461.

, and J. M. Pasacuorr. “Polarization of the Corona.” Sky and Tele-

scope (1968), volume 36, pages 380-381.

, and J. M. Pasacuorr. “Sun.” Pages 2171-2175, volume 12, in Above
and Beyond. Encyclopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences. Chicago: New
Horizons Publishers, Inc., 1968.

Mercer, R. D., and J. M. Pasacuorr. “Ninety Minutes of Totality!” Sky and
Telescope (1969), volume 37, pages 20-22.

Mone, P. A. “Annular Faulting in the Ethiopian Rift System.” Bulletin of the
Geophysical Observatory of Addis Ababa (1968), volume 12, pages 1-9.

. “The Cainozoic Volcanic Succession in Ethiopia.” Bulletin Volcano-

logique (1968), volume 32, pages 5-14.

. “Potash-Bearing Evaporites, Danakil Area, Ethiopia—A Discussion on

the Paper by J. G. Holwerda and R. W. Hutchinson.” Economic Geology

(1968), volume 63, pages 572-573.

, and P. Gouin. “Gravity Traverses in Ethiopia.” Bulletin of the Geo-

physical Observatory of Addis Ababa (1968), volume 12, pages 27-56.

, and M. J. LeBas. “Feldspathoidal Rocks from the Ethiopian Cainozoic
Volcanic Province.” Geologische Rundschau (1968), volume 58, pages 273—
280.

Morrison, D. See also Sagan and Morrison.

“Martian Surface Temperatures” [abstract]. Astronomical Journal

(1968), volume 73, page S109.

. “Venus: Absence of a Phase Effect at a 2-Centimeter Wavelength.”

Science (1969), volume 163, pages 815-817.

, and E. H. Greenserc. “Hypersensitization of Infrared-Sensitive Photo-

graphic Emulsions.” Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, pages 518-521.

, and N. D. Morrison. “A Photometric Study of BV 357.” Astronomical

Journal (1968), volume 73, pages 777—780.

, and C. Sacan. “Interpretation of the Mircowave Phase Effect of Mer-
cury” [abstract]. Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, page S27.

Noyes, R. W. See also Goldberg, Noyes, Parkinson, Reeves, and Withbroe;
Pasachoff, Noyes, and Beckers.

. “Infrared Intensity Distribution at the Solar Limb in the 20-Micron

Region.” Pages 77-80, in Infrared Astronomy, edited by P. J. Brancazio and

A. G. W. Cameron. New York: Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, Inc.,

1968.

. “The Solar Continuum in the Far-Infrared and Millimetre Regions.”
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London (1968), volume
A264, pages 205-208.

Noyes, R. W., L. Gotpserc, W. H. Parkinson, E. M. Reeves, and G. L.
WitHsroe. “Preliminary Euv Spectroheliograms from oso-iv’” [abstract].
Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, page S73.

366-269 O—70——14

202 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

, and W. Katxoren. “Observations and Interpretation of the Solar
Lyman Continuum.” Solar Physics Meeting of the American Astronomical
Society, Pasadena, California, February 1969.

Nozawa, Y. “Characteristics of a Television Photometer.” 4th Symposium on
Photoelectric Image Devices, London, September 1968.

. “Problems Encountered during Development of an Astronomical Tele-
vision System for an Earth-Orbiting Observatory.” World Conference on
Space Technology, Crete, May 1969.

Patme_r, P., B. ZucKERMAN, H. PENFIELD, A. E. Littey, and P. G. MEzceEr.
‘Determinations of Helium Abundance from Radiofrequency Recombination
Lines.” Astrophysical Journal (1969), volume 156, pages 887-901.

PasacnorF, J. M. See also Menzel and Pasachoff; Mercer and Pasachoff; Pol-
lack and Pasachoff.

. “Comments on Inclined Spectral Features.” International Astronomical

Union Symposium Number 35 (1968), pages 245-246.

. “Quasar.” Pages 1870-1871, volume 10, in Above and Beyond. The

Encylopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences. Chicago: New Horizons

Publishers, Inc., 1968.

. “X-Ray Star.” Page 2533, volume 14, in Above and Beyond. The Ency-

clopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences. Chicago: New Horizons Publishers,

Inc., 1968.

, R. W. Noyes, and J. M. Beckers. “Spectral Observations of Spicules

at Two Heights in the Solar Chromosphere.” Solar Physics (1968), volume 5,

pages 131-158.

, and J. B. Potrack. “Stars.” Pages 2159-2163, volume 12, in Above and

Beyond. The Encyclopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences. Chicago: New

Horizons Publishers, Inc., 1968.

, and J. I. Sirx. “The Interpretation of the Absorption-Line Red-Shifts
in the Solar Spectrum.” Solar Physics (1968), volume 4, pages 474-475.

PEARLMAN, M. R. See also Lehr and Pearlman; Lehr, Pearlman, Salisbury, and
Butler; Lehr, Pearlman, Scott, and Wohn.

, and M. D. Gross. “‘The Long Base Radio Interferometer and Methods

for Refractive Corrections.” International Symposium on Electronic Distance

Measurement and Atmospheric Refraction, Boulder, Colorado, June 1969.

, and M. H. Sa.issury. “The sao Facilities.” 2nd Conference on Lidar
Probing of the Atmosphere, Brookhaven, New York, April 1969.

Penzias, A. A., K. B. JeErrerts, D. F. Dickinson, A. E. LiItuey, and H.
PENFIELD. “A Search for Line Emission from Singly Ionized Hydrogen Mole-
cules.” Astrophysical Journal (1968), volume 154, pages 389-390.

PETERSON, D. M., and W. Karxoren. “Balmer Lines in Early-Type Stars.”
Pages 169-212, in Resonance Lines in Astrophysics. Boulder, Colorado:
National Center for Atmospheric Research, 1968. |

Po.uack, J. B. See also Pasachoff and Pollack; Wood, Wattson, and Pollack.

, and J. M. Pasacuorr. “Milky Way.” Pages 1706-1707, volume 9, in

Above and Beyond. The Encyclopedia of Aviation and Space Sciences. Chi- |

cago: New Horizons Publishers, Inc., 1968. |

, and C. Sacan. “The Case ies Ice Clouds on Venus.” Journal of Geo- |

physical Research (1968), volume 73, pages 5943-5949.

, and C. Sacan. “Nongrey Greenhouse Calculations of the Venus Atmos- —

phere” [abstract]. Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, page S32.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 203

, and C. Sacan. “An Analysis of Martian Photometry and Polarimetry.”
Space Science Reviews (1969), volume 9, pages 243-299.

, and A. T. Woop, Jr. “Venus: Implications from Microwave Spectros-
copy of the Atmospheric Content of Water Vapor.” Science (1968), volume
161, pages 1125-1127.

Rew, R. H. G. See also Dalgarno and Reid.

, and A. Darcarno. “Fine Structure Transitions and Shape Reso-
nances.” Physical Review Letters (1969), volume 22, pages 1029-1030.

Rieke, G. H. See also Fazio, Helmken, Rieke, and Weekes.

, and T. C. Weekes. “Production of Cosmic Gamma Rays by Compton
Scattering in Discrete Sources.” Astrophysical Journal (1969), volume 155,
pages 429-437.

Rotrr, J. “Central Bureau for Satellite Geodesy Report.” United Nations Con-
ference on the Exploration and Peaceful Use of Outer Space, Vienna, August
1968.

Rysicx1, G. B. See Hummer and Rybicki; Krook and Rybicki.

Sacan, C. See also Morrison and Sagan; Pollack and Sagan.

Sacan, C. and D. Morrison. “The Planet Mercury.” Science Journal (1968),
volume 4, pages 72-77.

SEHNAL, L. See Gaposchkin and Sehnal.

Suarma, A. I. See Carleton, Sharma, Goody, Liller, and Roesler.

SueEar, I., R. R. Bravoco, M. D. Grossi, and P. E. Lancevin.“‘Profile Inversion
Processing of Radio Occulation Data for the Determination of Planetary
Atmospheres and Ionospheres.”’ California Technology—Jet Propulsion Labora-
tory Conference on Scientific Applications of Radio and Radar Tracking in
the Space Program, Pasadena, California, April 1969.

Six, J., and J. P. Wricut. “The Gravitational Collapse of a Slowly Rotating
Relativistic Star.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society (1969),
volume A143, pages 55-71.

SLoweEy, J. See Jacchia, Slowey, and Campbell.

Strom, K. M. See Maran, Kurucz, Strom, and Strom; Strom, Gingerich, and
Strom; Strom and Strom.

Strom, S. E. See also Conti and Strom; Maran, Kurucz, Strom, and Strom.

. “Model Atmospheres for RR Lyrae Stars.” Astrophysical Journal

(1969), volume 156, pages 177-182.

, O. J. Gincericn, and K. M. Strom. “On the Composition of Sirius

Revisited.” The Observatory (1968), volume 88, pages 168-172.

, and K. M. Strom. “Effect of Silicon Opacity on B and A Star

Atmospheres” [abstract]. Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, pages

$203-S204.

, and K. M. Strom. “Model Atmospheres for RR Lyrae Stars’’ [abstract].

Astronomical Journal (1968), volume 73, pages $203-S204.

, and K. M. Srrom. “The Effect of Lyman-Alpha Wing Opacity on

the Temperature Scale and Helium Content for Subdwarfs.” Astrophysical

Journal (1969), volume 155, pages 363-365.

, and K. M. Strom. “Effect of Silicon Opacity on B- and A-Star
Atmospheres.” Astrophysical Journal (1969), volume 155, pages 17-26.

Swenson, G. W., Jr., and N. C. Matuur. “The Interferometer in Radio
Astronomy.” Proceedings of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engi-
neers (1968), volume 56, pages 2114-2130.

204 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

, and N. C. Maruur. “On the Space-Frequency Equivalence of a Cor-
relator Interferometer.” Radio Science (1969), volume 4, pages 69-71.

TrurRANn, J. W., W. D. Arnett, S. Tsuruta, and A. G. W. Cameron. “Nucleo-
synthesis in Supernova Explosions.” Pages 77-89, in Proceedings of the Sym-
posium on the Origin and Distribution of the Elements, edited by L. H.
Ahrens. London: Pergamon Press, 1968.

Tsuruta, S. See also Truran, Arnett, Tsuruta, and Cameron.

. “Equilibrium Composition of Matter at High Densities.” Pages 161-168,

in Nucleosynthesis, edited by W. D. Arnett, C. J. Hansen, J. W. Troran, and

A. G. W. Cameron. New York: Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, Inc.,

1968.

. “Neutrino Processes in White Dwarf Stars.” Colloquium at the Institute

for Fundamental Physics, Kyoto, April 1969.

. “Neutron Star Models.” Tokyo Astronomical Observatory Seminar,

Tokyo, April 1969.

. “On Neutron Stars and Pulsars,” Astronomy Seminar, Tokyo, April

1969.

. “On Neutron Stars and Related Problems.” Physics Colloquium in

Nagoya University, Nagoya, April 1969.

. “urcA Shells in White Dwarfs.” Joint Colloquium of Astronomy and

Physics, Seattle, Washington, May 1969.

, and A. G. W. CaMEron. “urca Shells in White Dwarf Stars.” Ameri-
can Astronomical Society Meeting, Hawaii, April 1969.

Usuer, P. D., and C. A. Wuitney. “Non-Linear Pulsations of Discrete Stellar
Models. I. First-Order Asymptotic Theory of the One-Zone Model.” Astro-
physical Journal (1968), volume 154, pages 203-214.

Victor, G. A., and A. Datcarno. “Dipole Properties of Molecular Hydrogen.”
Journal of Chemical Physics (1969), volume 50, pages 2535-2539.

WatTtTson, R. B. See also Wood, Wattson, and Pollack.

. “An Investigation of a Gray, Optically Thick Planetary Atmosphere in
Radiative-Convective Equilibrium.” Astrophysical Journal (1968), volume 154,
pages 987-998.

WEEKES, T. C. See Fazio, Helmken, Rieke, and Weekes; Rieke and Weekes.

WHIPPLE, F. L. See also Hamid, Marsden, and Whipple.

. “On Fundamental Scientific Advances Resulting from the Space Pro-

gram. Pages 9-23, in Proceedings of the 4th International Symposium on Bio-

astronautics and the Exploration of Space, edited by C. H. Roadman, H. Strug-

hold, and R. B. Mitchell. San Antonio: Southwest Research Institute, 1968.

. “A Radio Telescope and the Heiligenschein. Sky and Telescope (1969),
volume 37, page 85.

Wuitney, C. A. See Usher and Whitney.

Woop, A. T., Jr., R. B. Watrson, and J. B. Pottacx. “Venus: Estimates of
the Surface Temperature and Pressure from Radio and Radar Measure-
ments.” Science (1968), volume 162, pages 114-116.

Woon, J. A. See Marvin, Wood, and Dickey.

Wricnut, F. W. See also Brownlee, Hodge, and Wright; Hodge and Wright.

. Celestial Navigation. Cambridge, Maryland: Cornell Maritime Press,

Inc., 1969.

Large Magellanic Cloud’ [abstract]. Astronomical Journal (1968), volume
73, page S210.

, and P. W. Hopcr. “Distribution of the Ages of Star Clusters in the
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 205

, and P. W. Honce. “A New and Unusual Variable Star in the Large
Magellanic Cloud.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific
(1969), volume 81, pages 238-247.

Wricut, J. P. See Gaposchkin and Wright; Silk and Wright.

Yen, J. L., B. ZuckeRMAN, P. Patmer, and H. PEenFiExp. “‘Detection of the ?73/2
J=5/2 State of OH at 5-Centimeter Wavelength.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
(1969), volume 156, pages L27-L32.

ZucKERMAN, B., I. A. Batt, D. F. Dickinson, and H. PenFiEvp. “Time Varia-
tions in Galactic OH Emission Sources.” Astrophysical Letters (1969), volume 3,
pages 97-101.

ZUCKERMAN, B., P. PALMER, H. PENFIELD, and A. E. Littey. “Detection of Micro-
wave Radiation from the ?z;/2, J=1/2 State of OH.” Astrophysical Fournal (Letters)
(1968), volume 153, page L69.

Special Reports

Through its Special Report series, the Observatory distributes cata-
logs of satellite observations, orbital data, and scientific papers before
journal publication.

281 (15 July 1968). “The Coupling of Matter and Radiation in Cosmology,”
by H. E. Mitler.

282 (18 July 1968). “The Celescope Experiment,” by R. J. Davis.

283 (1 August 1968). “A Measurable Effect of General Relativity in Satellite
Orbits,” by E. M. Gaposchkin and J. P. Wright.

284 (15 August 1968). ‘Martian Surface Temperatures,’ by D. Morrison.

285 (3 September 1968). ‘First-Order Plenetary Theory,” by S. E. Hamid.

286 (20 September 1968). ‘“‘Selenocentric and Lunar Topocentric Coordinates
of Different Spherical Systems,” by B. Kolaczek.

287 (30 September 1968). “Satellite Orbital Data,” No. O-18.

288 (4 October 1968). ‘Photographic Networks for Fireballs,’ by R. E.
McCrosky and Z. Ceplecha.

291 (30 December 1968). ‘Analysis of the cpx System, I.,” by M. R. Schaffner.

292 (31 January 1969). “Thermal Models and Microwave Temperatures of the
Planet Mercury,” by D. Morrison.

293 (3 February 1969). “The Balmer Lines in Early-Type Stars,’ by D. M.
Peterson.

294 (10 February 1969). ‘‘Possible Geopotential Improvement from Satellite
Altimetry,” by C. A. Lundquist and G. E. O. Giacaglia; ‘““Numerical Definition
of Localized Functions on a Sphere,” by K. Hebb and S. G. Mair.

295 (28 February 1969). “Revised Values for Coefficients of Zonal Spherical
Harmonics in the Geopotential,” by Y. Kozai.

297 (10 March 1969). “Tabulation of Further Measures of the Composition of
Dust Particles Related to the Problem of the Identification of Interplanetary
Dust,” by F. W. Wright, P. W. Hodge, and C. C. Langway, Jr.

299 (27 May 1969). “Influence of a Cometary Belt on the Motions of Uranus
and Neptune,” by S. E. Hamid.

301 (30 June 1969). “Further Study of Inelastic II F—2 Apogee Burn,” by
M. R. Wolf.
206 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
CARLTON W. TILLINGHAST

Carlton W. Tillinghast, Jr., author of the following paper and assistant
director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, died of cancer on
27 July 1969. He was 36 years old.

In the spring of 1969, Carl was participating in a graduate seminar on
science and public policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government,
Harvard University. This essay, prepared for that seminar, is a product
and expression of a federal-university relationship that deeply interested
him. The paper offers his evaluation of this type of relationship, which
may promise much for the future of scientific and scholarly research. We
present it here as the last document of a man dedicated to ministering to
the needs of the scientific community.

Carl joined the Astrophysical Observatory in 1959 as administrative
chief of the Computations Division. His earlier training and experi-
ence proved to be of substantial value. After graduation in 1955 from a
special five-year program conducted jointly by Cornell University and
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he became an analytical
nuclear engineer for Pratt and Whitney Aircraft. Two years later, he
served for six months as a second lieutenant with the United States Army
Signal Corps. From 1957 to 1959 he was a research engineer at Mitre
Corporation.

At sao he first directed the complex activities of a staff of thirty in
operating the Observatory’s computer. His outstanding success led a
year later to his appointment—at the age of 27—as assistant director for
Management.

He early determined that his first responsibility was to relieve the |
scientists of administrative burdens. To that end, he developed a series |

of service units, such as business, contracts, personnel, and editorial and

publications, and staffed them with men and women of exceptional |
qualifications. Together, they developed a policy of strong group respon- |

sibility and individual freedom and initiative.

Carl participated in the planning of new scientific programs so that he

might better anticipate and meet their new administrative needs. Al-

though his technical background enabled him to appreciate many of
the complexities of these programs, Carl strenuously refrained from en- |

tering the area of science development.

His greatest strength was in his relations with others. He was con- ©

cerned with people as people, not as boxes in an organization chart.
Through this concern he communicated his own strength and self-
assurance, his creative and imaginative thinking, his understanding—and
he inspired those qualities in others.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 207

In nominating him for a special Smithsonian award that he received in
1963, Dr. Fred L. Whipple wrote that “because of his effectiveness and
wise counsel on administrative matters, scientists have been enabled to
devote the fullest possible attention to scientific research. By his example,
Tillinghast has instilled in all levels of his staff a challenge to initiative
and achievement. He has developed an effective staff, made significant
administrative and budgetary improvements, and given maximum sup-
port to the Observatory’s scientific achievement.”

Carl is survived by his wife Suzanne and four children. Their loss and
the Observatory’s are inestimable.

JOINT GOVERNMENT-UNIVERSITY
LABORATORIES IN THE UNITED STATES*

CARLTON W. TILLINGHAST

Introduction

Joint government-university laboratories have existed in this country
since about 1955 and have emerged as a distinct class of research estab-
lishment. Now they are coming in for considerable attention from the
government. This paper is addressed to the questions: What are joint
laboratories? Why do they succeed? Where do they fit into the overall
government research picture? And what will they mean, in the long run,
to the government and to universities?

What Are Joint Laboratories?

As defined here, a joint laboratory is a federal laboratory located on a
university campus and staffed and operated by federal personnel working
together with university faculty and graduate students. Two good ex-
amples are the Joint Institute for Laboratory Astrophysics (JILA),
operated by the National Bureau of Standards and the University of
Colorado, and the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao) at
Harvard University. I would guess there are only a very few tens of such
laboratories in the United States today. However, the number is growing.

The purposes of a joint laboratory are research and teaching. The
government is interested mainly in research, and the university, presum-

*Prepared for Seminar in Science and Public Policy, John Fitzgerald Kennedy
School of Government, Harvard University, May 1969.
208 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

ably, in both teaching and research. The goals of the government and
of the university and to various extents their organizations can remain
separate, yet by working together both parties can achieve more than they
ever could separately. Their roles as government and university are not
incompatible. In fact, they are complementary. Staff and facilities are
shared on both sides. Government scientists typically hold joint academic
appointments and teach and supervise graduate students to the extent
of the university’s needs and their own desires.

It should be understood that a joint laboratory is not a method of
funding university research. There need be no financial transaction at
all between the government and the host university. It is simply a work-
ing partnership between two scientific organizations.

The government’s original motive in creating joint laboratories was
probably to go where the scientific action was and to improve its recruit-
ing position and the professional contacts open to its staff. The uni-
versities probably saw it as a chance to increase their faculty, laboratory,
and fellowship resources.

The initiatives to establish joint laboratories were taken independently
by the federal agencies and the universities concerned. Nobody noticed
what was happening on a government-wide basis. Even laboratories

like the two mentioned above, which early had scientific contacts with _
one another, were largely unaware of their organizational similarities. —
Now this situation is beginning to change. The Federal Council for Sci- ©

ence and Technology (FcsT) has studied and reported on the benefits
of close affiliation between federal laboratories and universities, and sev-
eral agencies have consciously begun to copy the prototypes in establish-
ing new joint laboratories,

Why Do They Succeed?

The Federal Council’s attention and the fact that government agen-
cies that already have them are creating new ones imply that joint
laboratories have been successful. Many people feel that they have been
exceptionally so. A task force of the rcsr found that among 76 federal
laboratories of all types, those with close university relationships had a
‘purpose, an alertness, an enthusiasm, a striving for excellence, a dedica-
tion, a feeling of accomplishment coupled with unlimited potential con-
tribution, a vibrant participation at the advancing frontiers of science,
an excitement, a sense of life and involvement” that were seldom found
elsewhere. Although apparently this is a statement on morale rather
than on performance, nevertheless it constitutes a strong endorsement.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 209

There are some obvious reasons why joint laboratories should suc-
ceed. Shared staff and facilities, as well as recruiting advantages, fall
into this category. But they fail to explain the extent to which joint
laboratories seem to have succeeded. Nothing mentioned so far would
necessarily explain why a direct link with a university should make a
government laboratory notably more effective than it would have been
otherwise. Are scientists and administrators overreacting to a novel
situation, or are there basic reasons why joint laboratories should stand
out from other forms of research organization? Indeed, there seem to
be two such reasons.

First, consider the framework in which the conventional government
laboratory operates. Scientific research is an intellectual business, while
related activities, such as granting research funds to investigators, are
administrative. Science succeeds only through its intellectual perform-
ance. Heretofore, the government laboratory has operated as part of
the executive branch of the government or, if not as part of it, at least
entirely within it. The government is organized to govern, not to foster
free inquiry and intellectual creativity. In fact, the approaches needed
for the two kinds of activity are somewhat incompatible.

The university, on the other hand, is specifically designed to impart
knowledge and to stimulate scholarship. Success varies, but the basic
goal of the whole system is scholarship.

This is not to say that government research cannot succeed. Its
history in this country is longer than that of academic research. Given
the right leadership and what the Frost has called adequate “buffering”
from the bureaucratic structure, it has produced some outstanding
results. But other things being equal, a university today may offer a
more congenial research atmosphere than the government can. Thus,
the location of a federal laboratory is important. Its superficial structure
and operations depend very little on where it is, but to enjoy certain
indirect environmental benefits, it must be implanted in the university
culture.

Fortunately, the government can achieve its scientific goals in such
an environment without compromising itself in the process. There is
no basic incompatibility between government research and the univer-
sity. Rather, the government's scientific goals fall outside the original
goals for which government as we know it was designed.

The second basic reason for the success of joint laboratories is less
obvious. It is the presence of graduate students. Some government
scientists do not want to teach and are in the government for just that
reason. But the whole scientific organization gains in vitality by having
students. The scientists who teach find it valuable to have to go back
over essentials. For the rest of the staff, there is the benefit of even the
210 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

informal contacts with vigorous, inventive young minds. The physicist
Leopold Infeld once said that the ideal scientific meeting would include
three groups of scientists: the older ones, for their breadth of view; the
heavily productive middle-aged group; and students, for their un-
fettered creativity. The same is true of the university community.

In short, universities provide an excellent environment for scientific
research; and students, who are commonly viewed as beneficiaries of
government-university research, in fact catalyze it.

Joint Laboratories in the Federal Research Picture

In a sense, joint laboratories are a logical extension of the govern-
ment’s long dependence on academic relationships. Visiting appoint-
ments, for instance, while representing transaction at arm’s length as
far as interorganizational relationships go, have nevertheless been a
source of strength to federal groups such as the Geological Survey.
Among other benefits, joint laboratories increase the opportunities for
these varied contacts outside the government. A laboratory affiliated
with one university may well have more contacts with staff members of
other universities than it would have otherwise.

As part of the federal government’s in-house research effort, joint
laboratories do not compete directly with sponsored research at univer-
sities and university consortia, nonprofit corporations, and the so-called
federal-contract research centers. However, the joint-laboratory concept
might sometimes provide the government with a viable in-house alter-
native where it would otherwise have to turn to outside contracting.

Whether a given research program should be done by the govern-
ment or contracted out depends on long-range scientific and social goals
as well as on immediate research objectives. It also depends on the
availability of qualified federal personnel. Joint laboratories help to
nurture the government’s limited human resources. At a time when
contractors and industry are attracting scientific talent away from the
government, it is important to note that certain features of a joint lab-
oratory can go a long way to make a federal scientific career as attractive
as any other.

The Bureau of the Budget and the General Accounting Office have
recommended that the government consider the establishment of
special institutes for research. In effect, these institutes would be govern-
ment corporations designed to provide administrative flexibility and
a degree of independence while retaining public accountability and
control. Each one would have its own board of directors, but would
be under the ultimate control of a cabinet officer or agency head.
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 211

Although mainly intended as alternatives to existing arrangements
for contract research, institutes could do the work of in-house federal
laboratories, too. Either way, they could be affiliated with universities.
A research institute could in fact embody the joint-laboratory concept,
whatever it was called. Of course, from the legislative point of view, it
would be easier simply to set up a joint laboratory without resorting to
the institute mechanism.

Although the institutes were first suggested in 1962, nothing has come
of them yet. One reason is that some of the ills they were intended to
cure have been handled in other ways. The idea behind the institute
was flexibility. But flexibility, properly employed, may be more a state
of mind than a system of rules.

We tend to admire flexibility in other organizations at those points
where we find our own organization inflexible. There are usually two
sides to the matter. Government scientists at a university are sometimes
surprised to find that their own rules are more flexible than those of
the university. Here, as elsewhere, complementarity is one of the
strengths of the joint laboratory. Together, the government and uni-
versity groups can capitalize on their respective flexibilities.

When should the joint-laboratory approach be used by a government
agency? Three principal considerations are the following:

1. A joint laboratory should be used where intellectual creativity is
important to the government’s operation. This could be true for either
basic or applied research.

2. It may be feasible only when the principal experimental facilities
and the objects of experimentation can be taken to the university.

3. It will probably work well only when the government’s activities
are compatible with the nature of a university. For instance, a develop-
ment activity with heavy subcontracting or a classified research project
might not be suitable.

The first point is the most important for the government to consider.
An agency may fear that its laboratory will become the captive of the
university and be diverted from its own mission or from the control of
the agency. Or there may be a question as to whether applied research
will do as well at a university as would basic research. The real question,
though, is whether an element of creative thinking is required that the
university connection will foster.

The best arrangements are those in which the government and the
university have complementary strengths as well as aspirations, not
simply as to subject matter but also as to the way they approach it. For
instance, a university department’s approach may be intensive, whereas
the government’s interest in the same subject may be extensive, as in the
contrast between specific topics in biology and the same topics from the
212 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

broader viewpoint of ecology. Or it may be the other way around. In
short, the dimensions of their two interests should combine so as to
expand their joint effect.

Instead of the government going to the university, could the univer-
sity come to the government? That is, could teaching and research at
a government laboratory away from the campus result in the same
benefits that the government would enjoy on campus? Probably not,
although there would surely still be some advantages. The university
might benefit more than the government would, since the federal scien-
tists would not be an integral part of the university community. How-
ever, the location of a large fixed government experimental facility may
preclude campus location or may at least dictate a more gradual move
into the university community.

Many universities operate federal-contract research centers. The
question may arise whether one of these could serve as the contact point
between an in-house government laboratory and the university. It would
seem unlikely. A contract laboratory, while legally part of the university,
is usually somewhat removed from its intellectual life. It is the direct,
intimate contact with teaching and academic research that imparts the
special vitality typical of the best joint endeavors.

Problems for the Government

Once the decision has been made to join forces with a university, the
government laboratory and parent agency will face the problem of
adapting to a new situation. However, problem and opportunity may
go hand in hand, for it was the very hope of change and improvement
that led the government into the merger.

The most important problems usually concern the government’s per-
sonnel policies. Whether it had moved to the campus or not, the govern-
ment would sooner or later have had to face most of them. University
affiliation merely hastens the confrontation. For instance, there is the
problem of whether to permit teaching as a part of a government
scientist’s official duties. It can be done, but it need not be. An alternative
is to give him leave without pay, and let the university make up the
difference. Such monetary and other incentives should be adequate but
not so high as to create the feeling that every government scientist must
teach in order to advance his career; if that happens, the government
loses a recruiting advantage, for some scientists dislike teaching. |

Questions of conflict of interest and dual compensation will arise,
involving, for example, outside consulting and publication, two areas
where federal and academic traditions differ widely. But these problems)
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 213

are coming up even within long-established government research centers
and have to do mostly with general changes in accepted standards of
practice.

Long-Range Benefits to the Government

An effective relationship with a university will in the end not only
improve the performance of the laboratory concerned but also have a
favorable effect on the sponsoring government agency. The latter will be
felt in at least three ways:

First, like any in-house laboratory, the joint laboratory will provide
a useful source of technical-management personnel for the parent
agency. This can be important in this day of contract research programs,
which require extensive government overseeing but at the same time
compete with the government for the services of the very managers who
could provide it.

- Second, mission-oriented agencies commonly give little thought to

‘the educational side of the science policy problems between government
and academia. Direct cooperation through the government-university
laboratories will make a growing number of people in the agencies more
aware of the academic viewpoint and generally more aware of the whole
outside world. Both government and university horizons are broadened
through collaboration.

Third, the university environment may reveal certain truths about
research administration that the agency can put to use elsewhere. The
government’s growing appreciation of the importance of students to

research is a case in point.

Effect on the University

The principal benefits to the university are in the increased staff and
facilities available for its teaching, plus the heightened intellectual stim-
ulus that comes from having a larger group of scientists working together.
Moreover, the government laboratory brings with it new contacts with
the outside scientific world, for students and faculty alike. And in
almost every joint program, the government provides added opportu-
nities for scholarships and fellowships for the students. These are imme-
diate and apparent benefits.

_ The problems are more subtle and will take longer to reveal them-

selves. They have to do with balance within the university and eventually
with the nature of the university itself.

214 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The university’s internal equilibrium may be affected not simply by
joint laboratories but also by its whole range of contacts with the govern-
ment. A Harvard study identified the following areas where imbalance
could occur owing to government influence: It could occur among
various fields of learning, between teaching and research, and between
tenure and nontenure faculty at the university.

The danger is real. This year, half the astronomy courses offered at
Harvard are taught by Smithsonian people, who also teach courses in
other fields such as physics and the history of science. From the educa-
tional point of view, this is a desirable use of resources. More scientists)
are teaching more students. But from Harvard’s point of view, the
present astronomy program depends not only on government funds
(which it may have through other sources) , but also on the presence of a,
government scientific staff.

The joint laboratory may have another, qualitative effect on the:
university. Owing to its different ancestry, it will probably be more
operationally inclined than its university counterpart. It is not unusual
for a federal laboratory to have a supporting-to-professional staff
ratio of five to one, which is higher than that of most academic depart-
ments or laboratories. The university does have a maintenance and)
administrative staff, but it is more or less separated from the academic
department. The government organization, on the other hand, is rela-
tively homogeneous. It is aware of itself as a group and accustomed to
working as a group. While it is presumably only the federal scientific
staff that is integrated with the academic community, the obvious pres-
ence of the federal supporting staff may make the university feel its
academic environment is being weakened.

The source of the disparity is historical. The university was originally
a group of scholars, to which administrators were added as they became
necessary. The government, on the contrary, was first an administration,
to which scholars were added as they became necessary. Whereas many a
university department is built around a few key faculty members, the
government laboratory, even where it is locally a very scholarly effort,
has to be operationally self-sufficient in many ways that the academic
department does not. It has been said that the government must pay
attention not only to the top of the pyramid of scientific activity, but to
the entire base required to support the pinnacle of scientific excellence.

Now it may be argued that tomorrow’s science will be achieved
through large organizations and not by individuals alone and that
therefore exposure to a supporting bureaucracy is consistent with the
full education that the universities ought to be giving in science. One
wonders, though, whether that part of a modern scientific education
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 215

belongs in the faculty of science, or in the business school, or in the
government department, or in the university at all. Today, most things
are done through organizations, and the same logic applied to other
faculties in the university might lead to an odd institution indeed. Is
education for the “real” world most efficiently achieved by isolating
the university in the traditional way or by bringing some of the real
world into the university? Note that bringing the outside world into the
university is a different matter from sending students outside the uni-
versity to gain practical experience as an adjunct to their education. The
problem of science as science, versus science as a corporate effort, is an
interesting one that remains to be resolved.

It leads to the even more interesting question of whether the joint
laboratory is in fact the forerunner of a whole new class of cooperative
undertakings that may change the very nature of the university. The
joint laboratory results from the government and the university sharing
an interest in a particular field, in this case scientific. Since scholarship
of all kinds is becoming increasingly important to the government’s
own operations, there is no reason to think that the joint-laboratory
concept will not be extended to other fields as well. In fact, universities
already have various institutes, advanced-study centers, and the like
that resemble joint laboratories or their immediate precursors. Con-
ceptually, there is very little difference between the reasons for the exist-
ence of a joint laboratory and the reasons why, let us say, the Department
of State might be interested in working together with a foreign-studies
program at a university. The principle would hold for any field of
knowledge.

If government research and study groups become common on the
university campus, then the university will change. For the first time, it
will have a third active constituency in its midst, in addition to the
faculty and students who were there before. Government researchers—
physicists, economists, sociologists, and others—will serve on university
committees, will vote with the faculty, and in general will become full-
fledged members of the university community. This is already happening
through the joint laboratories.

Again, this is not necessarily bad. But it is different. Some may view
it as a natural corollary to the pervasive influence the academics now
have on the government. Like it or not, the seeming anomaly of govern-
ment on campus can be no surprise to anyone who thinks about it. For
the first time in history, the government is becoming a user, not merely
a patron, of scholarship, which in modern times has until now been the
preserve of the universities. Clearly, either the government or the
universities as we know them must change. In fact, both are changing.
216 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
Conclusion

Joint laboratories seem to be here to stay. They will affect the future
both of government research and of universities.

If anything, we may wonder why they did not come sooner. Their
advent now may be due to the science explosion in the government and.
the universities, or to the improved transportation and communications.
that encourage decentralization of the government, or to the big-
science trend that makes collaboration the price of progress, or to
all three. Or it may reflect a growing realization of the shortcomings of
bureaucracy, which science needs but from which it also suffers; uni-
versity relationships may be part of the cure.

As strictly functional management is now obsolete in almost every
modern organization, so may be strictly governmental laboratories. Even
for hard-core mission-oriented research, new arrangements may serve
better than the old ones.

For whatever reason joint laboratories have come, the time is
propitious. United States science policy is in a period of consolidation
and reassessment. Joint laboratories may yield some useful answers to
questions of science organization.

There is a tendency, in press releases and in public statements, tc
treat government-university collaboration and shared government facil-
ities as cases of the government helping the universities, albeit in the
national interest. There is more to it than that. At the working level.
in terms of scientific output, the government benefits tremendously. In
fact, the opportunities and the problems on both sides go far deeper
than the sharing of equipment and personnel.

The question may be raised whether similar cooperation between
government and industry would work as well as it does between the
government and universities. Perhaps so. University-industry labora-
tories exist in this country, and they are common abroad. However,
there is one important difference between government and the univer-
sities, on the one hand, and industry on the other. Money is important
to all of them. Good research management always means getting the
most research for the dollar. But industry uses its research to maximize
its dollars, whereas the government and the universities must use
their dollars to maximize their research. This is an important distinc-
tion. It is not clear what differences it might create between a govern-
ment-industry laboratory and a government-university laboratory, but
it may prove significant that the government and the universities are
on the same side of the fence in this case.

The separations and distinctions between government, higher educa-
tion, and private enterprise are lessening all the time. In planning for
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY 217

science, we must ask not only whether it is government or private, but
who does the best in a particular field. Where are the standards high?
Who, private or public, has what the nation needs? Flexibility and en-
lightened administration and policy making are difficult to attain, but
‘they are what we need. Success in a complex world will depend not
simply on our brains, or education, or expensive equipment, but also
on our ability to combine them effectively through what might be called
our organizational skills.

Joint laboratories are a form of research integration between the
government and the university sectors. We can think of the scientific
‘community as having those two sectors, plus the foundations and non-
profit groups, industrial research, and the amateurs (who still dominate
certain narrow fields). To make the best use of our national scientific
resources, we must encourage their free interaction. Probably only the
government is in a position, through policy, to integrate the research
activities of all five sectors. Joint laboratories may be an important step
in that direction.

366-269 O—70——_15
¥i

sis Wolo y* APtaM be

ry nwiaveN 8 i tela

o ib vecabrend et ein end Biel oe

par eh en Chdomeaad thie cies aad
Sch MR Meret lo sci iba lar. pense (Lae cerca

Ly Kee teeioos. by tae wens w) PR

Ith Giittecs tn inlay & vey iio eis RE '

ee aD ATL na, Daw. ee td ae

ee ee a | ii One ie wai

Aeteie ie Siac eupiice ey. aero 2
7 Teh? oe Ve ara yiey be ae hee a
Cw Ppt apie oe AT ie ae
tb Te ek ee a |

9) sbaghe Pai

aA bat gle np

Tih asl Weve Tt 2 i

ree F] ’ { q Apa hiprtel, !
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Martin H. Moyninan, Director

HE SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE performs field

studies and experimentation in order to better understand the
biological processes and evolutionary outcome of competitions for scarce
space and resources. With the main thrust of research by the Institute
addressing the evolution of ecological adaptations and patterns of be-
havior, its efforts are being enhanced greatly by extended comparative
research on these responses in differing New and Old World tropical
habitats. By research at carefully selected locations in Central and
South America, Africa, southern Asia, and the Pacific Ocean, the
Institute’s biologists and students are adding important dimensions of
understanding to the wealth of data assembled in Panama.

Progress has been made by the Institute in strengthening the man-
agement of its field stations and resources in order to be better prepared
for future growth and to take advantage of opportunities for collabora-
tive research and advanced education.

The library, the area’s finest on tropical biology, along with admin-
istrative headquarters, conference rooms, and laboratories for perma-
nent staff and several interns, has been housed in a newly acquired
building on Ancon Hill, overlooking Panama City.

In Cali, Colombia, only one hour by air from Panama, a small sub-
station has been established in cooperation with the Museo Depart-
mental de Historia Natural, directed by Dr. Carlos Lehmann. Space
is available for several scientists and students to use the structure as a
base camp from which to study habitats ranging from the low, wet
forests of Buenaventura to the nearby Andean heights.

Increased cooperation with universities has taken several forms. A
cooperative arrangement with the University of Pennsylvania will be

219
220 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

initiated in the fall of 1969 by one of the Institute’s biologists, Dr.
Michael H. Robinson, who will lecture at the university. Plans hav
been completed for a joint Princeton University-Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute appointment for Dr. Egbert G. Leigh, who specialize
in mathematical theories of evolution and community ecology. Other
cooperative arrangements are being developed.

Having, thus, consolidated its gains in a number of areas, the Institut
is now prepared to extend its research into new directions in the month
ahead.

Research

The research activities of the bureau include both the studies of
staff scientists, interns, and fellows, and those of visiting investigators
from other institutions. The following tabulation shows the number of
visiting researchers, roughly divided into academic categories, for whom
the bureau has provided appreciable support during the past fiscal year.

Senior scientists 63
Graduate students 89
Undergraduate students oe
Secondary school students 12
Postdoctoral fellows 2
OAS fellow 1
Others 76
Seminar participants 400

Total 670

The number of senior scientists is somewhat smaller than in previous
years because it reflects a longer average period of stay for an individual
researcher.

The scope of the research by visiting scientists has been quite broad.
Some examples are cited below.

How species of butterflies belonging to a Mullerian mimic associa-
tion—hence all distasteful and very similar in appearance—discriminate
visually between each other has been a subject investigated by Thomas
Eisner, Jeffrey Camhi, and Herbert Rosenberg of Cornell University.
Using a portable television camera that records ultraviolet radiation,
Eisner has showed that the various species within a particular mimetic
association have very different and diverse patterns under ultraviolet, a
portion of the energy spectrum to which their vertebrate predators are
blind. Thus, these distasteful insects present a single pattern that pre-
sumably their predators can easily learn to avoid, but a diversity of pat-
terns to themselves in a code unbreakable by their predators.

Robert MacArthur, Henry Horn, and Steven Fretwell of Princeton

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 221

The STRI laboratory-office building in Ancon, Canal Zone.

University have sought to test the predictive efficiency of several theo-
retical models of animal population biology. They have compared sev-
eral groups of animals living in certain habitats on islands in the Bay
of Panama with those in similar habitats on the mainland forty miles
away. Comparisons such as these are particularly revealing. By their
very number and diversity in size, shape, and ecology, islands provide
ideal natural experimental situations in which evolutionary hypotheses
may be tested rapidly.

With much interest now focused on the possible biological effects that
may result from the construction of a sea-level canal in Central America,
a number of investigators have come to the marine laboratories to make
Atlantic-Pacific comparisons of their special groups. Among these are
Neal Powell and Arthur Clarke of the National Museums of Canada,
who have compared the species composition and ecology of several
groups of marine animals living at both ends of the present canal. Powell,
a bryozoan specialist, has completed a similar study at the Suez Canal,
222 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

In the basket of the United States Air Force’s strato tower sixty feet above the
ground, Neal Smith is examining the contents of nests in an oropendola colony.

through which Red Sea and Mediterranean organisms only recently
have begun to move.

An oil spill that occurred near the Galeta Island marine laboratory
has provided Jeremy Jackson of Yale University with a before-and-after
comparison in his study of species diversity in the fauna associated with
Thalassia beds in the Caribbean. The effects of this oil spill—today an
all-too-frequent disaster—are under analysis.
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 223

The familiar white-faced monkey (Cebus capucinus) has been the
research subject of three investigators. John Oppenheimer of Johns
Hopkins University has continued his two-year study in the wild of the
complex social behavior of this species. On the other hand, intern Mark
Bernstein has analyzed the abnormal behavior patterns (quirks) of caged
Cebus emphasizing the possible signal function of these quirks. Juan
Delius, University of Durham, has made a detailed analysis of the
vocalizations associated with one particular social situation in this
species with the aim of continuing this analysis of causal mechanisms
through neurophysiological techniques.

The staff has continued to concentrate on aspects of evolution, ecology,
and behavior, combining experimental analysis in the laboratory with
observations in the field under natural conditions both in the Old and
New World tropics.

Marine invertebrate laboratory added to growing complex on Panama Bay.

224 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The newly opened STRI residence-laboraory in Cali, Colombia.

Moynihan has furthered his studies of the evolution of social behavior
among primates and birds in the Andes and the upper Amazonian
region.

Robert L. Dressler has continued his studies of orchid pollination,
largely through sampling euglossine bees, and the orchid pollinaria that
they carry, with terpenoid and aromatic “baits.” Extensive collections
have been made in Costa Rica and Brazil that will permit better under-
standing of evolution within these bees and among the orchids that they
pollinate.

Although the upwelling of cold water in the Bay of Panama has been
quite restricted this year and phytoplankton production correspondingly
reduced, Peter Glynn has found that barnacle and oyster growth is sur-
prisingly high, suggesting that water temperature may be more important
in influencing growth than fluctuations in food supply. Glynn’s studies
of fouling, particularly from algae, in marine animals has suggested that
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 223

this fouling may be a severe problem for many organisms. He indicated
that many of the behavioral and morphological features of animals like
isopods, previously thought to be antipredator devices, may indeed be
primarily antifouling adaptations. His analysis of plankton samples
from coral communities in Puerto Rico showed that reefs do accrue a
substantial net gain of diatoms and zooplankton, a point not demon-
strated previously. Glynn also attended a symposium on coral reefs at
Mandapam Camp, India, and made a preliminary analysis of the exten-
sive reefs near Nossi Bé, Malagasy Republic.

A. Stanley Rand has continued his studies of animal communication
in the West Indies, Colombia, and Panama. His analysis of the visual
communication system in anoline lizards and the vocal communication
in frog choruses has shown that the two systems have a surprisingly high
level of redundancy. This is perhaps a result of the high degree of “noisi-
ness” of their particular communication channels. In June 1969 Rand
visited the symposium on evolution in the tropics held by the Association
for Tropical Biology in Puerto Rico.

Paramo vegetation at 11,000 feet in the central Andes near Cali, Colombia,
showing the characteristic composite Espeletia.

226 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

As part of his long-term investigations of predator-prey interactions,
Michael H. Robinson, in collaboration with Heath Mirick, a summer:
intern, and Barbara Robinson, has extended his studies of predatory
behavior in orb-web spiders to include four additional genera. In collab-
oration with Laurence Abele of Florida State University, he has begun
a study of Panamanian crabs. They have found one particularly fasci-
nating form of defense that occurs in at least two genera of land crabs.
The crab attacks a predator with its claws, causes the claw to break off!
its own body, and retreats to safety while the predator deals with the:
detached but still attacking appendage. In November 1968 Robinson
attended the Fourth Latin American Congress of Zoology in Caracas,
Venezuela.

Ira and Roberta Rubinoff have completed their analyses of isolating)
mechanisms in the marine fish Bathygobius. They have demonstrated
that species from both coasts of the Isthmus will interbreed even though
the species have been isolated for between two and five million years’
and are morphologically quite different. Mrs. Rubinoff has extended)
the investigation of isolating mechanisms to include invertebrate groups!
and has begun a study of social behavior in the sea urchin Diodema. The
two scientists journeyed to Israel, where they visited many laboratories
and met with a number of other scientists. A focus of common interest
has been the migration of animals through the Suez and Panama canals.

Neal Smith has completed a five-year experimental study of the evo-
lution of adaptations for and against brood parasitism by four species
of oropendolas and the avian parasites.

Does the appearance (structure) of a mature forest reflect mainly
the conditions of its physical environment or the characteristics of the
plants that happened first to colonize it? What aspects of a forest’s
appearance can be predicted from ecological considerations and what
aspects reflect accidents of history? (For example, what is the explana-
tion for the dominance of Dipterocarps in Malaya?) Attempting to
answer such questions, Egbert Leigh has studied selected forests in the
Ivory Coast, Madagascar, India, Malaya, and New Guinea. Leigh, who
will continue this research in those areas as a member of the stTRI
staff, has found that lowland forests around the world are quite similar
structurally, but that montane forests differ radically in this respect.
Oddly, of several major structural features of these forests such as tree
height and amount of ground cover, leaf size is the feature that best
correlates with altitude.

Postdoctoral fellows Christopher Smith and Robert Ricklefs have

Montane forest at 7000 feet in the western Andes near Cali, Colombia.

228 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

been in residence at sTrRI during part of last year. Smith has completed
his investigations of energy budgeting by howler monkeys (Alouatta) and
Ricklefs has finished his analysis of breeding strategies in tropical birds.

Yoshiki Oniki of Brazil has worked on Barro Colorado Island under
the auspices of the joint Smithsonian-Organization of American States
cooperative program. She is studying the reproductive biology of one
of the forest antbirds.

Visiting fellow Thomas Croat, of the Missouri Botanical Garden,
has reached the last phases of field work for compiling a new flora of
Barro Colorado Island. The new version should be particularly useful
to nonbotanical scientists for it will include keys to fruits and other
vegetative structures not normally included in such guides.

Predoctoral interns and associates also have conducted a variety of
research projects.

|
{
|

Jeffrey B. Graham of Scripps Institution of Oceanography has studied |
the effects of temperature on the physiology of marine fishes from both —

sides of the Isthmus. He found that Pacific populations of Rypfticus,

Apogon, and Bathygobius show greater temperature tolerance and
maintain higher rates of oxygen consumption than Atlantic populations.

Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone

Annual Rainfall 1925-1968

Total Station Total Station
Year inches average Year inches average
1925 104. 37 1947 77. 92 107. 49
1926 118. 22 113. 56 1948 83. 16 106. 43
1927 116. 36 114. 68 1949 114. 86 106. 76
1928 101. 52 111. 35 1950 114. 51 107. 07
1929 87. 84 106. 56 1951 112. 72 107. 28
1930 76. 57 101. 51 1952 97. 68 106. 94
1931 123. 30 104, 69 1953 104. 97 106. 87
1932 PiSs52 105. 76 1954 105. 68 106. 82
1933 101. 73 105. 32 1955 114. 42 107. 09
1934 122. 42 107. 04 1956 114. 05 107. 30
1935 143. 42 110. 35 1957 97.97 106. 98
1936 93. 88 108. 98 1958 100. 20 106. 70
1937 124. 13 110. 12 1959 94, 88 106. 48
1938 117. 09 110. 62 1960 140. 07 107. 41
1939 115. 47 110. 94 1961 100. 21 106. 95
1940 86. 51 109. 43 1962 100. 52 107. 07
1941 91. 82 108. 41 1963 108. 94 107. 10
1942 MY 10 108. 55 1964 113.24 107. 28
1943 120. 29 109. 20 1965 92. 80 106. 91
1944 111. 96 109. 30 1966 111. 47 106. 80
1945 120. 42 109. 84 1967 85. 88 106. 40

1946 87. 38 108. 81 1968 88. 12 105. 99
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 229

This seems reasonable since the range of environmental vicissitudes is
greater in the Pacific.

A year-long study of avian diversity by James Karr, University of
Illinois, has shown more species and, surprisingly, more individuals per
unit area in tropical forest-edge and forest habitats than in structurally
similar temperate habitats. But in grasslands, the avifaunas of tropical
and temperate areas do not differ as significantly as those in structurally
more complex habitats.

Norris H. Williams, University of Miami, has analyzed the nature
of the pollination relationship between wasps and orchids of the genus
Brassia. He also has continued biochemical and morphological studies
of Brassavola that will result in a redefinition of this genus.

The effects of fish predation on zooplankton populations in a lacus-
trine ecosystem has been the subject of Thomas Zaret’s study. Zaret,
from Yale University, has found that the planktivorous fish Thyrinops
chagrest maintains a balanced polymorphic situation in the cladoceran
Ceriodaphnia cornuta.

Comparison of 1967 and 1968 Rainfall

(in inches)

Total Years Accumulated

SS 1968 excess of Station exCess OF

Month 1967 1968 or deficiency _—_—_ record average deficiency
January 0:49: 0:09 —0. 40 43 227 —0. 40
February ilies 179 +1. 28 43 1.27 +0. 88
March 0S a FS so OF 43 ¥r.19. aaa
April 4.38 0.61 —3. 77 44 3. 43 +0. 18
May 6.28 11.54 +9. 20 44 10. 79 abe es
June 13.94 10,21 2 5) 44 10. 94 eee ul
July 8.74 6.54 an 2 44 11. 38 Oo
August 10.94 15. 87 +4. 93 44 251 +4. 84
September 6:98 7.08 +0. 10 44 10. 18 +4. 94
October 11.87 18.66 +6. 79 44 13. 74 11-73
November 155154 10. 32 —4, 83 44 17591 +6. 90
December 6.48 1.82 — 4. 66 44 10. 30 +2. 24
Year 85.88 88.12 +2. 24 105-99 — V7 ior
Dry Season 5.90 6.08 +0. 18 8. 06 eG
Wet Season 79.98 82.04 +2. 06 37593 —15. 89

Education

The educational activities of the Institute are not confined to helping
and guiding university visitors, resident interns, assistants, and research
fellows. Extensive seminar programs are offered by the Institute. These
are usually attended by staff and students from other institutions in
230

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

the Republic of Panama and the Canal Zone, including the Middle
America Research Unit, the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, the Uni-
versity of Panama, the Canal Zone Junior College, the Canal Zone
hospitals, the United States Army Tropic Test Center, and the Inter-
Oceanic Canal Study Commission. During this past year, ten seminars
have formed a symposium concerned with the phenomenon of seasonal-
ity in the tropics. The following tabulation is a partial listing of the

subjects covered in the past year.

Christopher Smith, str1 (postdoctoral
fellow)

Robert Ricklefs,
fellow)

Michael H. Robinson, str1

STRI (postdoctoral

A. Stanley Rand, stri
Peter Glynn, stRI

Christopher Smith, str (postdoctoral
fellow)

James R. Karr, str1 (University of
Illinois )

Robert Ricklefs, str1 (postdoctoral fel-

low)
Charles Elton, Oxford University

Michael H. Robinson, str1

Jeffrey Graham, stri (Scripps Insti-
tute)

Thomas Eisner, Cornell University
Juan D. Delius, University of Durham
Charles Leck, Cornell University

Mark Bernstein, strt (University of
Pennsylvania)

Peter Marler, Rockefeller University

Thomas Zaret, str1 (Yale University)

Don Wilson, University of New Mexico

Elwynn Taylor, Washington University
Owen Sexton, Washington University

Douglas Futuyma, University of Michi-
gan

Primary Productivity and Plant Cycles:
Some Theoretical Considerations
Significance of Fluctuations in Ter-
restrial Invertebrate Cycles

Possible Factors Influencing the Long-
Term Strategies of Terrestrial In-
vertebrates

Evolution of Terrestrial Vertebrate
Cycles and Breeding Strategies

Marine Seasonality: Cycles in the Ma-
rine Environment

Seasonality and Species Diversity: Fu-
ture Prospects and Related Problems

Avian Species Diversity in Various
Habitats in Panama

Adaptive Significance of Reproductive
Strategies of Birds

Comparisons between Tropical Forests
and Temperate Forests

The Strategy and Tactics of Predation
by Orb-Web Spiders

A Comparative Study of the Effects of
Temperature on the Metabolism of
Tropical Marine Fishes

Studies in Insect Communication

Stochastic Analysis of Behavior

Strategies Employed by Fruit-Eating
Birds

Abnormal Social Responses or “Quirks”
in Cebus Monkeys

Bird Song: A Problem in Development

The Hydrobiology of Gatun Lake

Reproduction in the Neotropical Bat
Myotis nigricans

Delimitation of Energy Strata in Tropi-
cal Forests

Habitat Structure and Diversity in
Anuran Breeding Habits

Genetic Response to Inter-Specific
Competition
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 231

Norris Williams, str1 (University of Pollination of Brassia Orchids by Wasps
Miami)
Peter Glynn, sTRI Fouling and Survival in Marine Or-
ganisms — A Hypothesis
James R. Karr, strt (University of Comparisons of Avian Aggregations in
Illinois) Temperate and Tropical Habitats.

Acknowledgments

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute can operate only with
the excellent cooperation of the Canal Zone government and the
Panama Canal Company, the United States Army and Navy, and the
government authorities of the Republic of Panama and the Republic
of Colombia. Thanks are due especially to General Robert W. Porter,
Jr., former Commander United States Armed Forces, Southern Com-
mand; Executive Secretary of the Canal Zone Paul M. Runnestrand
and his staff ; Dr. Carlos Lehmann V., Director of the Museo de Historia
Natural in Cali, Colombia; Colonel W. F. Bradbury, Post Commander,
Fort Amador, Canal Zone; Commander James Cox, Commanding
Officer, Naval Security Group; the customs and immigration officials
of the Canal Zone; Captain Kenneth Roscoe, Senior Assistant Port
Captain, Cristobal, Canal Zone; K. E. Biglane, Federal Water Pollution
Control Administration; Dr. R. C. Pierson, Canal Zone Veterinary
Hospital; Colonel Clarence Little, Air Force Research Liaison; Gotfred
P. Nelson, Air Force Civil Engineering, Howard Air Force Base, Canal
Zone; and C. C. Soper of Eastman Kodak Company.

Staff Publications and Papers

CuHEscHER, Ricuarp H. “Lytechinous williamsi, A New Sea Urchin from
Panama,” Breviora (1968), number 305, pages 1-13.

Dress.er, Rosert L., C. H. Dopson, H. G. WeLus, R. M. Apams, and N. H.
WituiaMs. “Biologically Active Compounds in Orchid Fragrances.” Science
(1968), volume 163, pages 1243-1249.

Giynn, Peter W. “A New Genus and Two New Species of Sphaeromatid
Isopods from the High Intertidal Zone at Naos Island, Panama.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington (1968), volume 81, pages 587-604.

“Ecological Studies on the Associations of Chitons in Puerto Rico
with Special Reference to Sphaeromid Isopods.” Bulletin of Marine Science
(1968), volume 18, number 3, pages 572-626.

Hvapik, ANNETTE, and C. M. Hranix. “Rapports tropiques entre végétation et
primates dans la foret de Barro Colorado (Panama).” La Terre et la Vie,
volume 23, number 1, pages 25-117.

Karr, James R. “Habitat and Avian Diversity on Strip-Mined Land in East-
Central Illinois.” Condor (1968), volume 70, number 4, pages 348-357.

232 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Lecx, Cuarves. “A Feeding Congregation of Local and Migratory Birds in
the Mountains of Panama.” Bird Banding (1968), volume 59, number 4,
page 318.

MenziEs, Rosert J. “Transport of Marine Life between Oceans through the
Panama Canal.” Nature (1968), volume 220, number 5169, pages 802-803.

MoyniHAN, Martin H. “The ‘Coerebini?: A Group of Marginal Areas,
Habitats, and Habits.”” The American Naturalist (1968), volume 102, number
928, pages 573-581.

OPPENHEIMER, JOHN R. “Behavior and Ecology of the White-Faced Monkey
Cebus capucinus, on Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone.” PhD Dissertation,
University of Illinois, Urbana, 1968.

OPPENHEIMER, JOHN R., and Georce W. Bartow. “Dynamics of Parental Be-
havior in the Black-Chinned Mouthbreeder Tilapia melanotheron (Pisces:
Cichlidae).” Zeitschrift fiir Tierpsychologie (1968), volume 25, number 8,
pages 889-914.

Ranp, A. S. “Desiccation Rates in Crocodile and Iguana Eggs.” Herpetologica
(1968), volume 24, number 2, pages 178-180.

“A Nesting Aggregation of Iguanas.” Copeia (1968), volume 1968,

number 3, pages 552-561.

“Competitive Exclusion Among Anoles (Sauria: Iguanidae) on Small

Islands in the West Indies.” Breviora (1969), number 319.

. “Leptophis ahaetulla Eggs.” Copeia (1969), volume 1969, number 2,
page 402.

Ranp, A. S., and STEPHEN S. Humpurey. “Interspecific Competition in the
Tropical Rain Forest: Ecological Distribution among Lizards at Belém, Para.”
Proceedings of the United States National Museum (1968), volume 125,
number 3658, pages 1-17.

RickiEeFs, Rospert. “Patterns of Growth in Birds.” Ibis (1968), volume 110,
number 4, pages 419-451.

“On the Limitation of Brood Size in Passerine Birds by the Ability of
Adults to Nourish Their Young.” Proceedings of the National Academy of
Science (1968), volume 61, number 3, pages 847-851.

Rosrinson, Micwaet H. “The Defensive Behaviour of the Javanese Stick Insect
Orxines macklotti De Haan, with a Note on the Startle Display of Metriotes
diocles Westw. (Phasmatodea, Phasmidae).”’ Entomologist’s Monthly Magazine
(1968), volume 104, pages 46-54.

. “The Startle Display of Balboa tibialis (Brunner) (Orth., Tetigonii-

dae).” Entomologist’s Monthly Magazine (1968), volume 104, pages 88-90.

. “The Defensive Behavior of Pterinoxylus spinulosus Redtenbacher, a

Winged Stick Insect from Panama (Phasmatodea).” Psyche (1968), volume

75, number 3, pages 195-207.

. “The Defensive Behavior of the Stick Insect Oncotophasma martini

(Griffini) (Orthoptera: Phasmatidae).” Proceedings of the Royal Entomologi-

cal Society of London (1968), volume 43, numbers 10-12, pages 183-187.

. “Predatory Behavior of Argiope argentata (Fabricius). American Zool-

ogist (1969), volume 9, pages 161-173.

. “Defences against Visually Hunting Predators.” Evolutionary Biology
(1969), volume 3.

RuBINOFF, IRA. “Central American Sea-Level Canal: Possible Biological Effects.”
Science (1968), volume 161, pages 857-861.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE 233

Rusinorr, Roperta W. “The Evolution of Isolating Mechanisms in Bathygo-
bius.’ American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists meeting in New
York City, June 1969.

Rusinorr, Roserta W., and Ira Rusinorr. “Observations on the Migration
of a Marine Goby through the Panama Canal.” Copeia (1969), volume 1969,
number 2, pages 395-397.

. “Tisch-Austauschzwischen Atlantik and Pazifik durch den Panama-
kanal.” Umschau (1969), volume 4, page 121.

SirverrA, EsTANIsLAu K. P. pa. “Notas Sobre a historia natural do Tamandua
Mirim (Tamandua tetradactyla chiriquensis J. A. Allen 1904, Myrmecopha-
gidae) com Referencias a Fauna do Istmo do Panama.” Vellozia (December
1968), number 6, pages 6-31.

Smiru, Ngat G. “The Advantage of Being Parasitized.”” Nature (1968), volume
219, number 5155, pages 690-694.

. “Polymorphism in Ringed Plovers.” Ibis (1969), volume III, number 2,

pages 177-188.

. “Provoked Release of Mobbing — A Hunting Technique of Micrastur

Falcons.” Ibis (1969), volume III, number 2, pages 241-243.

. “Avian Predation of Coral Snakes.” Copeia (1969), volume 1969,
number 2, pages 402-404.

Wiuiams, Norris H., H. G. Hitts, and C. H. Dopson. “Identification of Some
Orchid Fragrance Components.” American Orchid Society Bulletin (1968),
volume 37, pages 967-971.

366-269 O—70——16
aC

ie
SD pel Bee oh
Pare or TOO F aieyes! Ae aco
oe T Loot R le ph. Wives 7 j
eet be ak it Oe
*!t aug? wre
ee Nase « eS Deel ae
hb Me eM OR Ke FO eet
: 4G Lge @4) Ss! ot 2eset
, ae wa IG—
ht" ag Te eats © ees Scaoeaul
ty ve ge"}-ai
~ 47 o | aaer) sinvald hogetd ars

ae

my ty ‘ B46 ©
TT 4N - “! na," 0" ad

ti
Radiation Biology Laboratory

W. H. Kien, Director

HE LIFE CYCLES OF ORGANISMS are intricately associated with the
environmental signals that influence their morphological and
physiological development mechanisms. Growth and development of
higher plants are regulated and controlled by solar radiant energy, a
major factor of the environment, in two general ways: by the conver-
sion, through photosynthesis, of large amounts of radiant energy to
chemical energy; and by the activation of reproduction, differentiation,
and morphological development by means of radiation-sensitive regula-
tory systems. These systems may further be subdivided on the basis of
spectral characteristics into one group responsive mainly to the blue and
ultraviolet portions of the electromagnetic spectrum and into another
group responsive mainly to the red and far-red portion of the spectrum.
The research of the Radiation Biology Laboratory is directed toward
understanding the cellular and subcellular mechanisms and processes
by which organisms utilize this radiant energy from the sun for their
growth and development. This research has been directed into three
main areas in regulatory biology: (1) the physiology, (2) the biochemi-
cal processes of developmental responses to light, and (3) the measure-
ment of solar radiation. In addition, this laboratory also maintains a
carbon-dating facility for archeological and anthropological research and
also for research in and development of carbon-dating techniques.

Regulatory Biology — Physiology

The excised apex of the corn coleoptile has been used for studies of a
phytochrome-mediated growth response. A five-second 660 nm ir-
radiation causes a 50 percent enhancement of the growth rate in subse-

235
236 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

quent darkness. This increased rate of growth is established within 30
seconds and persists for several hours in the dark, but it is largely nulli-
fied by an exposure to several minutes of 730 nm irradiation. Continuous
measurements of growth have been made with a transducer-type auxa-
nometer. No concurrent change in respiration can be detected with the
Warburg respirometer or oxygen electrode. Several chemicals have been
tested in an effort to prevent specifically the irradiation-enhanced growth
without affecting the basal growth. The most promising substance dis-
covered so far is 4-fluorophenylalanine.

RNA synthesis in Tradescantia pollen tubes has been measured by
tritiated uridine incorporation and subsequent autoradiography. Pollen
tubes from pollen that had been pretreated with 730 nm radiation have
incorporated 60 percent more uridine than dark controls.

Experiments upon the genetic control of photoperiodism in corn have
been initiated. Two corn varieties, short-day (id mutant) and long-
day (Gaspe Flint) are being used. It appears that a single gene con-
trols the short-day response, but further characterization of the two
varieties with respect to their true photoperiodic response is necessary.

Regulatory Biology — Biochemical

Studies on plastid protein synthesis 7m vitro have been continued. Study
of etioplasts in a crude preparation has shown that the etioplast is the
likely site of amino acid incorporation. Illumination of leaves stimulates
the ability of plastids isolated from them to incorporate amino acid into
protein. Fourfold stimulation occurs within six hours of illumination.
The maximum increase is reached between six and eighteen hours and
remains constant to thirty-six hours. At this time the ability of plastids
to incorporate amino acid into protein decreases sharply, as does the rate
of chlorophyll accumulation by leaves. The observed difference in rates
of incorporation carried out by etioplasts and chloroplasts is not owing to
a difference in ability of etioplasts and chloroplasts to generate ATP
(adenosine triphosphate) in the light, or to the presence of factors
in homogenates of etiolated leaves that destroy incorporation ability,
or to large differences in pool size of amino acid between etioplasts and
chloroplasts. The results suggest that plastid amino acid incorporation
(protein synthesis) increases sharply during light-dependent plastid
growth and differentiation and again decreases after growth and dif-
ferentiation are complete.

The photosynthetic enzyme ribulose diphosphate carboxylase appears
to be one of the chloroplasts stroma proteins that can be synthesized by
chloroplasts. Crude chloroplast preparations incorporate radioactive
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 237

leucine into the enzyme; however, only a small fraction (about 2 per-
cent of radioactivity incorporated into protein is incorporated into this
enzyme. Whole leaf cells and cytoplasmic ribosomes do not contribute
to incorporation into the enzyme. Chloramphenicol inhibits incorpora-
tion into this enzyme in vitro. This result confirms and amplifies previ-
ously published results that have shown that chloramphenical inhibits
ribulose diphosphate carboxylase formation in vivo. In view of what is
now known about the selectivity of chloramphenicol for inhibiting pro-
tein synthesis occurring on 70 S (chloroplast, mitochondrial, bacterial)
ribosomes, and the demonstration that chloroplasts incorporate amino
acid into ribulose diphosphate carboxylase, it is likely that this enzyme
is synthesized by the chloroplast.

Studies on the in vivo localization and in vitro characterization of
phycobiliproteins in red and blue-green algae have been continued. The
phases pursued are: (1) to determine the effect of particular phycobili-
proteins on in vivo phycobilisome structure, and (2) the structural
characterization of phycoerythrin in order to study this relationship with
phycocyanin within the phycobilisomes.

Our previous work on fixed chloroplasts has shown that the struc-
ture of the phycobilisomes (phycobiliprotein aggregates) differs in cells
that have different phycobilins. These data suggest that the type of
phycobiliprotein present determines the shape of the phycobilisomes. ‘To
study the variation in shape, Tolypothrix tenuis has been used because
the phycocyanin to phycoerythrin ratio can be easily varied. The first
phase of the work, showing that phycobilisomes are present, has been
completed.

Electron microscope studies of three blue-green algae—fresh water
T. tenius and Fremyella diplosiphon, and an oscillatoria-like marine
algae—have revealed structures on the lamellae that correspond to the
phycobilisomes of red algae. As in the red algae the phycobilisomes are
attached on the outer side of each lamellae, i.e., the side facing away
from its own membrane pair.

The photosynthetic accessory pigments, phycoerythrin and/or phyco-
cyanin, are major components of the phycobilisomes. The spatial rela-
tionship of these phycobiliproteins is of interest because phycocyanin
appears to be a necessary intermediate in the energy transfer from phyco-
erythrin to chlorophyll a located in the underlying photosynthetic
lamellae. In order to differentiate between the phycobiliproteins, phyco-
erythrin has been isolated from the red alga Porphyridium cruentum
and its structure has been compared with that of phycocyanin, which
has been studied previously by other investigators. Phycoerythrin has
been found to be a compact particle essentially cylindrical in shape with
no obvious regular substructure. Individual particles have an average
238 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

en face diameter of 101A and height of 54A when stained with phos-
photungstic acid. An approximate molecular weight of 270,000 has been
obtained, which agrees with published molecular weight values obtained
by other methods.

Phycocyanin in its most stable form has been reported to be composed
of six distinct subunits in the shape of a ring with an outer diameter of
about 130A. Because phycoerythrin has a smaller diameter and lacks a
central hole and distinct subunits, the pigments can be differentiated.
Since phycocyanin and phycoerythrin are structurally distinguishable,
it should now be possible to determine the arrangement of these pig-
ments within the phycobilisomes.

Studies of the molecular properties of purified phytochrome have
been extended with special emphasis upon quaternary structure and
chromophore structure. Phytochrome extracted from etiolated oat or
rye shoots exists as a mixture of two aggregates. About two thirds of the
phytochrome exists as a 13 S hexamer (large aggregate) , which is almost
totally excluded by Sephadex G—200 and is below the middle of the
fractionation range of Sepharose 4B. The remaining one third of the
phytochrome exists as a 9 S tetramer (small aggregate), which is in the
middle of the fractionation range of Sephadex G—200. These two aggre-
gates have similar properties with respect to dark reversion kinetics and
light reaction (quantum efficiency) kinetics. From chromophore degra-
dation studies, the bile-type chromophore appears identical in the Pr
form with that of phycocyanin. The structure of the I ring is modified
in the Pr form of phytochrome. A covalent linkage to the protein is
proposed for both forms of phytochrome bile pigment.

A new improved method for the isolation of intact rhapidosomes has
been developed. Rhapidosomes are subcellular particles produced by
the marine blue-green alga Saprospira grandis. They are primarily pro-
tein in composition and are sometimes associated with nucleic acids.
Reasonably pure preparations have been obtained. They have a buoyant
density of 1.32 in cesium chloride and an isoelectric point at pH 3.8.
Electron microscopy has revealed many details of the fine structure,
previously unreported. This structure consists of repeated patterns of
protein subunit arrangement in the particle.

Measurement of Solar Radiation

Equipment for detecting and recording continuously “total sky” radi-
ation in various wavelength regions of the spectrum has been in opera-
tion. The data have not been completely analyzed, but the occurrence
of considerable oscillation in various parameters over both short and
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 239

long time periods has been detected. For example, on clear days the
ratio of red to far-red energy (600-700 nm/700-800 nm) remains
above 1.5, while on cloudy days, with as much as 90 percent reduction in
total energy, the ratio shifts and oscillates between 0.5 and 1.5. This type
of change may contribute significantly in accounting for variations in
biological responses that have been observed in controlled environments.

A number of photomorphological responses in plants are being
examined. Stem elongation of Black Valentine bean and Wintex barley
is greater after six weeks (irrespective of day length) when grown under
a red/far-red ratio of 1:1 than under a ratio of 30:1 or under green-
house conditions. In Black Valentine bean, this response appears due
solely to the elongation of internodes, since the total number of nodes
per plant is the same in the different conditions. The comparative
flowering responses of soybean (short-day) and barley (long-day) indi-
cate that soybean is less dependent on far-red light than barley.

Germination responses of Arabidopsis thaliana L. Heynh. (race BL-1)
is predetermined by the spectral quality of light received by the parent
plant. This preconditioning effect occurs in the floral stalk region. The
effect of spectral quality on the dark-germination response is expressed
directly and only during seed maturation in the parent plant.

Carbon Dating

The function of the Carbon Dating Laboratory is twofold: “service
dating” for departments of the Institution, including analyses of sam-
ples submitted and advice on interpretation of those results; research
toward improvement of the techniques of radiocarbon dating and in
original studies of particular interest to the research staff of the
laboratory.

Dating time is reckoned in “counting days,” defined as those available
counting periods of not less than 1000 minutes nor more than 2000
minutes each. Of necessity, the installation, repair, servicing, and
maintenance of laboratory equipment limits the number of counting
days available. This year approximately 600 counting days have been
available with three detectors in use.

Service dating of materials for members of the Institution have
resulted in the dating of 116 samples, each of them requiring a minimum
of two counting days to insure statistical validity. In addition, 110
counting days have been spent on modern calibration standards, and
154 counting days on background measurements. The unusual number
of these latter measurements has been required to maintain accuracy
and reliability of measurements in the face of unexpected dust and
240 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

vibration conditions during the renovation of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Building. These conditions became so extreme during the third
quarter that all dating was discontinued for the rest of the year.

In order to eliminate the increasing difficulty of obtaining commercial
hydrogen free of radioactive contaminants, a hydrogen generation
system has been installed in the laboratory. “Dead” water from a
Pleistocene-age source on the DelMarVa peninsula is used in this
electrolysis system to produce radioactive-free hydrogen for use in the
conversion of carbon dioxide sample gas to methane counting gas.
Initial tests of the hydrogen have indicated a very low background with
this method, and the system is now in routine operation.

To produce samples of greater purity in less time, the combustion
and purification system has been redesigned and construction of the new
unit is now nearly complete. The system utilizes stainless steel tubing
with demountable fittings for ease of cleaning, includes two radon-
extraction units, and functions as a totally self-contained unit.

Staff Activities

A series of seminars on Environmental Biology has been held in
cooperation with the consortium of Washington area universities.
The series has been presented for graduate credit and average attend-
ance per lecture has been 150 persons. The speakers and their topics:
“Pattern and Process in Competition.” Richard S. Miller, School of

Forestry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. 6 February 1969.
“Some Aspects of Estuarine Ecology.” Rezneat M. Darnell, Department

of Oceanography, College of Geosciences, Texas A&M University,

College Station, Texas. 13 February 1969.

“Fresh Water Productivity.” David G. Frey, Department of Zoology,
Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana. 20 February 1969.

“Arid Lands.” Charles H. Lowe, Department of Biological Sciences,
College of Liberal Arts, The University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona.
27 February 1969.

“Radioisotopes and the Dynamics of Forest Ecosystems.” Stanley I.
Auerbach, Radiation Ecology Section, Health Physics Division, Oak
Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee. 6 March 1969.

“A Species Population in a Temperate Ecosystem.” John E. Cantlon,
Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Michigan State Univer-
sity, East Lansing, Michigan. 13 March 1969.

“Evolutionary Significance of Abundance.” Lawrence B. Slobodkin.
Department of Biological Sciences, State University of New York at
Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York. 20 March 1969.
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 241

“Distributional History and Ecology of Some Parasites and Their Hosts
in the Arctic.” Robert L. Rausch, Chief, Zoonotic Disease Section,
Arctic Health Research Center, U.S. Public Health Service, College,
Alaska. 27 March 1969.

“Patterns and Processes of Some High Mountain Ecosystems.” William
S. Osburn, Jr., Environmental Sciences Branch, Division of Biology
and Medicine, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D.C.
10 April 1969.

“Life and Energy.” David M. Gates, Missouri Botanical Garden and
Department of Botany, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.
17 April 1969.

“Comparative Systems Analysis of Food Chain Dynamics.” Bernard C.
Pattern, Department of Zoology, The University of Georgia, Athens,
Georgia. 24 April 1969.

“Some Aspects of Controlled Environments for Space Biology.” Orr E.
Reynolds, Director, Bioscience Programs, National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, Washington, D.C. 1 May 1969.

“Future of a Changing World.” Lamont C. Cole, Department of
Zoology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. 8 May 1969.
During the year, plant physiologist H. Drumm from the University

of Freiburg, Germany, has been working with M. M. Margulies on

protein synthesis in etioplasts. J. J. Zwolenik, associate director of the

Chemical Dynamics Program, National Science Foundation, has been

working on the physical chemistry and photochemistry of phytochrome

with D. Correll as a collaborator for the past year. Assistant director

W. Shropshire has been on sabbatical leave at the University of Frei-

burg, Germany.

Members of the staff have attended symposia, meetings of national
scientific societies and international conferences, have journeyed to
universities to present seminars and to carry on joint research projects,
have participated in various panels and committees of scientific agencies
and organizations, and have attended science courses. Some of the
special activities are as follows:

In August 1968, W. Shropshire, W. H. Klein, J. Brown, M. Mar-
gulies, R. L. Weintraub, and H. Drumm attended the annual meeting
of the American Society of Plant Physiologists in Amherst, Massachu-
setts. Dr. Margulies presented a paper entitled “Synthesis of Ribulose
Diphosphate Carboxylase by Chloroplasts in Vitro.” Also in August, W.
Shropshire, E. Gantt, J. L. Edwards, M. Margulies, W. H. Klein, H.
Drumm, R. L. Weintraub, and D. L. Correll attended the Fifth Inter-
national Congress on Photobiology at Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire, presenting a number of short papers. W. Shropshire
chaired a symposium on phototropism. During that time, W. H. Klein
242 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

and W. Shropshire attended executive committee meetings of the
American Society of Plant Physiologists.

In September 1968, E. Gantt attended the American Institute of
Biological Sciences meetings at Columbus, Ohio, and presented a paper
entitled “Isolation of Phycobiliproteins.”

In November 1968, H. Drumm, R. L. Weintraub, and E. Gantt
attended the meeting of the American Society for Cell Biology, and E.
Gantt presented a paper entitled “Electron Microscopy of Phycoery-
thrin’” at Boston, Massachusetts. R. Weintraub also attended n1H Panel
Committee Meetings at Woods Hole, Massachusetts. T. Ma attended
the Annual Meeting of the Genetics Society of America and presented
a paper entitled “Far-red Light Induced rna Synthesis in the Mitotic
Generative Cell of the Pollen Tube of Tradescantia” in Boston,
Massachusetts.

In December 1968, R. Stuckenrath went to the University of Pennsyl-
vania at Philadelphia to attend a symposium on prehistoric settlement
patterns in the New World. He also attended a Columbia University
seminar on archeology of Europe and the Near East, a special session
on computers in archeology. M. M. Margulies conducted a seminar
“Protein Synthesis by Plastids in Vitro” to the Biochemistry Depart
ment, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.

In January 1969, R. Stuckenrath went to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
to attend a meeting of Trustees of Philadelphia Anthropological Society
at the University Museum. Also in January, W. H. Klein and B. Gold-
berg went to Eppley Laboratories, Newport, Rhode Island, for discus-
sions regarding the construction of solar radiation instruments, a seminar
series, and also to discuss the next meeting of the Solar Radiation So-
ciety to be held in Washington, D.C., in 1971. W. H. Klein has been
elected a director of the Society and appointed to the Editorial Board.
Also in January, D, L. Correll attended a short course on gas chroma-
tography offered by the Washington Gas Chromatography Society.

In February 1969, Dr. Klein went to Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to attend a study group briefing on the agricul-
tural aspects of the proposed nuclear powered agro-industrial complex
project designed to establish food production centers in warm arid areas
adjacent to the sea and utilizing nuclear energy for providing desali-
nated water.

In March 1969, E. Gantt gave a seminar entitled “Phycobiliprotein
Localization in Red and Blue-Green Algae” and consulted with Dr.
Thomas Brown at the Charles F. Kettering Research Laboratory in
Yellow Springs, Ohio.

In April 1969, R. Stuckenrath visited the Ohio Wesleyan University
Carbon Dating Laboratory for discussions involving pretreatment prob-
RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY 243

lems and vegetation sequences in the northeastern portion of the United
States. B. Goldberg went to the National Physical Laboratory, Jerusalem,
Israel, to calibrate solar-radiation detectors and to initiate beginning
of acquisition of spectral radiation data.

In May 1969, J. Mielke and A. Long went to Resolute Bay, Canada,
to conduct paleoclimatic studies on Ellesmere Island, Northwest Terri-
tories. W. H. Klein gave a seminar to staff and graduate students of the
Biology Department of Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts,
and attended the Annual Meeting of the Northeastern Section of the
American Society of Plant Phsyiologists in Amherst. He served as chair-
man for the Cellular Radiobiology Session at the Radiation Research
Society meeting in Cincinnati, Ohio. M. Margulies presented a lecture
on “Chloroplast Protein Synthesis in Vitro” at the Biological Labor-
atory, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

In June 1969, R. Stuckenrath made an archeological survey trip in the
area around Claysville, Pennsylvania, to investigate a logical site for a
natural migration route through the Western Appalachians and to
search for sites suitable for environmental-archeological correlations.
E. Gantt and M. Margulies attended the Gordon Conference on
Photosynthetic Organelles held at Holderness School, Plymouth, New
Hampshire.

Staff Publications

Corre, D. L. “Rhapidosomes: 2’-0-methylated Ribonucleoproteins.” Science
(1968), volume 161, pages 372-373.

Corre.t, D. L., J. L. Eowarps, W. H. Kuern, and W. SHropsuire, Jr. “Phy-
tochrome in Etiolated Annual Rye, III: Isolation of Photoreversible Phyto-
chrome.” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (1968), volume 168, pages 36-45.

Corre.t, D. L., J. L. Eowarps, and W. SuHropsuire, Jr. “Multiple Chromo-
phore Species in Phytochrome.” Photochemistry and Photobiology (1968),
volume 8, pages 465-475.

Corre tt, D. L., E. STEERS, Jr., K. M. Towe, and W. Suropsuire, Jr. ‘‘Phyto-
chrome in Etiolated Annual Rye, IV: Physical and Chemical Characterization
of Phytochrome.” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (1968), volume 168, pages
46-57.

Gantt, E., and S. F. Contr. “Ultrastructure of Blue-Green Algae.” Journal of
Bacteriology (1969), volume 97, pages 1486-1493.

Ma, Te-Hsiv. “Effect of Irradiated Glucose Solution on Mitotic Chromosomes
of Vicia and Tradescantia.” Radiation Botany (1968), volume 8, pages 307—
aa5.

Mrevke, J. E., and A. Lone. “Smithsonian Institution Radiocarbon Measure-
ments, V.” Radiocarbon (1968), volume 11, pages 162-182.
244 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

NEBEL, B. J. “Action Spectra for Photogrowth and Phototropism in Protonema
of the Moss Physcomitrium turbinatum.” Planta (1968), volume 81, pages
287-302.

STEINER, A., L. Price, K. Mirraxos, and W. H. Kuen. “Red Light Effects on
Uptake of “C and “P into Etiolated Corn Leaf Tissue during Photomor-
phogenic Leaf Opening.” Physiologia Plantarum (1968), volume 21, pages
895-901.
National Zoological Park

THEODORE H. REeEpD, Director

ITH AN EXPANDED PROFESSIONAL STAFF and a supporting cast
We dedicated keepers, police, maintenance men, gardeners, fiscal
and clerical workers, the National Zoological Park has made steady
progress toward its objective—“the advancement of science and the
instruction and recreation of the people.” The collection has prospered,
visitors have come by the millions, more than ever before in the Zoo’s
history, scientific research and cooperative undertakings with govern-
ment agencies and other institutions here and abroad have moved for-
ward. It has been a good year for the Zoo.

Status of the Collection
30 June 1969

Species or
Phylum Class Orders Families subspecies Individuals

Chordata Mammalia 14 46 196 aus
Aves 25 98 428 1, 373

Reptilia 3 29 155 547

Amphibia 2 12 34 100

Pisces 3 4 6 9

Arthropoda Insecta = = = =
Crustacea 1 1 3 96

Arachnida 1 1 1 1

Mollusca Gastropoda 1 1 1 1
Annelidae Polychaeta 1 1 3 5
Coelenterata Anthozoa 1 1 1 1
Totals 52 194 828 2, 726
246 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

To these figures should be added the 24 species, comprising 109
individuals of small mammals under the care of the research division—
and not always on exhibition—for a grand total of 852 species and
2,835 individuals.

Certain tabulated, statistical, and other information formerly con-
tained in Smithsonian Year now appears as appendices to the separate
of this report (available on request from the Director of the National
Zoological Park). This information includes:

Visitor statistics and other operational information.

Report of the veterinarian, augmented by case histories and autopsy reports.

Report of the pathologist.

Complete lists of (a) animals in the collection on 30 June 1969; (b) all births
and hatchings during the year; and (c) changes in the collection by gift, pur-
chase, or exchange.

On 28 October 1968, while-making a routine test on an orangutan
named Susie, the Zoo veterinarian, Clinton W. Gray, discovered that
she reacted positively to a skin test for tuberculosis. Mildly alarmed,
he then tested the other seven members of the great ape colony and
found that five of the eight reacted positively. Precautions that have
been taken include giving every Zoo employee a skin test, sealing off
the great ape quarters from the public, and treating the orangutans,
gorillas, and chimpanzees with daily doses of the anti-TB drug isoniazid.

On 13 February 1969 a clinic for apes was set up in the small mammal
house. Dr. Gray and pathologist Dr. Sauer, assisted by medical teams
from George Washington University, who brought along a mobile x-ray
unit, have conducted the schedule of procedures that include x-ray,
blood tests, PPD injections, skin biopsies, and chromosomal analyses.

Archie, the huge male orang, put on a good show. When the syringe
from the tranquilizer gun struck his shoulder, he felt it, removed it,
tasted it, and smelled it. Then he lumbered over to the bars and handed
it to Dr. Gray before succumbing to the anesthetic. Interested doctors
and their assistants agree the most dramatic part of the smooth-running
procedure occurred when the big gorilla Nikumba, weighing 450
pounds, thundered around in his cage trying to avoid the tranquilizing
syringe. The winsome award goes to the baby orangutan.

Results of all the tests show that the animals and the human em-
ployees are clean, and the quarantine on the big apes has been lifted.

Another problem has concerned the female white rhinoceros Lucy.
A malformation of her horns had long been a matter of concern to Zoo
officials, and when an infestation of maggots was discovered at the base
of one horn, steps had to be taken. On 6 June 1969 Lucy was given one
milligram of M99. She was immobilized in fourteen minutes. The base
of the horn was cleaned with peroxide and both horns were removed.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 247

Rewati, Mohini Rewa’s white cub, at three weeks of age when her eyes were
beginning to open. (Photograph by Donna Grosvenor.)
248 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The new Hospital-Research Building in the process of construction.

Dr. Gray used a hand saw on the upper horn and a power saw on the
lower, and the rough edges were filed smooth. The animal now presents
a much neater and healthier appearance, and it is hoped that the horns
will grow out straight after this surgery.

Births

While it can hardly be called a population explosion, except possibly
in the bird house, the increase in the collection during the year has been
highly gratifying. Efforts to secure mates for single animals have paid
off handsomely. The first baby colobus born in the National Zoo made
his appearance in February 1969. Although the parent monkeys are
coal black with a white fringe around the face, the young one was
entirely white at birth and remained so for the first two months. Another
white baby is the female cub of Mohini, the celebrated white tigress,
who surprised everybody by presenting the Zoo with two babies on
13 April 1969. One cub had her coloring, the other was normal tiger
orange. The orange baby was defective and lived only 48 hours (an
autopsy showed brain damage). The white cub, named Rewati by the
Indian Ambassador, was removed from the mother after two weeks and
reared in the director’s home. Rewati is now on exhibition in the lion
house.

ee
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 249

The portable x-ray machine, operated by Edward Eccard of George Wash-
ington University’s Medical Center, is in position for filming the immobilized
orangutan, Archie. Dr. Gray is pushing some of the thick shaggy hair out of
the way. (Evening Star photographer Owen Duvall.)

The rare and lovely African black-footed cats had kittens; an orang-
utan was born on 28 March 1969 and is being reared in the home
of Mrs. Louise Gallagher, who has previously raised three gorillas and
three chimpanzees for the Zoo. The Barbary ape colony has increased
to the point where it equals, if not surpasses, the famous colony on

366-269 O—70—_17
250 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
Dy a9 %
P [Oat
Teast EEE ERREEE EERE LES?

“s <n nOe cee e

b
é

Nickie Gorilla, greatly overiapping a man-size stretcher, is being x-rayed at
the end of a ninety-day treatment for tuberculosis. While immobilized, the great
apes were also injected with tuberculosis antigens; gastric and blood samples
were taken as well as skin biopsies and other samples for chromosome study.
(Evening Star photographer Owen Duvall.)

Gibraltar. Two scimitar-horned oryxes and a Pére David’s deer were
born.

In the bird house, kookaburras and tinamous have continued to multi-
ply. Two Stanley cranes hatched, and a roadrunner was hand-reared.
Birds on the list of endangered species that have hatched at the Zoo
include the Laysan duck, Hawaiian duck, and Swinhoe’s pheasant. A
count made on 25 May 1969 showed that 996 eggs had been laid since
1 January 1969. Of course, not all of them hatched, and of those that
did, not all the chicks survived, but the figure is impressive.

The reptile division is proud of the fact that the African pit viper,
Trimeresurus purpureomaculatus, has had eight young, a first for the
National Zoo.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 251
Gifts

Among the outstanding gifts of the year have been a pair of kiwis,
the remarkable flightless bird of New Zealand, carefully protected in its
native land. On 10 October 1968, the Prime Minister, the Right Honor-
able Keith Holyoake, presented the birds to the “people of the United
States from their friends the people of New Zealand.” Because the birds
are nocturnal, a special cage in the bird house has been modified for
them. It is kept dark during the daytime so that they will move about
and search for food during visitors’ hours, and then it is lighted at
night. The birds have adapted well to this arrangement.

A welcome gift from the Maryland State Fish and Wildlife Commis-
sion, in Hancock, consists of 17 American wild turkeys. These have been
released in the Park, where they will maintain themselves under natural
conditions.

The Right Honorable Keith Holyoake, Prime Minister of New Zealand, with
one of the pair of kiwis presented to the people of the United States from the
people of New Zealand.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR

A close-up of New Zealand’s rare bird, the kiwi. The kiwi is flightless and tail-
less but lays an egg that is the largest in proportion to the bird’s size of any
other egg in the world. A four- to five-pound kiwi will lay an egg weighing
14 to 16 ounces. (Evening Star photographer Owen Duvall.)

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 253

Gifts other than animals included a bequest of $5,000 from the
estate of Mildred B. Bliss. The money is to be used “for the betterment
of the conditions of animals in the National Zoological Park,’ and has
been deposited in the trust funds of the Smithsonian Institution until
a decision is reached on how to use it most wisely. Another contribution

rect sca Nenana.

Black-and-white colobus monkey mother and her baby. Although the baby likes
the security of her mother’s arms, here she leaves to do a little investigating
on her own.
254 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

has come from Reader’s Digest in the amount of $150 for the purchase
of animals.

Jacob Lipkin, a noted sculptor, has given the Park a 1,000-pound
statue of a bear. The sculpture is rendered in pinkish-brown Italian
marble and has been installed just inside the Connecticut Avenue
entrance to the Zoo.

As a gesture of goodwill to our Latin American neighbor, the Na-
tional Zoo has sent a young, Zoo-born Nile hippopotamus to the zoo
in Santiago, Chile. Braniff International most generously transported
the animal free of charge, and Estela, as she was named, received
tremendous publicity when she arrived in Chile.

The American alligator has been hunted for its hide until it is on
the verge of extinction. In Mississippi it has been completely eliminated.
When the National Zoological Park consulted the Department of the
Interior in regard to surplus alligators in its collection, it was learned
that the Fish and Wildlife Service wanted to reintroduce the alligator
into the Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge near Starkville, Mississippi.
The Zoo accordingly has turned over three specimens to help in this
project.

The parent blue, or Stanley, cranes with their fast-growing chicks.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 255

Two of the Zoo’s three sable antelope pose majestically in their secluded corral.

Purchases

Once again, attention has been focused on building up the Zoo’s
collection of antelope and deer. A trio of magnificent sable antelope
has been acquired, and three females have been added to the growing
herd of Pére David’s deer, a species that no longer exists in the wild.
For the first time in more than thirty years, Eld’s deer is on display.
This small (45 inches high at the shoulder) denizen of southeastern
Asia is also known as the thamin or Burmese brow-antlered deer, and
the Zoo has been fortunate enough to secure two males and a female.
It is rare in the wild and even rarer in captivity; the only sizable herd
is in the Paris Zoo.

Exchanges

In order to maintain a representative collection and to improve
breeding potentials, zoos occasionally exchange animals. From Busch
Gardens in Tampa, Florida, the National Zoo has received two stately
Victorian crowned pigeons. From the Jersey Zoo in the Channel Islands
have come three Cereopsis geese and an African giant civet. The Na-
tional Zoo has sent two spider monkeys to the zoo in Calcutta, India,
256 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

and has received from them a hanuman langur. American wild turkeys
and crested wood partridges have been sent to Jean Delacour in
Cléres, France, who in turn has sent the National Zoo a Rothschild’s
mynah. Other exchanges have been made with the Taronga Park Zoo
in Sydney, Australia; the Max-Planck Institut in Wuppertal, Germany;
and the Royal Zoological Society in Glasgow, Scotland.

Removals

The most serious loss of the year has been the death of Moka, the
female gorilla who had given birth to three offspring. Moka and her
mate Nikumba came to the Zoo in 1955 as youngsters, gifts from Russell
Arundel of Warrenton, Virginia. Moka weighed twenty pounds and
Nikumba seventeen. By 1961 they were mature animals and in that
year Moka gave birth to Tomoka, a male, which is still living in the
National Zoo. In 1964 she produced Leonard, who was later sent to the
Toronto Zoo, and in 1967 Inaki, a female, was born. Clinical and
pathological findings have shown that Moka died of a form of hepa-
titis. She was approximately fifteen and a half years old.

One of the trio of Burmese brow-antlered deer—only the males have the unique
rocker-shaped antlers. There are no other branches to the antlers except at
the forked ends, which may produce several points.

«

Pp ea
“| ees

Week. r — se
SERN it age ys)

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 257

The Zoo’s herd of three scimitar-horned oryx has been increased with the birth
of two calves—a male and a female.

Another old-timer that died during the year was a spectacled bear
(Tremarctos ornatus) received on 3 March 1947. It died on 19 March
1969, after more than twenty-two years of captivity—possibly a record
for the species.

Office of Pathology

For more than a hundred years the pathologist has spearheaded
medical research. Information pertaining to disease has been observed
at autopsy and tissues have been further examined by the use of the
light microscope. In recent years many techniques and instruments
have been found that greatly facilitate the procurement of information.
Examples include the fluorescent, phase, and electron microscopes, as
well as histochemical and immunopathologic procedures.

The knowledge of disease in exotic animals today stands in about the
same position as did human medicine more than a hundred years ago. It
is the practice at the National Zoological Park to perform autopsies on
all animals and then examine tissues under the light microscope. While
much information can be gleaned by these processes, the Zoo today is
fortunate that it can profit from the technical progress of recent years
258 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The greater kudu family: Mike, Melda, and daughter Mini, with pregnant
Kitty in the background.

by being able to use the more sophisticated techniques to carry a prob-
lem to a more nearly complete solution.

The Office of Pathology was born in August 1968 with the arrival at
the National Zoological Park of a veterinary pathologist, Dr. Robert M.
Sauer, from the staff of the University of Pennsylvania. During the
next few months a laboratory was designed and equipped in a new but
temporary building on a hill in the hardy-hoofed stock area. During
February 1969 a histologic technician, Robert C. Childs, was appointed
and the laboratory began to function. Upon completion of a research
and hospital building, the entire operation will be moved permanently
into this new facility.

By definition the function of a pathologist is to study all disease proc-
esses by all available techniques, including the traditional gross post-
mortems. The philosophy of the Office of Pathology is that service to
the National Zoo is best achieved through a program of professional
education and research. To this end, working agreements in compara-
tive pathology have been established with the veterinary section of the
Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (ar1p) and the School of Medicine
of George Washington University. At the present time, eight veterinary
officers from aFIP are participating in the program. They perform the
autopsies and carry all cases to completion. The protocols are reviewed
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 259

with the trainee by pathologists at the Zoo and arip before being acces-
sioned into the records and retrieval systems of both institutions.

George Washington University Medical School has furnished the
Zoo with a resident veterinary pathologist, Dr. Bernard C. Zook, for-
merly with the Angell Memorial Animal Hospital in Boston. His func-
tion is the investigation of conditions of potential biomedical impor-
tance. Both of these nzp pathologists hold professorial positions on the
George Washington University faculty and will participate in academic
courses during the coming year. A seminar course in comparative pathol-
ogy will be conducted at nzp during the fall of 1969.

Two undergraduate students have been accepted into a summer
research program. Howard M. Laten of Baldwin Wallace College will
work in the field of microbiology, and James S. Harper mm of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania will conduct a survey of enteric pathogens
among the collection.

The teaching and research program has been broadened by the
inclusion of material from domestic species obtained from a surgical
biopsy service that is being rendered for practicing veterinarians in the
District of Columbia and tri-state area.

Current research projects include: (1) studies on necrotic entero-
hepatitis in reptiles; (2) light and electron microscopic studies on inclu-
sion bodies found in reptiles; (3) studies on an idiopathic demyelinating

A four-day-old roadrunner chick, hatched at the Zoo, showing the shiny black
skin, which is covered with wiry natal “hairs.” (Photo by Constance P.
Warner. )

260 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

i, %
he Or aes
eM oh FL

Le a.

The nestling gape shows a bright red mouth and white hard palate. The white
gape marks in the center of the mouth help the parent birds to put the food
in the right place. (Photo by Constance P. Warner.)

disease of primates; and (4) studies on spontaneous goiter of streaked
tenrecs (Hemicentetes semispinosus) .

Information and Education

During the year the Information-Education Section has completed
785 laminated reptile and bird labels and 240 metalphoto labels for
mammal and other signs. Children from twenty-seven recreation areas
have been taken on guided tours during the “Summer in the Parks”
program and two special tours have been arranged for mentally or
physically retarded children. Forty-five special guests or dignitaries have
been given personally escorted tours of the Zoo. The section has assisted
with press, radio, and television coverage of Zoo activities on thirty-
three different occasions and has disseminated information on natural
history and the National Zoo by telephone and correspondence. Special
exhibits were prepared for the Secretary’s Reception prior to the “Man
and Beast” Symposium. An exhibit installed in the lion house displays
the various awards and medals that have been presented to the Zoo.

Tiger Talk, the Zoo’s newspaper, was discontinued in October 1968
because of a shortage of help. Highlights of the National Zoo has been
rewritten twice during the year. All “care” sheets have been reviewed
and are in the process of being updated. A brief history of the Zoo and a
history of the construction of the Zoo have been completed.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 261

Miss Marion McCrane, zoologist, resigned as head of the Informa-
tion and Education Section on 1 December 1968, and Mrs. Sybil E.
Hamlet became acting chief of the section.

Conservation

The director, Dr. Reed, has continued his service as president of the
Wild Animal Propagation Trust (wapr). This organization, chiefly
through specialist committees, promotes the captive breeding of rare
and endangered species. The Orangutan Committee has had consider-
able success in arranging transfers, deposits, and sales between zoos to
increase breeding potential. The National Zoo is nominal owner of three
male orangutans made available to other zoos through wart. The
newly organized Giant Tortoise Committee is gathering information
on the management and propagation of Galapagos tortoises, and plans
are being made for a large new breeding compound in Hawaii. Other
committees are concerned with such species as the golden marmoset and
Arabian oryx. Future wapt plans include establishment of breeding
herds on farms or ranches.

Assistant director John Perry has continued service as a member of
the Survival Service Commission (International Union for Conser-
vation of Nature—iucn) and chairman of the Endangered Species

At two weeks, the chick is almost completely feathered. Its feet have grown
and changed color, and it is now able to run about. There are still some
remnants of the natal “hairs.” (Photo by Constance P. Warner.)

262 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

rary,
Facey ane,

One of the Zoo’s two corncrib cages which, although relatively inexpensive,
are sturdy, well built, and provide ample room for small groups of monkeys.

Subcommittee of the American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums (AAzPA). In September 1968 he represented 1ucN at the
World Biosphere Conference held at uNEsco headquarters in Paris. The
Survival Service Commission frequently is consulted by various govern-
ments on matters of wildlife management and protection. It also initi-
ates projects designed to save critically endangered wildlife species.

Dr. Reed and Mr. Perry represented wart and aazpa in House and
Senate hearings on endangered species legislation. Similar legislation
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 263

failed of passage in 1968. Since then, private talks with industry groups
that had opposed the bill led to technical amendments and a change of
positions. All of the witnesses appearing in 1969 have favored passage.

As a result of these talks, fur industry representatives have proposed
continuing cooperation with 1ucn. Industry leaders recognize that over-
exploitation of any fur-bearing animal can have only damaging effects
on their business. Perry was named to represent 1ucN in preliminary
conversations with the International Fur Trade Association in London.

In November 1968 Perry returned to Brazil at the invitation of the
Brazilian Academy of Sciences to participate in a symposium on wildlife
conservation. A Brazilian law adopted in 1967 declares all wildlife to be
national property. Special regulations now protect such endangered
species as the giant otter and golden marmoset against commercial
exploitation.

While in Brazil, Perry visited the site of an experimental project
which the National Zoo is assisting in the state of Sao Paulo. A Bra-
zilian scientist, Dr. Paulo Nogueira Neto, believes the African eland
would adapt to the southern Brazilian savannas and become a valuable
source of animal protein. The National Zoo is assisting Dr. Nogueira in
obtaining elands. The first two were shipped to Sao Paulo in January
1969. The experimental site is a large fenced enclosure on Dr.
Nogueira’s property near Campinas.

The Zoo is continuing to give priority attention to breeding of the
rare and endangered species in its collection. Notable births and hatch-
ings of such species in fiscal year 1969 have included the golden mar-
moset, two scimitar-horned oryxes, orangutan, Pére David’s deer,
Laysan duck, Hawaiian duck, and Swinhoe’s pheasant.

Friends of the National Zoo

The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) have had an active and
profitable year. Dispensing machines for animal food have been in-
stalled, three on the bear line, two near the monkey house, and two
outside the elephant house. The machines are a gift from Roland
Lindemann of the Catskill Game Farm, Catskill, New York, and they
make it possible for visitors to buy the proper sort of food to feed the
animals. Money received from this source goes into the FoNz educa-
tional fund.

The Friends have sponsored two lecture series, both being held at
night in the elephant house. The first has consisted of six talks on “Our
Wild Animal Resources.” The series was opened by Secretary Ripley.
Other speakers have been Emily Hahn, Dr. Theodore H. Reed, Dr.
264 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Rhino Dillon then (7 September 1967, at one week) and now
weight: 75 Ib. (est.) 1,500 Ib. (est.)
height at shoulders: 2414” 4’ 6,”
length, head to tail: 44” 7107 |
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 265

Charles J. Stine of Johns Hopkins University, Dr. William J. L. Sladen,
also of Johns Hopkins University, and Larry Collins of the National
Zoological Park. These lectures are free and are offered to members
and their guests. A subscription lecture series on “The Roots of Man-
kind” has been given by Dr. John R. Napier, director of the Primate
Biology Program in the Division of Mammals, National Museum of
Natural History.

A group of about twenty members of Fonz has served as volunteer
tour guides. During the school year, from the first of October 1968 to the
middle of June 1969, the guides conducted 9,300 children in organized
classes around the Zoo—a tremendous boon to the Zoo staff. Other
activities have included a nighttime “preg-watch” of 160 hours during a
false pregnancy of Mohini, the white tigress, 80 hours with a pregnant
leopard, sponsoring an art show participated in by school children of
the Metropolitan area, publication of the newsletter Spots and Stripes,
operating the kiosk, and conducting an information booth on busy
weekends.

A night tour of the Zoo, attended by over 800 members and guests,
was made on 17 June 1969, and the annual meeting was held in the
elephant house on 30 June 1969. The annual Mohini award has been
presented to Marion McCrane Wolanek, formerly a zoologist on the

Zoo staff.

Construction and Improvements

Work has continued on the hospital and research building. It has
been exciting to watch this dream facility take shape from a bare patch
of ground to the lovely one-story building that it is now. At the close of
the year the building is 90 percent completed and the Zoo is looking
forward to an early fall occupancy.

This year the District of Columbia Department of Sanitation has
started work on the final sewer connection so that the Zoo will no longer
contaminate Rock Creek. A previously constructed sewer system had
eliminated 75 percent of the Zoo’s outflow into Rock Creek.

Design work has continued on the multiclimate house complex and
on the development of the central part of the Zoo from the small mam-
mal house down to the Harvard Street crossroads, in order to have a
cohesive plan to submit to the various reviewing boards.

In this year’s budget there is an item of $200,000 to provide con-
tinual heating for all Zoo buildings. (The existing boiler plant now pro-
viding heat has outlived its usefulness.) Also included in the budget is
an item of $200,000 for renovation and repair of those facilities in the

366-269 O—70——_18
266 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Mrs. Soedjatmoko and Galuh, wife and daughter of the Indonesian am-
bassador, admire the 22-day-old Manis orangutan. (Photograph by Donna
Grosvenor).

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 267

Elephant keeper-trainer Al Perry giving a “love pat” to Shanti following the
training period. Both the African and Asiatic elephants are given obedience
training twice daily. (Daily News photographer Geoffrey Gilbert.)

Zoo that must be worked on before the phased reconstruction program
is started. This has resulted in the initiation of many small projects
needed to maintain the present physical plant.

Research

Overseas travel and research have played an important part in the
activities of scientific research department personnel this year. On 10
June 1968 Dr. John F. Eisenberg, resident scientist, departed for a year’s
stay in Ceylon to undertake intensive ecological and ethological investi-
gations of the Ceylonese elephant, including a study of the reproductive
physiology of domestic Ceylonese elephants. Eisenberg also has con-
tinued studies, with the other members of his research team in Ceylon,
on the comparative ecology and behavior of Ceylonese primates.

On 22 January 1969 L. Collins left for an eight-week trip to New Zea-
land and Australia on a grant from the Arundel Foundation. Objectives
of this trip are: (1) to investigate the possibilities of obtaining certain
268 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

specimens indigenous to these countries, (2) to collect care and mainte-
nance data on captive monotremes and marsupials, (3) to confer with
Australian zoologists currently working with the Dasyuridae in con-
junction with research being carried out at present with this marsupial
family at the National Zoological Park, and (4) to establish a trading
rapport between the National Zoological Park and zoos in New Zealand
and Australia.

On 9 February 1969 L. Collins was named zoologist in the depart-
ment, and on 6 April 1969 Mrs. W. Holden was named administrative
assistant to the resident scientist.

During the latter part of April 1969, Dr. P. S. Watts, director, Division
of Animal Sciences, Institute of Medical and Veterinary Sciences, Ade-
laide, South Australia, visited the department and discussed with Larry
Collins several aspects of the investigations in progress pertaining to
the breeding of dasyurid marsupials under captive conditions.

On 2 June 1969 Miss R. Aulisio, a senior biology major at St.
Joseph’s College, Emmitsburg, Maryland, was appointed as a visiting
scientific research assistant by the Office of Academic Programs,
Smithsonian Institution. Miss Aulisio has initiated an intensive investi-
gation into the reproductive physiology and reproductive behavior of
solenodons, Solenodon paradoxus, and pacaranas, Dinomys branickit.

During the past year, Dr. Eisenberg has held the following seminars:
“Studies on the Ungulates in Ceylon’s National Parks” at the Medical
Research Institute, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 7 May 1969; and “Com-
munication in Hemicentetes semispinosus” at the University of New
South Wales, Department of Zoology, Sydney, Australia, 29 May 1969.
In addition, Eisenberg taught a class in ecology at the University of
Ceylon, Peradeniya, for the month of November 1968.

A curious and brightly colored
Asian amphibian, the horned
toad Megaphrys monticola.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK 269

Two 16-mm movie films have been made this year by Larry Collins.
One illustrates several behavioral aspects of Dasyuroides byrnet; the
other film depicts locomotion, grooming, and feeding in the red kanga-
roos, Macropus rufus. In addition, films are currently being made of
the maturation and developmental behavior of a white Bengal tiger
cub, Panthera tigrina, male-female encounter behavior of the Zoo’s two
white rhinoceroses, Ceratotherium sinum cottont, and behavior films
of all specimens of the marsupial family Dasyuridae.

Studies on the following research projects are currently being pursued:

1. The social behavior and ontogeny of behavior among selected species of
caviomorph rodents (with N. Smythe, University of Maryland).

2. Predatory behavior of the Viverridae (with C. Wemmer, University of
Maryland).

3. General behavior of Macaca syluana (with W. Dittus, University of
Maryland).

4. General behavior of Proechimys (with E. Maliniak).

5. Reproductive behavior and maturation in the dasyurids (with L. Collins
and E. Maliniak).

6. Gestation periods in the Rodentia, Marsupialia, and Insectivora (with
E. Maliniak and L. Collins).

7. Reproductive behavior of Solenodon paradoxus (with R. Aulisio).

8. Reproductive behavior and reproductive physiology of Dinomys branickit
(with R. Aulisio).

9. Care and maintenance procedures used with captive monotremes and mar-
supials (with L. Collins).

10. Communication in selected species of tenrecs (with E. Gould, Johns Hop-
kins University).

Staff Publications

EISENBERG, J. F. “Animal Sociology.” Encyclopaedia Britannica (1969), volume
20, pages 804-818.

. “Behavior Patterns.” Chapter 12 in Biology of Peromyscus (Rodentia),
edited by John A. King. Special Publication Number 2. American Society of
Mammalogists, 1968.

EIsENBERG, J. F., and N. MuckeNnuirNn. “Reproduction and Rearing of Ten-
recoid Insectivores in Captivity.” International Zoo Yearbook (1968), volume
8, pages 106-110.

Aeakcan peer ieee andl foe
replete qlath ther Ban ey ois! = >

Lage) Dla TS fees ong
Call Ft he > ae ees (00811 4

oor es #' ; vl wt!

Office of Oceanography and Limnology

I. E. WALLEN, Head

HE OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY focuses the needs
and capabilities of specimen-oriented oceanographers throughout
the world into national goals.

The Office has continued to work closely with the staff of the Na-
tional council on Marine Resources and Engineering Development.
Representation has been maintained on four of the five standing com-
mittees of the Council and with nearly all of the panels, working groups,
and task forces generated during the year’s activities. Close association
also has been maintained with the National Commission on Marine
Sciences, Engineering and Resources, not only on an ad hoc advisory
basis but also by assigning William Aron to the commission staff for
one month to assist in the completion of its final report. The com-
mission has recognized the substantive contribution of the Smithsonian
Institution to marine research and specifically has recommended that
the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center be adequately funded
to permit it to keep pace with the growing volume of and need for
marine data.

To assist in improving the freshwater research opportunities of
Smithsonian scientists and to include in the national effort facilities
for freshwater research, comprising the National Museum of Natural
History, the Chesapeake Bay Center for Field Biology, and the Smith-
sonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, this Office has been invited to
serve on the Federal Council for Science and Technology interagency
Committee on Water Resources Research. Additionally, the Office, at
the request of the National Water Commission, has provided this newly
appointed presidential commission with advice and assistance.

The Office has worked closely with each of the government agencies
concerned with aquatic research. Particular emphasis has been placed
on programs involving the direct intrusion of man into the sea. The
implementation of this aspect of the Office activity has included a wide
spectrum of activity ranging from joint sponsorship of a special Edwin
A. Link Lecture by Jon Lindbergh and Joseph B. MacInnis which was
attended by a standing-room-only crowd of more than 1,200 people, to

271
272 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

several field investigations, such as Project Shark 1969, a multidiscipli-
nary study of a coral reef environment achieved mainly by diving from
a submersible chamber. Shark 1969 has been sponsored by Seward
Johnson, Edwin Link, William Mote, and the Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. Robert Higgins, formerly of the Marine Biological Laboratory in
Woods Hole, joined the Office as staff oceanographer in November
1968. A specialist in kinorhynchs and tardigrades, Dr. Higgins provided
assistance in program development, particularly to the underseas activi-
ties, before leaving for Tunisia in June 1969 to relieve Dr. Neil Hulings
as the director of the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center.

Activities in the international area also have commanded considerable
attention by the Office. I. E. Wallen has been named National Corre-
spondent for the United States to the Cooperative Investigations of the
Mediterranean, a major expedition of the Intergovernmental Oceano-
graphic Commission of uNEsco. Another 1oc-sponsored expedition, the
Cooperative Investigations of the Caribbean and Adjacent Regions
has taken Wallen and Higgins to the University of Mexico to advise on
the establishment of a regional sorting center. Investigative trips to de-
velop the use of Public Law 480 (excess currencies in marine research)
have been made under the aegis of the Office to Poland, Yugoslavia,
and Egypt by various staff scientists. The Office has participated in the
preliminary planning for the International Decade of Ocean Explora-
tion (IDOE) with William Aron participating in the National Academies
of Sciences and Engineering planning workshop and Robert Higgins
serving on the Marine Sciences 1DoE working panel.

RESEARCH ACTIVITIES

Dr. Aron spent most of August 1968 in Israel, dividing his time
between field work in the Gulf of Eilat and the Red Sea and attendance
at the International Limnological Congress in Jerusalem. The field
program included midwater trawling on both sides of the Straits of
Tiran, some benthic sampling in these same areas, and considerable
shore collecting on the reefs. Included in the field party were Dr. Eugenie
Clark of the University of Maryland, a group of technicians and gradu-
ate students of The Hebrew University, and Mr. Menachem Ben-Yami
of the Sea Fisheries Research Station in Haifa.

The collections of midwater fishes taken during this expedition have
been returned to the Smithsonian and have been studied jointly by
Aron and Richard Goodyear of the National Museum of Natural
History. A joint paper by them has been accepted by the Israel Journal
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 273

of Zoology for the issue commemorating the 60th birthday of Professor
Heinz Steinitz of Hebrew University.

During this project to study the role of the Suez Canal as a pathway
for the movement of biota between the Red and the Mediterranean
seas, several scientists have visited Israel for research. They include
Louis Kornicker and Thomas Bowman of the Smithsonian, E. Bousfield
and Neil Powell of the Canadian National Museum, and M. Neushul
of the University of California at Santa Barbara. As a result of his field
investigations, Neushul has presented a collection of identified algae to
the Botany Department of the National Museum of Natural History.

A panel of scientists consisting of Ernst Mayr of the Museum of
Comparative Zoology (chairman), Marta Vanucci of the University
of Sao Paulo, Allyn Seymour of the University of Washington, Gregory
Sohn of the United States Geological Survey, and Karl Wilbur of Duke
University and the Ford Foundation visited Israel in April 1969 to
review the Suez migration studies. The panel has urged the continuation
of the program and has cited its importance as a model and pilot project
for needed research on the proposed Isthmian Sea Level Canal in
Central America.

Dr. William Melson was chief scientist on a geophysical cruise on the
pride of the United States oceanography fleet, Coast and Geodetic Sur-
vey vessel Oceanographer, for two weeks in October 1968. Drs. Melson
and Simkin from the Sorting Center and scientists from Princeton, the
University of Washington, Oregon State University, and Scripps Institu-
tion of Oceanography participated in the cruise, which was highly suc-
cessful. Dr. Melson has contributed a new idea of local sea-floor spread-
ing that involves bilaterally symmetrica] features on either side of the
Juan de Fuca Ridge. The Coast and Geodetic Survey has been very com-
plimentary in its remarks on the cruise and of the immediate prepara-
tion of a useful report. The survey has offered full cooperation to Dr.
Melson’s group in meeting future requirements for ship time.

During the period 15 February—16 March 1969, a major underwater
expedition took place off British Honduras under Office sponsorship.
Using funds and direct support from Mr. Seward Johnson and direct
support by Messrs. Edwin A. Link and William Mote, five ships and an
underseas vehicle aps Iv were assembled to engage in underwater inves-
tigations of varied nature. Known as Shark 1969, the expedition grew
from a proposal of Perry Gilbert from the Mote Marine Laboratory at
Cape Haze, Florida. Dr. Gilbert, Mr. William Evans of the Naval
Underseas Research and Development Laboratory, and others con-
tributed a study of shark behavior using a “bite meter” developed by
Evans. Walter Starck has studied coral reef fishes and has tried out a
new scuba apparatus that he and John Kanwisher have invented.
274 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Kanwisher accompanied the expedition. Dr. Dennis Devaney, post-
doctorate specialist at NMNH has studied invertebrate behavior, Mr.
Winston Miller of British Honduras has worked on lobsters, Dr. Robert
Wilce of the University of Massachusetts has done research on algae,
and Mr. Robert Wicklund of the Bureau of Sports Fisheries and Wild-
life has experimented on the vertical transfer of fishes for pressure
effects. Dr. Joseph MacInnis of Ocean Systems, Inc., again has served
as the expedition doctor and has done some photography. Two profes-
sional photographers from Hollywood have participated in recording
the activity.

Drs. Richard Benson and William Aron made a trip to India in

January 1969, accompanied by Dr. Edward Brinton of the Scripps
Institution of Oceanography. Consultations with Dr. N. K. Panikkar

led to development of a proposal to use Indian rupees for a series of —

biological and geological cruises from Goa to the middle of the Arabian —

Sea. These cruises would develop information on the productivity of
the shallow-to-deep-water transect at various seasons. Discussions with
Dr. B. R. Seshachar, Head of the Indian International Biological Pro-
gram, have led to approval by the University of Madras to host a sym-
posium on sipunculids to be organized by Dr. Mary Rice in the Division

of Worms. This will be the first international symposium on this group |

and should be an important step toward improved research output by

the participating scientists. Discussions also have proceeded on the possi- _
bility of establishing a study of a coral reef, cooperatively with other —

United States and Indian scientists.

The Vetlesen Foundation has continued its support of Miss Julie
Booth’s activities on the Great Barrier Reef. Miss Booth has worked at
Fairfax and Hook Islands, where she has made interesting observations

on turtles, corals, birds, and other reef occupants. She is sending back

specimens of the flora and fauna for the Smithsonsian collections.

For Project Tektite, Nasa, Navy, Interior, and General Electric have
installed an underwater house off St. John, Virgin Islands. With advice
and assistance from this Office, Tektite has been used in studies of man
in isolation but in touch with the world by telephone, television, and
radio. The instrumented facility, installed at a 42-foot depth, for two

months served as home for four scientists. Support of Smithsonian —

activities in Tektite has been obtained from the Tai Ping Foundation.
As a result of these actions, the Smithsonian has been invited to partici-
pate in Tektite II, scheduled for early 1970.

Ecological studies on Puerto Rican coral reefs were carried out by
Peter Glynn during a three-month period beginning in September 1968.
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 275

Main emphasis was given to metabolic measurements of key species
associated with Porites patch reefs. The food habits of some species, as
well as their reproductive activities, was investigated. Further observa-
tions on the feeding behavior of the chiton commensal Dynamenella
perforata (Isopoda) were made in order to clarify the intimacy of this
relationship.

A plan for an international decade of ocean exploration has been
developed through the Marine Sciences Council to represent federal
aspirations in ocean explorations during the next ten years. Dr. M. A.
Buzas has served as the Office representative on the task group that
assembled this plan and has contributed significantly to its development.

As Chairman of the United States Observer Delegation and United
States National Correspondent, I. E. Wallen attended in October 1968
the Monaco meeting of the International Commission for the Scientific
Exploration of the Mediterranean Sea (1csEm). Substantial attention
was paid to an approved International Cooperative Investigation of the
Mediterranean. This study will be coordinated by a three-man group
from the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO
(Dr. Federov) , the General Fisheries Council for the Mediterranean of
FAO (Dr. Charbonnier), and 1cs—Em (Dr. Cousteau). An international
coordinator, Dr. J. Joseph, was named and four scientific committees
have been chosen. An assistant coordinator for each committee will
live in Monaco for the duration of the study, which began officially in
October 1969 and will last for five years. There has been substantial
interest on the part of Smithsonian oceanographers in participating in
the study; the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center will be the official
specimen center.

Dr. Hugh Steedman of England spent the months of July, October,
November 1968, March, and June 1969 planning and conducting experi-
ments to be performed in international studies of plankton preservation.
His travel to the Sorting Center was paid by the Scientific Committee
on Ocean Research of the International Council of Scientific Unions,
and his local expenses by the Smithsonian. Dr. Beers of the Scripps Insti-
tution of Oceanography will collect plankton for the initial studies,
which are expected to be duplicated in Tunisia. Plankton preservation
sometimes has been excellent and sometimes very unsatisfactory with
similar preservatives. Histochemical work on preserved materials will
permit analyses of the reasons for such variation.

On 13 December 1968 a small oil tanker, Witwater, was moving oil
from a refinery a few miles south of the Panama Canal Zone to the
Zone when it broke up about three miles from the Smithsonian Tropi-
cal Research Institute (sTR1) marine station at Galeta Island. About
276 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

15,000 barrels of a mixture of bunker c oil and diesel oil were spilled
and another 20,000 barrels gradually leaked into the Atlantic. Much
of the oil drifted toward Galeta Island. Although some 500 barrels of
the onshore flow was burned, the oil was distributed into the mangrove
areas. An accumulation of oil near the stTri facility evidently began
killing crabs and other marine organisms. This spill is being studied
by sTRI personnel for its effect on the marine facility.

Fernandina Island in the Galapagos provided the setting for a spec-
tacular and rare volcanic event in July 1968. A Smithsonian expedition,
mounted under the leadership of Dr. Thomas Simkin of the Smithsonian
Oceanographic Sorting Center, spent a month in the Galapagos study-
ing the volcano itself and the geological and biological effects on the
crater lake and the surrounding ocean. This eruption was most unusual
in that it involved the collapse of a significant portion of the caldera,
part of which sank more than 300 meters. During his return trip, Dr.
Simkin made observations, as a member of a Presidential mission, on
the volcanic eruption in Costa Rica.

Drs. Thomas Goreau and Maxwell Doty of Jamaica and Hawaii,
respectively, represented the Office and Drs. Talbot and Fosberg the
Smithsonian at a meeting in Koror, Palau, in November 1968. The
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (1ucn) considered
setting aside island preserves for scientific use. This meeting was of
great interest in the Office’s own efforts toward the establishment of
international marine preserves. The Office expects to work closely with
1ucN, the Pacific Science Board, and other groups to set aside a system
of international scientific preserves before their eventual exploitation.

Dr. Carl George, formerly of the American University, Beirut, Leb-
anon, has had support from excess currencies and this Office for a
tour of the Nile River in Egypt, from Aswan to Alexandria, to gather |
data concerning the changes in the Mediterranean fisheries owing to
construction of the Aswan Dam. The data were gathered in anticipation
of a meeting at Airlie House in December 1968. Secretary Ripley spoke
then of the environmental consequences of a possible interoceanic sea-
level canal and gave examples from the Suez Canal studies. Environ-
mental prediction is being considered by current planners for engineering
modification of the environment. As an outcome of this trip, a proposal
by Dr. George has been accepted to investigate the effects of the Aswan
on some of the lower Egyptian lakes.

Interest in Mediterranean geology led Dr. Daniel Stanley to par-
ticipate in a NaTO-sponsored cruise of Paolina I, an Italian vessel in the
western Mediterranean in January 1969. Dr. Jack Pierce used Coast
Guard vessel Kane for a sediment cruise off North Carolina.
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 277

Coast Guard vessel Rockaway was used by Dr. Dan Stanley in
three two-week cruises for studies of the nature and origin of Wilmington
Canyon. These large ships were provided by the Coast Guard as a
very substantial contribution to Smithsonian Oceanography.

Drs. Neil Hulings and Jose Stirn of the Mediterranean Marine
Sorting Center visited Morocco in December 1968 to plan for a ship
expedition to gather biological and geological data and specimens for
our researches. The cruises across the Moroccan shelf started in June
and continued through July 1969.

As a part of the effort to gain support for Smithsonian systematics,
a series of field guides has been sponsored for sale or distribution to
the general public and to the mission agencies. Dr. George Watson has
been the most productive along this line with his Preliminary Field
Guide to the Birds of the Indian Ocean, Seabirds of the Tropical Atlan-
tic Ocean, and Seabirds of the Tropical Pacific Ocean. He is preparing a
similar book on Antarctic birds. Dr. Robert Gibbs joined Dr. Bruce
Collette of the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries in producing Preliminary
Field Guide to the Mackerel- and Tuna-ltke Fishes of the Indian Ocean
(Scombridae). Recently Dr. Horton Hobbs authored Keys to Water
Quality Indicative Organisms and Peter Glynn (strr) produced with
Robert Menzies The Common Marine Isopod Crustacea of Puerto Rico:
A Handbook for Marine Biologists. Support for these efforts has come
from the Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, the National Science Foun-
dation, this Office, and the National Museum of Natural History.

The Ocean Acre program, a joint study by Drs. Aron, Gibbs, and
Roper and scientists from the United States Navy Underwater Sound
Laboratory, the Naval Oceanographic Office, and the University of
Rhode Island, has included four cruises using vessels Gilliss and Sands
of the navy and the University of Rhode Island’s research vessel Trident.
Preliminary analysis of the distributions of cephalopods and the meso-
and bathypelagic fishes taken during these cruises reveals variations in
the migratory behavior patterns between species that may be associated
with different sound-scattering layers. The area selected for the intensive
Studies comprising the program is southeast of Bermuda in water
depths greater than 2000 meters. Material collected during these cruises
has been made available to other interested scientists including Thomas
Hopkins of the University of South Florida, who is working on feeding
behavior of fishes, Daniel Cohen of the Bureau of Commercial Fishes,
who works on argentenoid fishes, and S. Van Der Spoel of the Zoological
Museum of Amsterdam, who studies the pteropods and heteropods.
278 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC
SORTING CENTER

The Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center (sosc) began serv-
ing the marine sciences community in December 1962. The Center re-
ceives, sorts, records, curates, and distributes biological and geological
specimens collected by oceanographic expeditions in all seas. By ful-
filling the role of a central processing laboratory, sosc reduces the ef-
fort and time needed to distribute this great variety of specimens to
interested specialists.

The collections of biological and geological materials, which have been
received at sosc during the six and a half years of operation, have come
from 83 sources. sosc does not accession the material in the sense of ac-
quiring it permanently. A reference number is assigned, however, and
the data are entered into a permanent system.

Upon request, sorted groups are distributed according to the commit-
ments made by expedition leaders and principal investigators. Requests
for noncommitted specimens are referred to one of a series of seven ad-
visory committees for review and recommendation. Records are kept
on the distribution of all specimens, research results, publications, and
the final deposition of specimens.

After discussions with the National Institutes of Health, a simple _
agreement resulted in its purchase of nearly $5,000 worth of supplies for
the Sorting Center. In exchange for the supplies sosc has provided forty
species of marine organisms in quantities of one kilogram or more.
Shortly after this agreement was reached, Dr. H. A. Fehlmann and Mr. |
Ernani Menez of the sosc staff and Mr. Victor Haley, an sosc techni-
cian, collected in Antarctica on board the National Science Foundation |
vessel Hero, with a Bureau of Commercial Fisheries team based in the |
state of Washington. Dr. Fehlmann made cold-water collections, and
then stopped in Panama for warm-water collections. Common species :
are sought for unusual chemicals.

sosc personnel have included sixteen federal employees and about
twenty positions on private funds. In maintaining this level of private-
roll employees, forty-one persons have been supported and trained
during the year. Several terminations have resulted from reduction in
contract funds by the National Science Foundation.

Owing to the specific nature of sosc’s work, nearly every new techni-
cian must undergo a few months of intensive on-the-job instruction in
the careful handling, identification, and recording of the broad array of
specimens to be processed. This training is conducted in the individual
sections since each of sosc’s sections has unique problems and solutions.
Training consists of closely supervised performance, interspersed with

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 279

lectures and discussions by consultants, and with the continual use of
general identification manuals, some of which have been prepared by
sosc. A valuable adjunct to sosc’s training efforts is its modest
library. Each year new acquisitions of books, reprints, journals, and charts
add to the library’s scope and usefulness. Training is open ended, al-
though, after about three months, a new technician is able to work with
a minimum of supervision. Whether a technician remains at sosc, trans-
fers to the National Museum of Natural History, or joins another
agency, Sosc training has contributed toward making him a valuable
member of a needed, skilled labor force.

Early in 1969, the Smithsonian Institution agreed to accept fifteen
young persons as sosc trainees through the United Planning Organiza-
tion’s Neighborhood Youth Corps. They were assigned to the several
sections of sosc and for six months learned the particular and varied
skills needed to process specimens. Several trainees are expected to reach
a level of competence enabling them to remain indefinitely on the techni-
cian staff at the Center. Supplementary support has been received from
the National Science Foundation to allow trained technicians to act
as instructors to the youth group and to provide laboratory equipment.

Nine temporary students were assigned to work in four sosc sections.
Three of the students were participants in the Ninth Summer Science
Research Program for Senior High School Students sponsored by the
American University. One student was awarded a Summer Undergradu-
ate Research Assistantship from the Smithsonian Institution’s Office of
Academic Programs. Five students were volunteers or were supported
by private funds. Aside from routine work in the algae, geology, plank-
ton, and vertebrate sections, all students undertook special projects
related to their studies.

Under a contractual agreement with nsr, the Sorting Center main-
tains a file on all biological and geological specimens collected from the
Antarctic by United States investigators. The collections processed at
sosc, combined with Antarctic collections held at other institutions
throughout the United States and some foreign countries, have provided
a wealth of data. In 1966 sosc began to design an automatic data-
processing system to permit rapid storage and retrieval of this
information.

By the beginning of the year the first phase of the records system was
in operation, and the sorting records were being integrated with the
routine preparation of specimen labels. The labels, containing essential
information, are prepared on automatic typewriter systems, which simul-
taneously punch the data onto paper tape. Data from the paper tapes
are edited and transferred to magnetic tape for permanent storage. Bulk
listings of all records or queries for records that satisfy specified param-
280 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

eters can be retrieved. The versatility of the records system permits
inclusion of records on collections from any source while maintaining
the identity of collections processed at sosc.

Most of the efforts of the past year have been invested in preparing
labels and records for tape storage, processing the backlog of Antarctic
records from manual files, and designing and implementing other phases
of the records system. Over 40,000 items have been recorded in the year.
More than half of the records have been from the backlog of previous
years. Current production includes preparation of labels, inventory cards,
and punched paper tapes for each sorted taxonomic group. Treatment
of the backlog requires only the production of a paper-tape record. Each
record is equivalent to one lot of sorted specimens. The backlog of
records on Antarctic specimens processed at sosc prior to July 1968
covered over thirteen million specimens from usns Eltanin Cruises
8-30 taken by Lamont Geological Observatory (Lco) and Texas A&M
(TAM) and those taken by the University of Southern California
(usc) and sosc on Cruises 1-22. These collections include over
4,000 pelagic and benthic samples. Nearly all the usc and sosc
collections that have been sorted and the Lco and Tam samples from
Cruises 8-21 are now recorded on magnetic tape.

The first phase of the data-processing system records specimens identi-
fied only to taxonomic levels higher than species. These higher categories
are suitable for identification of the groups processed and distributed by
sosc and for similarly processed collections at other institutions. A
second phase of the system, begun this year, will incorporate records on
specimens after they are studied and identified to species level by special-
ists. Programming for this inventory is under a special contract with
Mr. Fred Krazinsky, who will continue to assist sosc with development
of the system. When programming for the species inventory is completed,
both inventories can be collated or queried, or both, to retrieve all
available information on any sample or sets of samples regardless of
the level to which the specimens have been classified. Initial testing
of the species inventory is complete and related programming is
under way.

Reduced data sheets are prepared by the records section for some col-
lections for which only the original field logs are available. These data
summaries facilitate the distribution of information to specialists who
receive specimens and to others who are interested in the collections.
Reference information and cruise tracks are used to verify the accuracy
of the data; units of measure are converted to standard units. Reduced
data sheets have been prepared for seven collections during the year.

sosc designs, produces, and distributes data forms for vessels
involved in the United States Antarctic Research Program (USARP).

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 281

After consultations with marine biologists and studies of forms used by
other institutions and agencies operating research vessels, a sample num-
bering system and preliminary forms for biological samples were agreed
upon in September 1968 during the usarp Orientation Session for
participants.

A supply of sosc-usarp forms has been distributed to USNS
Eltanin, research vessel Hero, and uscacs Glacier. The forms are
printed in triplicate. One copy will be returned to sosc, where the
data will be used in cruise reports. Suitable means of publication are
being investigated. The use of the forms and systematic processing of
the data will improve the collection and retention of data, and will add
to the scientific value of the marine specimens that are collected at
considerable cost and effort.

During the past year, the basic concept of “sea floor spreading” has
received striking confirmation from many and varied investigations and
now has moved from the status of hypothesis to theory. This new concept
carries sweeping new implications for all parts of earth science and has
stimulated a remarkable surge of geologic interest in the wet two thirds
of the globe. sosc has responded to this increased interest by expand-
ing its geology section and by consolidating operations of this section
during the past year.

The sosc geology section acts as a clearinghouse that inventories
and then distributes incoming collections. Careful inventory is an essen-
tial part of efficient distribution because it makes each valuable collection
available to a wide group of specialists and because it provides each
specialist with prompt retrieval of the desired portion of the collections.
Incoming collections may consist of sea floor (a) samples, (b) photo-
graphs, or (c) information. Operations on these collections consist of
(a) receiving, (b) processing or inventorying, and (c) distributing per-
tinent parts of the collections to appropriate specialists. Despite this
burgeoning interest in marine geology, many oceanic rocks sit unde-
scribed on warehouse shelves, others remain uncollected by vessels lack-
ing petrologists to study them, and still others are thrown back over the
side when they appear in a biological collection. The aim is to rescue as
many of these samples as possible, identify and inventory them, and
make them available so that any specialist interested in specific litholo-
gies, locations, minerals, features, or associations can request appropriate
material for detailed examination and the increased understanding
of the oceanic crust.

Installation of basic petrographic laboratory equipment at sosc,
begun in late 1967, was completed during the past year. The lab now
contains a diamond-bladed saw for cutting rocks, grinding laps, micro-
scopes for optical examination of the resulting thin-sections, and refer-

366-269 O—70-—_19
282 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

ence works to assist identifications. In addition, materials and equipment
are available for chemical staining of rock slices and for semiautomatic
photomicrography. Basic drafting equipment for mapmaking has been
added.

A major catalog of all oceanic rocks has been produced to include
all that have been described in the scientific literature. The bibliographic
search has located over 200 papers that mention oceanic rocks and these
have been abstracted in catalog form so that rocks of a particular region,
depth, topographic feature, or lithology can be easily located. Specific
mineral groups and lab information (e.g., age determinations, optical
data) in the literature may be found through the catalog, which provides
a reference for all those interested. The catalog was circulated as a
preprint and submitted for publication at the end of the report year.
Supplements to the catalog will be added as required.

Two inventory systems have been developed for the rock samples of
the usARP program. The first treats the sample as a whole, and the
second treats individual specimens. The sample inventory lists the
following on a single-page computer readout: (1) sample numbers;
(2) location data, including topographic features (e.g., ridge crest,
seamount) ; (3) sampling history; (4) pertinent supplementary data
gathered from bottom photographs (at sosc) and seismic reflection
profiles (obtained from Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory) ;
(5) physical data of sample: weight, number, and estimated propor-
tion of sample falling into various categories of rounding, size, and
surface markings; (6) lithologies of sample: estimated proportions
falling into twenty-three broad lithologic categories; (7) lab work
done on the specimen(s) ; and (8) present location of sample. These
data summarize the major features of the whole sample, give some
basis for estimation of the proportion of ice-rafted erratics, and place any
given specimen into the context of the full sample collected from that
locality. This inventory will be distributed as a sample catalog to inter-
ested specialists.

The specimen inventory is based on the petrographic examination of
individual specimens. It is designed to meet the needs of specialists
interested in specific mineralogic, textural, or lithologic features.

In December 1968, a trip was made by various staff members to
Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory in order to obtain seismic
profile records and bathymetric data from Eltanin for use with bottom
photograph and dredge programs. Some knowledge of surrounding
topography and underlying sediment thickness is important in assessing
the likelihood that rock samples from a particular dredge are ice-rafted
erratics or represent true submarine outcrops. Such knowledge is like-
wise valuable to interpreters of bottom photographs who can, for
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 283

instance, apply scale measurements to objects photographed once the
interpreters are assured of a nearly horizontal floor at the photo station.
These records have now been scanned and the data entered into
the sample inventory. For any camera or sampling station the local
topography can be categorized and the apparent distance to the nearest
steep slope (i.e., nearest source of locally derived rock) can be indicated.

The collection of deep-sea photographs at sosc has passed 12,000
during the past year. Two basic operations are performed with these
photographs: (1) routine printing, distribution, and inventory of incom-
ing photographs; and (2) filling of specific requests, utilizing the inven-
tory system for photographs of specific organisms, bottom features, or
localities. Requests for bottom photographs during the year have been
up fifty percent over the previous year and the total number of prints
distributed has nearly doubled. Although the greatest number of orders
is in the request category, routine printing takes up a great bulk of
processing time. Five custom enlargements are made of each photo-
graph and as many as 7,600 prints have been required for a single
Eltanin cruise.

The major geological collection received this year is 2,500 pounds
of rocks taken by Eltanin from 224 localities on her first thirty-two
cruises. This collection reached sosc in January 1969. A collection of
thirty-three sediment cores from Florida was received in February 1969
from the Coastal Engineering Research Center (cERc) of the Army
Engineers. These cores will be followed by additional collections from
the Atlantic coast as the ceRc research program proceeds. A small
collection of rocks taken by usns Kane has been submitted for identi-
fication by Dr. Martin Weiss of the Naval Oceanographic Office.

During the year 4,216 negatives have been received from Eltanin,
115 from Glacier, and 10 from Hero. The Lamont tripod camera now
in use on Eltanin takes repeated frames of the same scene, and not
all frames need to be printed; however, a grand total of 4,341 negatives
have been received by sosc, a figure that greatly exceeds receipts of
previous years.

Distribution of rock specimens has been limited pending completion of
the sample inventory of Eltanin rocks. The catalog review, however, has
been circulated to a list of 200 specialists interested in oceanic rocks and
simultaneously has been submitted for publication. A similar catalog
lists received copies of the Eltanin collection inventory.

Curatorial responsibilities are a fundamental concern to sosc. All
specimens are processed and cared for in proven and acceptable ways.
It is universally recognized, however, that relatively little is known about
the theory and practice of curating marine organisms and that currently
acceptable procedures are very likely not the best. Recently, sosc began
284 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

an active program of investigating fixatives and preservatives for
marine specimens. Dr. H. F. Steedman, histochemist and Working
Group 23 member, came from Bath University, England, in July 1968
to establish curatorial experiments at sosc. He returned to sosc in
October 1968, in February 1969, and again in May and June 1969.
Dr. Steedman has spent more than six months at sosc. A number of
plankton collections have been made, and a large assortment of chemi-
cals, supplies, and equipment have been obtained by sosc for Dr.
Steedman’s experiments.

A series of experiments has been planned to cover all possible aspects
of zooplankton preservation. The series includes about forty separate
experiments. The progression of the work has depended on a supply
of plankton collected expressly for this project. Some twenty-five liters
of concentrated zooplankton are needed for a single array of experiments.
The quantity of plankton obtained by April 1969 was sufficient for four
of the series.

Formerly at the Smithsonian as a graduate student at George Wash-
ington University working with Dr. Thomas Bowman of the National
Museum of Natural History, Dr. John McCain joined the permanent
staff of the Sorting Center 1 March 1969. As his first assignment, Dr.
McCain continued to make collections on the National Science Founda-
tion Antarctic vessel Hero during March 1969. Formerly on the staff
of the Oregon State University Marine Laboratory at Newport, he will
be assistant supervisor for Benthic Invertebrates.

sosc has provided sorted specimens to 322 specialists, who represent
141 institutions or agencies in 32 states and territories of the United
States and 26 foreign countries. The Center has received 478 collections
from 83 sources.

During the past year, sosc has sorted 2,871,448 specimens and has dis-
tributed 771,014 specimens in 405 shipments. The total number of
specimens sorted by sosc since 1963 exceeds 20 million; over 7 million
specimens have been distributed in 2,159 shipments. In addition to ship-
ments of specimens, sosc has dispatched nearly 300 support shipments
consisting of supplies and collecting gear for expeditions, cruise reports,
data summaries, and charts.

Members of the sosc staff have participated in six cruises and expedi-
tions and have attended six scientific meetings. Since 1963, sosc per-
sonnel have participated in thirty-six cruises and expeditions, with an
involved time of 1,682 man days. sosc has filled the part of director
of the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center, Salammbo, Tunisia, since
its beginning in November 1966. Scientific meetings have drawn sosc
staff on 33 occasions, with a participation time of 207 man days. Fifty-
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 285

four other trips, for consultation, correction of records, and visits to
museums have required 464 man-days. Thus, sosc personnel have
spent nearly nine man years away from the Center.

A major source of supplies and equipment for sosc has been United
States government excess property. This source is unpredictable but
a variety of useful items has been obtained. In many cases useful
material has been transferred to other sections of the Smithsonian
Institution. Since 1963, sosc has obtained excess property valued at
over $500,000. Most of this has been used by the Center, but about
ten percent has been transferred for use elsewhere in the Institution.

sosc has received more than one hundred visitors from various parts
of the United States and from several foreign countries.

MEDITERRANEAN MARINE SORTING CENTER

The staff of msc consists of twenty-nine persons and all but two are
Tunisians. The professional and technical staff consists of four super-
visors, three assistant supervisors, and fifteen technicians. The admin-
istrative staff consists of six persons.

During the past year Msc has utilized the services of consultants
from thirteen countries (Yugoslavia, Algeria, Malta, Canada, England,
Italy, United States, Switzerland, France, Libya, Lebanon, Cyprus,
and Austria) in the training of the scientific staff and in MMsc activities.
Mme J. H. Heldt of Tunisia has served as consultant to the Plankton
Division during the first four months.

Several consultants to mMMsc have lectured in the Faculty of Sciences
of the University of Tunis. mMsc also has cooperated in the Third
Cycle Program in Oceanography of the Faculty of Sciences.

During the period covered by this report, mMsc has received 27 col-
lections including 981 samples from ten countries including Cyprus,
France, Greece, Italy, Libya, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, and
Yugoslavia. The type and source of the collections received are as
follows:

Plankton (6 collections including 194 samples)
24 samples from Italy (N. Della Croce, University of Genoa)
29 samples from Greece (V. Kiortsis, University of Athens)
79 samples from Cyprus (A. Demetropoulos, Fisheries Department)
18 samples from Yugoslavia (collected by mMmsc during training cruise)
21 samples from Greece (V. Kiortsis, University of Athens),
24 samples from the open Mediterranean (collected by J. Stirn on Atlantis I1)

The Benthos Division has received a total of twelve collections, three
for the Macrobenthos Section and nine for the Meiobenthos Section,
totaling 283 samples.
286 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
Macrobenthos Section

93 samples from Yugoslavia
Meiobenthos Section

6 samples from Malta (H. Micalef, Royal University of Malta)

3 samples from Morocco (collected by mMsc personnel)

7 samples from Italy (G. Bonaduce, Naples Zoological Station)

0 samples from Italy (G. Fierro, University of Genoa)

9 samples from Yugoslavia (collected by mMMsc personnel)

107 samples 1nstop and msc collections and France (P. Vitiello, Endoume
Marin Station)

Fish Division (4 collections)

311 samples from Libya (J. Norris, Tobruk)
101 samples from Yugoslavia (collected by mMMsc personnel)
116 samples from Yugoslavia (Institute of Sea Research, Portoroz)

47 samples from Tunisia (INSTOP)
Algae Division (5 collections)

106 samples from Turkey (N. Zeybek, University of Ege)
1 sample from Morocco (collected by mMsc personnel)
7 samples from Yugoslavia (Institute Sea Research, Portoroz)
1 sample from Tunisia (INSTOP)

63 samples from Italy (collected by MMsc personnel)

During the period covered by this report, sorting has been completed
of 31 collections and 2,186 samples. From these, 1,427,312 specimens
have been sorted. By Division, the sorting is as follows:

Collections Samples Specimens

Plankton 6 195 897, 098
Macrobenthos 8 1, 388 46, 597
Meiobenthos 6 69 472, 223
Fish 4 311 811
Algae 7 223 10, 583
Totals 31 2, 186 1, 427, 312

MMscC has shipped 1,057,641 sorted specimens to collectors, specialists,
and museums during the year. By Division, the number of specimens
shipped is as follows:

Plankton 863, 379
Benthos 193, 012
Macrobenthos 10, 576
Meiobenthos 182, 436
Algae 873

Fish 337
OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY 287

Museum collections were sent to:

Specimens
Tunisian Oceanographic Institute 420
The Paris Museum of Natural History 130
U.S. National Museum of Natural History 63333
The American Cooperative School in Tunis 42

A total of sixteen specialists in eight different countries have received
specimens from mmsc for study. The countries include Great Britain,
Switzerland, France, Canada, United States, Denmark, and Italy. Five
collectors have received specimens sent to MMsc for sorting.

In addition to sorted specimens sent for study, a total of 153 samples
of plankton residue and 15 samples of sediment have been sent by MMsc.

mmsc formally has received 26 requests for 27 taxa during the past
year. All of the requests have been approved by the appropriate Special-
ist Advisory Committees for mMsc. Sixteen specialists have received 17
taxa for study. The remaining requests will be fulfilled when specimens
become available. At the present time, about 15 additional requests are
expected or are in the process of being evaluated by Specialist Advisory
Committees.

During the year, the staff of mmsc has visited institutions, labora-
tories, and government officials in Algeria, France, Italy, Libya,
Monaco, Morocco, United States, and Yugoslavia.

Scientific meetings and courses attended by mMsc personnel include
the Third European Symposium on Marine Biology, a meeting on
Plankton Indicators in the Mediterranean, the International Commis-
sion for the Scientific Exploration of the Mediterranean Sea, and a
Course in Marine Algology in Sicily.

Four msc staff members have participated in a training cruise in
the Adriatic Sea. The primary objective has been to study methods of
collecting, processing, and preserving specimens in the field.

A cooperative program between Mohammed: V University, Rabat,
the Institute of Fisheries, Casablanca, and msc to survey the marine
fauna and flora of Moroccan waters on both sides of the Straits of
Gibraltar was begun in June 1969. Dr. Stirn is field project leader for
this program, and all of the male scientific staff of mmsc will participate
in the two-month survey.

Two new programs—the sorting of fish eggs and larvae and of the
stomach contents of fishes—have been initiated on a limited basis.
288 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Staff Publications and Papers

Aron, WiLu1AM, and SNEED Cotarp. “A Study of the Influence of Net Speed
Catch.” Limnology and Oceanography (1969), volume 14, number 2, pages
242-249.

Birpsonc, Ray S., and Lestiz W. Knapp. “Etheostoma collettet, a New Darter
of the Subgenus Oligocephalus from Louisiana and Arkansas.” Tulane Studies
in Zoology and Botany (1969), volume 15, number 3, pages 106-112.

GEHRINGER, JacK W., and WitiiAm Aron. Field Techniques: Zooplankton
Sampling. 1969.

LanpruM, Betty J. “Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center Provides Mul-
tiple Services to Research.” National Oceanographic Data Center Newsletter
(1968), volume 9, number 68, pages 1-4.

. “Innovations in the Antarctic Records Program.” Antarctic Journal
of the United States (1968), volume 3, number 5, page 210.

Simkin, Tuomas E., with K. A. Howarp. “Caldera Collapse in the Galapagos
Islands, 1968.” Special Papers of the Geological Society of America (1968),
page 280.

SIMKIN, Tuomas E., with J. R. Duncan, W. J. Morcan, W. G. MELson,
H. Banks, and D. Gottrriep. ‘“‘Juan de Fuca Ridge Bathymetry: Independent
Evidence of Sea-Floor Spreading.” Transactions of the American Geophysical
Union (1969), volume 50, page 185.

Smkin, THomAs E., with W. G. MeEtson, R. S. Fiske, J. G. Moore, and
R. N. Decker. “Major Volcanic Eruptions of 1968: Preliminary Contributions
to Petrology and Volcanology, 1969.” Transactions of the American
Geophysical Union (1969), volume 50, page 344.

sosc Staff. “Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center Expands Its usARP
Activities.” Antarctic Journal of the United States (1968), volume 3, number
5, page 209.

. “The Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center.” The Science Teacher
(1969), volume 36, number 3, pages 29-31.

WALLEN, I. E. “Cooperative Systematic Studies in Antarctic Biology.” Antarctic
Journal (1968), volume 3, number 5, pages 166-167.

. “Non-Oil Trade and Resources.” Pages 107-110 in Middle East

Focus: The Persian Gulf. Princeton University, 1969. [Also delivered as a

lecture 24 October 1968.]

. “Participation in usarP Expedition.” Antarctic Journal (1968), volume

3, number 5, page 162.

. “Materials Problems in the Utilization of Marine Biology Resources.”

Ocean Engineering (1969), volume 1, pages 149-157.

. “Smithsonian Activities in Education.” Symposium on Education and
Federal Laboratory University Relationships, Federal Council for Science and
Technology, 29-31 October 1968.

WaLteN, I. E., H. A. FEHLMANN, and C. Storrtz. “The Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center.” Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences
(1968), volume 58, pages 191-200.

Office of Ecology

I. E. WALLEN, Acting Head

HE SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF ECOLOGY was established in 1965 to

assist in expanding the research opportunities of scientists in the
National Museum of Natural History, the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute, the Radiation Biology Laboratory, and the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Field Biology, and to aid in the coordination of eco-
logical activities with other United States agencies. During this year,
the program has continued to be directed toward major problem areas
in ecosystem research. Studies of endangered species, of the biology of
natural areas, of principles of vegetation change, and of behavior in
populations of wild animals have been emphasized in worldwide investi-
gations. The expanding need for participants in ecological research has
led to changes in the assignments of Drs. Helmut K. Buechner and Lee
M. Talbot. Dr. Buechner, who has served as head of the Office since its
inception, has been appointed a senior scientist in the Office. He will
pursue research on the ecology of ungulates with emphasis on African
species. Dr. Talbot, who has served as deputy head of the Office and
coordinator of International Affairs since May 1968, will conduct re-
search as resident ecologist in the Office. He will continue his interest
in Asian and African game preserves and assist Secretary Ripley in
liaison with the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources and numerous other international conservation
activities.

Requests for advice and consultation on ecological problems have
been received from the National Park Service and the Fish and
Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Pacific Science
Board, the Environmental Sciences Board, and the Division of Be-
havioral Sciences of the National Academy of Sciences-National Re-
search Council; the Office of Science and Technology; the Department
of Defense; the Department of Agriculture; the Department of State;
Congress; and a variety of international organizations including
UNESCO, FAO, UNDP, and 1Bp. The Office has participated in appro-
priate ways on many of the committees and panels of these groups and

289
290 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

=<

ja aii ee

Poplar Island in Talbot County showing the rapidly eroding shoreline.

has worked closely with them in the development of cooperative inter-
national projects.

During the year Dr. Buechner has continued to serve as an observer
on the Federal Council for Science and Technology Committee on
Environmental Quality, which has been in existence since 1967. This
committee has facilitated communications between federal agencies
on activities concerned with the environment, concentrating primarily
on problems of pollution. The commitee is expected to continue to
function and will complement the President’s newly created Environ-
mental Quality Council.

Most ecological research and theory has been based on the North
Temperate Zones of Europe and North America. With the rapid in-
creases in human population, technology, and consequent development
activities, an increasingly urgent need exists for basic and applied
research on ecosystems in all parts of the world.

Concern has been expressed for information about the quality of
the environment and for the development of sufficient ecological data

OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 291

for American and international projects. An objective of the Office
is to develop and facilitate research in ecosystem science to meet these
needs. An associated objective is the provision of appropriate research-
related training opportunities.

One of the primary responsibilities of the Office of Ecology has been
to develop meaningful research opportunities for Smithsonian affiliated
scientists. Ecosystem research requires integrated studies involving a
number of disciplines, and cooperative and collaborative programs have
been emphasized with appropriate institutions and individuals from
the United States, from the host nation, and from other countries and
international agencies.

During this period, primary attention has been devoted to the devel-
opment of research programs in Ceylon, India, Tunisia, Indonesia, and
the Mekong Basin. Attention also has been given, however, to explora-
tion and development of research opportunities in Poland, Morocco,
and Brazil.

RESEARCH ACTIVITIES

In considering the conservation of nature and natural resources, the
Office focuses the attention and capabilities of the Smithsonian on
environmental problems such as the prediction of the consequences of
environmental modifications, pollution, and the establishment of parks
and reserves. A close working relationship has been maintained and
strengthened with the various organizations concerned with interna-
tional conservation, including the International Union for Conservation
of Nature and Natural Resources (1ucNn), the International Council for
Bird preservation, the Fauna Preservation Society, the Conservation
Foundation, the World Wildlife Fund, the International Biological Pro-
gram (1BP), and the Pacific Science Association. Scientists of the Smith-
sonian have participated actively in the works of the rucN Commissions,
including the International Commissions on Ecology, National Parks,
Survival Services, and Education. Dr. Talbot assists the conservation
work of the rsp, collaborating with E. M. Nicholson, convener of the
Terrestrial Conservation Section, in the establishment of a worldwide
network of research preserves and in developing international coopera-
tion toward the scientific conservation of natural resources.

In connection with the Smithsonian’s contribution to the rnp, Lee
Talbot and Raymond Fosberg have participated in the rsp Pacific Is-
lands Conservation Program. This program includes an inventory of
Pacific islands or parts of islands which, because they have been rela-
tively uninfluenced by human activity and contain unique flora and
292 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

OS

yg

seh

oD
|

Nu

Ss

eS

4

. WA
i |
s \ |
& (a!

The forest of Chestnut Oak (Quercus prinus) on Fox Point. This forest has
been little disturbed down through the history of human occupation.

fauna, require protection as rare scientific resources; an evaluation of
the conservation requirements of these areas; and consequent prepara-
tion of recommendations on island protection and associated conserva-
tion problems. At a meeting in November 1968 in the Palau Islands and
Guam, data were assembled and the resultant inventory, descriptions,
and recommendations are currently in press. Talbot continued these dis-
cussions at the Pacific Science Association Intercongress meeting in
Malaya in May 1969. In response to another request for assistance in
conservation in the Asia Pacific region, Dr. Talbot helped develop and
conduct, in March 1969, an international conservation conference in
Hong Kong, which addressed itself to environmental problems induced
by increasing organization.

Assistance has been given to the Office of Science and Technology in
American preparations for the uNEsco International Conference on the
Scientific Basis for Rational Use and Conservation of the Resources
of the Biosphere. In Paris, in September 1968, Dr. Talbot represented
the Smithsonian in the United States delegation to the conference.

Arrangements were made with the Oliver Foundation, the Smith-
sonian Excess Currency Program, uNEsco, and the 1ucn for Mr.
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 293

Wayne A. Mills to spend six months in Asia, starting in June 1969,
serving as the 1ucn Regional Representative and coordinating Smith-
sonian support of the 11th Technical Meeting and the 10th General
Assembly of the rucn, which was held in New Delhi 24 November—1 De-
cember 1969. Mr. Mills collected and distributed research data pertinent
to the discussions and field studies.

Dr. Buechner completed preparations for a project that was launched
in the summer of 1969 to explore the feasibility of using satellites to
track free-ranging animals and obtain physiological data. Elk were
instrumented in the Jackson Hole area of Wyoming and will be followed
for about one year, using the Nimbus B-2 satellite system. Frequent
eround observations will verify locations and transmit observations of
behavior. The experiments will provide a basis for testing the satellite
tracking technique while at the same time producing useful informa-
tion on the behavior of elk in relation to weather, seasonal changes,
migration stimuli, herd composition, habitat requirements, and range
condition.

Dr. F. S. L. Williamson, director of the Chesapeake Bay Center for
Field Biology, visited Poland in November 1968 to examine 15P field
sites and stations where research parallel to that planned for the Bay
Center is being conducted and to explore the possibilities of collabora-
tion. On his return he stopped over in Great Britain to tour Oxford
University’s Wytham Woods Station with Charles Elton. In July and
August of 1968, Mr. Elton visited Belém, Brazil, as a Smithsonian Fellow
to study certain aspects of the population density and species diversity
of the rain-forest fauna. Results of the study are being compared with
data from Wytham Woods, which he has studied intensively for more
than twenty years.

Dr. Williamson also has made two field trips to Alaska in connection
with studies of the species composition, population density, ecological
and geographic distribution, breeding biology, and feeding ecology of
the birds of Amchitka Island. The Office has provided assistance to
Dr. Stanwyn Shetler, Department of Botany, for a survey trip to Alaska
in connection with a planned study of pollination systems in the Arctic.

Through a contract with the Air Force Office of Scientific Research,
support has been given to a series of studies on various aspects of ecology.
Twelve scientists have participated in the program, seven of whom have
conducted their research at the Smithsonian’s Barro Colorado Island
in Panama. Dr. Juan Delius of the University of California at San
Diego has visited Barro Colorado Island to record observations on the
behavior of various neotropical primates.

Dr. Thomas Eisner of Cornell University has investigated a variety
of insects and other invertebrates known to produce defensive secre-
294 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The shoreline of Cheston Peninsula seen across the waters of the Rhode River.
The conspicuous stand of Loblolly Pines (Pinus Taeda) was planted in
1933.

tions. Efforts have been made to gather secretions in amounts sufficient
for subsequent chemical analysis at Cornell, and experiments have been
set up in both the field and laboratory aimed at determining the effec-
tiveness of the materials. The animals studied include onychophora,
opilionina (Gonyleptidae), tenebrionid and scarabaeid beetles, heli-
coniid butterflies, and ozaenine beetles. Dr. Robert Enders of Swarth-
more College has studied the rate of erosion in a drainage basin on the
island to obtain final data for a proposed publication on 40 years of
changes in the mammalian fauna and ecology of Barro Colorado. Mr.
Douglas Futuyma of the University of Chicago has assessed the potential
of Barro Colorado Island and neighboring environments for studies of
the magnitude and periodicity of fluctuations in arthropod populations.

Dr. John D. McCrone of the University of Florida has worked with
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s Dr. Michael Robinson
on various aspects of the pre-capturing behavior of the spiders Argiope
argentata and Nephila claripes. A brief survey tour to examine the
opportunities for research on the species diversity of amphibians in
Panama has been made by Dr. Eric R. Pianka of Princeton University.
Dr. Herbert Rosenberg of Cornell University has conducted a prelim-
inary study on certain aspects of the predator-prey relationships of
various arthropods.

Support has been given for Dr. James Peters of the Reptile Depart-
ment to visit several of the larger collections of reptiles in Latin
America and examine their holotypes. Mr. Timothy C. Williams of
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 295

Rockefeller University has been assisted in his study of the nocturnal
behavior of bats. Support has been provided for Dr. Ernest J. Hugghins
of South Dakota State University to study the zoogeographical rela-
tionships of South American fishes as indicated by their parasites. Dr.
Ke Chung Kim of Pennsylvania State University has visited the Pribilof
Islands to conduct research on the ectoparasites of the northern fur
seal.

In cooperation with 1pp, support has been provided for Dr. Donald
W. Rennie of the State University of New York at Buffalo to conduct
research on the physical fitness, work capacity, and respiratory functions
of Eskimos in Wainwright, Alaska. The study has been coordinated with
a multidisciplinary investigation of health, child growth, genetics, and
ecology of Eskimos under the direction of Drs. Frederick Milan and
William S. Laughlin of the Department of Anthropology, University of
Wisconsin. With the support of the Office, Mr. Nicholas Smythe, a stu-
dent of the National Zoological Park’s Dr. John Eisenberg, has con-
ducted field research on the behavior and ecology of the caviomorph
rodent Dolichotis patagonum in Argentina. Assistance has been provided
for Dr. Cleofé E. Calderon to collaborate with Dr. Thomas S. Soder-
strom of the Botany Department in an interdisciplinary study of the
insect pollination of rain-forest grasses.

Korea

The preliminary phase of a program of ecological studies in Korea,
sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and the Air Force Office of
Scientific Research, drew to a close in September 1968. A general de-
scription of the vegetation, animal life, soils, physiography, and climate
of the study area, which is just south of the Demilitarized Zone and
contiguous with it, has been completed. The reports of individual re-
search projects, conducted over a period of two years by thirteen Korean
scientists and their twenty-one student assistants, have also been re-
ceived. A five-year plan has been developed that calls for the establish-
ment of a Korean Center for Environmental Studies to advance, through
research and education, the understanding of the ecological systems
within this developing country.

Ceylon

Smithsonian studies of the ecology and ethology of elephants in Ceylon
have continued with Dr. Fred Kurt concentrating in Ruhunu (Yala)
National Park and Mr. George McKay surveying the adjacent areas of
Lahugala and Gal Oya National Park. In Ruhunu, comparative studies
296 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

are underway on the population dynamics of elephants and their poten-
tial competitors for food and living space (buffalo, sambar deer, axis
deer, and wild swine). Research on the role of waterholes, which serve
as a focus for inter- and intraspecific competition, with reference to
the ecology and behavior of elephants and ungulates, is also in progress
at this site.

In the Gal Oya Valley, the study includes the catchment area of ©
Senanayake Samudra and totals 720 square miles, most of which is
forest savanna and monsoonal forest with an estimated elephant popu-
lation of 300 to 330. Research emphasis at this site is on food habits
and patterns of movement.

In late June of 1968 Dr. John F. Eisenberg and family began an
eleven-month residence in Ceylon. His primary research effort has been
directed toward the third and last national park that has not been sur-
veyed by the team. This park, named Wilpattu, has presented some
difficulty. Since it is densely forested, direct observation is somewhat
impeded. Nevertheless, the study of the area has provided valuable com-
parative data concerning the land-use patterns of the elephant. Refine-
ment of field-censusing techniques has been an early objective. The
final census information on the numbers of each age and sex class will
be combined with estimates of abundance in different habitats to de-
lineate such population parameters as the reproductive state of the
population, the density of habitat usage, and the degree of competition
with other species.

Two supplementary studies were initiated in August 1968. The first
involved Mr. A. P. W. Nettasinge in a survey of the elephant popula-
tion in the Maheveli Ganga basin northeast of Polonnaruwa. The sec-
ond study required the participation of Drs. J. B. Jayasinghe and Jainu-
deen of the faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ceylon, Pera-
deniya. Together with Dr. Eisenberg, they have attempted to breed
domestic elephants in order to determine such basic physiological data
as periodicity of oestrus, duration of oestrus, physiological manifestations
of oestrus, and sexual behavior patterns of the male and female. The
experiment has never been scientifically conducted in Ceylon. Two fe-
male elephants were successfully bred with one male during December
1968, January and February 1969, and a preliminary review of the data
obtained seems to indicate that the basic structure of the elephant re-
productive cycle has been worked out for the first time. Further tests
are urgently needed as well as laboratory tests on the hormonal content
of the blood in pregnant, nonpregnant, and oestrus females,

In collaboration with the team of zoologists, Dr. Dieter Mueller-
Dombois, a botanist and plant ecologist, also supported by a Smithsonian
PL 480 grant, has led his team in the continuation of its studies. A
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 297

Muddy Creek, the principal freshwater source to the estuary as it flows between
Corn Island (distant) and Fox Point (foreground).

vegetation map of Ruhuna has been prepared. The scale (1:31,680) al-
lows for distinguishing several herbaceous physiognomic types, a fact that
has provided a meaningful frame of reference for the animal studies.
An access-systems map is also being prepared. This map will show the
roads and trails, artificial waterholes and dikes, major rock outcrops,
lagoons, and sample plot locations of the plant, ecological, and animal
activity surveys. If suitable data are obtained, they will also show the
elephant’s specific home ranges.

A major environmental influence on the vegetation of the park is the
large animals—elephant, buffalo, axis deer, sambar deer, and wild boar.
Conversely, the vegetation types are expected to exert an influence on
the daily and seasonal distribution of the animals. To explore these rela-
tionships, a new method to assess the animal activity patterns is being
developed and tested. Dr. Mueller-Dombois, in addition to help with the
identification of plants used as food by the animals, is studying the rate
and pattern of grass recovery in areas grazed by telephants in an attempt
to gauge the carrying capacity of the nonwoody vegetation.

366-269 O—70-—20
298 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

In addition to these studies, a preliminary investigation of the relation-
ships between man and domestic elephants has been continued by Dr.
Eisenberg and Dr. Suzanne Ripley. The purpose of this project has
been to lay the groundwork for intensive study of the interspecific social
adaptation of man and tame elephants in Ceylon. Major orientations of
the investigation are: (1) to relate knowledge about the ecology and be-
havior of wild elephants to the taming transitions and human society,
and (2) to relate the above to the sociocultural roles of elephants at
present and in historical perspective in Ceylon within the general con-
text of South Asia. Present emphasis is on the collation of the results of
interviews with owners of tame elephants and with mahouts and the
initiation of a bibliographic search in connection with the historical
dimension of the study.

Under the direction of Eisenberg and Ripley, studies on the ecology
and behavior of the Ceylonese primates has continued. The ultimate
objective of this program is to determine the modes of exploitation of
the environment by the different species and races of primates by relat-
ing data on ecology, sociology, energy budget, and form and function to
relevant variations in the environment. In order to set up comparisons
based on habitat differences, some basic knowledge of climatic and
vegetational variations must be assumed, and in this connection, Dr.
Mueller-Dombois and his associates have provided valuable assistance.
With the results of their work on climate, vegetation, and soils in
Ruhunu National Park, it has been possible to launch comparative,
intraspecific studies now in progress on Perslytis entellus (common
langur) . Special problems have been raised since the early 1960s regard-
ing the population dynamics of this species in India, especially with
reference to habitat richness, population density, group size and com-
position, and the role of aggression in spacing. It is anticipated that
data from the Smithsonian project will prove to be helpful.

India

During the year, the Office has developed two research projects in
India, both based on reserves and both in collaboration with Indian
institutions.

The Gir Forest project is a comprehensive series of interdisciplinary
studies on the indigenous flora and fauna, the human inhabitants and
their livestock, and various associated environmental factors. The Gir
Forest is a surviving relic of an environment that formerly existed over
much of that part of the Indian subcontinent, and it offers unique op-
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 299

This field on Java Farm was previously a pasture, but was abandoned twenty-
five years ago. Such fields are undergoing rapid changes in plant and animal
composition and are a valuable research asset.

portunities for research. Following up earlier work there, Dr. Lee M.
Talbot visited the area in November 1968 and secured Indian institu-
tional approval and sponsorship for development of a research center
in the Gir and a research program based on it.

With Dr. Talbot serving as project coordinator, field activity during
the year has been conducted by Paul W. Joslin on the social behavior
of the Asiatic lion (Panthera leo persica), a species whose range
once extended through the Middle East and much of the Indian sub-
continent but today is found only in the Gir. Fewer than 175 of the ani-
mals are alive today, and the influence of cattle on the area is rapidly
decreasing the lion’s habitat. K. T. B. Hodd, a botanist, is conducting
vegetation studies designed to discover the causes of vegetation deteriora-
tion. Grazing intensity is being monitored and studied through the use
of enclosures and experimental control plots. These studies will produce
broad conclusions applicable to the management and conservation of
the area.

Professor Ramdeo Misra, head of the Department of Botany at
Benares Hindu University, one of the leading centers for plant ecology
in India, has visited the Smithsonian and other institutions in the United
300 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

States to discuss the possibilities for cooperative 1BP research projects
in his country. As a result of this visit a cooperative ecological research
program has been developed with Dr. Frank B. Golley, executive direc-
tor of the Institute of Ecology, University of Georgia. The project in-
volves study of the productivity and mineral cycling of deciduous forest,
grassland, and cropland in the Chakia District of India. In March 1969
on behalf of the Smithsonian, Dr. Golley visited the research area in
India for further planning for the project.

Following completion of his work on the Smithsonian Elephant Proj-
ect in Ceylon, Dr. Fred Kurt made a one-month research visit to India
to obtain comparative data on the elephants of Mysore Province.

Tunisia

Development has been continued of a long-term research program
involving a pre-Saharan ecological research station in southern Tunisia.
Desertization is a key environmental problem in this area, with a loss of
lands and of productivity for humans, a loss of flora, fauna and habitat,
and associated problems of use, management, and conservation of nat-
ural resources in general.

During the year, Dr. Talbot has made two visits to the area to complete
research plans with representatives of the Tunisian government, FAO,
UNEsCo, the French National Center for Scientific Research, and the
United Nations Development Fund (unpF). Approval of the plan has
been given by the Tunisian authorities and a request made to the UNDF.
Research has been started by French scientists, and, in April 1969, Dr.
Thomas Soderstrom made a survey trip, resulting in the development
of a plan for research on grasses.

East Africa

On behalf of the Office, Dr. Walter Leuthold has conducted a study
of the most suitable areas in East Africa for ecological and behavioral
studies of individual species of ungulates, particularly those on which
little or no ecological research has been conducted to date. Dr.
Leuthold’s final report was submitted in August 1968. Current infor-
mation is given on the game areas of Kenya, on research carried out in
the past, and on that which is at present under way. Summaries are in-
cluded of the programs of existing research institutions.
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 301
Morocco

Arrangements have been made for Dr. Wallace Ernst, associate
curator in the Department of Botany, and Dr. Robert Ornduff of the
University of California in Berkeley to visit Morocco to investigate the
possibilities for collaborative ecological research.

Pakistan

In November 1968 Dr. Talbot visited Pakistan to explore possibilities
for collaborative research and to identify personnel and procedures. A
research project has been developed on the ecology of the wild boar
(Sus scrofa cristatus) of West Pakistan, a species of ecological and
economic interest because of the damage it does to agricultural crops.
Dr. M. I. R. Khan, director of the Pakistan Forest Research Institute,
and Professor R. D. Tabor of the University of Washington will con-
duct the research.

Mekong Basin

One of the world’s largest river basin programs is being studied for
development in the four riparian countries of the lower Mekong Basin:
Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, and Vietnam. Nearly thirty countries and a
variety of international organizations are cooperating on a program that
eventually will involve a series of main river dams, plus more than twenty
tributary dams, with vast irrigation projects and power plants. To date
virtually all the feasibility studies and preconstruction research has
involved engineering and economics, to the exclusion of considerations
of sociological and ecological consequences. Under arrangements made
with the Southeast Asia Development Advisory Group (sEADAG),
Smithsonian ecologists Raymond Fosberg, David Challinor, and Lee
Talbot, assisted by Dr. Richard van Cleve of the University of Wash-
ington, made an ecological survey of selected areas of the Mekong
during the summer of 1969 to identify and plan the longer-term research
needed to predict the consequences of the dam construction and irriga-
tion projects. The survey will identify and develop a description of
needed research projects.

Indonesia

In response to a request from the National Academy of Sciences, the
Office has assisted United States ai and Indonesian authorities in the
302 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

development of plans for a Southeast Asian Regional Study Center for
Biological Research and Training (BIOTROPE) to be located in Indo-
nesia. The plan, approved by Southeast Asian authorities, calls for
initial projects involving ecological research on coral reefs, man-made
lakes, and tropical forests. It is in part an extension of prior research in
Indonesia carried out by Fosberg and Talbot.

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR FIELD BIOLOGY

Under the direction of Dr. Francis 8. L. Williamson, the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Field Biology (cBcrB) has accelerated its program and
progress in close cooperation with the Johns Hopkins University and the
University of Maryland. Some major administrative accomplishments
have been the restructuring of the Articles of Operation and their ratifi-
cation by the Scientific Advisory Committee. This document, together
with newly developed and appropriate forms for the use of facilities, a
fee schedule, and a format for research proposals, should aid in the
proper functioning of the Center. The Scientific Advisory Committee
has been enlarged by the addition of members from Duke, North
Carolina State, and Cornell universities. These members increase the
scientific scope of this important body, which is central to scientific pro-
gramming at the Center.

One of the objectives of the Center is to plan for the protection,
improvement, and establishment of sound practices in soil conservation
and land management of the Center and its watershed. In accordance
with this objective the Center has entered into a conservation agree-
ment with the Anne Arundel Soil Conservation District, and a lease
has been developed for the farming of its agricultural lands. To further
this objective, Dr. Williamson has become a member of the Anne
Arundel County Committee for the Maryland Environmental Trust,

and the Mayo Civic Association. Other land-management plans are in |

active progress.

The renovation of one level of the main laboratory and office build- —

ing has been completed, and the first two laboratory cubicles have been

constructed on the lower level. A detailed proposal for facilities —

developed has been prepared, and this document currently serves as
the guideline for continuing construction.

Research

The major emphasis of research at the Center has been in studies of

the adjacent estuary (Rhode River), terrestrial situations, diseases of —

y

OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 303

plants and animals, archeological findings, and the history of land use.

EsTUARINE STupIES. Measurements have been made of physical
parameters and of the populations of organisms occupying different
trophic levels in the estuary.

Dr. Charles H. Southwick of Johns Hopkins University has con-
tinued his monthly measurements of temperature, salinity, light pene-
tration, pH, conductivity, dissolved oxygen, and nutrients such as
ammonia-, nitrate-, and nitrite-nitrogen, polyphosphates, orthophos-
phates, and total phosphates. The results of these measurements have
revealed that while the Rhode River has been generally in a healthy
condition and had normal nutrient levels in July and August 1968, an
increase in ammonia nitrogen and phosphates occurred in September
1968. When compared with September 1968 samples taken in the Back
River estuary, one mile below the outfall of effluents from the Baltimore
sewage treatment plant, ammonia nitrogen level in the Rhode River
was higher: 1.3 ppm as opposed to 0.8 ppm. The fact that 2 ppm of
this nutrient may indicate a detrimental water quality condition points
to the need for studies of the land-water interface and of the movements
of materials of diverse sorts into the estuary. The principal contrasting
types of land-use—rural versus heavily urbanized—that characterize the
opposite shores of the estuary, encourage this important comparison.

The nutrients in the estuary support the lowest trophic level in that
ecosystem—the plankton—now under study by Drs. William D.
McElroy, Howard H. Seliger, and William G. Fastie of Johns Hopkins
University. An intensive, long-term investigation of primary production
began in late winter when sampling revealed very low levels of phyto-
plankton and only moderate levels of zooplankton. Studies of seasonal
succession are under way, together with bioluminescence, which was
first detected in June 1968. The night and day patterns of intensities of
bioluminescence may provide an index of primary productivity although,
due to faunal diversity, the system in this estuary is a very complex one.

_ Monitoring of fish populations has continued under the direction of
Dr. Southwick. Sampling at three Rhode River localities (Fox, Sellman,
and Muddy Creeks) has been done with nylon graded-mesh gill nets.
Netting in August and September 1968 revealed dense populations of
Alosa sapidissima, Pomatomous saltatrix, Leiostomus zanthurus, and
Fundulus species. The results of sampling at the Center are being com-
pared with those from other estuaries with adjacent land areas differ-
ently utilized and whose characteristics of water quality and plankton
biota may differ. These comparative areas include the highly eutrophic
Back River. Three studies of estuarine birds, the Osprey, the Whistling
Swan, and waterfowl populations are also under investigation.
304 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Dr. George E. Watson and Mr. Jan Reese of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution have completed a three-year study of the productivity of breeding

Ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) at Poplar Island, that portion of the Center |

in Talbot County, Maryland, on the eastern shore of the Chesapeake
Bay. This cosmopolitan species is dwindling in numbers, and, in North
America, has almost disappeared from some northern areas. Unsuccess-
ful reproduction and the encroachment by man upon the nesting areas

are factors influencing this decline. The Ospreys on Poplar Island, a |

part of one of the largest colonies along the east coast, have averaged —
thirty nests per year for three years. The birds prefer standing dead ©

trees for nest sites, but their availability has decreased due to loss by
shore erosion, and the birds have been forced to nest on lower sites.
Although other Osprey populations have reproductive rates too low for
normal annual recruitment, this colony is now producing about one
fledgling per active nest. This number is about three times the rate in
Connecticut, where few eggs now hatch. Pesticides, particularly chlori-
nated hydrocarbons such as ppt, are strongly indicated as the cause
of the general decline in breeding success; for example, Connecticut
birds have five to ten times more pesticide residues in their body tissues
than the Maryland birds. Eggs taken from Connecticut nests have pro-
duced few young when placed in Maryland nests although a reverse
switching has produced normal numbers of young in Connecticut.
Studies of the Whistling Swan (Olor columbianus) at the Center, on
the eastern shore of Chesapeake Bay, and on their northern breeding
grounds were begun in 1967 by Dr. William J. L. Sladen of Johns
Hopkins University and are continuing as a major project. Over half of
the North American population of these birds, in excess of 50,000, winter

in the bay, and annual counts indicate that their numbers are increasing. ©

The objectives of the study, local and long-distance movements, feeding
ecology, social behavior, and diseases are being achieved by observations
of both unmarked and conspicuously dyed birds, tracking of birds carry-
ing small transmitters, and autopsies of diseased birds (see below). The
results of this study include evidence of fidelity to precise wintering |
areas between years, the exact nature of local, premigratory movements,
and—through observations of color-marked birds in Pennsylvania, New
York, Wisconsin, North Dakota, Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and
on the breeding grounds in the Northwest Territories—the timing,
course, and altitude of long-distance flights. Thus, by utilizing the tech-
niques of conspicuous dyeing and biotelemetry, this swan is proving to |
be an ideal model for migratory studies of waterfowl. These studies
shed much light on the hazards posed by these birds to commercial |
aircraft and on their important role in the ecology of the local estuarine
ecosystem. |

OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 305

The cooperation of neighbors in permitting the Center to purchase
rights to shooting blinds along the shoreline of their respective properties
again has provided a twelve-mile sanctuary for wintering waterfowl. Mr.
John Moore of the Baltimore Zoological Society has conducted a band-
ing program on Fox Point and other localities, thus providing informa-
tion on composition of the wintering duck population: at Fox Point
approximately 300 Lesser Scaup (Aythya affinis), 16 Ruddy Ducks
(Oxyura jamaicensis), and 18 Canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria). Four
pairs of Ring-necked Ducks (Aytha collaris) have been collected for the
Baltimore Zoological Society collection, The Ruddy Duck is especially
abundant as is the Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), but the number of
Canvasbacks is down from those seen in previous years.

TERRESTRIAL StupIEs. Investigations in the land areas adjacent to
the estuary have centered around vertebrate populations, especially birds
and rodents, although studies of the flora are continuing.

New additions to the vascular flora of the Center have been made by
Mr. Daniel Higman, staff botanist, and collections have been begun on
the Star Company land (south of Java Farm). This interesting property
includes an extensive freshwater marsh containing a plant community
unlike any other at the Center. Collections from this marsh are being
studied. Ten additional vascular plants have been identified, bringing
the total for the Center to 568 species.

The Center, with its mosaic of vegetation types, is ideally suited for
the studies of avian populations being conducted by Dr. Williamson.
The goals are the gathering of data on species composition, density,
breeding biology, the spatial and temporal structuring of populations,
and their interrelationships. The initial study area of seventy-five acres,
located in mature deciduous woodland, contains four rows of eleven mist
nets each, spaced at 50-meter intervals. The rows are 100 meters apart.
The marking and releasing of over 500 breeding birds, combined with
censuses of singing males, has provided the basic data. Forty-two species
of birds have been recorded in the climax forest during the reproductive
season, and the numbers and distribution of breeding pairs have been
recorded. In addition to their intrinsic ecological interest, these results
provide baseline data of considerable value for long-term study of the
effects of varying patterns of land use in adjacent areas—including the
use of diverse chemicals—on the large avian populations that comprise
an important trophic level in the forest ecosystem, essentially that of
anthropod predators.

Studies of the foraging ecology of the most abundant and important
insectivorous bird at the Center, the Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceous),
have been completed by Mrs. Penny Williamson of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity. Observations of this species at the Patuxent Wildlife Research
306 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Center and the cscrs, have revealed a spatial dichotomy in the for- —
aging areas of the structurally similar sexes, with only about a 35 percent —
overlap. The males forage higher than the females, and particular, non- |
random sequences of movements are employed to maintain this separa- —
tion. Thus, the small territory (1.3-1.7 acres) of this extremely abun- —

dant species can be seen to actually consist of a cylinder extending from
the forest canopy to the low understory. One associated vireo (V. griseus)

is generally separated from V. olivaceous by habitat, and another, V. |

flavifrous, overlaps in habitat and behavior but possesses structural ©

differences indicating different prey preferences. Other foliage-gleaning
insectivorous birds occupying the same forests have been included in the
study, and have been found to possess their own particular foraging
ecology (niche exploitation patterns). This type of study is basic to an
understanding of the use of space by primary and secondary consumers
and the functioning of the forest ecosystem.

The studies of Dr. Southwick on population dynamics of the White-
footed Mouse (Peromyscus leucopus), ona 17-acre island in the estuary,
are now in the third year. Population size and age composition of this
population have proven unstable. The numbers declined markedly in
1967 but rose sharply in 1968. This long-term study of population fluctu-
ations of a small rodent, confined in areal space, is now complicated by
the recent discovery on the island of the House Mouse (Mus musculus)
and the Rice Rat (Oryzomys palustris) .

DisEase Stupies. The work of several investigators has been con-
cerned with the role of diseases in affecting the welfare of plant and
animal populations. Diseases of infinite variety, involving intricate host-
parasite relationships, are a significant part of the biology of virtually
every organism, and yet their function in the regulation of numbers,
through either proximate or ultimate effects, remains with few excep-
tions essentially unknown.

A long-term study of poxvirus disease in the Starling (Sturnus vul-
garis) at the Center and in nearby Pennsylvania has been completed,
at least in its broad aspects, by Dr. Williamson. In the field, data
gathered on the prevalence of the disease during three consecutive
epizootics have revealed that greater than 50 percent of the population —
(regardless of sex or age) may be infected at one time, coincident with —
the gathering of the birds into the communal roosts of winter. These
roosts are formed during that period of the year when environmental
conditions (snow, low temperature) are most unfavorable for the birds. |
It is believed that transmission occurs via direct contact between indi-
viduals and that the virus enters through injured skin surfaces or intact
mucosa. Indirect evidence of mortality under natural conditions has
been obtained. In birds experimentally inoculated intradermally there
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 307

is a incubation period of about seven days following which the disease
manifests itself by the production of caseous, proliferating lesions. The
appearance of the lesions is preceded by multiplication of the virus in
the liver, lungs, and spleen where there are associated histopathological
changes. This disseminating form of pathogenesis has not been previ-
ously described in poxvirus diseases of birds. The course of the disease
is three to five weeks. The disease kills some Starling under experimental
conditions and this fact, coupled with the indirect evidence of mortality
in those naturally infected, indicates the possible importance of this
infection in the welfare of Starling populations. Mr. C. John Ralph, a
predoctoral student, will continue experimentation with this disease.
A study of the incidence of blood parasites in birds of the deciduous
forest by Dr. Paul E. M. Fine, University of Pennsylvania, School of
Veterinary Medicine, has resulted in valuable baseline data for more
detailed investigations. Blood smears have been taken from 353 birds
(42 species), and 182 infections in 129 birds (36.5 percent) have been
disclosed. Eighteen infections are confirmed as Plasmodium, 64 are
either Haemaproteus or Plasmodium, 31 are Haemaproteus, 15 were
Leucocytozoon, 35 are Trypanosoma, and 19 are Lankesterella. Forty-
five of 60 Red-eyed Vireos (75 percent) have been infected with one or
more species of parasites, and multiple infections are common. Similarly,
29 of 39 Cardinals (Richmondena cardinalis), 74 percent, have been
infected. Subinoculation of 19 Canaries with blood from Red-eyed
Vireos have revealed that most of the questionable Plasmodium or
Haemaproteus infections in that bird are with the latter parasite. The
Cardinal had high levels of both Leucocytozoon and Haemaproteus.
Studies of the epizootiology of Haemaproteus in the Red-eyed Vireo,
a migrant, and Leucocytozoon in the Cardinal, a permanent resident,
have been begun, and point toward local transmission. The pathogenic-
ity of these parasites is difficult to assess, but it seems probable that they
may be of importance to the welfare of avian populations under par-
ticular conditions.
In conjunction with the work on the Whistling Swan, in Chesapeake
Bay, studies have been continued by Miss Barbara Holden and Dr.
Sladen on infections with the heart worm (Sarconema eurycerca) . This
parasite is common in the swans overwintering in the bay and is known
to be pathogenic and capable of causing mortality. It is suspected that
light infections may not be deleterious, but further study of the relation-
ship of infection to behavior, particularly to migration, is under way.
Miss Suzanne Bayley of Johns Hopkins University has continued her
research on the distribution, abundance, and diseases of Eurasian Mil-
foil (Myriophyllum spicatum) in several estuaries in the bay, including
Rhode River. This plant declined significantly (95 percent) between
308 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

1965 and 1967. The decline has been associated with Lake Venice and
northeast diseases, and the latter has been shown to be infectious and
transmissable in the laboratory. The inoculum, a filtrate free of bacteria,
indicates that the etiologic agent is a virus or virus-like particle. Further

studies are underway in an attempt to more clearly characterize this —

agent. In September of 1967 the plants again increased and flowered in
several areas of the bay, and these remnant populations may be disease-

resistant. Especially interesting is the recent data collected on the rapid |
reestablishment of native plants (especially Elodea canadensis, Pota-

mogeton pectinatus, P. perfoliatus, and Ruppia maritina). The abun-
dance and health of Myriophyllum spicatum may markedly affect the
functioning of entire estuarine ecosystems, and thus the significance of
this research cannot be underestimated.

ARCHEOLOGY. Field work at the Center on aboriginal culture has
been continued by Dr. Henry T. Wright of the University of Michigan.
The objectives remain those of providing information on the age, size,
and characteristics of the sites, in order to allow for explanation of pre-
historic cultural development in the middle Chesapeake Bay region.
An excavation at the site, “Smithsonian Pier West,” has revealed a large
shell heap that was occupied during the transition from the Middle to
Late Woodland periods, about a.p. 500 to 1000. Deer bones dominate
the animal remains, and fragments of pine, oak, and ash (not now
found together) have been recovered. Excavation of this and other
sites reveals that if we are to add substantially to knowledge concerning
seasons of occupation, proportions of tool types, or the contribution
of various foods to the diet, a sample of small excavation units from
each site will be necessary. Some 35 to 40 sites now have been located
on the lands comprising the Center, dating back to 500 B.c.

Lanpb-usE History. In any effort to understand the present nature,
distribution, and abundance of plant and animal communities at the
Center, the nature of the soils supporting them, the drainage patterns,
and the history of sedimentation with its associated estuarine changes, —
it is essential to have detailed information on the history of previous |
land use. This fact extends to prehistoric management of the land and ©
especially to that since the arrival of western man. Mr. Daniel Higman
of the Center staff has continued his studies in this area, and the data >

are now in manuscript form. Prior to human settlement, the Chesa- _

peake Bay area was covered by a heterogeneous hardwood forest whose _
structure and ecology have been tentatively reconstructed. The arrival of
settlers in the period 1649-1652 presaged a general devastation of the
plant and animal communities of the region. There followed three fairly .
well-defined periods with particular sequences of land use: the Exploi-
tation Period (1650-1775), the Reconstruction Period (1775-1850),
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 309

and Variegation Period (1850-present). The first of these was one of
uncontrolled change in the forest characterized by the establishment of
large plantations for the cultivation of tobacco. The soils were depleted
and severely eroded and virtually all presettlement forest was eventually
cleared.

In 1680 and 1704 the Virginia and Maryland Assemblies passed legis-
lation to control indiscriminate clearing and associated erosion and
silting, and the Maryland Assembly passed a further, similar law in
1735. The Revolutionary War and the end of the British tobacco trade
ended the Exploitation Period, at which time it seems reasonable to
assume that the presettlement forest and its associated fauna had been
almost totally destroyed in the bay area. The Reconstruction Period was
marked by a greater cultivation of grain crops for home markets (forced
at least in part by two wars, 1775 and 1812) and the transition from
large plantations to small, self-sufficient farms. This trend, with concur-
rent improvement in cultivation methods, soil conservation, and the
growing of varied crops, was interrupted by the Civil War and subse-
quent depression but has continued until the present day. There is now,
late in the Variegation Period, an increasing concern for proper land
use, and the plans for future use of the Center reflect this concern.

Education

The program of education at the Center has developed rapidly in three
major areas: the use of the cpcrs for teaching basic ecological principles
as a part of organized university courses, the training in ecology of
undergraduate and graduate students through specific research projects,
and a general interpretive program for various school groups and orga-
nizations concerned with the promotion of conservation of natural
Tesources.

OrcAnizeD University Courses. Three courses at the Johns Hop-
kins University have been in part conducted at the Center: Pathobiology
I, the Biology of Populations; Pathobiology 18, Field Studies in Ecol-
‘ogy and Behavior; and Biology 307, Advanced General Biology (essen-
tially ecology) . Similarly, the courses at the University of Maryland that
utilize the Center are: Zoology 182, General Ecology; Zoology 235,
Comparative Behavior; and Entomology 15. The Animal Ecology
course, Biological Science 143, at the George Washington University,
and the General Biology Course at St. John’s College have conducted
their field trips at the cpcrs. The Ornithology course, 1-151, at the
United States Department of Agriculture Graduate School also has
cused the Center.

310 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE STUDENTS. Graduate students
from Johns Hopkins University, including Mrs. Penny Williamson, Miss
Suzanne Bayley, Mr. David Ainley (feeding ecology of Whistling Swans) ,
and Mr. David Dyer (ecology of the Diamond-backed Terrapin) , have
conducted studies at the Center. The National Science Foundation,
through a cooperative program with the Smithsonian Institution, has |
supported the avian ecology work of Mr. Paul Fine of Oberlin College, |
Miss Mary Faegin of Duke University, and Mr. William Wiggin of |
Colorado State University. Mr. William Zimmerman (artist) has pro- |
vided his own support for work at the Center on his portfolio of paint-_
ings of North American waterfowl. The Department of Vertebrate ©
Zoology has provided support for the training of Mr. Sherif Terwik
(Egypt) in the techniques of mist-netting birds and in the collection
of ectoparasites and blood samples. This training has been done in
cooperation with the Palearctic Migratory Bird Survey.

THE INTERPRETIVE PRocRAM. Interpretive services have been pro-_
vided for the Maryland Ornithological Society, the Smithsonian Asso- |
ciates, The Delaware Natural History Society, the Research Division of
the National Fisheries Center, and the Senior Science Seminar students)
from Yorktown High School, Arlington, Virginia. Lectures on the ecol-
ogy of the Center, its programs and plans, have been given to the Mayo.
Civic Association, the Phi Sigma Society at the University of Maryland,
and to the Ad Hoc Committee for review of Smithsonian programs in
ecology. Additionally, a brochure on the Center has been prepared for
general distribution and should be of great assistance in making the
Center better known around the country.

Gifts and Grants

Two generous grants from the Old Dominion Foundation and the
Scaife Family of Pittsburgh have been made to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion for land acquisition at the Center. The McCollum-Pratt Institute
at Johns Hopkins University has made funds available to assist in
the development of research facilities.

Staff Publications and Papers

BayLey, SUZANNE, Harvey Rapin and CHartes H. Soutruwick. “Recent De-
cline in the Distribution and Abundance of Eurasian Milfoil in Chesapeake
Bay.” Chesapeake Science (1968), volume 9, number 3, pages 173-181.

Burcuner, Hetmur K. “Herbicidal Control of Vegetation.” Enciclopedia
Della Scienza e Della Tecnica Mondadori (1969), pages 86—90.
OFFICE OF ECOLOGY 311

Buecuner, Hetmut K., and Franx B. Gottey, editors. IBP Handbook No. 7:
a Practical Guide to the Study of the Productivity of Large Herbivores. viii +
308 pages. Oxford and Edinburgh: International Biological Programme, Black-
well Scientific Publications, 1968.

Hoven, Barsara L., and Wiiuiam J. L. Stapen. “Heart Worms, Sarconema
eurycerca, Infection in Whistling Swans, Cygnus columbianus, in Chesapeake
Bay.” Bulletin Wildlife Disease Association (1968), volume 4, pages 126-128.

Tatzot, Lez M. “Ecological Consequences of Development of Masailand.” 33
pages. Conference on the Ecological Aspects of International Development,
The Conservation Foundation, Airlie House, Warrenton, Virginia, Decem-
ber 1968.

. “The Wildlife Society and the 1ucn.” The Wildlife Society News (1968),

volume 115, page 10.

. “Major Factors Affecting Parks in Southeast Asia.” 12 pages. Con-

ference on Development and Conservation of the Countryside, University of

Hong Kong, March 1969.

. “An International View of the Role of Wildlife in the Biology and Con-

cept of Wilderness.’ 7 pages. Eleventh Biennial Wilderness Conference, San

Francisco, March 1969.

. “The Wail of Kashmir: Man’s Impact on the Land.” Pages 50-51 in

Garrett Hardin, editor, Population, Evolution and Birth Control. San Fran-

cisco: Freeman and Co., 1969.

. “Ecological Implications of Pa Mong Project and the Lessons of Tropical

Reservoirs.”’ 8 pages. Southeast Asia Development Advisory Group, New York

City, May 1969.

. “Highlights of Conservation in the International Program in the Asia

Pacific Region.” 7 pages. Inter-Congress Conference of the Pacific Science

Association, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, May 1969.

. “The Role of Multi-Resource Inventories and Resource Capability
Planning in International Development.” Pages 51-57 in Resources Inven-
tories for Economic Development. Washington, D.C.: Association of American
Geographers, Mid-Atlantic Division, January 1969.

Tatsot, Lez M., and Martua H. Tarsor. “Southeast Asia Project-Parks and
Wildlife Survey.” Pages 162-163 in F. Vollmar, editor, The Ark Under Way.
Morges, Switzerland: The World Wildlife Fund, 1968.

Set ab sheer a aig oe
AS ial! erie? pees pitpisi za
Me Pipeline ak by kl al , eee

as We es FTV. weve Sy coce of
eT pied jet We
Cas) om Liye -f

9 y were naa sths: - oat,

“- t \—w ‘ ap oe

s . G K ft aft " . ff we 4
Lin cy “he AD "? [ifser M a oN

te 2 ueyu aims 3 a) }® oAiner cer
wh ‘ . Aer 'rriry .. 70 a $2

ot) aie Mae A AVS oe

are wD 1s Seren pews

ea : 4¢ f % ; Nia | *
a i J
fj wat, THA het:

” ai Logke Pts

“> > i r
5 by
5 ¥ ey lt .
L
pd 5 en? <<.
Lx -
s Zi. ; oe
t Z 2
arm ‘
j AG rt a |
rd
7?
a1 4s
« bon ale ~~
Center for the Study of Man

Sot Tax, Acting Director

N 5 JUNE 1968, SECRETARY RIPLEY announced the establishment,
O effective 1 July 1968, of the Center for the Study of Man in the
Smithsonian Institution. From its inception, the Center has been re-
sponsible for most of the cooperative research and information programs
formerly administered by the former Office of Anthropology. This re-
sponsibility is part of its broader mission, namely, to coordinate and
carry out programs involving research, education, and service to facili-
tate the study of man on a worldwide scale.

On 13 May 1969, the Center completed a three-day meeting at the
Smithsonian Institution. This was the first formal gathering to which all
the center members were invited. The meeting was significant for a
number of reasons. First, the membership confirmed its establishment
as an international body to coordinate a worldwide development of the
human sciences as they impinge upon species-wide social problems of
mankind.

Second, the membership agreed that it was particularly appropriate
for the Center to be located in the Smithsonian Institution, whose long
tradition of international, nongovernmental research assures the freedom
and independence of such a worldwide scholarly enterprise.

Third, the membership recommended the establishment of an ap-
propriate building in Washington to house the Center, with facilities
both for research and for museum functions, the two under a single direc-
tor. This proposed “Museum of Man” would be devoted exclusively to
the sciences of man, as they deal with all cultures and peoples from the
earliest times to the present.

Finally, the membership discussed present and future programs of
the Center and agreed to develop for their next meeting a seminar to
explore the past, present, and potential relevance of anthropological
knowledge to major problems which beset mankind.

Throughout the past year, the Center has continued to be responsible
for a number of programs. It also has developed some new ones.

Work on a new, revised handbook or encyclopedia of North American
Indian history and cultures has continued in the planning stage—for

366-269 O—70——21 313
314 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

EMT WHITE
ed Te :

POOR

2 ne,

BA

Hunting and Fishing Rights session, American Anthropological Association
annual meeting, November 1968, in Seattle, Washington.

Center for the Study of Man Program Coordinator, Samuel Stanley (bottom
right), representing the Smithsonian Urgent Anthropology Program at a
Conference on Urgent Research in Social Anthropology at the Indian Institute
of Advanced Study in Simla, India, July 1968.

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN 315

example, several specialists have been consulted by editor Sturtevant on
mapping of the areal subdivisions of the continent suitable for organiz-
ing the encyclopedia’s contents. In November 1968, Tax and Stanley
organized the special session on Indian hunting and fishing rights for
the annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association in
Seattle, where a panel of experts—economists, lawyers, anthropologists,
and conservationists—discussed the specific problems of fishing rights in
the Pacific Northwest. A number of Indians participated in the session
and materials were developed that can be incorporated into one of the
volumes of the encyclopedia.

The Center has continued its coordination of urgent anthropology
through its support of communication and research. The program for
supporting field studies of scientifically important peoples, on an urgent
basis, has operated throughout the year. Nine grants have been made
covering research in seven countries. In July 1968, Stanley was invited
by the Indian Institute for Advanced Study to attend a week-long con-
ference at Simla. In September 1968, Tax, Reining, and Sturtevant
attended a conference in Tokyo during the VIIIth International
Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences. Questions of
determining policy for international research were discussed at length.
A summary of both conferences was reported by Reining for Current
Anthropology.

During the past year a current bibliography of all anthropological
publications has been developing as a responsibility of Laughlin. This
program has begun to produce bimonthly lists of journal contents and
current books. As the procedures become more established and routin-
ized, the program will be computerized.

A computerized directory of anthropologists and anthropological in-
stitutions is immediately planned. Experience in preparing this directory
will be useful in a feasibility study of electronic data processing for a more
comprehensive directory and bibliography. The development of this
program will lead to rapid increases in the rate and quantity of informa-
tion exchange in the human sciences.

Center for the Study of Man
Members
Dr. Fredrik Barth Dr. Henry B. Collins
Institute of Social Anthropology Department of Anthropology
Christiesgate 15 Smithsonian Institution

Bergen, Norway Washington, D.C. 20560
316

Dr. John C. Ewers
Department of Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D.C. 20560

Dr. Gordon D. Gibson
Department of Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D.C. 20560

Dr. Dell H. Hymes

Department of Anthropology
University of Pennsylvania
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104

Dr. Robert M. Laughlin
Department of Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D.C. 20560

Dr. Claude Lévi-Strauss

Laboratoire d’Anthropologie Sociale
11, place Marcelin-berthelot

Paris 5, France

Dr. Chie Nakane

Institute of Oriental Culture
University of Tokyo
Bunkyo-ku

Tokyo, Japan

Dr. J. R. Napier

Unit of Primate Biology
Smithsonian Institution
Queen Elizabeth College
Campden Hill Road
London W.8 England

Dr. Douglas W. Schwartz
School for American Research
Post Office Box 1554

Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501

Staff Publications and Papers

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Dr. Surajit C. Sinha

Indian Institute of Advanced Study
Rashtrapati Nivas

Simla 5, India

Dr. M.N. Srinivas
Department of Sociology
University of Delhi
Delhi 7, India

Department of Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution

Dr. T. Dale Stewart
|
Washington, D.C. 20560 |

Dr. George W. Stocking, Jr.
Department of History
University of Chicago
Chicago, Illinois 60637

Dr. William C. Sturtevant
Department of Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D.C. 20560

Dr. Sherwood L. Washburn
Department of Anthropology
University of California
Berkeley, California 94720

Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn
Department of American Studies
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D.C. 20560

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel
Department of Anthropology
Smithsonian Institution
Washington, D.C. 20560

Retninc, Priscitza. “Social Factors Influencing Food Production in an East
African Peasant Society.” In Peter McLoughlin, editor, Food Production in
Africa. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1969.

STANLEY, Sam. “Why American Folklife Studies?” Page 12 in 1968 Festival of
American Folklife. Washington: Smithsonian Institution, 1968.

. “Smithsonian Urgent Anthropology Program.’ Conference on Urgent

Research in Social Anthropology at the Indian Institute of Advanced Study,

Simla, India. July 1968.
CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN 317

. “The Smithsonian Institution’s Role in Folk Life Studies.” American

Folklore Society, Bloomington, Indiana. November 1968.

, co-organizer (with Sol Tax). “Experimental Session: American Indian

Hunting and Fishing Rights.” 67th Annual Meeting American Anthro-

pological Association, Seattle, Washington. November 1968.

. “Mankind: An Anthropological Perspective.” Conference on Oppor-
tunities for Intercultural Education, Washington, D.C., March 1969.

STANLEY, SAM, and WituiAm C. SturTEVANT. “Indian Communities in the
Eastern United States.” Indian Historian (June 1968), volume 1, number 3,
pages 15-19.

Tax, Sov. “Anthropologists: Are They Modern Medicine Man?” Chapter
(pages 3-16) in Anthropological Backgrounds of Adult Education. Boston:
Center for the Study of Liberal Education for Adults at Boston University,
1968.

. “Amerindian.” In European edition, Encyclopaedia Brittannica, 1968.

, editor. The Draft: A Handbook of Facts and Alternatives. 497 pages.

Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1967 [also in paperback and

national debate edition].

, editor, The People vs. The System, A Dialogue in Urban Conflict. 515

pages. Chicago: Acme Press, 1968.

. “Self and Society.” In Claremont Reading Conference, Thirty-Second

Yearbook, Malcolm P. Douglass, editor. Claremont: Claremont University

Center, 1968.

. “Society, The Individual and National Service.” Current History (Au-

gust 1968), pages 78-83, 109.

. Chairman, “Urgent Anthropology Session.” 9th International Congress

of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences, Tokyo, Japan. September 1968.

. Chairman, “Experimental Session: American Indian Hunting and Fish-

ing Rights.” 67th Annual Meeting American Anthropological Association,

Seattle, Washington. November 1968.

. “American Indians.” Luther College, Decorah, Iowa. March 1969.

. Chairman, “Problems of Research Across National Boundaries.’ Society

for Applied Anthropology, Mexico City, Mexico. April 1969.

. “Gan Man Invent His Future?” Action People series produced by the

Stone-Brandel Center in cooperation with wrtrw (Channel 11) Chicago.

18 February 1969.

. “The University of Chicago Round Table. wrrw (Channel 11) Chicago.

31 March 1969.

. “Perspectives.”” Two programs on American Indians syndicated by the

American Broadcasting Company. April 1969.

P21 ped Penta

(gan? Nyko  svuaxvrst ish
= wit "ity pele CU eatin WM
say ny Nhe Big Ce ri ae Oe oe det
te has es * tii ay a sort) waives ls
Ware dlhd ‘yi - ten itintely weadbudé ra iis
rg anh spviitirtaeb ih i Mee? Vo Sig hia nd
a ee Pe a eA a ee Le
: War {opts a.

| owe, be ee at roowperetee is

Sih RS Coy iar ee eas. shai. in Masten sy
i Nyatha coq He TAC, ward, oi apr
“tate ie

7 ee espe fad ole
bt Veo | ws “a

ot al
lida ds. Oe ; ; (ie “spate cae
ive “4 5
a >

“Ait uae =f

y) ing sdiceit
ra TRO ot wh
uth By

, oe et _—

mi li

mm.
ipa san vaury edd

a! ae
img *'* Paes
4) be ; : “+P L qucteten : i E

(jee ¥ ; yg ing Aste .

~ \Y eh
Center for the Study of Short-Lived

Phenomena

Rosert Citron, Director

URING THE YEAR, THE CENTER has investigated 127 geological,
D astrophysical, and biological events, including 21 major earth-
quakes, 18 volcanic eruptions (one involving the birth and disappearance
of an island), 21 fireballs, 11 major oil spills, 9 fish kills, 4 rare-animal
migrations, 3 freshly fallen meteorite recoveries, the discovery of a stone-
axe tribe, and 3 archeological events urgently requiring investigation.

Field investigators have traveled to 74 of the 127 events. Of the in-
vestigations, 68 were local or regional and included participation by
other agencies, institutions, or foreign governments; 6 were Smithsonian-
sponsored reconnaissance missions or field expeditions that together
involved eighteen scientists from five countries and eight institutions.

Center participation in these events has included professional con-
tacts in the event areas, obtaining information on the events, interview-
ing reliable witnesses, collecting photographic and cinematographic
documentation, and issuing written materials to correspondents of the
Center around the world.

The Center has assisted in the coordination of activities for recon-
naissance missions and scientific field expeditions to the Fernandina
Caldera collapse, Galapagos Islands; the Mt. Arenal volcanic eruption,
Costa Rica; the Cerro Negro volcanic eruption, Nicaragua; the Appa-
lachian squirrel migration in the eastern United States; the Mt. Merapi
volcanic eruption, Indonesia; and the Pueblito de Allende meteorite
shower in Mexico.

The Center-has obtained photographic and cinematographic docu-
mentation and sample specimens on a number of occasions. Center or
Smithsonian archives now contain over 10,000 feet of color motion
picture film on five volcanic eruptions and the Appalachian squirrel
migration, 3,500 color and black-and-white photographs obtained on
seven field expeditions and reconnaissance missions, more than 2,000

319
320 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Chinandega footprints, Chinandega, Nicaragua, discovered October 1968.
Footprints made by prehistoric man, covered with volcanic ash and sub-
sequently exposed by erosion. (Photo courtesy Professor Gladys Quant,
Department of Biology, National University of Nicaragua.)

high-resolution aerial photographs of the Mt. Mayon volcanic-eruption
activity taken during a six-week period by the United States Air Force,
color motion picture and aerial photographs taken during the eight-
week period of Cerro Negro volcanic activity, a number of stereo aerial
photographs of volcanic eruptions, and specimens of eruption products,
lava, bombs, ash, and—in some instances—biological specimens from
most of the major volcanic eruptions of the year.

During the Apollo 10 Manned Lunar Mission, the Center arranged
communications between 187 astronomical observers in thirty-one coun-
tries and maintained daily contact with the Manned Spacecraft Center,
NASA, at Houston, Texas. Reports from ground-based observers were
relayed to the msc for transmittal to the astronauts en route to and
orbiting the moon; this mission provided an opportunity for astronauts
to confirm (by observation and photography) ground-based observations
of transient lunar events.

The Center has established an effective global reporting network of
over 2,000 correspondents in many disciplines and from 118 countries.
Correspondents are individual scientists, scientific institutions, and field
stations that cooperate with the Center by reporting events, obtaining
Cerro Negro volcanic eruption, Nicaragua, 14 November 1968. (Photo courtesy
Professor Robert Decker, Dartmouth College, New Hampshire.)

322 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Ocean Eagle oil spill, San Juan, Puerto Rico, 3 March 1968. Effect of oil
on marine life. A team of marine biologists from the Department of Marine
Sciences, University of Puerto Rico, studied the effects of the oil and detergents,
used to emulsify the oil, on the marine flora and fauna. (Photo courtesy
Dr. Cirame Vivas, Department of Marine Sciences, University of Puerto Rico.)

follow-up information about events that occur in their areas, traveling
to events occurring in their areas to make up-to-date reports to the

Center, and occasionally providing assistance to research teams. They
also receive Center reports on short-lived events of interest to them.
The Center has issued 127 event notification reports, 764 event in- |
formation reports, 16 final event publications, and 11 preprints of |
scientific papers on the preliminary results of field investigations.
The Center now participates in an average of one new event every |
two and a half days and currently issues event notification and informa- |
tion report cards at a rate exceeding 45,000 per month to interested

scientists around the world.
HISTORY AND ART

CHARLES BLITZER

Assistant Secretary
Ray:
ae 7
ta ee
i in .
Tari
co
Vy

ur
ant
ui]
sy |
#4)
’
:
‘
. ‘
'
'
‘

t on?
ry CO

National Museum of History and Technology

Rosert P. MuttuHaur, Director

OR OVER A DECADE THIS MUSEUM has been concerned with the
F solution of a somewhat unusual problem—preservation of the
material record of a science that is essentially new but developing with
such a rapidity that it forces the historian to accelerate his deliberation.
The material record of technological innovation in the steam engine
and the electric telegraph can be assembled in leisurely fashion, This
is clearly not the case with the record of scientific and technical devel-
opment in nuclear energy. In the following section, the Museum pro-
gram for collection in this field is described by its initiator, Dr. Philip
Bishop.

THE NUCLEAR ENERGY COLLECTIONS

In 1942, a group of scientists led by Enrico Fermi brought together
in a squash court almost a century of probing into the structure of
matter. Their success with Chicago Pile No. 1 opened a new era in
research. The crash program called Manhattan, which produced the
bombs that fell on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, yielded a more peaceful
fallout at the end of World War II when the great emergency labora-
tories began the transition to pure research and to the study of ways
in which to apply the newfound knowledge to peaceful uses. As the
wartime teams broke up, some members returned to their universities
to pursue research in some specialized aspect of the subject, others went
to industrial firms to concentrate on the design of more complicated
equipment for themselves and other researchers, and yet others re-
mained with the government-supported laboratories—all of these

325
326 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

An aerial view of the National Museum of History and Technology featuring
the new Constitution Avenue fountain and the Calder stabile. (Photo by Henry
Alexander and Richard Hofmeister.)

specialists experimenting, synthesizing, and probing ever deeper into the
new mysteries.

Nuclear physics became part of the everyday life of America. When
the wartime story could be revealed, the public was assailed by a new
vocabulary that rapidly passed into the vernacular of the daily news-
paper and weekly magazine. New words were coined daily to cover the
findings of the scientists, who themselves kept going deeper and deeper
into their specialized fields until soon they, like the public, were losing
any knowledge they might have had about the sources from which the
new knowledge had been derived.

In 1956, the Museum accepted the challenge of collecting the artifacts
and recording the history of this exciting revolution in science in a period
when many of the barriers between chemistry and physics as separate dis-
ciplines had been broken down and when specialized laboratories were
preoccupied with particles of matter that had no mass but that literally
could pass through the earth. The task facing the Museum became one
of discrimination, to find memorabilia of those fundamental experiments
that represented the turning points in the development of nuclear
science.

The Museum was fortunate in securing as consultant, the nuclear
physicist Dr. Clyde R. Cowan, Jr., of the Catholic University of
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 327

America. Co-discoverer of the neutrino, he is a highly specialized re-
search scientist with unusually broad experience in both physics and
chemistry. Collaboration between scientist and curator, pursuing a kind
of Socratic dialogue, resulted in a model for a collecting program that
would establish a coherent, if simplified, account of the origins of the
search for means to harness the power of the nucleus. This model has
proved to be remarkably effective and, aided by considerable good for-
tune, the Museum has been able to prevent laboratories from can-
nibalizing classic equipment that had been responsible for many
great discoveries.

Most of the early work that was to lay the foundations for nuclear
physics took place in Europe, especially at the Cavendish Laboratory of
Cambridge University and at the Sorbonne in Paris, where the original
pioneering equipment is preserved. Geissler’s vacuum tube (1855) and
Crooke’s improvement on it (1875) provided the apparatus that made
possible the subsequent work of Thomson, Rutherford, and others,
culminating in the last decade of the 19th century in the series of
climactic discoveries mentioned below. Since much of the apparatus
used in these experiments fortunately has been preserved in European
museums, it has been possible for this Museum to obtain precise replicas.

The first fruit of the vacuum tube was the discovery of x-rays by
Roentgen in 1895. A tube made by Roentgen is in the Museum’s col-

Given to the Smithsonian Institution by The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation, this forty-foot jet-black stabile by Alexander Calder has been
erected in a reflecting pool on the west terrace of the National Museum of
History and Technology at 14th Street. (Photo by Henry Alexander ana
Richard Hofmeister. )

328 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

With its delightfully intricate spray patterns, this latest example in fountain
technology is an exciting visual experience at the north entrance of the
Museum. (Photo by Henry Alexander and Richard Hofmeister.)

lection, as is another, made in the United States almost immediately
after the publication of Roentgen’s work. The latter, produced at the
Catholic University of America, was demonstrated for William Howard
Taft (then the United States circuit court judge for the sixth district) ,
who was able to see the bones of his hands. A group of discoveries, all
of them of fundamental purpose and, like x-rays, the result of experi-
ments with the vacuum tube, was made around the turn of the century
by J. J. Thomson and Ernest Rutherford at Cambridge, at the same
time that Becqueral and, soon after, the Curies were identifying the
phenomenon of radioactivity at the Sorbonne. The Cavendish Labo-
ratory made for the Museum a replica of Thomson’s experiment in
which he distinguished the electron as a particle and established the rela-
tion between the charge on the electron to its mass. Another replica
from the same source is of the tiny brass chamber with which Ernest
Rutherford studied alpha particles and—from their behavior when they
struck gold foil—evolved the concept of the nucleus. Later he was to
observe in the same chamber the first nuclear transformation when alpha
particles penetrated the nucleus of nitrogen, reacted with it, and trans-
muted it to oxygen and a fast proton.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 329

These fundamental experiments led to Chadwick’s discovery in 1932
of the neutron, the first step to the realization in 1939 that the nucleus
of uranium could be split into two more or less equal parts by exposing
it to neutrons. This later discovery by Meitner and Frisch was confirmed
by Mme Juliot-Curie in Paris and in the independent work of Bohr
and Fermi at Columbia University. It was the technique of slowing
down neutrons in nitrogenous matter evolved by Fermi in 1934 that
contributed significantly to these experiments, This work is represented
by a radon beryllium source presented to the Museum by Fermi’s asso-
ciate Emilio Segré, then at the University of Rome.

Meanwhile, the men experimenting with the bombardment of the
nucleus needed to find particles with higher energy than that observed
in the alpha particles emitted by naturally radioactive elements. The
Museum has collected a replica of the cloud chamber developed by
C. T. R. Wilson that from 1894 permitted scientists to measure the
charges on atomic particles and to observe collisions with atomic nuclei.

Cockcroft and Walton at Cambridge devised a voltage multiplier to
accelerate protons (ionized hydrogen atoms), and by 1932 they had
achieved the first nuclear reaction brought about by artificially accel-
erated particles and without any form of natural radioactivity. The
Museum has a replica of this apparatus from the orginal in the Science
Museum in London as well as the original Van de Graaff electrostatic
accelerator built in 1932 by M. A. Tuve at the Carnegie Institution of
Washington. This machine, the first to attain one million volts, followed
quickly after Van de Graaff’s table-top demonstration of the principle
at Princeton. Tuve’s accelerator was used later to measure the forces
that bind nuclei together.

These voltage accelerators had their limitations, and it was the work
of the team headed by E. O. Lawrence and M. Stanley Livingston at
Berkeley, California, that was to give the nuclear physicist even better
tools with which to bombard the nucleus. The Lawrence Radiation
Laboratory and the Museum are collaborating in the construction of a
replica of the first cyclotron (1931). The “Ds” from the 27-inch model
(1933) have been collected by the Museum as well as the torpedo and
“Ds” of the cyclotron built by Dunning at Columbia University, repre-
sentative of a series of big machines built in the early 1940s by American
universities. The problem of accelerating electrons that are much lighter
than protons was met by Donald W. Kerst’s betatron of 1940, which is
now in the Museum.

The linear accelerator developed from the work of Wideroé (1928)
was also the subject of experiments in the 1930s, but it was not to reach
its major development until after World War II. One of these accel-
erators, constructed by Luis Alvarez and his associates at the Radiation

366-269 O—70——22
330 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Albert Einstein, bronze, Robert
Berks. (Gift of Mrs. Leo Pollak
in 1954.)

Installation of the Tuve Van
De Graaff electrostatic generator
in the National Museum of
History and Technology.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 331

Synchrocyclotron (1946) built by E. M. McMillan at Berkeley. View of the
vacuum chamber (“Ds”) with upper coil removed. The Museum has retained
only token sections of the 4300-ton magnet, parts of which are seen in the
photograph.

Linear accelerator (1947) built by L. W. Alvarez at Berkeley to produce high-
energy protons. The Museum has preserved two 7-foot sections of the vacuum
chamber and related equipment.

332 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

One 60-millionth of an ounce
of plutonium 239 with its dis-
coverers, Glenn T. Seaborg and
Emilio Segré. The sample, on
the disc at Dr. Seaborg’s finger
tip, is in the original cigar box
in which it was placed after the
discovery in 1940.

Laboratory of the University of California, has been preserved in part
in the Museum. Another (complete except for some parts of the giant
magnets), built at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory of the Univer-
sity of California by Edwin M. McMillan (1945-1948), is the syn-
chrocyclotron used in the discovery of the neutral pi-meson, the first of
many new particles produced in these large machines.

The most spectacular result of the use of the high-energy accelerators
was the discovery of radioactive elements with extremely short half-
lives. The first of these, neptunium, was produced by McMillan and
Abelson in 1940 at Berkeley by bombarding uranium with neutrons
produced in a cyclotron. The second, plutonium 238, was found in 1940
by deuteron bombardment of uranium in the Berkeley 60-inch cyclo-
tron. Its heavier isotope, plutonium 239, was found soon after. Its dis-
coverers Glenn T. Seaborg and Emilio Segré have deposited with the
Museum a sample of plutonium 239 weighing about one 60-millionth
of an ounce. The sample, an invisible smear on a disc of platinum, rests
in the original cigar box in which it was stored after the conclusion of
the experiment. One of the balances used in measuring this infinitesimal
quantity also is reserved for the Museum.

The Seaborg-Segré experiment had as its direct consequence the deci-
sion to construct at the University of Chicago the first nuclear reactor.
Fermi’s work was the climax of a great number of experiments. As early
as 1934 Fermi had produced nuclear reactions in many elements with
nuclear bombardment, and in 1939 Meitner and Frisch in Germany,
Mme Joliot-Curie in France, and Fermi and Bohr at Columbia Uni-
versity observed fission of the uranium nucleus with the release of energy.
Malcolm Henderson’s apparatus with which he measured this energy
in 1940 is, in effect, the forerunner of the great nuclear power plants of
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 333

today and fortunately was preserved at the Catholic University of
America and has been given to the Museum.

Fermi had worked out his theory of the method to achieve a sus-
tained nuclear reaction by mathematical means and, later, by experi-
ments involving the stacking of large numbers of uranium blocks in
which his team had placed lumps of uranium metal and uranium
oxide. A number of these subcritical piles had been made before that
final experiment under the bleachers of Stagg Field at the University
of Chicago. Layer after layer of graphite was stacked, with the uranium
arranged to form a lattice. As the pile grew, measurements of neutron
flux were made showing that criticality (the point at which the fission
chain would grow instead of die out) was being approached. Calcula-
tions showed that when the fifty-sixth layer was reached the great mo-
ment would be imminent. On 2 December 1942 the first controlled
chain reaction began.

The graphite used by Fermi was used again and again when Chicago
Pile No. 1 was dismantled, and eventually it was brought to the Mu-
seum, where the pile has been re-erected insofar as surviving nonradio-
active components permit. A sample of the original fuel, Fermi’s
neutron chopper, and the pile-oscillator used in subsequent experi-
ments have also been added to the collections.

Fermi’s Chicago Pile No. 1. The first nuclear reactor (1940), re-erected by
the Museum. The small model at left represents the scene on 2 December 1942
when the reactor first went critical.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 335

The search after World War II for ways in which to apply wartime
discoveries to peaceful uses has resulted in a whole range of nuclear
reactors. Their size obviously has prevented the collection of any of the
early experiments in this direction, but two interesting items have been
found that represent their wide scope.

In 1955, the Atomic Energy Commission lent two tons of uranium
and two grams of radium beryllium to New York University to enable
engineering students to experiment with nuclear reactions below the
level of a full chain reaction. This subcritical reactor was assembled in
a $25 pickle or olive barrel and was used until the early 1960s when
the whole assembly was given to the Museum. At the other end of the
scale were the experiments carried out at Los Alamos and elsewhere
with the object of developing a reactor small enough to be a power
source in a space vehicle. A replica of one product of Project Rover at
Los Alamos, Kiwi A, was made by the laboratory for the Museum. The
name, derived from the New Zealand flightless bird, was given because
at this stage of development the reactor was tested on the ground on a
special railroad track.

Most reactors are built with heavy shielding to protect nearby work-
ers from radiation. A “naked” reactor, called obviously Godiva, was
developed at Los Alamos so that observations could be made of the
effects of nuclear bursts on materials and equipment. After a thousand
such tests in the Pajarito canyon near Los Alamos, New Mexico, Godiva
was deliberately destroyed, but the laboratory has made a replica for
the Museum. The duplicate differs from the original in the one impor-
tant respect that the fuel used is uranium 238 instead of uranium 235,
thus making it safe for public demonstrations.

Scientists are searching for an alternative source of energy to be found
in the fusion of the nuclei of the isotopes of hydrogen, deuterium, and
tritium. If and when it becomes possible to achieve and sustain by elec-
trical means the extremely high temperatures generated in a nuclear-
fission explosion, an inexhaustible source of energy will be obtainable
from the deuterium in the waters of the ocean. The demonstration
device used in early experiments by Lyman Spitzer at Princeton, called
the Stellarator, has been given to the Museum. One of the latest experi-
ments at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory also has been preserved.
In this experiment, called Scylla, the first authenticated thermonuclear

Pile oscillator used in early fission reactors for ascertaining the absorptive
power of various nuclei for neutrons (neutron cross section). Developed at
Argonne National Laboratory by Alexander Langsdorf (1945).
Kiwi A (1965), cutaway rep-
lica showing fuel elements of
experimental nuclear engine for
space vehicles. A product of
project “Rover” of Los Alamos
Scientific Laboratory. This was
the first of a series of test de-
signs. Its operating power was
70 megawatts.

reaction took place, culminating the work of James Tuck and his
associates.

Finally, the Museum has been interested in collecting original equip-
ment associated with the application of isotopes to the service of man.
The most interesting example was found, on the eve of its dismember-
ment, in the original equipment used by W. F. Libby to prove the pos-
sibility of dating natural material by reference to the content of the
carbon 14 isotopes.

RESEARCH
Cultural History

Under contract, Carroll Greene, Jr., has undertaken and largely
completed a study of existing exhibitions relating to Afro-American his-
tory and of materials still extant for the preservation of a record of
Negro history in the United States. Richard Ahlborn continued his study
of Spanish-American culture, on which he published a monograph,
“The Penitente Moradas of Abiquiu,” last year. He is presently studying
the religious art of San Xavier del Bac (circa 1783), near Tucson, Ari-
zona. J. Scott Odell is engaged in a program of interviews and record-
ings of folk musicians in the area of Galax, Virginia.

For some years Edgar Howell, with the assistance of Donald Kloster,
has been engaged in a history and catalog of the dress of the United
States Army, of which our collection is the most comprehensive in ex-
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 337

istence. The first publication, dealing with military headgear in use
prior to 1854, appeared this year, and Mr. Howell occupied his sab-
batical leave with research for the next volume in this series.

Three staff members are engaged in research in American furniture.
Betty Walters has completed a study of Indiana cabinetmakers, Anne
Golovin has in progress a study of the furniture makers of Washington,
D.C., and Rodris Roth is investigating American furniture as it was
represented in the Philadelphia Exposition of 1876.

Two staff members are engaged in research in the history of music in
the United States. Cynthia A. Hoover has finished a paper on J. Norton,
a trumpeter of the early 19th century, and John Fesperman has com-
pleted a manuscript analysis of the John Snetzler organ in our collec-
tion. This organ, built in 1761, was first owned by Samuel Bard, best
known as surgeon to George Washington.

Claudia Kidwell is studying 19th-century dressmaker’s drafting tools

Lady Godiva, a reactor without shielding, used to study effects of nuclear
bursts on materials and equipment, shown on location in maximum isolation
at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory of the University of California before the
deliberate destruction of the reactor in 1957.

338 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Mass spectrometer developed at Harvard University 1932-1936 by Kenneth
T. Bainbridge. With this apparatus Bainbridge determined the isotopic mass

of the heavier isotope of hydrogen, deuterium, discovered by H. C. Urey in the
same period.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 339

Conservator Scott Odell applies gold leaf over gesso to front pipes for restoration
of chamber organ by John Snetzler, London, 1761.

in the collection as a probable link between the “art” of dressmaking
and the “ready-to-wear” industry. As participant in a program of re-
search on the Museum’s textile collections, Rita Adrosko is engaged in
a study of woven patterned shawls of the 19th century.

In connection with the political campaign of 1968 and the subse-
quent inauguration, two large special exhibits have been shown in the
Museum. The curators responsible, Margaret Klapthor and Herbert
Collins, used the occasion to undertake a general survey of the extant
memorabilia of past inaugural ceremonies. Anne Serio has used the
Museum’s Harry T. Peters’ collection of American lithographs to por-
tray the convention of the Free Soil Party of 1848 as it was represented
in political cartoons. Keith Melder is on sabbatical leave in the study
of the feminist movement in the United States.

Studying as a by-product of archeological work in Alexandria, Vir-
ginia, C. Malcolm Watkins and Richard Muzzrole are engaged in the
340

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

ers © S eS SNS

Chamber Organ, John Snetzler, London, 1761
(restoration completed in June 1969).
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 341

“The Quest for the Presidency” exhibition on the third floor of the National
Museum of History and Technology, as displayed from 17 August to 1 December
1968.

Archeological aide Richard Muzzrole shows Mr. V. Ward Boswell of Alexandria,
Virginia, a piece of kiln furniture from the Henry Piercy pottery (active
1792-1801) located on his property.

342 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

preparation of a history of pottery making in that colonial town. Mr.
Watkins, with the collaboration of Joan Pearson Watkins, also has com-
pleted a study of the pioneer pottery of California as part of a larger
study of the material culture of California in the gold-rush period.

Archeology

Philip Lundeberg and Alan Albright have conducted a survey of
underwater sites in Lake Champlain, a project that was sponsored by
the National Geographic Society as part of the continuing study of
Benedict Arnold’s squadron during the northern campaign of 1776. In
a continued program of underwater exploration in the Caribbean,
Mendel Peterson has participated in the investigation of a wreck site in
the Florida Keys that probably represents the large Spanish ship St.
Joseph, which sank in 1773.

Jefferson Miller has completed a monograph on the ceramic remains
excavated at Fort Machilimackinac, Michigan, a fort that was active
during the period 1715-1780.

Numismatics and Philately

In cooperation with Adon A. Gordus, University of Michigan, the
Division of Numismatics is engaged in the analysis by neutron-activation
of a number of Sassanian, Arab, and Indo-Sassanian silver coins. In
cooperation with the Society of Philatelic Americans, the Division of
Philately is preparing a catalog of its library to be published in install-
ments by the Society journal and finally as a book.

The Postal History Society of the Americas has awarded John Mc-
Cusker, Smithsonian Fellow, a gold medal for his research on the 18th-
century British-American mail packets.

Applied Art

Paul Gardner has completed a book-length biography of Frederick
Carder, founder of the Steuben Glass works. Nearly completed is a mon-
ograph on the inventions of the pioneer photographer W. H. Fox
Talbot. The letter, by Eugene Ostroff, will be accompanied by a catalog
of the photographs and other materials dating from 1835-77, which
remain at the home of Fox Talbot, Lacock Abby, Wiltshire.

Elizabeth Harris is engaged in the extension of her catalog and his-
Examples of feed-back devices in the museum: (top left) Arc-lamp regulator,
(top right) Parsons turbine-generator with electrical solenoid operating steam
valve, (bottom left) Earliest American example extant of Watt-type governor,

(bottom right) 1864 patent model of centrifugal pendulum (Watt-type) governor
with proportional and integral responses.
344 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Original galvano model for Christian
Gobrecht’s famous “defiant eagle” de-
sign, circa 1838. First known use of
electro-deposition processes in United
States coin manufacturing techniques.
(Donated by Messrs. Stack, New York
City.)

tory of the photomechanical print, of which the Museum has the most
comprehensive collection in existence. As completed last year, this
study covers the period 1840-1880.

History of Science

Silvio A. Bedini has completed a book-length manuscript dealing
with early American navigational instruments. The study of the char-
acteristics of early electrical instruments, using modern measuring ap-
paratus, is a continuing project in the Division of Electricity, where
Bernard Finn published an article last year on the performance of early
telephones in our collection. This year he has studied the performance
of 18th-century static electricity machines and has presented his findings
to the International Congress of the History of Science in Paris.

Deborah Warner is engaged in a study of celestial cartography
through the analysis of published star charts from the period 1500-
1800. Robert Multhauf has continued on sabbatical leave his study of
the role of science in the industrialization of chemistry. Audrey Davis
has completed a dissertation, ““The Circulation of the Blood and Medi-
cal Chemistry in England, 1650-80,” as a requirement for a PhD at
Johns Hopkins University.

History of Technology

The Computer History Project, supported by the American Federa-
tion of Information Processing Societies, is now in its second year under
the direction of Uta Merzbach. This project comprehends the collection
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 345

“Masse d’Or,” struck circa 1296-1310
by Philip IV of France, referred to as
the largest French medieval gold coin.
Reflecting Gothic artistic develop-
ments, its issuance was the result of
the French war against England in
Gascony and Flanders. (The Josiah
K. Lilly, Jr., Collection.)

of documents and tape-recorded interviews with persons who are im-
portant in the development of the computer.

Robert Vogel is in the second year of a survey of early New England
textile mills as part of a larger program in industrial archeology. A re-
port of the first summer’s work, chiefly at Manchester, New Hampshire,
was published this year.

Several book-length studies in the history of transportation are com-
plete or nearly so. These include George Hilton’s history of the cable
railway in America, John White’s history of American railroad cars
during the period of wood construction, and Donald Berkebile’s diction-
ary of the terminology of the carriage builder. Melvin Jackson has sub-
mitted to a publisher a study of the Woolwich cannon foundry, research
that is based on drawings made by members of the Dutch family Ver-
bruggen between 1772 and 1782.

Other individual projects are a history of feedback mechanisms, as
they are illustrated in this Museum’s collections, by Otto Mayr; a study
of the development and use of the spinning wheel in America by
Grace Cooper; and a comparative history of the development of electric
lighting in the United States, England, and Germany by Thomas
Hughes.

Edwin Battison has been awarded a citation by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for his activity in selecting for translation Russian works on the
history of technology. Mr. Battison’s contribution, as the citation states,
is virtually to revolutionize the knowledge of the English reader of
early technology in Russia. In the course of the year, Mr. Battison also
has completed a documentary film on the manufacture of ax handles
by using primitive equipment that includes the pattern lathe of the
type developed by Thomas Blanchard about 1840.

366-269 O—70 23
346 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

ine . ‘wil nie

A catalog of philatelic publications being compiled by the research staff of the
Division of Postal History will be published by the Society of Philatelic
Americans.

THE COLLECTIONS

Department of Applied Arts

The Josiah K. Lilly collection of gold coins, which was acquired
this year, is the most important single acquisition ever received by the
Numismatic Division. This collection includes a virtually complete series
of official issues of the United States and an unparalleled series of
pioneer and territorial issues. The Latin American section is outstand-
ing for its nearly complete series of Spanish colonial issues from
Mexico, Peru, Chile, and Bolivia. Other numismatic rarities have been
received from Mrs. Henry Norweb, Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer L. Neinken,
Dr. Sidney A. Peerless, and, through their continued generosity, from
Mr. Willis H. DuPont and members of the Stack family of New York.
From the latter, the Department has received the original galvano model
for Christian Gobrecht’s famous “defiant eagle” design (circa 1838),
the first known example of the use of electro deposition processes in
coin manufacture in the United States.

The Mergenthaler Linotype Company has presented to the Museum
linotype machines of 1889 and 1961, the former the oldest surviving
example of the machine with which Otmar Mergenthaler of Baltimore
replaced hand with machine typesetting and the latter the current model
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 347

of the same type of machine. Such “hot metal” typesetting machines
are now in competition with photocomposition machines, of which an
example, the Mergenthaler “Linofilm,” also has been received. In the
field of printing, an example of the Hoe drum-cylinder printing press
of 1879 has been received from Judd and Detweiler, Inc., a press that
was the mainstay of newspaper publishers in the last four decades of
the 19th century.

In connection with a research project dealing with the movement
and handling of mail, the Department has assembled a collection of
objects ranging from a letterbox of Boyd’s City Express (New York)
of the 1840s, given by Leo Scarlet, to the “Transorama” mail-sorting
machine installed in 1957 at Silver Spring, Maryland, More conven-
tional additions to the philatelic collections have included materials
related to Palestine under Turkish rule, from Sidney N. Shure, and
the personal philatelic collection of Amelia Earhart, including a number
of rare covers, given by Mrs. Elsie M. Williamson.

Of a number of other important objects received in the Department,
the most remarkable perhaps are examples of collodion microfilm pelli-
cles, which during the seige of Paris (1870) in the Franco-Prussian
war, had been sent by pigeon post. The Division of Textiles has received
from Clemson University a 40-saw coton gin (circa 1825-50) as well as

19th-century cotton gin (gift of Clemson University).

348 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

a primitive Churka-type roller gin presented by Alfred Pendleton. Mr.
and Mrs. James G. Stahlman have presented an example of the historic
Breeches Bible of 1587, so called from a distinction made in the raiment
of Adam and Eve: the “aprons” woven from fig leaves (as later trans-
lated in the King James Version) were rendered by the translators in
1587 as “breeches.”

The range of acquisitions during the year perhaps is best illustrated
by the diamond-encrusted (450 diamonds) medal Order of the Golden
Fleece, made in 1849 by order of the Prince of Lobkowitz, Duke of
Raudnitz, and the “Bible quilt,’ depicting stories from the Old and
New Testaments, which was exhibited in the Athens, Georgia, Cotton
Fair of 1886 by an elderly Negro farm woman identified only as
Harriet. The former was given by Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post;
the latter, by Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Heckman.

The work of the textile laboratory has been extended to include the
scientific cleaning of multiple-unit items such as early embroidered and
hooked rugs.

Department of Cultural History

The colonial and federal period collections have been enriched by a
gift from the Maryland Historical Society: ballroom paneling from
John Frederick Amelung’s late 18th-century mansion in Frederick

Tape loom, English, late 18th
century, a rare example from
the collection and currently a
research project of Rita J.
Adrosko.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 349

County, Maryland, which overlooked the site of his ambitious but ill-
fated ‘““New Bremen Glassmanufactory.” From the same period, in Alex-
andria, Virginia, the archeological activity of Richard Muzzrole has
yielded kiln-site artifacts of the pottery of Henry Piercy (1793-1801).

Similar in its range of interest and usefulness is Frederick Maloney’s
gift of a pipe-pressing machine, together with molds and pottery pipe
bowls, from a 19th- and early 20th-century pottery and pipe factory in
Pamplin, Virginia.

The Copp collection, one of the most notable extant collections of
materials representing the history of a single family, has been aug-
mented by the receipt of Johathan Copp’s “great chair” (as described
in his 18th-century inventory) from Miss Catherine B. Avery. A pictorial
record of Negro life in rural Florida in the 1930s has been provided
in seven oil paintings given by the artist, Henry Hutchinson Shaw;
and the collection of Spanish-American materials has been augmented
by a figure of the flagellated Christ, Jesus Nazareno, made in New Mex-
ico about 1900.

The most notable acquisition in the field of American culture for the
post-Civil War era has been a 60,000-piece pictorial center table, to-
gether with tools, inlay fragments, and awards pertaining to the maker,
Peter C. Glass, a German-American master of inlay furniture. The table
was the gift of Mrs. Frank Vidano.

A complete remodeling of the reference area of the Division of Musical
Instruments has provided continuous glass enclosures with the result
that instruments now are immediately visible. Use of the Termatrex
data-retrieval system, a continuing project directed by Betty J. Walters,

Order of the Golden Fleece,
containing approximately 450
diamonds. This outstanding his-
torical piece was made in 1849
by order of Prince Lobkowitz,
Duke of Raudnitz. Some of its
parts, including the fleece as
such, may date from the 18th
century. (Donated by Mrs.
Merriweather Post.)

350 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Museum technician Ulysses G.
Lyon removes a pipe bowl from
the mold of a pipe-pressing ma-
chine that museum technician
Richard Drake has just opened.
(Gift of Fred Maloney.)

has comprehended 8500 specimens in this department, greatly facilitat-
ing the effort to improve the accessibility and documentation of the
collection.

Department of Industries

The Division of Transportation has acquired two hundred original
drawings, prepared for the Bureau of American Fisheries between 1865
and 1885, that deal with fishing techniques and apparatus. Since the
marine transportation collections of this museum, as originally assem-
bled by the United States Fish Commission, predecessor of the Bureau
of Fisheries, were oriented toward fishing vessels, this acquisition aug-
ments one of the strongest features of the collections.

Added to the ceramics collections are two rare examples from the
celebrated Chelsea pottery, the most important English producer of
porcelain in the 18th century. The superb quality of this soft-paste por-
celain is well depicted in these two decorative pieces, one an owl with
foliage and the other a canary with leaves and flowers. Both represent
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 351

the period of finest work at Chelsea (about 1750). Other important
pieces received include an 18th-century Liverpool plate, from Dr. Lloyd
E. Hawes, and a magnificent glass globlet decorated with a German
townscape, from Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph Strasser. As in previous years,
Dr. Hans Syz has added to the important collection that bears his name.

The gift of a 1905 Mercedes sports touring car, by Frederic Gibbs, in-
troduces the first foreign vehicle into the automobile collection. Limita-
tion of this collection to American vehicles results partly from lack of
space, but primarily it reflects the extreme rarity of European vehicles of
very early date. The 1905 Mercedes represents something of a culmina-
tion in the ingenuity of the early designer in both style and capability.

A planned series of models illustrating the development of the street
railway car has been completed with acquisition of the model of a
Chicago street car of 1910. Similarly, a gift by the Norfolk and Western
Railway, a model of their eight-wheel switching locomotive number 244,
has completed a series planned, at the opening of this Museum, of rep-
resentative American locomotives. Number 244 is in fact the last steam
locomotive built in the United States for domestic service.

A project is in progress for documentation of ship plans in the collec-
tion by the use of modern data-retrieval methods.

“Celery Pickers,’ one of a series of paintings depicting Negro life in rural
Florida in the 1930s (given by the artist Harry Hutchison Shaw).
352 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

pa of Har Gok, wale Sephac

Letter from Commodore John Paul Jones to Marquis de Fleury regarding the
future “Marine Force” of the United States.

Department of National and Military History

The Department has received memorabilia of the presidency ranging
from the administration of George Washington to that of Richard Nixon,
the most important items being a portrait of Mrs. Benjamin Harrison
by Lilly Martin Spencer, presented by Mrs. Donald R. Gates, and the
gavel used at the 1968 Republican National Convention, presented by
Congressman Gerald R. Ford. Other notable acquisitions in this cate-
English commemorative glass
goblet with an image of John
Wilkes holding the “Bill of
Rights” with garlands on each
side, circa 1760 (possibly New-
castle), height 1114 _ inches,
diameter of bowl 514 inches,
diameter of foot 5 inches.

gory are the carriage used at the White House by President Grant, gift of
Pearson S. Meeks, and specimens of the state china used at the White
House by President Lyndon Johnson.

To the collection of materials representing political and social move-
ments has been added a number of objects associated with the Poor
People’s Campaign of 1968, including a family-unit dwelling from
“Resurrection City,’ which was presented by the Southern Christian
Leadership Conference.

A truly remarkable acquisition has come to the Department in a group
of seven commissions issued to William Sylvester between 1744 and
1781. These range from a commission for coroner in the “County of
Plimouth,” Massachusetts Bay, dated 6 February 1744, signed by
W. Shirley, and bearing the seal of King George II, to a commission for
justice of the peace of Cumberland County, Province of Massachusetts
Bay, dated 18 October 1781, signed by John Hancock and John Avery,
and affixed with the seal of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Most
interesting of the group is a printed commission bearing the seal of
Massachusetts Bay on which the letterhead of George III has been
scratched out and “The Government and People of Massachusetts Bay,
New England” has been written in its place. This commission, appoint-
ing Sylvester justice of the peace of Cumberland County, is signed by
Samuel Adams and fifteen members of the Council of Safety and is
dated 7 September 1776.
354 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Siphon recorder used as
a telegraph receiver on
Atlantic cables in the
1890s.

Oldest of the year’s military and naval acquisitions is an Admiralty-
style model of the 50-gun ship-of-the-line, H.M.S. Falkland, which was
built at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, in 1695. The model is based on
dockyard plans taken off about 1700. Contributing an item for the fol-
lowing century, the family of William H. McKay, Jr., has presented
a letter dispatched in 1787 by John Paul Jones to the Chevalier de
Fleury, who fought at Yorktown and was the only foreign officer
awarded a medal by the Continental Congress during the American
Revolution.

The nineteenth century has been represented by a number of weapons
received, including an early production model of the breech-loading
pistol invented and manufactured by Alonzo Perry in 1855. The latter
item was presented by Glen C. Perry, grandson of the inventor, and by
Cleveland Lane. The collections relating to both World Wars have been
augmented by such varied acquisitions as a group of 175 glass-plate
negatives of American submarines of World War I, given by the Old
Dartmouth Historical Society, and the “tanker’s jacket” worn by Gen-
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 355

eral of the Army Omar Bradley when he commanded the Twelfth Army
Group in Europe in 1945.

In the program for underwater exploration, trading artifacts, includ-
ing ax and mallet heads, augurs, blocks and sheaves, and fragments of
smoking pipes, have been recovered from the sites of the Warwick
(wrecked in 1619) and the Virgina Merchant (wrecked in 1660), both
of which, en route to Jamestown, sank off Bermuda.

Archeological activity in Alexandria, Virginia, and Fort Michili-
mackinac, Michigan, has yielded artifacts that are reported under
“Research” for Cultural History. The work of the preservation labora-
tory has been facilitated by technical changes that make possible several
simultaneous electrolytic reductions in the preservation of submerged
objects and by the volunteer work of Mrs. Florence Horney in the res-
toration of ceramic artifacts.

Department of Science and Technology

The most important accession of the year probably is a collection of
about 200 pieces of apparatus given by Western Union International
from its cable stations in Newfoundland. Together with other materials
already on hand, these items give the Department an almost complete
cross section of apparatus used in the hundred-year history of trans-
atlantic telegraphy.

Accessions in the field of mathematics have ranged from a seven-
teenth-century compendium of ivory and gilt brass, comprising two
sun dials, a lunar dial, and a compass rose, to a digital computer system

Unusual 17th-century German astronomical compendium made
of ivory and gild bronze and signed by Hans Ducher.
356

This early-17th-century table
clock is the work of David Ram-
say, one of England’s greatest
clockmakers, who served as
clockmaker to both James I and
Charles I and as foundation
master of the Clockmakers
Company, when it was founded
in 1631. Several watches by
Ramsay are known but only one
other clock, which is in the
Victoria and Albert Museum.
An inscription (below) on the
interior plate, “George Wash-
ington,’ in an 18th-century
hand has not been positively
identified as that of the first
president.

of 1958. Among the more noteworthy pieces are a logic machine made
by Benjamin Burack in the 1930s and a photoelectric serial-lag correlator
made by Gordon Gibson in the 1940s.

In the departmental reorganization, which is represented for the first
time in this report, the collections relating to nuclear energy have been
transferred to the Department of Science and Technology. A decade of
collecting activity in the field is reported by Philip Bishop in the intro-
duction to the Museum report. Dr. Bishop’s continued efforts during the
year have led to notable additions to the collection: the proton nuclear
accelerator of 1956-57, which is associated with the Nobel Prize work
of Luis W. Alvarez, and “Scylla I,” the first thermonuclear reactor for
peaceful purposes, developed at the University of California, to which
we are indebted for the acquisition.

The Department also has received, from a pioneer developer of the
electron microscope, L. Marton, a reproduction of his first instrument,
made in Belgium in 1932. In addition, the Department has acquired
two of the earliest instruments developed in this country after Dr. Marton
had joined RCA in 1938. One of these, from Colorado State University,
is from the first group of six instruments produced by RCA after
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 357

J. Hillier had joined and continued the project. Representing a slightly
later date is another instrument received from the United Shoe Ma-
chinery Corporation.

Individual objects of particular significance received this year are a
David Ramsay table clock of about 1630, which is one of the oldest
English clocks extant, a nuclear magnetic resonance cavity, from E. M.
Purcell and R. B. Pound, which was used in experiments for which
Purcell shared a Nobel Prize with Felix Bloch in 1952 (a magnet rep-
resenting some of Bloch’s later work was received last year). Some of
the first microbalances used in the United States have been received
from Mrs. Wilbur Patterson.

Specimens in the National Collections
10 June 1969
(Prepared by Office of the Registrar)

Additions On hand
in 1969 totals
Department of Armed Forces History
Military History 1, 720 46, 945
Naval History 1, 338 15,73
Totals 3, 058 62, 118
Department of Arts and Manufactures
Agriculture and Forest Products 33 10, 724
Ceramics and Glass ONS 19, 466
Graphic Arts 7, 207 61, 374
Manufactures and Heavy Industries 507 36, 943
Textiles 197 36, 800
Totals 8, 157 165, 307
Department of Civil History
American Costume 139 IS W/Z
Cultural History 573 27 NTE
Musical Instruments 23 80
Numismatics 18, 804 345, 925
Philately and Postal History 5h B59! Sls, 7 145945
Political History* 1, 156 38, 179
Totals 77, 584 12, 139, 483
Department of Science and Technology
Electricity 189 8, 416
Mechanical and Civil Engineering 266 13, 033
Medical Sciences 76 37, 029
Physical Sciences 144 4, 876
Transportation 34 43, 220
Totals 709 106, 574
Grand Totals 89,508 12,473, 482

*Count for American Costume Section separated from Political History in1968.
358 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Specimen Transactions, Fiscal Year 1969
(Prepared by Office of the Registrar)

Trans- Lent for
Exchanged _ ferred study to  Speci-
Departments New Re- with other _ to other investi- mens
acces- ceived _institu- govern- gators identi-
sions onloan tions ment and other _ fied
agencies institu-
tions
Armed Forces History 141 0 0 bate 34 564
Arts and Manufac-
tures 177 1 1 0 178 685
Civil History 606 197 740 500 1,322 2,304
Science and Tech-
nology 140 385 0 0 133 J
Totals 1,064 583 741 501 1,667 3,558

EXHIBITS

No substantial progress has been made during the year on exhibitions
of the collections, but a number of outstanding special exhibits encom-
passing a wide variety of subject matter have brought significant por-
tions of the national collections to public attention.

The most timely exhibit of the year has been “The Quest for the
Presidency,” an extensive presentation of the history of political cam-
paigning, that opened 17 August at the height of the 1968 presidential
campaign. Prepared by Herbert R. Collins, the campaigning memora-
bilia featured broadsides, buttons, banners, and ballots from the time
of George Washington to Lyndon B. Johnson. In addition to this history
of political organizations, techniques of individual candidates were
represented.

This production was followed by “Hail to the Chief,” a spectacular
exhibit on the history of presidential inaugurations that opened 8 Jan-
uary. Prepared by Margaret B. Klapthor, the exhibit presented in his-
torical content treasured memorabilia ranging from the balcony railing
from which Washington took his oath of office to the gowns worn at
several inaugural balls. ‘Taped recordings of campaign songs and silent
movies recreated inaugurals of presidents from McKinley to Coolidge.
As a supplement, a display of the historical development of the Inaug-
ural Medal was prepared by Mrs. Elvira E. Clain-Stefanelli especially
for the inaugural ceremonies held in the Museum in January 1969.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 359

After a concert in the National Museum of History and Technology in honor
of the Music Council of UNESCO and the International Association of Music
Libraries, 18 September 1969 (left to right): Carole Bogard, soprano; Judith
Davidoff (holding Barak Norman gamba of 1718); Sonya Monosoff (holding
Marshall violin of 1759); James Weaver, harpsichordist; Walter Trampler
(holding Aman viola d’amore of 1705).

Only surviving example of the so-
called half doubloon, struck by
Ephraim Brasher in 1787. Living in
New York at No. 5 Cherry Street,
this goldsmith was at one time a next-
door neighbor to George Washington.
(This is the earliest among the
United States gold coins in the Josiah
K. Lilly, Jr., Collection.)

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Appliqué Bible quilt depicting stories
from the Old and New Testaments,
made by an elderly Negro farm woman
named Harriet, from the outskirts of
Athens, Georgia, and exhibited in the
Athens Cotton Fair of 1886.

Undoubtedly the most dramatic of the Musuem’s special exhibits has
been the display, also prepared by Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli, of the entire
collection of 6,135 gold coins assembled by the late Josiah K. Lilly
and presented to the Smithsonian.

The Division of Graphic Arts and Photography has produced a retro-
spective display of lithographs, etchings, and silkscreen prints of Raphael
Soyer, an exhibit of drawings of Austin, Texas, rendered by Edgar
Dorsey Taylor, and a print show of “High School Graphics,” the latter
of which was organized jointly by the Division of Graphic Arts and
Photography, the Washington Print Club, and the District high schools
in an attempt to foster print making as a part of the school curriculum.

Demonstration of Hall Neurairtome, used for cutting and drilling bone.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 361

PATENT CONTROVERSIES IN THE HISTORY OF

Half of a special exhibit on radio patent controversies that opened in October
1968 at a meeting of the Antique Wireless Association.

A new series of photographic print exhibitions entitled “Women,
Cameras, and Images” was inaugurated in December 1968 by the same
Division, along with an Imogen Cunningham retrospective exhibit.
“The Lingering Shadow,” a display of photographs from the national
collections representing outstanding technological and artistic accom-
plishments was opened in June 1969.

Two exhibits of industrial art produced by the Division of Manufac-
tures have included a selection of art works on “The Coke Push” and a
series of oil paintings of “Abandoned Mine Scenes” by Carol Riley.

The development of the cotton gin from the use of the simple roller
gin in the East to the 19th-century American spiked-tooth gin has been
the subject of a display installed by the Division of Textiles with live
demonstrations of the equipment. A 19th-century “Bible quilt,” which
incorporated eleven vignettes from Old and New Testament stories has
been a display of considerable interest.

A series of special exhibit cases featuring recent gifts to the collec-
tions have been initiated during the year in an effort to inform visitors
of the wide range of the Museum’s collections and to acknowledge do-
nors’ gifts of Museum objects. These displays have proved to be ex-

366-269 O—70——24
362 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Northern Liberties Fire Com-
pany scene about 1855, oil
painting by John Shreeve.

tremely successful and the program will be continued with the periodic
addition of new units.

In the Hall of Medical Sciences a display of modern developments
in surgical instrumentation has featured instruments driven by com-
pressed air for operating at ultra-high speed, instruments that were
designed and produced by Dr. Robert Hall and now are widely used to
perform difficult operations not previously possible.

“Patent Controversies in the History of Radio” was prepared for the
convention of the Antiques Wireless Association in October 1968, and
a special exhibit was prepared to commemorate the Golden Spike cere-
mony on its anniversary in May 1969.

A special exhibit commemorating “Human Rights Year” has been
installed in the Hall of Historic Americans, where the continuing strug-
gle for human rights in America is depicted. Articles on display range
from materials relating to Abolition, Emancipation, the Women’s Rights
movement, and the efforts of Negroes from 1830 to 1968 to gain full
rights, the latter climaxed by a memorial to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

For the first time, a large group of rare and historic postage stamps
and covers from the national collection have been included in a sig-
nificant international philatelic exhibition in a foreign nation: the
Division of Philately and Postal History participated in EFIMEX °68
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 363

Transcontinental railroad special case placed on exhibit May 1969 in the
Railroad Hall, to mark the centennial of its opening.
364 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

[Exposicion Filatélica Internacional México] in Mexico City in Novem-
ber. Several philatelic exhibits were prepared in cooperation with foreign
embassies, including an exhibit of the stamps of Malta that featured
original artwork, proofs, and other rarely seen Maltese philatelic mate-
rials, a collection loaned by the Federal Republic of Germany to com-
memorate the twentieth anniversary of Germany’s government, an
exhibition of stamps of the nations of the African and Caribbean Com-
monwealth, and a significant display of stamps, as issued by various
countries, honoring the late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

STAFF PUBLICATIONS
Office of the Director

Bepin1, Sttvio A. “The Unfinished Utrecht Quadrant.” Technology and Culture
(July 1969), volume 10, number 3, 7 pages, 2 illustrations.

. “The 17th Century Table Clepsydra.” Physis (1968), volume X, fascicle
1, pages 25-52, 13 illustrations.

MutTHAuF, RosBert P. Foreword. In Alchemy and the Occult: A Catalogue
of Books and Manuscripts from the Collection of Paul and Mary Mellon.
Volume 1. New Haven, Connecticut: Yale University Press, 1968.

Department of Applied Arts

CurisTIAN, PAULINE B. Annotated List of Photographs in the Division of Agri-
culture and Forest Products. 126 pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian In-
stitution Press, 1968.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Ervira. “L’Evolution artistique de la médaille aux Etats
Unis.” Médailles (Paris, 1968), volume 31, number 1, pages 14—20. [Also an
English summary on pages 21—23.]

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, VLADIMIR. “History of the National Numismatic Collections.”
Paper 31 in Contributions from The Museum of History and Technology.
(United States National Museum Bulletin 229) 108 pages. Washington:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

Haspersticu, Davip E. “Gide and the Fantasts: The Nature of Reality and
Freedom.” Criticism (Spring 1969), volume XI, number 2, pages 140-150.

. “Women, Cameras, and Images I: Imogen Cunningham.” 2 pages.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, November 1968. [Exhi-
bition catalog leaflet.]

Korrsky, Perer. “Letter from Home Propaganda.” Linn’s Weekly Stamp News
(26 May 1969), volume 42, number 14, p. 29.

. “Porto Rico Internal Revenue Taxes and Stamps.” Scott’s Monthly
Stamp Journal (June 1969), volume 50, number 4, pages 118-119, 122.

McCusker, Joun J. “New York City and the Bristol Packet: A Chapter in 18th-
Century Postal History.” Postal History Journal (July 1968), volume 13,
number 2, pages 15-24.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 365

Norsy, Remar. “An Answer to the Stamp Theft Problem.” The Texas Philat-
elist (April 1968), volume 15, number 4, pages 8-12. [Reprinted from The
Posthorn (February 1968), volume 25, number 1, pages 1—6.]

. “Finnish ‘Colonists’ in Sweden.” American Swedish Historical Founda-

tion Yearbook 1967. Pages 40—41. Philadelphia: American Swedish Historical

Foundation, 1968.

. [Translation from Norwegian and editorial preparation of:] “Norway —

The Stereotyped Stamps of 1883-85” by T. Soot-Reyn. The Posthorn (June

1968), volume 25, number 3, pages 56-66.

. “Project Smithsonian — A Review and Report, and Plan for Next Move.”

Scandinavian Scribe (July 1968), volume 4, number 8, pages 142-46.

. “Gummy Observations.” Scandinavian Scribe (July 1968), volume 4,

number 8, pages 153-55. [Also reprinted in Western Stamp Collector (17

August 1968), page 13, under title “NH, OG, NG, LH, and Other Sticky

Words” ; also reprinted, in Dutch, in Het Noorderlicht (January 1969), volume

5, number 2, pages 35-37.]

. “Counterfeit Overprints, on Danish Newspaper Stamps.” Scandinavian

Scribe (August 1968), volume 4, number 9, pages 165-68.

. “Project Smithsonian.” The Posthorn (August 1968), volume 25, num-

ber 4, page 78.

. “The Scandinavian Stamp Lexicon.” Scandinavian Scribe (1968),

volume 4, pages 109-12, 127-34, 149-52, 169-72, 185-88, 203-06; (1969),

volume 5, pages 7-10, 23-26, 39-42, 59-62, 79-82.

. “Project Smithsonian — Additional Progress Report.” Scandinavian

Scribe (March 1969), volume 5, number 3, page 37.

. “Scandinavian Varieties.” Scandinavian Scribe (February-April 1969),

volume 5, numbers 2-4, pages 29, 47, 69.

. “Smithsonian’s Role in Philately — A Reply to the Critics.” Scandinavian

Scribe (April 1969), volume 5, number 4, pages 54-56 and 20-page supplement.

[Also reprinted in SPA Journal (June 1969), volume 31, number 10, pages

594—-603.]

. “Two Early Letters from Sweden — A Glimpse into the Past.” COMPEX
1969 Directory. Pages 93-98. Chicago: Combined Philatelic Exhibitions of
Chicagoland, Inc., 1969.

OstroFF, EucEeNneE. Photographic Aspects of Radiography. Revised. 24 pages.
Ilford, Inc., 1968.

ScHEELE, Cart H. “One Judge’s Views: The Annual Duck Stamp Contest.”
Insight (January 1969), pages 3-4.

. “The Smithsonian Institution and Philately.” The Collectors Club

Philatelist (May 1969), volume 48, number 3, pages 143-44, 146.

. Address at opening of special exhibition at National Museum of His-

tory and Technology in “Federal Republic of Germany’s 20th Anniversary

Exhibition in Washington, D.C.” Stamps (7 June 1969), volume 147, number

10, pages 505-07.

Department of Cultural History

AHLBoRN, Ricwarp E. “The Ecclesiastic Silver of Colonial Mexico”; “Domestic
Silver of Colonial Mexico.” In 1968 Winterthur Conference Report: Spanish,
366 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

French and English Traditions in the Colonial Silver of North America (Henry
Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum, 1969), pages 19-31; 31-46.

Go.tovin, ANNE C. “Audubon’s ‘Hooping Crane’.” The Smithsonian Journal of
History (fall 1967), volume II, number 3, pages 72—74.

KiwweELL, Cxiaupia B. “Women’s Bathing and Swimming Costume in the United
States.” Paper 64 in Contributions from the Museum of History and Tech-
nology (United States National Museum Bulletin 250). Pages 1-32, illus-
trated. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

WELsH, PETER C. “Introduction.” In ‘An Improved Method of Tanning
Leather,” by David Macbride. The Smithsonian Journal of History (winter
1967-1968), volume II, number 4, pages 67-76.

Department of Industries

BisHop, Puitip W. “L’Introduction des techniques modernes sur le Nouveau
Continent.” In Histoire Generale des Techniques, Maurice Daumas, editor.
Volume III, pages 808-819. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 1968.

. Petroleum. 31 pages. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1969.

. “John Wesley Hyatt and the Discovery of Celluloid.” Plastics World
(October 1968), volume 26, pages 30-38.

CHAPELLE, Howarp I., and LIEUTENANT CoLoneEL M. E. S. Laws, R.A. (Ret.).
“H.M.S. DeBraak: The Stories of a Treasure Ship.” Smithsonian Journal of
History (winter 1967-1968), volume 2, pages 57-66.

GEOGHEGAN, WiiuiaM E. “The Auxiliary Steam Packet Massachusetts.” Nautical
Research Journal (spring 1969), volume 16, number 1, pages 27-37.

GEOGHEGAN, WILLIAM E., THomMAs W. GREEN, CapTAIN R. STEENSEN, RDN,
and Frank J. Meru. “The South’s Scottish Sea Monster.” American Nep-
tune (January 1969), volume 29, number 1, pages 5-29.

Hitton, Georce W. The Night Boat. 271 pages. Berkeley: Howell-North
Books, 1968.

. The Transportation Act of 1958. x + 272 pages. Bloomington and

London: Indiana University Press, 1969.

. “The Hosmer Report: A Decennial Evaluation.” ICC Practitioners’

Journal (1969), volume XXXVI, pages 1470-1486.

. “Introduction.” In John A. Droege, Passenger Terminals and Trains.
pages i-iv. 1916. [Reprinted by the Kalmbach Publishing Company, 1969.]

MILter, J. JEFFERSON, II. “Canadian Views on English Transfer-Printed Earth-
enware.” Canadian Antiques Collector (October 1968), pages 10-14.

. “Unrecorded American Views on Two Liverpool-Type Earthenware
Pitchers.” Winterthur Portfolio (1968), volume 4, pages 109-117.

OuiverR, SMITH HeEMpsTONE, and Donatp H. BerKeBILe. The Smithsonian
Collection of Automobiles and Motorcycles. 164 pages, 126 illustrations. Wash-
ington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1969.

SCHLEBECKER, JoHN T. To Walk Into the Past: Living Historical Farms. 32
pages. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

. “The Symposium on 18th-Century Agriculture, October 1967.” Agricul-

tural History (January 1969), volume 43, pages 1-3.

, editor. “Eighteenth-Century Agriculture, A Symposium.” Agricultural

History (January 1969), volume 43, 214 pages.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 367

. “The Great Holding Action: The NFO in September 1962.” Reprint.
Pages 359-372 in Readings in Collective Behavior, Robert R. Evans, editor.
Chicago: Rand McNally, 1969.

Summons, Terry. “Animal Feed Additives.” Agricultural History (October
1968), volume 42, pages 309-313.

WEssEL, Tuomas R. The Honey Bee. Information Leaflet 482. Revised edition.
16 pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

. “Roosevelt and the Great Plains Shelterbelt.” Great Plains Journal
(spring 1969), pages 57-74.

Wuite, Joun H. “The Cincinnati Inclined Plane Railway Company: The Mount
Auburn Incline and the Lookout House.” The Cincinnati Historical Society
Bulletin (spring 1969), volume 27, number 1, pages 7—23.

. “Facing on a Single Track . . . Jupiter and 119.” Trains (May 1969),

pages 48-50.

. “The Cuyahoga Steam Furnace Company.” Smithsonian Journal of

History (spring 1968), volume 3, number 1, pages 59-76. [Issued June 1969.]

Department of National and Military History

Brooks, Purr C., Jr. “Rolls-Royce and the Smithsonian.” The Flying Lady
(January 1969), number 69-1, pages 1128-1129.

. “Inaugural Committees, Yesterday and Today.” In The Inaugural Story.
Pages 22-23. 1969 Inaugural Committee with American Heritage Magazine,
1969.

Howe t, Epcar M. “An Artist Goes to War: Harvey Dunn and the A.E.F. War
Art Program.” Smithsonian Journal of History (winter 1967-1968), volume 2,
number 4, pages 45-56. ‘

How.E Lt, Epcar M., and Donatp E. Kuoster. United States Army Headgear
to 1854, Catalog of United States Army Uniforms in the Collections of the
Smithsonian Institution. (U.S. National Museum Bulletin 269). 75 pages.
Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1969.

LuNDEBERG, Puitip K. ‘The Museum Perspective.” Military Affairs (1968),
volume 32, numbers 2-4, pages 76-78, 143-146, 201-202; (1969), volume 33,
number 1, pages 267-269.

Peterson, MENDEL. History under the Sea: A Manual for Underwater Explora-
tion. 208 pages. Third edition. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1969.

. “Magnetic Search for Bermuda Wrecks.” Explorers Journal (December
1968), volume XLVI, number 4, pages 266-274.

PETERSON, MENDEL, and JoHN Ex.ts. ‘“Bermuda’s History under the Sea.”
Oceans (February 1969), volume 1, number 2, pages 28-39.

Department of Science and Technology

Finn, Bernarp S. “Electron Theories of Conduction in the 19th Century.”
Actes du XIe Congres International d’Histoire des Sciences (1968), volume 3,
pages 398-401.
368 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

HAMARNEH, SAM K. “The Climax of Medieval Arabic Professional Pharmacy.”
Bulletin of the History of Medicine (fall 1968), volume 42, number 5, pages
450-461.

VocEL, Ropert M. The New England Textile Mill Survey I — Report on the
First Summer’s Work of the New England Textile Mill Survey. 38 pages, 23
illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, Division of Mechani-
cal and Civil Engineering, 1969.

Warner, Desorau J. Alvan Clark & Sons: Artists in Optics. vit-120 pages, 28
figures. (United States National Museum Bulletin 274). Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

PAPERS, LECTURES, AND SEMINARS
Office of the Director

TEACHING

Mu ttuaur, Ropert P. “An Introduction to the History of Science.” Year
course (three credit hours), George Washington University.

“Readings in the History of Science.” One term (three hours, one

student), George Washington University.

LECTURES

Bepini, Sttvio A. “Hardware of History—Artifacts of Colonial American Sci-
ence.”’ Special Libraries Association, at the Museum, 19 March 1969.

Mutrtuaur, Rosert P. “Adrift in a Sea of Saltpeter.”” Chemistry Group, Brook-
haven National Laboratory, 30 April 1969; Corning Section, American Chemi-
cal Society, 5 May 1969.

Department of Applied Arts

LECTURES

Aprosko, Rita J. “American Textiles, 1750-1850. School of Architecture,
Columbia University, March 1969.

. “Looms.” Textiles Department, Moore College of Art, March 1969.

. ‘Dyes from Nature.” Potomac Craftsmen, Washington, D.C., May 1969.

. “Museums as a Classroom Resource.” American Home Economics As-

sociation Convention, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, June 1969.

. “Woven Textiles in 18th-century America.” College of Home Economics,
University of Maryland, at the Museum, June 1969.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, Etvira. “The Artistic Evolution of the American Medal.”
Associates of the Smithsonian Institution, 11 June 1968. [Not reported in
Smithsonian Year 1968.]

. “The Coinage of Italy Throughout the Ages.’’ Montgomery County

[Maryland] Coin Club, 16 October 1968.

. Opening address. Inauguration of Israel Numismatic Society of Wash-

ington, 24 November 1968.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 369

. “United States Inaugural Medals.” Radio broadcast in Romanian lan-

guage for Voice of America, January 1969.

. Opening address. Second Annual Washington Numismatic Forum, at

the Smithsonian, 1 March 1969.

. “The American Medal.” New York Numismatic Coin Club, 14 March

1969.

. “Josiah K. Lilly, Coin Collector.” 14th Metropolitan Numismatic Con-
vention, New York City, 12 April 1969.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, ELvira, and VLADIMIR CLAIN-STEFANELLI. Television pro-
grams on the Josiah K. Lilly Collection for Time-Life, Inc., with Don Mac-
Kinnon, taped 31 October and 8 November 1968.

CLAIN-STEFANELLI, VLApimir. “The Significance of the Josiah K. Lilly Col-
lection.” Georgia Numismatic Association Convention, 3 August 1968.

. “Christian Gobrecht and His Work.” Middle Atlantic Numismatic

Convention, Philadelphia, Pennsyvlania, 24 October 1968.

. “Historically Significant Pieces in the J. K. Lilly Collection.” Second

Annual Washington Numismatic Forum, at the Smithsonian, 1 March 1969.

. Participant in panel discussion ‘Numismatics at the University as Part
of a College Curriculum.” Central States Education Forum, Chicago, Illinois,

3 May 1969.

Cooper, Grace R. “Smithsonian Institution, Mecca on the Mall.” Alumnae
Association, College of Home Economics, University of Maryland, April 1969.

. Planning and leading of one-day seminar, “Textiles and Clothing in
the Museum Collections.” Part of graduate course “The Role of the Federal
Government in the Textile and Clothing Industries,’ University of Maryland,
June 1969.

HasersticH, Davi. “Early Photographic Patents.” Photographic trade show
and lecture series “Photography in 1969” sponsored by Fuller and d’Albert,
Washington, D.C., April 1969.

‘Norsy, Remar. “Early European Stamps and Their Printing Methods, Using
the Norwegian 1863-66 Issues as Examples.” Philatelic Society, Washington,
D.C., 23 October 1968.

. ‘“Smithsonian’s Research Facilities and Reference Collections—and Their

Availability.” North Jersey Scandinavian Collectors Club, Upper Montclair,

New Jersey, 20 November 1968.

. “Methods and Techniques for Comparing Details on Classic Postage
Stamps, As Developed by the use of Smithsonian Instruments.” North Jersey
Scandinavian Collectors Club, Upper Montclair, New Jersey, 20 March 1969.

Ostrorr, Eucene. “Photomechanical Reproduction.” Society of Photographic

: Science and Engineers, Washintgon, D.C., Chapter, 23 April 1968.

. “The Invention of Photomechanical Reproduction.’’ American Associ-

ation of Museums—Annual Conference, New Orleans, Louisiana, 24 May

1968.

. “Photography and Printers’ Ink.” International history of photography
symposium sponsored by Czechoslovakian Academy of Sciences, 21 April 1969.

ScHEELE, Cart H. “The National Postage Stamp Collection and Philatelic Ex-
hibition at the Smithsonian.” Silver Spring [Maryland] Philatelic Society,
October 1968.

. “Philatelic Activities of the Smithsonian Institution.” Dolly Madison

Stamp Club of McLean, Virginia, February 1969.

370 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. “The Philatelic Collection and Facilities of the Smithsonian.” Falls
Church Philatelic Society, Virginia, April 1969.

. “Outstanding Philatelic Materials and the Work of the Division of
Philately.” Library of Congress Recreation Association Stamp Club, May
1969.

Department of Cultural History

TEACHING

AHLBORN, RicHaArD E. “Spanish-American Building Technology.” Graduate
seminar on architectural restoration and preservation, Columbia University, at
the Museum, February 1969.

Gotovin, ANNE C. Discussion (in the hall) of the Growth of the United States
exhibit. Graduate students from Hagley Program and Winterthur Program in
Early American Culture, University of Delaware, April 1969.

Rotu, Ropris. ‘Material Objects as Documents.’ Discussion session, under-
graduate class, Fine Arts Department, George Washington University, in the
Museum, Cultural History reference collection rooms, April 1969.

Watkins, C. Matcoum. “The Role of the Object in the History Museum.”
Half-day lecture and discussion session, part of docents training course, Oak-
land Museum Association, Oakland, California, September 1968.

LECTURES

AHLBORN., RicHArD E. “A Survey of Religious Medals in Smithsonian Collec-
tions and in Spanish-American Archeological Sites.” Annual Meeting of Soci-
ety of Historical Archaeology, 8 January 1969, Tucson, Arizona.

. “The Colonial Arts of Spanish America.” History class, University of

Maryland, 5 May 1969.

. “The Arts of Mexico Since Independence.” University of Maryland,
5 May 1969.

Gotovin, ANNE C. ‘‘Techniques of Construction in the Ipswich House Exhibited
in the Growth of the United States Halls.” Graduate seminar on architectural
restoration and preservation, Columbia University, at the Museum, April 1969.

GREENE, CarrROLL, Jr. Afro-American artifacts. Bibliographic workshop on Negro
resources, Howard University, at the Museum, August 1969.

—. Participant in panel ‘New Urban Opportunities for Museums.” 64th
annual meeting of American Association of Museums, San Francisco, 27 May
1969.

KmweELL, CLaupia. American costume. Founder’s Day Dinner, American Asso-
ciation of University Women, Hagerstown, Maryland, Branch, 18 March
1969.

Rotu, Ropris. ‘Furniture at the Centennial.’”” New Hampshire Historical So-
ciety, Concord, New Hamphire, March 1969. |

Warxins, C. Matcoto. “Utensils of the Pioneer” (including a later class tour
of Hall of Everyday Life in the American Past). Adult education extension
course on pioneer life, Northern Virginia Community College and Pioneer
America Society, Falls Church, Virginia, April 1969.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 371
Department of Industries

LECTURES

GarpNER, Paut V. “The Stourbridge Heritage.” Ninth Annual Seminar on
Glass, Corning Museum of Glass, October 1968.

Jackson, Metvin H. “Marine Technology and the Age of Exploration.” Series
of lecture seminars, University of Pennsylvania, fall term 1968.

SCHLEBECKER, JoHN T. “Comparison of Shenandoah Valley Farming in 1850
and 1969.” Paper, special meeting, National Trust for Historic Preservation,
Grove Plantation, Middletown, Virginia, May 1969.

Waite, Joun H. “Public Transport in Washington before the Great Consolida-
tion of 1902.” Paper, Smithsonian-George Washington University Summer
Seminar, August 1968.

Department of National and Military History

TEACHING

Lanciey, Haroitp D. Diplomatic History of the United States; Rise of the
american City; American Age of Enterprise; Historical Methods Seminar;
Jacksonian America Seminar. Courses, Catholic University of America, Wash-
ington, D.C., 1968-69.

LuNDEBERG, Puiwip K. Reading course in American Military History. American
Studies Program, Smithsonian Institution, in association with George Wash-
ington University, 1968-69.

LECTURES

ALBRIGHT, ALAN B. “The Preservation of Artifacts from under Water.” Wash-
ington Regional Conservation Guild, February 1969; National Park Service
Headquarters, Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, April 1969.

. “Electronic Survey of the Bermuda Coast.”’ National Museum of Natural
History and National Museum of History and Technology, March 1969; St.
Mary’s Historical Commission, St. Mary’s, Maryland, May 1969.

Coins, Hersert R. “Campaigning for the Presidency.” Talbot County
[Maryland] Historical Society, October 1968.

. “The Quest for the Presidency.” Southern Pennsylvania Council for

Social Studies, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, October 1968.

. “Political Campaign Collection at the Smithsonian Institution.” Charles

County [Maryland] Historical Society, October 1968.

. “History of Presidential Campaigning.” Chester County Historical So-

ciety, West Chester, Pennsylvania, October 1968.

. “Campaign Techniques of the 19th and 20th Century.” History Depart-
ment, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia, February
1969.

KiaptHor, Marcaret B. “Costume of the 1930s.” Chicago Historical Society
and Chicago Fashion Group at opening of special exhibit “Costume of the
1930s,” April 1969.

372 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. ‘Dress of the First Ladies of the White House” (including tour). Wives
of District Commissioners of Internal Revenue during annual conference,
September 1968.

. “An Afternoon with the First Ladies.” National convention of National

Association of Counties in Washington, D.C., March 1969.

. “The Smithsonian Institution Presents George Washington.” Congres-
sional Club, Washington, D.C., February 1969.

Lanc.ey, Haro.p D. “The Negro in the Armed Forces: A Historical Perspective
from the Revolution to Vietnam.” Teachers Institute, Board of Education,
Baltimore, Maryland, December 1968. ;

LuNDEBERG, Puitip K. “Sea Power Prior to and During World War I.” United
States Naval War College, Newport, Rhode Island, December 1968.

._ “The Evolution of American Naval Construction: The National Col-
Gen of Warship Models.” Pennsylvania Military College, Chester, Pennsyl-
vania, February 1969.

PETERSON, MENDEL. “History under the Sea.’’ Washington Club, Washington,
D.C., January 1969; Ohio Council of Skindivers, Canton, Ohio, January 1969;
The Military Order of the World Wars, Washington, D.C., February 1969;
American Society of Arms Collectors and Adult Education Program, Mont-
clair, New Jersey, March 1969.

VAN DER Soot, R. B. F. (of Dutch Army and Arms Museum, Leiden) and J. B.
Kist (of Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam). “The Personal Armament of Dutch
Citizens of Substance in the First Half of the Seventeenth Century As Shown
in Dutch Museums and Illustrated in Dutch Portraits.” American Society of
Arms Collectors, at the Smithsonian, March 1969.

Department of Science and Technology

TEACHING

Cannon, WALTER F. “Some Problems of Methodology in Nineteenth-Century
History of Science.” Lecture, history seminar, University of Maryland, Feb-
ruary 1969.

Ex.tunp, Jon B. “Rational Chemistry before Lavoisier.” Lecture, undergraduate
course, University of Maryland, February 1969.

. “Quantitative Chemistry and Atomic Theory in the Early Nineteenth
Century.” Lecture, history seminar, University of Maryland, March 1969.

HAMARNEH, SAMI K. “The Natural Sciences in Medieval Islam.” Semester
course, University of Pennsylvania, spring 1969.

VocEL, Rosert M. “Industrial Archeology.” Field trip, Smithsonian American
Studies Program, October 1968.

. “Historic Architecture.” Seminar session, Columbia University, Novem- _
ber 1968.

WARNER, DeExBoraAu J. “Astrophysics.”” Course for young people, given twice,
Smithsonian Associates, fall 1968.

LECTURES

Cannon, WALTER F. “Methodology in History of Science.” Lecture, faculty semi- _
nar, Department of History and Philosophy of Science, Cambridge University,
England, April 1969.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY 373

EKLUND, Jon B. “Weights and Measures in the Eighteenth Century.’ National
Scale Men’s Association, Washington, June 1969.

Finn, Bernarp S. “The Influence of Experimental Apparatus on Eighteenth
Century Electrical Theory.” Twelfth International Congress of the History
of Science, Paris, August 1968.

HaMaARNEH, Sami K. “History of Pharmacy and the Smithsonian Collections.”
Southern School of Pharmacy, Mercer University, Atlanta, Georgia, Decem-
ber 1968; at McDowell Museum, Danville, Kentucky, December 1968.

. “Origins of Arabic Medicine.” Department of Oriental Studies and De-

partment of History and Philosophy of Science, University of Pennsylvania,

March 1969.

. “Arabic Medicine and Its Impact on Teaching and Practice of the Heal-

ing Arts in the West.’’ Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Rome, April 1969.

. “Greek Pharmacy in Perspective.” American Institute on the History of
Pharmacy, Montreal, Canada, May 1969.

SrvowitcH, Extior. ‘Mechanical Television Systems.” Annual meeting, Antique
Wireless Association, Washington, October 1968.

VocEL, Rosert M. “The Use of Archeology in Historic Preservation.” Pennsbury
Forum, October 1968.

MUSICAL EVENTS

10 July 1968 through 28 August 1969. Tower music, weekly.

8 September 1968. Special concert for International Music Council of
UNESCO and International Association of Music Libraries: Judith
Davidoff, viola da gamba; Sonya Monosoff, violin; Walter Trampler,
viola; Carole Bogard, soprano; James Weaver, harpsichord (instru-
ments from Smithsonian collection used: Barak Norman viola da
gamba, Marshall violin, Dodd bow, Stehlin harpsichord).

28 October 1968. Gustav Leonhardt, harpsichordist (using Smith-
sonian’s Stehlin harpsichord) .

13-15 November 1968. August Wenzinger and Hannelorre Mueller,
) violas da gamba; Robert Conant, harpsichord;. Hans-Martin Linde,
_ flute and recorder (Smithsonian’s Stehlin harpsichord used).

18 November 1968. Concentus Musicus (Italian harpsichord of 1693
used) .

14 January 1969. Jean Hakes, soprano; Stoddard Lincoln, piano
(Schmidt piano of 1788 used).

4 February 1969. Hugues Cuenod, baritone; Raymond Lynch, lute.

3 March 1969. Danzi Quintet.

11 March 1969. Sonya Monosoff, violin; James Weaver, harpsichord

_ (instruments from Smithsonian collection used: Marshall violin,

__ Dodd bow, Vuillaume violin [first public use], Stehlin harpsichord,
_ and Schmidt piano).
374 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
i

22 April 1969. Alarius Ensemble (Stehlin harpsichord and DeQuoco_

harpsichord of 1694 [first public use] used) .
6 May 1969. Jean-Louis Barrault, Mme Renaud, New York Chamber

Soloists (in cooperation with Smithsonian Associates) .
Freer Gallery of Art

Joun A. Poper, Director

S SET FORTH IN MR. FREER’S WILL, the function of the Freer Gallery
A of Art is twofold. In the first place, it is a center for research
in the civilizations of the East; this research is the basic function of
the staff. In addition to the Freer collections and library, materials
for this research are available in libraries and museums in this country
and abroad and in many archeological and historic sites in Asia, Africa,
and elsewhere. Members of the staff travel as necessary to make use of
these resources and to discuss problems with colleagues elsewhere who
have similar interests. Results of this research are published intermit-
tently either in the Freer Gallery of Art Occasional Papers or in the
Freer Gallery of Art Oriental Studies as well as in outside scholarly
journals.

The second function of the Gallery is to continue adding oriental
objects of the finest quality to the collection whenever they become
available. In the course of the travel mentioned above, all staff mem-
bers keep their eyes open for objects that might be considered for pur-
chase. The facilities of the Gallery are always at the disposal of visiting
scholars who may wish to use them; and under established scholarship
programs students are given encouragement and supervision in the
advanced study of the history of oriental art.

Grant

The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation has continued its notable and
important contribution to the Gallery for library acquisitions.
375
Bronze, Japanese (Yayoi pe-
riod, 2nd—3rd centuries A.D.):
Dotaku with six rectangular
panels on each side framed by
crosshatched borders, broad
thin flange with eighteen cir-
cular protrusions (of which
eleven remain) on the narrow
edge and over the top (68.73).

The Collections

Among the twenty important works of art added to the collections
by purchase, five may be singled out for illustration and comment here.
A Japanese bronze bell-shaped object known as a dotaku and dating
from the late Yayoi period, third century a.p., is the largest and one of
the finest examples outside of Japan (68.73). Also Japanese is the paint-
ing of the Secret Five Bodhisattvas of the Shingon Sect of Buddhism
dating from the early Kamakura period about the year a.p. 1200 (68.75).
Two important Chinese acquisitions date from the Ming dynasty. A
covered stem-bowl] of blue and white porcelain bears the mark of the
Hsiian-te reign (1426-1435) (68.77ab). Representing a slightly later
period is a carved lacquer box showing figures in a garden before a pal-
ace carved with extreme delicacy in dark chocolate brown lacquer
against a ground of the more usual cinnabar red, also richly carved
with the conventional patterns for land, sea, and sky. Signed by the
carver, it is closely related in style and technique to a published dish
that bears a date corresponding to a.p. 1489 (68.76ab). A cylindrical
mug of Turkish pottery from Iznik has a curious flat handle cut with
sweeping curves at top and botton. The decoration, in turquoise and co-
balt blue with touches of red, shows a helter-skelter arrangement of
sailing dhows among cypress-covered islands, on each of which is a
FREER GALLERY OF ART 377

pavilion and a large bird completely out of scale with the rest of the
composition. It dates from the last quarter of the 16th century (68.68).
Also purchased for the collections are the following:

BRONZE

Japanese, Tumulus period, circa a.p. 6th century: Mirror with six bells (68.71).
(68.71).

LACQUER

Chinese, Sung dynasty, a.p. 10th—14th centuries: Dish with flattened foliate
rim, cavetto fluted to match inside and out; deep chocolate brown with some
lighter areas (68.67).

PAINTING

Japanese, Namboku-ch6é-Ashikaga period, a.p. 14th century, Muromachi Sui-
boku school, attributed to Mokuan (died about 1348): Kannon seated on a
rock; ink on silk panel (68.61).

Japanese, Ashikaga period, a.p. 14th—-17th centuries, Kano school, by Kano
Motohide, flourished early 16th century: Mongol hunting scenes, ink or pa-
per (68.62) ; one of a pair of six-panel screens (68.63).

Japanese, Edo period, a.p. 17th—19th centuries, Ukiyoe school, by Katsushika
Hokusai (1760-1849): Figures picnicking beneath an old pine tree; ““Hyaku-
nin Isshu Ubaga Etoki” series, poem by Fujiwara no Okikaze, Poem 34; ink
on paper (68.64).

Japanese, Edo period, a.p. 17th—19th centuries, Shijo school, by Watanabe
Kazan (1793-1841): Portrait of Satd Issai; ink and color on silk (68.66).

Painting, Japanese (early Kamakura period,
A.D. 1185-1249, Buddhist school): Painting
in ink and colors on silk with touches of
gold, the Five Secret Bodhisattvas (Go-
himitsu Bosatsu) of the Shingon Sect of
Japanese Buddhism (68.75).

366-269 O—70——25
378 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Pottery, Chinese (Ming Dynasty,
Hsiian-te, A.D. 1426-1435): Stem
bowl with cover, fine-grained white
porcelain, transparent glaze, under-
glaze blue, floral scrolls between
conventional borders, six-character
Hsiian-te mark, horizontally from
right to left in main band on bowl
(68.77 a—b).

Japanese, Edo period, a.p. 17th—19th centuries, Nanga school, by Nakaba-
yashi Chikut6 (1776-1853): Landscapes, ink and slight color on paper
(68.69) ; one of a pair of six-panel screens (68.70).

Japanese, Ashikaga period, a.p. 14th-17th centuries, Tosa school, by Tosa
Hirochika (flourished 1457-1465): Horse training, black ink and light colors:
on paper, handscroll (68.72).

PoTTERY

Chinese, Sung dynasty, a.p. 10th—13th centuries: Northern celadon bow! with
slightly curved sides, wide mouth and small foot, grooved outside lip; kiln grit
adheres inside foot; buff grey porcelanous clay with olive green celadon glaze,
carved lotus scroll in interior (68.65).

Chinese, Ming dynasty, a.p. early 15th century: Large celadon fish with flat-
tened foliate rim and broad unglazed band inside foot; fine grained gray
porcelain with thick, even, deep gray-green glaze; cavetto fluted inside and
out (68.74).

Turkish, Iznik, circa a.p. 1540-1555. Dish with everted flattened rim and low
foot with flat unglazed footrim; buff-colored faience clay with transparent
glaze over white slip and painting in turquoise, cobalt blue and red with
drawing in black; floral medallions and scrolling leaves on scale ground, tre-
foils around rim with blue blossoms, and black scrolls on white ground out-
side (69.1).

Turkish, Iznik, circa a.p. 1560-1570: Jug with pear-shaped body and curving
handle; buff-colored faience clay with transparent glaze over white slip and
painting in cobalt blue, red and green and drawing in black; horizontal bands
of trefoils, blossoms, cloud collars, and overlapping petal band in green (69.2).

FREER GALLERY OF ART 379

STONE SCULPTURE

Indian, Kushan period, a.p. 2nd century: Nagaraja (Serpent King), lower
torso of mottled red sandstone; from Mathura, Central India (69.3).

Care of the Collections

The technical laboratory has examined, cleaned, and repaired, as
necessary, thirty-two Freer objects and has examined forty-nine under
consideration for purchase. Also, nineteen objects from other museums
and individuals have been examined or repaired. The laboratory
examines objects by microscopic, microchemical, x-ray diffraction,
ultraviolet light, wet-chemical analysis, and various other methods. Dur-
ing the year the technical laboratory has been used in consultant work
for other galleries and museums.

Restorer Takashi Sugiura and his assistants, Makoto Souta and Kumi
Kinoshita, have repaired, restored, or remounted forty-two Chinese and
Japanese paintings and screens. Illustrator F. A. Haentschke has re-
mounted forty-four Persian, Indian, and Turkish paintings.

Museum specialist Martin P. Amt has made 143 exhibition changes:
5 American, 72 Chinese, 39 Japanese, 17 Korean, and 10 Near Eastern.
All the necessary equipment for these changes has been provided by
the cabinet shop under the direction of building superintendent Russell
C. Mielke, who also has maintained the building in its usual immaculate
and sound condition.

Pottery, Turkish (Iznik, late 16th
century A.D.): Tankard with angular
handle, buff-colored soft clay, thin
transparent glaze, polychrome design
of sailing dhows, castles on rocks,
birds, etc. (68.68).

380 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Lacquer, Chinese (Ming Dynasty, late 15th century A.D.): Round covered box
with design in carved dark brown lacquer against a ground of carved red
lacquer, scene of a moon palace with figures in a garden, horizontal zones with
separate scenes, fabulous beasts, and floral scrolls surrounding the main scene
on both the cover and body of the box (68.76 a-b).

Curatorial Activities

Director John A. Pope has continued his studies on the history of
the early export trade in Chinese porcelain and also on the history
of porcelain manufacture in Japan. In connection with the former, the
papers read at the Manila Trade Pottery Seminar (18-25 March 1968)
began to come in with the authors’ additional commentaries, and the
transcripts of the daily sessions were sent from Manila in February.
This material is now being edited with a view to publication.

In October 1968, Pope represented the Freer Gallery of Art at the
opening of the Toyokan, the new Museum of Far Eastern Art at the
Tokyo National Museum, Japan. While in Japan he also spent further

FREER GALLERY OF ART 381

time studying the kiln sites of Saga Prefecture on the island of Kyushu,
where the history of Japanese porcelain began in the 17th century, a.p.

Pope has been appointed by the Board of Overseers of Harvard Col-
lege, Harvard University, as a member of the committe to visit the
Department of East Asian Civilizations. Pope has continued in his ap-
pointments by the University of Michigan as Research Professor of
Oriental Art, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and by the
Trustees for Harvard University as a member of the Board of Advisors
of Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection. He has continued
serving in honorary posts and duties assumed in previous year.

Assistant Director Harold P. Stern has organized and completed
work on an exhibition entitled Master Prints of Japan, which was held
at the art galleries of the University of California at Los Angeles under
the sponsorship of the UCLA Art Council from 13 April to 25 May 1969.
As one of the most comprehensive exhibitions ever undertaken in the
field of the early Japanese woodblock, only the finest examples were
shown. Stern wrote a book to accompany the show that was published
by Harry N. Abrams, Inc., of New York. To select the examples for the
exhibition and to write the book, he studied hundreds of prints in both
public and private collections. The thoroughly illustrated volume serves
as a general guide for scholars as well as laymen.

Plans for two volumes dedicated to the Chinese and Japanese art
in the Freer Gallery have been initiated. Together with the other mem-
bers of the Freer staff, Stern has worked on the selection and the editing
of the text. In addition he has continued his research on Japanese paint-
ings and drawings in European and British collections as an adjunct to
a major project of a full catalog of Japanese paintings of the Ukiyoe
school in the Freer Gallery of Art. The Gallery holdings in this area are
among the largest and finest in existence. Because of great public inter-
est in Japan, negotiations have been started on issuing as a separate
volume the portion of this study relating to Hokusai.

During late October 1968, Stern participated in a symposium entitled
“Challenge of the East” at Dana College, Blair, Nebraska. He has given
many lectures during the year and has continued his work as a trustee
and member of the Executive Committee of the Japan-America Society
of Washington. He also has continued serving in honorary posts and
duties assumed previously.

Thomas Lawton, associate curator of Chinese art, has prepared the
descriptive texts for two volumes that illustrate selected examples from
the Chinese and Japanese collections. He has continued to organize
a Gallery handbook. Hin-cheung Lovell, assistant curator of Chinese
art, and Lawton are engaged in research on the paintings in the col-
lection. Special attention is being given to the Gallery’s large collection
382 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

of Che School paintings; a catalog and special exhibit of these paintings
are planned. In May and June 1969, Lawton spent six weeks studying
public and private collections of Chinese art in Europe. He has accepted
the invitation of the National Palace Museum in Taiwan to serve as
vice-executive secretary of the International Conference of Chinese
Painting to be held at the National Palace Museum in June 1970. He
also has been appointed an honorary lecturer in the Department of the
History of Art at the University of Michigan and has continued serving
in the honorary posts and duties assumed previously.

W. Thomas Chase, head conservator of the technical laboratory, has
continued to assist Rutherford J. Gettens, research consultant, in the
preparation of manuscript and proof for the forthcoming publication
on technical studies of Chinese bronze ceremonial vessels in the Freer
and of a manuscript on two Chinese bronze weapons with meteoritic iron
blades. Chase has continued the investigation of Chinese bronze belt-
hooks for a projected publication.

During 1969 Chase has held the post of a member of the Executive
Council, Washington Region Conservation Guild, and has continued
serving in the honorary posts and duties assumed in previous years.

Rutherford J. Gettins, research consultant for the Freer technical
laboratory, has begun work on a systematic and intensive study of
the technical aspects of the large collection (nearly 400) of Japanese
paintings of the Ukiyoe school housed in the Freer. Each painting is first
subjected to a condition study, then samples of pigment, mediums, and
support materials are taken for identification purposes. Elisabeth West
FitzHugh, formerly an analytical chemist with the laboratory, is assist-
ing Gettens. This work is done in cooperation with Harold P. Stern,
assistant director of the Freer Gallery of Art, who plans to publish a
catalog of the Freer Ukiyoe collection.

Joseph M. Upton, formerly research assistant at the Center for Mid-
dle Eastern Studies, Harvard University, is under contract with the
Freer and is engaged in translating from German and cataloging and
organizing the material Professor Ernst E. Herzfeld presented to the
Smithsonian Institution for the Freer Gallery of Art on his retirement
from the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University, in 1946.
Professor Herzfeld’s archives consist of his working materials accumu-
lated during a lifetime of study of the cultures of the Near East and
their environment from prehistoric times to the recent past. With these
materials maintained at the Freer, Upton’s endeavors will make the rec-
ords usable and available to scholars. The archives constitute one of the
few extant comprehensive bodies of basic source material for the study
of the history, art, religion, geography, and languages of the Near East.

Josephine Hadley Knapp, research assistant, is engaged in pottery
FREER GALLERY OF ART 383

study and research and in arranging and cataloging the study collec-
tion of Far Eastern pottery, which consists chiefly of shards from kiln
sites and other sources. The large collection includes a wide range
of examples of export wares from approximately the 10th century .p. to
modern times, wares that have been found in many regions of the world
from the Pacific islands and Asia to Africa and the Americas. She was
formerly assistant in the Department of Far Eastern Art and a staff lec-
turer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

Staff Changes

W. Thomas Chase was appointed head conservator of the technical
laboratory in July 1968.

Josephine Hadley Knapp was appointed research assistant in July
1968.

Thomas Lawton was appointed associate curator of Chinese art
in August 1968, and Hin-cheung Lovell reported for duty as assistant
curator of Chinese art in December 1968.

Under contract with the Freer, Joseph M. Upton is translating and
organizing Professor Ernst E. Herzfeld’s archives, and Mrs. Elisabeth
West FitzHugh is assisting Rutherford J. Gettens in the study of the
technical aspects of the Japanese paintings of the Ukiyoe school at the
Preer.

Morris Rossabi completed his one-year predoctoral research internship
at the end of June 1969.

Library

Library acquisitions this year include 369 volumes, 743 photographs,
and 2,317 slides.

A total of 570 scholars, students, and visitors have used the library
for research.

As in the past, the generous gifts from the Kevorkian Foundation
and the Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation have allowed the purchase
of additional titles.

From the Kevorkian Foundation grant:

Archdologische Mitteillungen Aus Iran. Berlin, 1929-38.
Herzfeld, E. The Persian Empire. Wiesbaden, 1968.

Baudier, M. The History of the Imperiall Estate of the Grand Seigneurs. London,
1635.
384 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

From the Weedon Foundation grant:

Ming-mo ssu-seng hsiian-chi: Pa-ta-shan-jen, Shih-t‘ao, Shih-ch‘i, Chien-chiang.
Hong Kong, 1968.

Ukiyoe. Nihon Keizai Shimbun Sha: Tokyo, 1969.

Fukushoku-shi Zue. Inokuma Kaneshige: Osaka, 1969.

Public Services

During the past year the Gallery was closed on Mondays from 21
October 1968 to 7 April 1969, as well as on Christmas Day. With the
resumption of a regular seven-day-week schedule, the hours have been
changed from 9:00 a.m.—4:30 p.m. to 10:00 a.m.—5:30 p.m. The total
number of visitors for the year was 179,374. The highest monthly at-
tendance was 25,983 during April. There have been 2,664 visitors who
came to the office to consult with staff members, to obtain general in-
formation, to submit objects and inscriptions for examination and trans-
lation, to obtain permission to photograph or sketch in the Gallery, to
use the library, or to examine objects in storage. Staff members have
examined 4,782 objects and 972 photographs, and have translated 1,011
Oriental inscriptions for individuals and institutions; objects in storage
have been shown to 643 persons. By appointment 60 groups, totaling
1,192 persons, have been given docent service in the galleries by staff
members; thirteen groups totaling 173 persons have been given docent
service in the storages. Among the visitors have been 280 distinguished
scholars in Far and Near Eastern art (128 from other nations) or per-
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came to study
objects, museum practices, and administration.

The Sixteenth Annual Series of Illustrated Lectures on Oriental Art,
held in the auditorium, have included:

“Wang Hui’s Metamorphosis, A Problem in Chinese Painting.” Professor Wen

Fong, Princeton University, 8 October 1968.

“Decorative Taste in Japanese Pottery.” Usher P. Coolidge, formerly at Fogg

Museum of Art, 12 November 1968.

“China’s Imperial Art Patrons.” Thomas Lawton, Freer Gallery of Art, 14 Jan-
uary 1969.

“The Art of the Satavahana Period, 2nd Century B.C. to 3rd Century A.D.”
Wayne Begley, University of Iowa, 11 February 1969.

“Mughal Jades.” John Irwin, Victoria and Albert Museum, 20 February 1969.

“Mount Sinai: A Crossroads of Cultures.” Professor Kurt Weitzmann, Princeton
University, 11 March 1969.

“Chinese Sources of Early Timurid Painting.” Dr. Ernst Grube, Columbia Uni-
versity, 8 April 1969.

The auditorium has been used by ten organizations for twenty meet-
ings with a total of 2,389 persons attending.
FREER GALLERY OF ART 385

The photographic laboratory, under the supervision of Raymond
Schwartz, has processed a total of 22,778 items during this past year,
including negatives, photographs, color slides, color sheet films, and
polaroid prints. These have included both Freer Gallery objects and
objects submitted from other sources.

The sales desk has sold 124,476 items consisting of 4,784 publications
and 119,692 reproductions (including postcards, stationery, slides, trans-
parencies, photographs, prints, and reproductions in the round). During
the year an additional five reproductions in the round and three new
jigsaw puzzles have been offered for sale.

Staff Publications and Papers

Ars Orientalis (1968), volume 7, 12 articles, 179 pages, 81 plates, text illustra-
tions. Smithsonian Institution Publication 4759.

Cuase, W. Tuomas. “The Technical Examination of Two Sasanian Silver
Plates.” Ars Orientalis (1968), volume 7, pages 75-93.

. “Further Notes on the Technical Examination of Two Sasanian Silver

Plates.” Second Annual Sasanian Silver Conference at Case Western Reserve

University, Cleveland, Ohio, 6 March 1969.

. “Spectographic Analysis of Sasanian Silver.”” Second Annual Sasanian
Silver Conference at Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio,
7 March 1969.

Lawton, THomas. Review: A Short History of Chinese Art by Michael Sullivan.
Artibus Asiae (1968), volume 30, numbers 2/3, pages 262-263.

. “Early Chinese Landscape Painting.” George Washington University,
Washington, D.C., 19 February 1969.

Pore, JouHn A. “Oriental Influence in Early America.” Williamsburg Antiques
Forum, Colonial Williamsburg, Virginia, 7 February 1969.

. “The Collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.” Friends of the American

Museum in Britain, Freer Auditorium, 14 February 1969.

. “New Light on Ri Sampei.” American Oriental Society, New York City,
25 March 1969.

Stern, Harold P. Master Prints of Japan. New York City: Harry N. Abrams,
Inc., 1969.

. “Challenge of the East—Characteristics of Japanese Art.” Dana College,

Blair, Nebraska, 22 October 1968.

. “Popular Painting of Tokugawa Japan.” Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha,

Nebraska, 24 October 1968.

. “Masterpieces of the Japanese Woodcut.” Art Council, University of

California at Los Angeles, 15 April 1969.

«ib
i CP ") i ' ty pre ney I
; ty ra

Pa eres ey Ve
National Collection of Fine Arts

Davip W. Scott, Director*

HIS HAS BEEN THE FIRST YEAR FOR NCFA since the opening of its

spacious new quarters in the former Patent Office Building. Each
day the staff has glowed with pride and delight in the new spaces, and,
at the same time, has been shadowed by new problems of communica-
tion and organization. Old friends in the collection of paintings took on
new life in new surroundings and were supplemented by generous gifts
and loans.

Outstanding among the ten special exhibitions at NcFa during the first
new year have been the exhibition of the works of Charles Sheeler, an
artist who enjoyed the warmth of popular and critical response to his
work, and the American entry in the Venice 34 international exhibi-
tion, which was chosen to demonstrate the continuing vitality of the
figurative tradition in recent American art.

The ncra Print Department selected thirty-five prints from its per-
manent collection for an exhibition of wra prints done at the New York
City Graphic Arts Workshop during the period of 1935 to 1943.

The International Art Program of ncFaA, in its efforts to present abroad
a full picture of American achievements in the visual arts, has covered
a variety of exhibitions, from The Disappearance and Reappearance of
the Image (which drew 35,000 viewers in Bucharest in 16 days) through
Creative Printmaking in Action, a unique print workshop traveling in
Pakistan, Iran, Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey, to The New Vein, now
in Latin America, showing the works of young, relatively unknown
artists.

*Resigned 31 May 1969. Robert Tyler Davis appointed acting director 1 June
1969.

387
388 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Alexander Calder’s The Spiral in the great courtyard.

New programs inaugurated at Nora during its first year include: The
Creative Screen, art films and films on art (shown four times a month,
this series has had an audience of 4,000 since the beginning of the pro-
gram in October 1968) ; a graduate seminar on themes in 19th-century
American art with the second semester on neoclassic American sculp-
ture, given by Professor William Gerdts; the Art Information Guide
program; Indoctrination for us1a cultural attachés in American art;
a lecture series; docent tours; and a grant to Art Quarterly.

The Department of 18th- and 19th-century Painting and Sculpture
has continued research on its cataloging project.

A Junior Museum was opened 1 May 1969. Here children are intro-
duced to the art galleries through special sculpture that is enchanting
to their age group.

The Renwick Committee has been set up as an interdepartmental
committee of Smithsonian staff to facilitate drawing on the entire re-
sources of the Institution to provide exhibitions and activities for the
Renwick Gallery. Robert Tyler Davis has been appointed chairman of
the committee. The members are: Carl Fox, Richard H. Howland,
Richard Virgo, J. Jefferson Miller II, Christian Rohlfing, Lisa Suter
Taylor, William Trousdale, Wilcomb E. Washburn, and C. Malcolm
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 389

Watkins. Ex-officio members are: Charles Blitzer, Frank A. Taylor, and
Donald R. McClelland.

The exterior restoration of the Renwick Gallery has been completed
insofar as money has been appropriated. Plans are being made for
completion of interior facilities with the help of Hugh Jacobsen, Wash-
ington architect, and William Pahlman, New York interior designer.
If additional money becomes available, it is hoped that the Gallery will
open in the winter of 1970.

NoFA celebrated its first anniversary in the new building on 3 and 4
May 1969 with an open house for the neighborhood and friends of the
Museum. Posters, fliers, and news releases advertised the weekend an-
niversary, and four workshops were set up in the courtyard by artists
Clifford Chieffo, Un’ichi Hiratsuka, Lloyd McNeill and Lou Stovall,
and Jack Perlmutter. Movies were shown every half hour, and music

(Left) Madonna and Child by Peter Paul Rubens (Gellatly collection).
(Right) X-ray of Madonna and Child shows the Madonna’s right hand was
first painted under the Child’s right arm, and part of the drapery was
painted out.

390 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Alexander Archipenko: NCFA exhibition, 11 July-18 August 1968.

was furnished by the District of Columbia Youth Symphony Orchestra,
the University of Maryland Trio, and the Tommy Gwaltney Quintet.

In September 1968 Mr. Robert Tyier Davis came to NcFA to be
assistant director. Trained at Harvard, where he earned both his AB
and ma, Mr. Davis has had many years of museum experience, having
been director at the Portland, Oregon, museum and the Montreal
Museum of Fine Arts. He organized the James Deering estate “Vizcaya”
at Miami, Florida, as the Dade County Art Museum, He has also been
professor of fine arts at McGill University and at the University of
Miami. Since his arrival here, Mr. Davis has organized a curatorial
committee with weekly meetings for exchange of information and dis-
cussion of problems, and has guided several other projects.

Dr. Scott resigned as director, effective 31 May 1969, and Mr. Davis
was named acting director as of 1 June.

Smithsonian Art Commission

Meetings of the Smithsonian Art Commission were held in December
1968 and in May 1969. One recommendation for the Regents to consider
is that the Commission’s name be changed to the National Collection
of Fine Arts Commission. Members heard a report from a committee
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 391

set up in its own group on the role of the Ncra. The committee of
distinguished professionals reaffirmed the belief that the collections of
the ncFA should be exclusively American and that the program should
emphasize research, making use of senior fellows invited for periods of
one to five years, and interrelating the research with exhibition and
teaching functions. The report commented on the major contributions
to the collections from private collectors, foundations, and artists. These
contributions should continue to be encouraged and supplemented with
funds for purchase from private sources.

The Collections

Gifts and transfers received during the year include:

Artist Title Donor
PAINTINGS
Warren Brandt The Dining Room Grace Borgenicht Gallery
Jimmy Ernst Nightnoon Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Ernst
Michael Goldberg Landscape Bernard Linn
Anne Goldthwaite Cabin in Alabama Miss Lucy Goldthwaite
Gyorgy Kepes Monument Eric F. Green
George Luks Morning Light Mr. and Mrs. Louis Sosland
Maurice Prendergast Park Scene, Trees Mrs. Eugenie Prendergast
PRINTS AND DRAWINGS
Romaine Brooks 35 drawings The artist
Werner Drewes 59 woodcuts The artist
= 84 lithographs Atelier Mourlot
SCULPTURE
Alexander Calder The Spiral The artist

A special collection of sketches, books, notebooks, engravings by Marguerite
and William Zorach, and plaster casts by William Zorach, has been received as a
gift of the Collection of Tessim Zorach.

Among purchases made the past year are:

Artist Title
PAINTINGS
James Hamilton Rip van Winkle, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
Stanton Macdonald-Wright Raigo
Benjamin West Helen Brought to Paris
SCULPTURE
William Randolph Barbee Fisher Girl

The Registrar reports as follows:

AccEssIons. 42 paintings, 17 sculptures, 749 prints and drawings, and 138
miscellaneous.
392 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Alexander Archipenko: NCFA exhibition, 11 July-18 August 1968.

Loans TO THE CoLLecTion. 404 works to the National Collection of Fine
Arts and 127 works returned to their lenders.

Outcoinc Loans. To government offices; 506 lent, 278 returned; to other
institutions: 68 lent, 108 returned.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS AT NCFA. RECEIVED: An American Collection, 129;
Lila Katzen, Light Floors, 41; WPA Print Exhibit, 35; The Graphic Art of Win-
slow Homer, 114; Rico Lebrun, 207; The American Poster, 121; Yasuo Kuni-
yoshi, 85; The Art of Tibet, 116; Les Levine TV Sculpture, 1; Henry Ossawa
Tanner, 79. RETURNED: Alexander Archipenko, 118; Charles Sheeler, 167; An
American Collection, 129; WPA Print Exhibit, 35; Lila Katzen, Light Floors,
41; Venice 34, 70; The Graphic Art of Winslow Homer, 114; Rico Lebrun, 207;
Charles Sheeler, 123; European Painters Today, 82; The American Poster, 121.

The lending program, from July through December 1968, organized
a number of special exhibits for the White House and other federal
agencies. An inventory of the collection on loan (more than 1000 works
of art) was completed prior to the change in federal administration.
The associate curator organized an exhibition from the Barney collec-
tion of the work of Edwin Scott (1863-1929), which was exhibited at
the Central Intelligence Agency in October 1968, and he organized an
exhibition of paintings by the Ceylonese artist Justin P, Daraniyagala,
which opened at the Smithsonian in January 1969. Eighty-three works
of art have been presented during the year for expert consultation.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 393

Charles Sheeler: NCFA exhibition, 10 October—-24 November 1968.

European Painters Today: NCFA exhibition, 8 April—-1 June 1969.

366-269 O—70——_26
394 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Since January three special exhibitions have been arranged at the
White House, and numerous loans have been made to principal govern-
mental offices.

The Conservation Laboratory has made a study of documentation
techniques. Color photomicrography, infrared photography, and other
aspects of photo-documentation have been explored. An investigation
of infrared luminescence and infrared color photography has been
begun as a further aid in documentation of the condition of art objects
and in selecting pigments for analysis.

Exhibitions at the Museum

Alexander Archipenko 11 July — 18 August 1968
A retrospective exhibition including 67 sculptures, 29 drawings, and
22 prints; organized by the Art Galleries of the University of California
at Los Angeles.

An American Collection: The Roy R. Neuberger Collection

15 August — 25 September 1968
A selection of 126 paintings and sculptures, primarily by contemporary
American artists, from one of the largest and most important private
collections in the United States; organized by the Museum of Art,
Rhode Island School of Design.

WPA Prints 1935-1943 1 October — 21 December 1968
An exhibition of 35 prints selected from NcFa’s permanent collection by
Jacob Kainen, curator of prints and drawings.

Charles Sheeler 10 October — 24 November 1968
A major memorial retrospective exhibition organized by NcFa; shown
also at the Philadelpia Museum of Art and at the Whitney Museum of
American Art in New York City. The 135 paintings and drawings shown
were selected by Harry Lowe and Abigail Booth, curator and assistant
curator of exhibits, respectively; the 35 photographs by Sheeler also
included in the exhibition were selected by Charles Millard, former direc-
tor of the Washington Gallery of Modern Art. A major catalog publica-
tion accompanied the exhibition.

The Figurative Tradition in Recent American Art

19 December 1968 — 2 February 1969
The exhibition presented by the United States at the 34th International
Art Exhibition, Venice, the Biennale of the summer of 1968; selected
by Norman Geske, director of the University Art Galleries, University
of Nebraska, Lincoln; organized by ncra’s International Art Program.
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 395

The Disappearance and Reappearance of the Image: IAP exhibition, Sala
Dalles, Bucharest, Romania, January 1969.

The New Vein: IAP exhibition on tour of major museums in Latin America.

396 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The Graphic Art of Winslow Homer

9 January — 23 February 1969
A catalogue raisonné in exhibition form of Homer’s work in printmak-
ing media; photographs of his paintings related to the prints also were
shown; organized by the Museum of Graphic Art, New York City.

Rico Lebrun

30 January — 16 March 1969
A retrospective exhibition including 45 paintings, 135 drawings, and 27
sculptures; organized by the Los Angeles County Museum.

European Painters Today

9 April — 1 June 1969
Eighty-five paintings by forty-nine contemporary, European-based art-
ists, selected by an international jury of museum directors; sponsored
by the Mead Paper Corporation.

The American Poster

25 April — 15 June 1969
A historical survey of the art of the poster in America comprised of
106 items; selected by Margaret Cogswell, deputy chief of the Interna-
tional Art Program; organized by the American Federation of Arts.

Yasuo Kuntyoshi

9 May — 29 June 1969
A retrospective exhibition including 43 paintings and 46 prints and
drawings; organized by the University Gallery, University of Florida
at Gainesville.

International Art Program

On 27 January 1969, in the Bucharest daily Informatia, Romania’s
leading art critic wrote:

The American exhibit is a blend of prestigious achievement and questing experi-

ments. They [the artists] look for new premises and methods of expression in the |
borderland between art and life, and also between art and non-art. They open

doors which could lead far, enriching and giving new patterns to existence.

The critic, Petru Comarnescu, was commenting on an exhibition of
American painting since 1945, The Disappearance and Reappearance
of the Image, which drew 35,000 viewers in Bucharest during a sixteen-
day showing early this year. The exhibition, organized by the Interna-
tional Art Program, contains one hundred works by 19 artists, a retro-
spective of the vitality and creativity of recent American painting. For

the Romanian audience, the opportunity to view the work of such artists _

—
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 397

Archipenko—International Vi-
stonary: Opening of exhibition
at Musée Rodin, Paris, 11
March 1969. Curator of Ex-
hibits Harry Lowe and Am-
bassador Sargent Shriver hold-
ing Archipenko catalog.

Printmaker Michael Ponce de
Leon and student in workshop,
IAP Project 67-17, in Karachi,
Pakistan.

398 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

as Jackson Pollack, Jasper Johns, Barnett Newman, Roy Lichtenstein,
and Helen Frankenthaler was unique and significant. The exhibition
was shown subsequently in Cluj and Timisoara, Romania, and in Bra-
tislava and Prague, Czechoslovakia. Its final appearance will be in
Brussels in October 1969.

The International Art Program has sought to broaden the perspective
and increase the impact of its exhibitions through the use of supple-
mental programing. Traveling curators who accompany the large exhi-
bitions conduct lecture discussion programs in connection with the exhi-
bition and exchange ideas, in private conversation and through symposia,
with local artists and museum personnel. Programs of experimental films
have accompanied exhibitions of contemporary art, and well-designed
presentations of historical memorabilia have been used in connection
with others. By helping the foreign audience appreciate not only the
works of art but the context in which they are produced and their rela-
tionship with earlier and later periods, such supplementary programs
contribute significantly to a full understanding of the content and mean-
ing of the exhibitions.

Another new program concept is demonstrated by Creative Print-
making in Action, a unique print workshop now in the Middle East.
This workshop has been conceived as a means of exploring with for-
eign artists the recently developed possibilities of an art form with which
many are not familiar. The aim is the creating of a working environ-
ment where artists are stimulated to experiment and where a genuine
exchange of ideas is the inevitable result. The workshop, now in its
second year of activity, has been held in Pakistan, Iran, Lebanon, Jor-
dan, and is now ready to move into Turkey.

One of 1ap’s chief undertakings during this year has been the planning

and reorganizing of the American exhibition for the X Sao Paulo Bienal,
scheduled to be shown in Washington in February 1970. This exhibi-
tion is an exploration of new trends in art and technology and is
conceived as an artistic entity in itself rather than as a gathering of
individual art works. Professor Gyorgy Kepes, the Commissioner for the
Exhibition, has said:
We hope to go beyond the limitations of the private studios and turn the total
environment, both social and physical, into our common workshop. Our new
scale of interest moves us away from isolated creative acts toward interdependent
creative actions, aiming to bring greater integrity and quality to our man-made
landscape and to our social-cultural behavior.

In its efforts to present a full picture abroad of American achieve-
ments in the visual arts, IAP continues to stress the showing of works of
young, relatively unknown artists. This has been done in both editions of
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 399

the exhibition The New Vein (now circulating in Europe and Latin
America) and will also be the case in an exhibition of small sculptures
that IAP is now organizing for the Near East.

Curatorial and Other Staff Activities

The Department of 18th- and 19th-century Painting and Sculpture
has completed files for the miniature collection, the review and recatalog-
ing of European painting collections, and new files for pre-20th-century
American and European painting and sculpture collections.

The principal work of the Contemporary Art Department during
the past year has been the preparation of the Milton Avery exhibition,
which opened 12 December 1968, the choosing of 140 paintings, draw-
ings, and prints, and the writing of the introduction to the catalog. This
is to be the major exhibition of the forthcoming season in the modern
American field. The Mary Cassatt catalogue raisonné has been com-
pleted and has been submitted to the Smithsonian Institution Press for
publication. The curator, Adelyn D. Breeskin, and her assistant, Jan K.
Muhlert, have juried about six art exhibitions both in and out of the city
and have given many lectures. Among the lectures given by the curator
have been a series of six for the Smithsonian Associates, monthly talks
on Contemporary American art to the Department of State Foreign
Service wives, three lectures to the Art Club of Greenwich, Connecticut,
two lectures in Omaha, Nebraska, two in Indianapolis, and one at
Martha’s Vineyard. She also advised on the preparations of the Henry
O. Tanner exhibition that opened 23 July 1968.

The curator of prints and drawings, Jacob Kainen, has continued his
research on American prints and drawings and on the work of Stanley
William Hayter and his influence on 20th-century printmaking. Mr.
Kainen has juried the Art Show at the National Institute of Health and
an exhibition for the Print Club of Philadelphia. He has lectured in the
“Masters in Depth” Smithsonian Associates Lecture Series, has partici-
pated in a symposium on art collecting at Winston-Salem, North Car-
olina, and has spoken at the opening of the Gorky exhibition at the
University of Maryland on “Memories of Arshile Gorky.” Mr. Kainen
also has attended the meetings of the Directors and Executive Com-
mittee of the Print Council of America. He has written the foreword
for the forthcoming publication of John Sloan’s Prints by Peter Morse
and an introduction to the catalog for the Werner Drewes Woodcuts
exhibition. The Drewes exhibition was selected by research assistant
Caril D. Dulcan, who also compiled material for the catalog.
400 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

SOS.”

=

A spears

4
ys

a

Artist Lloyd McNeill and assistant Lou Stovall in workshop during activities
celebrating NCFA’s first anniversary (photo by Michael Robbins).

Activities of the curator of exhibits and staff have included exhibi-
tions by Harry Lowe and Abigail Booth: Charles Sheeler at the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the
Whitney Museum of American Art from 10 October 1968 through
27 April 1969. By Val Lewton: one-man show of his paintings, Towson
State College, Towson, Maryland; one-man show of his paintings, Wood-
row Wilson High School, Washington, D.C. Other exhibitions designed
by Harry Lowe have included: Alexander Archipenko, for the Rodin
Museum, Paris, and The Nelson A. Rockefeller Collection of Mexican
Folk Art, for the Museum of Primitive Art, New York City. Lectures
by Harry Lowe: “Collecting: A Philosophy,” repeated with variations
five times; luncheon-seminar series on collecting, sponsored by Smith-
sonian Associates (held in six sections) ; ‘Destruction as an Art Move-
ment,’ Auburn University Arts Festival, Auburn, Alabama. He has
planned and led a Smithsonian Associates Art Tour to New York City.
Abigail Booth has given a talk, ‘““The Ncra—History, Development, and
Current Direction,” to the Art League of Northern Virginia, Alexandria,
Virginia. Jurying by Harry Lowe has included: Mid-States Art Show,
Evansville (Indiana) Museum of Arts and Sciences; 1968 Area Artists
Exhibition, Roanoke (Virginia) Fine Arts Center; Festival of States
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 401

Jack Perlmutter begins his [fF 9 es
demonstration during open =——
house, 3-4 May 1969, in the
courtyard of NCFA (photo by
Michael Robbins).

Art Show, St. Petersburg, Florida; and Latin American Arts, Carroll
Reece Museum, East Tennessee State University, Johnson City, Tennes-
see. Val Lewton has juried the city of Alexandria’s Outdoor Art Fair.
Harry Lowe attended the College Art Association annual meeting, Bos-
ton; and Abigail Booth attended the College Art Association annual
meeting, Boston, and the American Association of Museums annual
meeting, San Francisco.

Donald McClelland, former associate curator of the Lending Program,
is now associated with the Renwick Gallery, where he is concerned with
the Gallery’s development. He has given the following lectures: “What
is American in American Art,” to the Smithsonian Information Guides,
18 July 1968; “Washington, the New Art Scene,” to the International
Platform Association, 23 July 1968; “American Prints,” to the Docent
Training Seminar, 27 September 1968; “The Arts in America 1860-
1960,” to the Mississippi Art Association, Jackson, Mississippi, 6 October
1969; “Washington, the New Art Scene,” at Millsaps College, Jackson,
Mississippi, 6 October 1968; “Washington and the Smithsonian Insti-
tution,” at Trinity College, Washington, D.C., 10 December 1968; ‘““The
Arts in American 1850-1950,” a series of eight lectures at Catholic
University of America, Washington, D.C., February and March 1969;
and “Washington, the New Art Scene,” at the City Art Gallery, York,
England, 26 April 1969. He juried The International Platform Associ-
402 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

ation Art Exhibit, Washington, D.C., July 1968; The Mississippi Art
Association Area Exhibition 7 October 1968; and the Fairfax County
Art Association, 15 November 1968. He attended the College Art Asso-
ciation, Boston, 31 January and 1 February 1969 and the Department of
Agriculture Graduate School Fine Arts board meeting, 14 March 1969.

Jan Keene Muhlert, assistant in the Department of Contemporary
Art and Lending Program advisor, has taught a ten-week course,
“Understanding Contemporary American Art,” for Smithsonian Associ-
ates and has juried shows for the Academy of Arts, Easton, Maryland
(“Annual Art Festival’), George Washington University, Washington,
D.C. (“Spring Art Festival’), and the Job Corps, Washington, D.C.
(“First National Job Corps Art Competition”). She has concentrated
her research activities on works done in the 1930s under the Works
Progress Administration and, in preparation for a future exhibition, is
studying the large collection of paintings, watercolors, and prints by
William H. Johnson. Since January 1969, Mrs. Muhlert has been re-

sponsible for the Lending Program, organizing three special exhibitions —
in the White House and arranging numerous loans to principal gov-

ernmental offices.
The Art Information Guide program, an innovation of the Office of

Academic Programs, completed its first year on 6 May 1969 under the —

direction of Pat Chieffo. Students from every major university in the
United States have been encouraged to apply and have been carefully
selected to participate in this unique program. The function of the
program is to introduce art students to museum work and to prepare

them to function as information guides so that they may aid the public —

in its quest for knowledge on American art.

During the summer program at the National Collection, the guides
are expected to receive as well as to give information. Seminars of ex- —
tremely high caliber are arranged for them, but they also must do-

thesis-quality research on their own. The guides carry information-re-
quest slips, which they supply to visitors when they are unable to an-
swer a question about any of the paintings. They must then research
the question, type a reply, and mail it to the questioner. The Art Infor-
mation Guide program during its first fiscal year has established for our
Museum the image of a friendly place that welcomes and assists visitors.
The program has aided as well as trained young scholars and it has
become an excellent means by which public and guides can seek both
education and art.

The Editorial Office has done the initial editing of the Mary Cassatt |
catalogue raisonné, has edited the Werner Drewes and the Henry O.

Tanner exhibition catalogs, and has updated both the gallery plan

giveaway and the story of the building for reprinting. Drafting of cata-
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS 403

log prefaces, quarterly reports, and the NcFA section of Smithsonian
Year 1969 have been completed, and editorial assistance has been given
for articles to be published in Américas, Antiques, Art Quarterly, Arts,
and The Living Wilderness. Technical assistance has been given in secur-
ing printing of invitations and posters and in arranging for the use of
NCFA prints in the Labor Department’s monthly Labor Review. The
Editorial Office also has engaged in various miscellaneous projects in-
cluding the initiating and writing of Artyfacts, a weekly information
sheet for the NcFaA staff, the designing of an organization chart, the
devising and supervising of coverage by junior staff of the second floor
galleries in the absence of guards, the gathering of all publications
throughout the building into locked storage with a system to control
dissemination, and the supplying of copies of all past catalogs for NCFA
archives.

_ Research

The Department of 18th- and 19th-century Painting and Sculpture

| has completed its review and recataloging of the European painting

collections, has completed research on nine paintings by Thomas Dewing
and on the cataloging of the Blakelocks, and has continued work
on the Ryders and on the William T. Evans and Hiram Powers
correspondence.

In the Department of Contemporary Art, research has continued on
three artists of the earlier part of this century whose works will be ex-
hibited at a future date: W. H. Johnson, Romaine Brooks, and H. Lyman
Sayen.

The Department of Prints and Drawings has continued research on
American prints and drawings, particularly on the work of Stanley
| William Hayter and his influence on 20th-century printmaking. New
_ research is being done on innovative prints produced with various forms
of plastic.

Four graduate seminar reports prepared by students are on file at
Nera: The Effect of the Civil War on American Sculpture by Judith

Sobol (George Washington University), William Rimmer by Ellen

| (GWU), and Critical Attitudes Toward Neo-classical Sculpture by Jef-
| fry Brown (University of Maryland).

| The Library’s project to update the Library of Congress Fine Arts
classification schedule, “Class N,” has continued. The Librarian en-
| rolled in a two-week Institute on Modern Archives Management.
404 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969 ©
Staff Publications

Bootu, ABIGAIL, editor. Catalog of the exhibition, biographical notes, bibliog-
raphy, and exhibitions list. In Charles Sheeler. 156 pages, 170 illustrations.
Washington, D.C.: National Collection of Fine Arts and the Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1968.

BREESKIN, ADELYN D. Introduction. In Mary Cassatt among the Impressionists.
Omaha, Nebraska: Joslyn Art Museum, 1969.

KaINnEN, Jacos. Foreword. In Andrew Stasik. Catalog for the exhibition. Prague,
Czechoslovakia, 1968; San Juan, Puerto Rico, 1968.

. Foreword. In reprint of The Art of Graveing and Etching, 1662, by

William Faithorne. New York City, 1969.

. WPA Graphics Art Project in New York City. National Council on the

Arts. New York City, 1969.

. Introduction. In Photography in Printmaking. Associated American

Artists Catalogue. New York City, 1968.

. Foreword. In Moritz Daniel Oppenheim. Portfolio of reproductions,

A. Rothman Fine Arts. New York City, 1969.

. Introduction. In Paintings of Fran Kleinholz. Miami: University of

Miami Press, 1968.

. Introduction. In Richard Upton. Catalog for an exhibition. Saratoga
Springs, New York: Skidmore College, 1969.

Lowe, Harry. Introduction to the exhibition. In Charles Sheeler. 156 pages, 170
illustrations. Washington, D.C.: National Collection of Fine Arts and the
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

McCLELLAND, Dona.p. Catalog listing and commentary. In The Art of Justin
Daraniyagala. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service, 1968.

. Comments about the Artist Edwin Scott. For the Barney Exhibition.

Washington, D.C.: Central Intelligence Agency, 1968.

. “Perspective Soudanaise.” Topic (1968), United States Information
Agency, number 30.

Scott, Davi W. “The National Collection of Fine Arts.” Antiques (Novem-
ber 1968), volume 94, number 5.

. Foreword. In Charles Sheeler. 156 pages, 170 illustrations. Washington,

D.C.: National Collection of Fine Arts and The Smithsonian Institution Press,

1968.

Publications prepared under the auspices of the National Collection
of Fine Arts are as follows:

CHARLES SHEELER. Foreword by David W. Scott; introduction to the exhibi-
tion by Harry Lowe; catalog of the exhibition and biographical notes by
Abigail Booth essays by Martin Friedman, Bartlett Hayes, and Charles Mil-
lard. 156 pages, 170 illustrations. Washington, D.C.: National Collection of
Fine Arts and Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

Entries written for publication in the Funk and Wagnall’s Standard Reference
Encyclopedia, the Institute of Contemporary Art concert program, Smith-
sonian Research Opportunities, and the International Directory of Art.

Six Christmas cards and nine 4 x 6-inch postcards, illustrated with reproduc-
tions from NcFA’s permanent collection.
National Portrait Gallery

CHARLES NacEL, Director*

6 ¢ A NNUIT COEPTIS” OR “HE HAS FAVORED OUR UNDERTAKING” might

aptly be applied to 1968, the year of fruition for the National
Portrait Gallery. For the year 1962, when the Congressional Act cre-
ating the Gallery was passed, or 1964, when the Commission was formed,
the director appointed, and the business of the Gallery begun, gave evi-
dence of little more than the preliminary creakings of machinery that
eventually produced the event of greater significance: the actual open-
ing of the Gallery to the public.

This is not to underestimate the value of the earlier years ar the wis-
dom of those who gave generously of their time and knowledge in the
pursuit of the goal: the creation of a National Portrait Gallery worthy
to house the likenesses of America’s great. Without the seasoned counsel
of the Commission, during the sometimes tedious but more often
excitingly experimental sessions—with the Gallery still in only a plan-
ning state—its eventual consummation could never have taken place.

Exhibitions

To celebrate properly the propitious occasion of its formal opening,
the permanent collections of the youthful Gallery obviously were lack-
ing both in size and quality. It was therefore decided by a special ad hoc
committee on the opening exhibitions to gather together the most dis-

*Retired 30 June 1969.
406 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

tinguished likenesses available of great Americans in all walks of life,
whether from public or private collections.

The response to requests for loans was phenomenally generous, rang-
ing from Lord Primrose’s famous “Lansdowne” portrait of Washington
by Gilbert Stuart for the presidential series to the distinguished and
hitherto almost unknown likeness of Joseph Smith by an anonymous
artist, a unique treasure lent for the more general show by the Reor-
ganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.

The title adopted for the main exhibition was This New Man—A
Discourse in Portraits. Both title and central theme were taken from
Michel-Guillaume Jean de Crévecoeur’s Letters from an American
Farmer, wherein he inquired: “What then is the American, this new
man?”

To illustrate the thesis, 133 items were borrowed, of which five were
genre pictures, and with these were shown 36 portraits from the Gallery.
Many media were represented: oil on canvas, ivory, and wood; chalk
on paper and ivory; charcoal on paper; pastel on paperboard; pencil
and ink cartoons; daguerreotypes; photographs; and sculptures in
marble, bronze, and plaster.

Established artists, both domestic and foreign, with a few of lesser
reputation were called upon to illustrate the theme. All portraits shown
complied with the conditions of the permanent collection: that the
sitter be deceased at least ten years.

A comprehensive exhibition was presented to the public in a tasteful
and professional installation by exhibits curator Riddick Vann and his
staff. Critical response to the exhibition naturally varied. Any disap-
pointments—and there were disappointments—came from an apparent
lack of understanding of what was being attempted. This was a theme
show in which the sitter was deemed to be of the greatest importance.
The portraits of those who had made major contributions to the history
and culture of the country were presented in categories other than a time
sequence. This made for a spirited exhibition with comparisons that
were frequently most stimulating. It was by no means an art show and,
when reviewed as such, a false impression was created. If a critic,
however, became interested in the sitters rather than the artists, as
happened fortunately in several important instances, the resulting
comments were both knowledgeable and cogent.

The staff had embarked on this undertaking fully aware of the risks
involved but in the firm belief that this was the sort of exhibition the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery should initiate. On the whole, newspaper, mag-
azine, television, and radio coverage of the National Portrait Gallery
opening and the accompanying exhibitions were both extensive and
favorable. The concept of such a gallery for the United States has been
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 407

President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. With sketches for group portrait made
at Yalta, 1945, by Douglas Chandor (1897-1953) (NPG 68.49).

indorsed without exception by the communications media. Particular
praise was given the Congress for saving the magnificient Old Patent
Office Building from destruction and to the Smithsonian Institution for
converting it into a handsome home for two of its museums: the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery and the National Collection of Fine Arts.

Two spirited catalogs, This New Man and Presidential Portraits, pre-
pared by the assistant director and the Historian’s Department, accom-
panied the two exhibitions and will long outlast the all-too-brief visit of
the likenesses they described.
408 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

President James Madison. At-
tributed to Chester Harding
(1792-1866) (NPG 68.50).

The formal opening was preceded on 4 and 5 October 1968 by a
successful symposium, ‘““The American, This New Man,” with the fol-
lowing participants: Daniel J. Boorstin, professor of American History,
University of Chicago, and director-designate of the National Museum
of History and Technology; Marcus F. Cunliffe, professor of American
Studies, University of Sussex, England; and Margaret Mead, curator
of Ethnology, American Museum of Natural History. Secretary Ripley
introduced the first session and Benjamin Townsend, assistant director
of the Gallery, served in the capacity of mediator. For this event, the
Gallery is indebted to the imaginative generosity of Time, Inc.

The opening ceremonies, with addresses by Secretary Ripley and
Mayor Washington, were held in the courtyard of the Fine Arts and
Portrait Galleries Building on a cool and clear Saturday evening, 5 Oc-
tober 1968, followed by an opening for the Smithsonian Associates the
next day. The public opening took place on Monday, 7 October. Pre-
ceding the opening ceremonies out-of-town guests were entertained at
private dinners organized by a committee of volunteers under the chair-
manship of Mrs. Robert Kintner.

Two more special exhibitions have been featured during the year. The
first, entitled A Nineteenth-Century Gallery of Distinguished Americans,
opened 20 February 1969. It sought to honor a pioneer portrait painter
and engraver of Philadelphia, James Barton Longacre (1794-1869),
for his important work in the publication, from 1834 to 1879, of a four-
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 409

President John Quincy Adams.
By George Caleb Bingham
(1811-1879) (NPG 69.20).

volume work entitled A National Portrait Gallery of Distinguished
Americans. In this exhibition, conceived wholly by the curator Mr.
Stewart, who was also the author of the accompanying catalog, an effort
was made to assemble not only the engravings of Longacre but also
source materials of him and others used for those engravings. The re-
sulting exhibition has been a fascinating study of how one of the earliest
gatherings of likenesses of those judged great in the second quarter of
the nineteenth century was undertaken and brought to a fruition that
elicited popular acclaim.

The lending of a large amount of original material by Dr. Andrew
Longacre and members of the Longacre family, descendants of the artist,
have given the exhibition its particular charm and interest. Many of the
engravings shown have come from the extensive print collections trans-
ferred to the Gallery as gifts from the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s
Joseph Verner Reed Collection and from the Robbins Print Collection,
Arlington, Massachusetts. In this same exhibition, a bronze version of
the bust of Lyndon Baines Johnson by Jimilu Mason also was shown
as a loan from the artist.

On 12 May 1969 the portrait of President Johnson by Peter Hurd
was placed in the presidential alcove and given its first Washington
showing. The reaction of the public to this generous gift to the Gallery
by the artist was warm and enthusiastic.

The second special exhibition, opening 22 May 1969, has been a

366-269 O—70——_27
410 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Mathew Pratt (1734-1805).
Self-portrait painted in studio
of Benjamin West, 1764. (NPG
69.35).

showing of many of the original works of art used through the years
on the covers of Time magazine. Worldwide in readership, Time is one
of the few American publications that consistently uses for its covers,
not the colored photograph brought to a unique perfection in our time
yet still factual rather than interpretive, but drawings, paintings, and
caricatures of the famous figures of our era. A group of these drawings,
paintings, and sculptures related to figures prominent in American life
comprise this highly successful and popular show. The Gallery is grate-
ful to Time not only for delving into its archives to make these pictures
available, but also for supplying the catalog and hosting the opening
festivities.

The National Portrait Gallery provided facilities for the ceremony
held by the Post Office Department on 4 November 1968 in connection
with the issuance of a stamp based on an npc portrait of Chief Joseph
of the Nez Percé Indians by Cyrenius Hall. The stamp bore the legend
“National Portrait Gallery” in honor of the recently opened museum.
Several collateral descendants of the chief attended and added to the
picturesque quality of the occasion. In the course of the year, a benefit
dance for the Washington Hospital Center and the 75th Jubilee meeting
of the Columbian Women of George Washington University have been
held at the Gallery.

For the nine months from 4 October 1968 to 30 June 1969 attendance
has been 52,061, apart from the special events discussed above.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 411

John Philip Sousa. By Harry
Franklin Waltman  (1871-
1951). (Gift of the Sousa Cor-
poration) (NPG 69.24).

Organization

The National Portrait Gallery Commission began the year with the
following members:

John Nicholas Brown, chairman, Catherine Drinker Bowen, Julian P. Boyd,
Lewis Deschler, Edgar P. Richardson, David E. Finley, Wilmarth Sheldon Lewis,
Richard H. Shryock, and Frederick P. Todd. Ex officio members: the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, S. Dillon Ripley; the director of the National Gal-
lery of Art, John Walker; and the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution, Earl
Warren, Chief Justice of the United States.

In the course of the year the resignations of the following members
from the Commission have been accepted with regret: Julian P. Boyd,
Richard H. Shryock, and Frederick P. Todd, whose work with the Com-
mission came during the critical formative period; they will be greatly
missed, for without their seasoned advice the Gallery could scarcely
have begun to function as a museum. Jules D. Prown, curator of the
Garvan and Related Collections of American Art at Yale; Andrew
Oliver, New York attorney and authority on early American portrai-
ture; and Whitfield J. Bell, Jr., librarian of the American Philosophical
Society at Philadelphia, have been appointed members of the Commis-
sion and are welcome additions to its deliberations. During the year,
meetings have been held three times.
412 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Otto Kahn. By Jo Davidson
(1883-1952). (Gift of Mrs
John Barry Ryan) (NPG
68.44).

Two committees set up by the Commission are: The Acquisitions
Committee: Edgar P. Richardson, chairman, David E. Finley, Wil-
marth Sheldon Lewis, and Julian P. Boyd; ex-officio: Charles Nagel
and Robert G. Stewart. The Ad Hoc Committee on the Opening Ex-
hibition: Edgar P. Richardson, chairman; Edward H. Dwight, director
of the Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute of Utica; ex officio: Charles
Nagel, Daniel J. Reed, Robert G. Stewart, and Virginia Purdy.

Personnel

Daniel J. Reed, historian, who returned January 1969 from a year’s
leave of absence as deputy director of the National Advisory Commis-
sion on Libraries, after a few months was appointed assistant archivist
for Presidential Libraries in the National Archives. His experience,
knowledge, and exuberant personality are sorely missed on the staff.
J. Benjamin Townsend, assistant director, whose work on the opening

|
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 413

exhibitions and particularly on the two catalogs This New Man and
Presidential Portraits has been invaluable, left immediately after the
Gallery was opened to return to his teaching post in the University of
the State of New York at Buffalo. In the brief time he was here, Mr.
Townsend brought to the Gallery a fresh point of view; the loss of his
knowledge and sympathetic personality leaves a real gap in day-to-day
deliberations. Thomas Girard, who with good humor, tact, and effi-
ciency performed as registrar the gigantic task of moving and insuring
all loans for the opening exhibitions, left after the opening of the
Gallery to take up similar duties in the Joseph H. Hirshhorn collection
in New York City. He has been replaced in this important post by Jon
Danning Freshour, formerly research assistant. Christiana Berryman,
secretary to the administrative officer, resigned her post in fall 1968 and
has been replaced by Barbara Faison. Also, Lewis McInnis, Kenneth
Despertt, Adrienne Meier, and Mary Virginia Langston have resigned.
Helen Romberger has joined the staff as secretary to the Conservation
and Photographic Laboratories. Finally, the Curatorial Department
has suffered a great loss in the departure to the Archives Bureau of Mrs.
Violet Richardson, who had efficiently and pleasantly presided over its
affairs in a manner that will make her greatly missed. She has been
replaced by Mrs. Doris Rauch.

A tragic motor accident late in August 1968 was responsible for the
death of Thomas Winslow, library technician. One of the most promis-
ing young members of the staff, he had served only a few weeks subse-
quent to his appointment though he had been with the Gallery previously
as a temporary employee. No one had exhibited more élan and promise
in the performance of his duties.

Many gaps in the staff need to be filled, but these appointments await
the director’s successor, Marvin S. Sadik, previously director of the Uni-
versity of Connecticut Museum of Art at Storrs. Mr. Sadik is a graduate
with honors from Harvard, where he also did his graduate work. He
received his initial museum training as assistant to Francis Henry Taylor
at Worcester. Immediately before going to Storrs, Mr. Sadik was
director of the Bowdoin College Museum of Art in Brunswick, Maine.
In his previous posts he has become known for a series of spirited exhi-
bitions. He is the author of several distinguished catalogs, particularly
one of the Bowdoin collection of family portraits at that college. He is
young, experienced, venturesome, and, best of all, really interested in
portraiture. The Gallery may look forward to an outstanding regime
under his directorship.

For its initial year of operation, the Gallery, with no formal educa-
tional program because of austerity, has been fortunate from February
to May 1969 in having, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Paul Johnston,
414 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

a singularly gifted and faithful group of volunteer docents. Derived
from the Ladies Committee of the Associates, these ladies have ad-
dressed some 835 people in 185 public tours. Other volunteers have
rendered invaluable service at the reception desk and in the Gallery
shop. Contact with these groups has been ably coordinated by Miss
Sandra Sharpe of the staff, who herself has substituted in several capac-
ities when the need arose.

VOLUNTEERS
Docents Reception Desk
Mrs. David Acheson Mrs. F. J. Crilley
Mrs. Daniel E. Bergin Maria Franco
Mrs. Crenshaw Briggs Mrs. Ruth Graham
Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk
Mrs. J. A. de Ganahl Gallery Shop
Mrs. William C. Grayson Mildred Archer
Mrs. Charles Guggenheim Mrs. Austin Lowrey

Mrs. Richard Helms

Mrs. Paul Ignatius

Mrs. S. Paul Johnston, chairman

Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen

Mrs. T. Ames Wheeler, vice chairman

Assisting Mrs. Stephenson as volunteers in the print archives have
been Miss Julia Loewe, Mrs. Charles Nagel, and Mrs. Stuart Symington.
Thanks to these ladies, a total of 38,261 portrait prints and photographs
have been sorted and accessioned.

In the course of the year, the director has served as a member of the
Smithsonian Academic Appointments Board, on the Educationa] Panel,
and on the committee to select an Exceptional Service Award Medal.
He has been a member of the Mt. Vernon Ladies Association’s Advisory
Board, a trustee of the Yale Associates in Fine Arts, a member of the
American Association of Museums, and a member of the Art Museum
Directors Association.

On television, he has appeared with Jean Smith on ngc’s “Today
Show” and on wrc’s “A Moment With” Deena Clark, while over the
radio he has participated in interviews on the Gallery over usIa’s
“Voice of America,” wttc’s “Panorama,” and on wnyc with Ruth
Bowman.

He also has lectured on the Gallery at the City Art Museum of Saint
Louis; the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; the Friends of Raynham Hall,
Oyster Bay; the Washington Club; the Contemporary Club of Balti-

more; the Colony Club, New York; and Berkeley College, Yale
University.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 415

Robert G. Stewart, curator, has continued to teach the museology
program in conjunction with the Art Department of George Washing-
ton University.

Mr. Stewart and the director have addressed in the Office of Academic
Programs a group of summer students inquiring into the history and
purposes of museum exhibits: “The Art Gallery—Its History and
Foundation.”

Monroe Fabian of the Curator’s Department, has attended “Visual
Arts in American Culture, 1725-1790,” a seminar at the Henry Francis
du Pont Winterthur Museum, 8-26 July 1968. He has delivered lectures
to the Zonta Club of Washington, the Cosmopolitan Club of Washing-
ton, and the Southhold Historical Society.

At the beginning of the year the staff was occupied in the transporta-
tion of more than 200 objects from individuals and institutions for the
opening exhibition of the Gallery. In addition, transportation has been
arranged for two other exhibitions: A Nineteenth-Century Gallery of
Distinguished Americans and Portraits of American Newsmakers.

Mrs. Purdy, keeper of the Catalogue, gave a paper at the annual
convention of the American Association for State and Local History in
a session entitled “Automation in Pursuit of History.’ She has spoken
to the area chapters for both the Reference Division of the American
Library Association and the American Studies Association about the
developing Catalogue of American Portraits. She also has spoken on
“Portraits as Historical Documents” at a membership meeting of the
Colonial Dames of America in Chicago, IIlinois.

Mr. Walker, the librarian, attended an institute on “The Introduction
to Modern Archives Management,” held at the National Archives, 2-13
June 1969. The following week (16-20 June) he served on the faculty
of an Institute on Art Librarianship that was held at the State Univer-
sity of New York at Buffalo, where he presented a paper on his work
with the Library of Congress in revising the L.C. classification schedule
for books on the fine arts, Class N.

Mrs. Aleita Hogenson, reference librarian, attended the annual con-
ference of the American Library Association at Atlantic City, New
Jersey, 23-27 June 1969. Mrs. Shirley Harren, technical information
specialist, attended the Special Libraries Association’s annual meeting
in Montreal, Canada, 1-6 June 1969.

History Department and Catalogue of American Portraits

Because the vacancy in the position of historian has not been filled
and Mrs. Virginia C. Purdy, formerly assistant historian, has been made
416 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

keeper of the Catalogue of American Portraits (cap), the Gallery has
had no permanent professional staff in its History Department for the
greater part of this year.

The work of the Department has been carried on by two temporary
research assistants under Mrs. Purdy’s supervision. They have completed
the research and writing still needed on the catalog This New Man, and
one of them, Elizabeth T. Heck, has made an outstanding contribution
to the opening exhibition by assuming responsibility for locating and
arranging to borrow the associative objects that gave an additional
dimension to the exhibition.

Mrs. Beverly Cox has selected the sitters and supervised the historical
arrangement of the exhibition of portraits from the permanent collec-
tion that was hung in the second floor galleries in January 1969. She
also has taken charge of the Gallery’s biolographical file and has par-
ticipated in book selection for the library. Both of these assistants have
researched and written biographical material for exhibition captions for
the permanent collection and the Longacre exhibitions as well as for the
use of the Acquisitions Committee in making decisions on additions to
the collection.

The permanent staff of the Catalogue of American Portraits has con-
sisted of the aforementioned keeper and two research assistants, Mrs.
Mona Dearborn in art history and Miss Dorothy Brewer in American
history. In addition there have been two temporary catalogers for part
of the year.

Working closely with the Information Systems Division, the cap staff
has completed a pilot project to develop a format to prepare portrait
information for automatic-data processing at the same time it is being
entered into the manual file of the cap without sacrificing accuracy,
careful documentation, and completeness in the manual file. The next
steps will be the editing and committing to paper tape of all current
and incoming records (some 25,000 at present) and the programming
for indexing and eventual publication.

Portrait surveys or cataloging projects have been undertaken in the
past year in cooperation with the cap by some fifteen organizations of
national importance. Much of this activity has originated with the or-
ganizations involved because of their interest in the Catalogue.

Mrs. Genevieve Stephenson serves in the dual role of reference liorar-
ian for the Catalogue of American Portraits and picture librarian for the
Gallery’s picture collection, which contains 38,261 prints and photo-
graphs. Twenty-two scholars have used the manual file of the cap and
the picture collection in the first five months of 1969, and ninety-eight
reference requests have been answered by the staff by phone or by cor-
respondence during the year. The picture collection has been augmented
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 417

by 227 photographs transferred from Armed Forces History in the
Division of Military History and approximately 4000 prints from glass-
plate negatives of portraits taken between about 1912 and 1945 by
Harris & Ewing, photographers in Washington, D.C. Harris & Ewing
has lent the Gallery its microfilm and records for the period, and Miss
Brewer has extracted from it data pertinent to the portraits of which
the museum holds prints. About 600 of the glass-plate negatives have
been retained.

Library

The chief visual enhancement of the library this past year has been
the installation of antique gold carpeting extending the entire length of
the main floor center. Not only handsome, it is also a practical addition
that covers the much patched original marble flooring and cuts down im-
measurably on the noise. The carpet was laid in time for the opening
of the National Portrait Gallery.

During the year the library acquired and is housing in the southeast
section of the fourth floor stack area the files of the Prevention of
Deterioration Center, which represents a ten-year project conducted by
Dr. Carl J. Wessel and sponsored by the National Research Council.
Since these files are of general interest to the Smithsonian, they may
eventually be housed elsewhere in the Institution. On the top floor
of the library, there are files of material of New Deal Art Projects
operating between 1933 and 1943 and the Holger Cahill files, which
consist of papers and photographs from the Washington office of the
late director of the wpa federal art project. This material has been as-
sembled and organized by Dr. Francis V. O’Connor, who has also written
a handbook to facilitate the use of the files.

Many professionals have visited the library during the year including
members of Winterthur’s Graduate Program, the Woodlawn Conference
under the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Reference Serv-
ices Division of the Maryland branch of the American Library Associa-
tion, a seminar group from the Fogg Art Museum, and individuals such
as Mrs. Fredo Goldman, art reference librarian of the Johnannesburg
Public Library; Dr. Jan KYiz of the Institute of History of Art, Prague;
and Miss Helen Lowenthal of the Victorian Society of London.

Handicapped with lack of staff, Mr. Walker and his assistants have
continued to give first-rate service to the two museums and to the public.

A quick survey of countable activity in the library shows a total of
2,050 visitors who used the library without reference assistance, 2,830
requests for reference assistance, 2,159 loans to staff and other Smith-
418 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

sonian bureaus, and 580 books borrowed from the Library of Congress.
With a small acquisitions budget, the library is especially grateful for
donations to the collections. The largest single gift for the year is that
of Mrs. Adelyn Breeskin’s personal library.
Six publication exchange mailings, consisting of seven NcFA and five
NPG titles, have been sent to 265 institutions, domestic and foreign.

Conclusion and a Personal Word
from the Retiring Director

To sum up the present situation of the Gallery, the words of Secretary
Ripley on the occasion of its opening may well be kept in mind:

At first glance, the courage of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion in accepting the task of setting up a National Portrait Gallery can be
measured only by mega-scale: mega-watts, mega-meters, or mega-tons. To found
a portrait gallery in the 1960s—when American portraiture has already reached
the zenith in price and the nadir in supply, when museums and halls of legislature
of this country already possess most of the available portraits and sculpture of
famous personages and are little likely to release them to a johnny-come-lately—
seems an act of bravery indeed.

The positive nature of the act of the Regents is further evoked by the com-
position of the National Portrait Gallery Commission. Scholars are preponderant
on that Commission, and it is, therefore, an earnest of policy and plans to come.
It is quite obvious that this National Portrait Gallery, in the very act of being
created when it was, has already set its sights on being a different National
Portrait Gallery. Scholarly it must be, concentrating on a dimension in historical
biography and iconography largely left uncharted by the great historical and
biographical source books of this nation. The opportunity is here, if it can be
correctly measured, for setting forth on a series of profound and seminal cata-
logs and historical studies in the field of likenesses of American personages
never before marshalled or planned as a whole. Few tasks in American his-
torical scholarship could be more challenging. The Gallery should be a center,
as well, for original biographical studies by those historians, who might just
happen to be interested in human beings rather than social institutions.

If the National Portrait Gallery is to live up to its bold challenges, it must
become one of the most exciting environments for scholars and the public
alike in our Capital City.

During these formative years, the writer, as a former art museum man,
occasionally found himself sailing in uncharted waters. With the aid of
a learned Commission, and a small but exceptionally bright and intelli-
gent staff, however, the navigation during the Gallery’s first five years
has proved equal to the demands made upon it. Certainly those on
the bridge never doubted an eventual landing at the appointed haven.

These initial years have tested many of the possibilities of our building
for the purposes of a museum. These will undoubtedly change and be
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 419

modified as the Gallery expands and takes on new concepts and
objectives.

Imaginative and skilled leadership seems assured and, with this to
count upon, plus five years of experience, the future of the Gallery will
no doubt be secure.

Much has been said and written about the early mention of estab-
lishing a National Portrait Gallery. One such reference appears in
The Plough Boy, an Albany, New York, agricultural journal edited by
Solomon Southwick. Here under the nom de plume of “Henry Home-
spun, Jr.,’ Southwick, in the issue of 4 March 1820, urges the estab-
lishment of ‘“‘a Gallery of National Portraits,” wherein “the men of New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island may hold converse with
the spirits of their Langdons, their Franklins, their Greenes; and, here
the Carolinian and Virginian may come to talk with the shade of
Laurens of the mazes of diplomacy and that of Washington of the art
of war.”

To have become, almost 150 years later, the first director of such a
National Portrait Gallery has been for the writer an important, final
professional task, and, as well, a great and memorable privilege, happily
shared with a distinguished and understanding group of colleagues.
In departing he salutes alike the Gallery, now launched in shipshape
fashion, and its future filled with promise. Ave at que vale!

Staff Publications and Papers

NacEL, Cuar-es. “The National Portrait Gallery.’ Antiques (November 1968),
volume 94, number 5, pages 726-729.

. “The National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution.” Mu-
seum Association of Great Britain, Museum Journal (March 1969), volume
68, number 4, pages 156-159.

Purpy, Vircinia, and DANIEL J. REED. Presidential Portraits. Edited and fore-
word by J. Benjamin Townsend. Smithsonian Publication 4748. 75 pages,
37 illustrations. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1968.

STEwarT, Robert G. “James Herring’s Portrait of Noah Webster.”’ Smithsonian
Journal of History (fall 1967), volume 2, number 3, pages 70-72.

. A Nineteenth-Century Gallery of Distinguished Americans. Foreword by
Charles Nagel. 95 pages, 166 illustrations. Smithsonian Publication 4762. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1969.

This New Man—A Discourse in Portraits. Edited by J. Benjamin Townsend;
foreword by S. Dillon Ripley; introduction by Charles Nagel; essay by Oscar
Handlin; text by History Department, National Portrait Gallery, 217 pages,
162 illustrations. Smithsonian Publication 4752. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1968.

A group of nine postcards, color reproductions of paintings in the Gallery’s col-
lection, published by Clarke & Way, Inc., for saie at the Gallery Shop.

420

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Loans to National Portrait Gallery
1 July 1968-30 June 1969

Paintings for This New Man, opening exhibition (total 134)

Subject

Adams, Samuel
Addams, Jane

Amherst, Jeffrey
Asbury, Francis

Astor, John Jacob
Audubon, John James

Barnum, Phineas T.
Barton, Clara
Belasco, David
Bellows, George
Belmont, August
Berkeley, Sir William

Boone, Daniel

Bowditch, Nathaniel
Brady, Mathew B.

Brant, Joseph

Brown, Charles Brockden
Bryan, William Jennings
Bryan, William Jennings

Bryant, William Cullen

Bulfinch, Charles
Burr, Aaron

Calhoun, John C.
Calvert, Charles
Carnegie, Andrew

Carroll, John
Catlin, George

Artist

John Singleton Copley
George deForest Brush

Joseph Blackburn
Charles Peale Polk

John Wesley Jarvis
G. P. A. Healy

Thomas Ball

J. E. Purdy
Everett Shinn
Robert Henri
Unknown

Sir Peter Lely
Chester Harding

Charles Osgood
Charles Loring Elliott

Ezra Ames

William Dunlap
Joseph Keppler
Irving R. Wiles

Frank Buchser

Mather Brown
John Vanderlyn

G. P. A. Healy
Godfrey Kneller
Anders Zorn

Gilbert Stuart
William Fisk

Channing, William Ellery Washington Allston

Owner

City of Boston

Jane Addams’ Hull
House, University of
Illinois

Mrs. Frederick R. Pratt

Methodist Historical
Society

Mrs. Peter A. Jay

Museum of Science,
Boston

Tufts University

Library of Congress

Museum of the City of
New York

National Academy of
Design, New York City

August Belmont

Maurice du Pont Lee

Massachusetts Historical
Society

Peabody Museum, Salem

The Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art

New York State Historical
Association

Mr. and Mrs. F. Woodson
Hancock

Library of Congress

Department of State

Kunstmuseum, Basel,
Switzerland

Fogg Art Museum

Yale University Art
Gallery

The Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts

The Enoch Pratt Free
Library

Museum of Art, Carnegie
Institute

Georgetown University

National Collection of
Fine Arts

Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Subject
Clark, William

Cody, Buffalo Bill
Colden, Cadwallader

Cooper, James Fenimore

Copley, John Singleton
The County Election

Cushman, Charlotte

Custer, George Armstrong
Davis, Jefferson

Decatur, Stephen
Dewey, John

Dix, Dorothea Lynde
Douglass, Frederick
Douglass, Frederick

Eakins, Thomas

Edwards, Jonathan

Exhuming the First Ameri-
can Mastodon

Field, Marshall

Forrest, Edwin
Franklin, Benjamin

Frémont, John Charles
Fulton, Robert

Gallatin, Albert
Garrison, William Lloyd

Gibbons, James Cardinal
Gompers, Samuel

Gould, Jay

Greene, Nathanael
Hancock, John
Hanna, Mark

Harlow, Jean

Artist
John Wesley Jarvis

Stacy
Matthew Pratt

John Wesley Jarvis

Self-portrait
George Caleb Bingham

Thomas Sully

Mathew Brady
John Elder

Gilbert Stuart
Jacob Epstein
Samuel Bell Waugh
J. W. Hurn
Unknown

Self-portrait
Joseph Badger
Charles Willson Peale

Léon-Joseph Florentin
Bonnat

David Johnson

Mason Chamberlin

Charles Loring Elliott
Benjamin West

Gilbert Stuart
Nathaniel Jocelyn

Florence MacKubin
Moses Dykaar

Attributed to Eastman
Johnson

Charles Willson Peale

John Singleton Copley

Anders Zorn

Studio Still

421

Owner

Missouri Historical So-
ciety

Library of Congress

New York Chamber of
Commerce

Yale University Art
Gallery

Private collection

City Art Museum of
St. Louis

Library Company of
Philadelphia

Library of Congress

The North Carolina
Museum of Art

Jonathan Bryan

Mrs. John Dewey

St. Elizabeths Hospital

Library of Congress

Rhode Island Historical
Society

National Academy of
Design, New York City

Yale University Art
Gallery

The Peale Museum

Field Enterprises, Inc.

National Gallery of Art

Philadelphia Museum of
Art

The Brooklyn Museum

New York State Historical
Association

The Metropolitan Museum
of Art

Mr. and Mrs. Garrison
Norton

Walters Art Gallery

National Collection of
Fine Arts

National Trust for His-
toric Preservation

Montclair Art Museum

City of Boston

The Western Reserve
Historical Society

The Museum of Modern
Art
422

Subject

Hearst, William Ran-
dolph

Hicks, Edward

Hill, James J.
Homage to Eakins

Hopkins, Harry L.
Houston, Sam

Hughes, Charles Evan
In the Land of Promise ;
Castle Gardens
James, William
Jones, John Paul

Késciuszko, Tadeusz
Andrzej Bonawentura
Lafayette, Marquis de

La Guardia, Fiorello

The Las! Moments of
John Brown

Lee, Richard

Lee, Robert E.

Lewis, Meriwether

Longfellow, Henry
Wadsworth

Mather, Increase

Maury, Matthew

Mayo, Charles Horace

Mayo, William James

Mellon, Andrew

Melville, Herman
Mencken, H. L.

Meyer, Adolf
Michelson, Albert
Millikan, Robert
Morse, Samuel F. B.

Mott, Lucretia Coffin

Artist
Orrin Peck

Thomas Hicks

Henri Caro-Delvaille
Raphael Soyer

Reuben Nakian
Henry Dexter

Philip de Laszlo
Charles F. Ulrich

Ellen Emmet Rand
Charles Willson Peale

Benjamin West
Charles Willson Peale

Unknown
Thomas Hovenden

Attributed to Sir Peter
Lely
Frank Buchser

Charles B. J. F. de
Saint-Mémin
James Buchanan Read

Jan Van Der Spriett
George W. L. Ladd

Louis Betts

Louis Betts

Oswald Birley

Asa W. Twitchell
Nikol Schattenstein

Hildegard Woodward
Ralph Clarkson

Holger and Helen W.
Jensen
Self-portrait

Joseph Kyle

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Owner

The Hearst Corporation

A. Aldrich Rockfeller
Folk Art Collection

G. Richard Slade

Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Foundation

The Museum of Modern
Art

Texas Library and His-
torical Commission

Chauncey L. Waddell

Corcoran Gallery of Art

Fogg Art Museum

Independence National
Historical Park Col-
lection

Allen Memorial Art
Museum

Washington and Lee
University

Brown Brothers

The Metropolitan Muse-
um of Art

Mrs. Cazenove Lee

Kunstmuseum, Berne,
Switzerland

Missouri Historical
Society

Mrs. Thomas Curtis

Massachusetts Historical
Society

The Mariners Museum,
Newport News

Mayo Foundation

Mayo Foundation

National Gallery of Art

The Berkshire Athenaeum

The Enoch Pratt Free
Library

Mrs. Julia L. Asher

Harper Memorial Library

California Institute of
Technology

Addison Gallery of
American Art

Mrs. Alan Valentine
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Subject
Muhlenberg, Frederick

Augustus Conrad
The Oregon Trail
Osceola
Paine, Thomas
Palmer, Mrs. Potter
Peale, Charles Willson
Perry, Matthew C.
Perry, Oliver Hazard
Poe, Edgar Allan

Priestley, Joseph

Pulitzer, Joseph
Raleigh, Sir Walter

Revere, Paul

Rittenhouse, David
Rockefeller, John D.

Rush, Benjamin

Russell, Lillian
Ruth, Babe

Ryder, Albert Pinkham
Saint-Gaudens, Augustus

Schurz, Carl
Seward, William H.
Sherman, Roger
Sherman, William
Tecumseh

Sitting Bull
Smith, Joseph

Sousa, John Philip
Stein, Gertrude

Artist
Joseph Wright

Albert Bierstadt
George Catlin
John Wesley Jarvis

Guerrino Guardabassi
Self-portrait

Unidentified Japanese
artist

John Wesley Jarvis

W. S. Hartshorn

Rembrandt Peale

John Singer Sargent
Unknown

John Singleton Copley

Charles Willson Peale
Paul Manship

Thomas Sully

Adolfo Muller-Ury
Unknown

Self-portrait
Kenyon Cox

Arthur von Ferraris
Frank Buchser
Ralph Earl

Frank Buchser

D. F. Barry
Unknown

Harry Franklin Waltman

Jacques Lipchitz

423

Owner

Mrs. George Brooke III

The Butler Institute of
American Art

National Collection of
Fine Arts

National Gallery of Art

Potter Palmer, Jr.

The Pennsylvania
Academy of the Fine
Arts

Library of Congress

The Detroit Institute of
Arts

American Antiquarian
Society, Worcester

The New-York Historical
Society

Joseph Pulitzer, Jr.

National Portrait Gallery,
London

Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston

University of Pennsylvania

National Collection of
Fine Arts

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin
Rush

Jessica Dragonette

Underwood & Under-
wood Newsphotos, Inc.

Private collection

The Metropolitan Museum
of Art

National Carl Schurz
Association, Inc.

Kunstmuseum, Basel,
Switzerland

Yale University Art
Gallery

Swiss Confederation

Library of Congress

Reorganized Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter
Day Saints

Mrs. Helen Sousa Abert

The Baltimore Museum
of Art
424

Subject

Sullivan, John L.
Sullivan, Louis H.
Sumner, Charles

Sutter, John A.

Thomas, Theodore

Thoreau, Henry David

Thorpe, Jim

Twain, Mark

Tyler, Royall

Valentino, Rudolph

Washington Irving and His
Friends at Sunnyside

Whistler, James Abbott
McNeil

White, William

Whitman, Walt

Whitney, Eli

Wise, Isaac Mayer

Artist

J. M. Mora
Frank A. Werner
William Morris Hunt

Frank Buchser

Leopold Syffert

Benjamin D. Maxham

Unknown
Charles N. Flagg

Unknown

Edward Steichen
Christian Schussele

William Merritt Chase

Gilbert Stuart
Thomas Eakins
Samuel F. B. Morse

Moses Jacob Ezekiel

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Owner

Library of Congress

Chicago Historical Society

The Metropolitan Mu-
seum of Art

Museum der Stadt Solo-
thurn, Solothurn,
Switzerland

The Orchestral Associa-
tion, Chicago

The Thoreau Society ;
Concord Free Public
Library

Wide World Photos, Inc.

The Metropolitan Muse-
um of Art

The Honorable William
R. Tyler

Edward Steichen

Sleepy Hollow Restora-
tions

The Metropolitan Muse-
um of Art

The Pennsylvania Acad-
emy of the Fine Arts

The Pennsylvania Acad-
emy of the Fine Arts

Yale University Art
Gallery

Hebrew Union College

Portraits for Presidential Portraits, opening exhibition (total 17)

Subject
Adams, John

Adams, John Quincy
Cleveland, Grover
Coolidge, Calvin
Hayes, Rutherford B.

Jefferson, Thomas
Johnson, Andrew

Madison, James
Monroe, James

Polk, James K.
Roosevelt, Franklin D.

Artist
Mather Brown

Charles R. Leslie
Anders Zorn

Ercole Cartotto

William Carl Browne

Mather Brown
Frank Buchser

Gilbert Stuart
Thomas Sully
Miner K. Kellogg
Douglas Chandor

Owner
Library of the Boston
Athenaeum
Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Homans
Richard Cleveland
Phi Gamma Delta Fra-
ternity, Washington,
D.C.
The Union League of
Philadelphia
Charles F. Adams

Kunstmuseum, Basel,
Switzerland

T. J. Coolidge, Jr.
West Point Museum
Cincinnati Art Museum
Mrs. Douglas Chandor

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Subject
Roosevelt, Theodore

Taylor, Zachary
Washington, George
Washington, George

Washington, George
Washington, George

Artist
Philip de Laszlo

Attributed to Rembrandt
Peale
Jean Antoine Houdon

John Ramage
Gilbert Stuart
Gilbert Stuart

425

Owner

The American Museum
of Natural History,
New York City

Mrs. Thomas M. Waller

The Pierpont Morgan
Library, New York
City

Mrs. Andrew Van Pelt

Lord Primrose, D. I.

National Gallery of Art

Portraits for A Nineteenth-Century Gallery of Distinguished Americans (total 68)

Subject
Adams, Abigail
Ames, Fisher

Baldwin, Abraham
Barney, Joshua

Biddle, Nicholas
Calhoun, John Caldwell
Carroll, Charles

Carroll, Charles
Cass, Lewis
Clay, Henry

Clay, Henry
Crawford, William Harris

Dickinson, John
Gist, Mordecai

Henry, Patrick
: Henry, Patrick
_Hosack, David
Irving, Washington
Jackson, Andrew
Jackson, Andrew

Jay, John
Johnston, Josiah Stoddard

| Kenton, Simon
| Laurens, Henry
Lee, Henry
Livingston, Edward
Longacre, James Barton
(as a young man)

Artist

Gilbert Stuart
Gilbert Stuart

Robert Fulton
Jean Baptiste Isabey

James B. Longacre

James B. Longacre

Attributed to Chester
Harding

Chester Harding

James B. Longacre

William James Hubard

James B. Longacre
John Wesley Jarvis

James B. Longacre
Luther Terry

James B. Longacre
Lawrence Sully
Thomas Sully
Charles Robert Leslie
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
Gilbert Stuart and
John Trumbull
Charles Bird King

R. W. Morgan
William G. Armstrong
Gilbert Stuart

James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre

366-269 O—70—_—28

Owner

National Gallery of Art

The Honorable Henry
Cabot Lodge

Andrew Longacre

Daughters of the American
Revolution Museum

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre

Mrs. Philip H. Clarke

National Gallery of Art
Andrew Longacre
University of Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts
Andrew Longacre
The Pennsylvania Acad-
emy of Fine Arts
Andrew Longacre
Maryland Historical
Society
Andrew Longacre
Amherst College
John Hampton Garnes
Mrs. E. DuPont Irving
Mrs. William Hacker
Andrew Longacre
John Clarkson Jay

Redwood Library and
Athenaeum

Mrs. Phillip Holt Lowry

Andrew Longacre

Carter Lee Refo

Andrew Longacre

Mrs. Milton Cornell
426

Subject
McKean, Thomas

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Artist
Gilbert Stuart

McMackin, Eliza Williams James B. Longacre

Madison, Mrs. James
Marion, Francis

Martin, Luther
Martin, Luther

Ogden, Aaron

Penn, Admiral
Perry, Oliver Hazard

Pickens, Andrew
Poinsett, Joel Roberts

Ramsay, David

Ramsay, David

Rice, Daniel

Stone, Thomas

Summerfield, John (oil)

Summerfield, John
(drawing)

Sumter, Thomas

Unknown Gentleman, I
Unknown Gentleman, II
Unknown Gentleman, ITI
Unknown Gentleman, IV
Unknown Gentleman, V

Unknown Gentleman, VI

Unknown Gentleman,
VIII

Unknown Gentleman,
IX

Unknown Gentleman, X

Washington, William
Augustine

Washington, William
Augustine

Webster, Daniel

Webster, Daniel

White, William

Wilson, James

Wilson, James

Wirt, William
Witherspoon, John
Woodburt, Levi

Joseph Wood

Attributed to James B.
Longacre

Henry Hoppner Meyer

Unknown

Asher Brown Durand

James B. Longacre
J. W. Jarvis

Unknown
James B. Longacre

Charles Frazer

James B. Longacre
Unknown photographer
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre

William G. Armstrong
after Rembrandt Peale
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre

James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre

James B. Longacre

James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre

Charles Willson Peale

James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
Unknown

James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre

Owner

Mrs. Edward Wardell

Andrew Longacre

Virginia Historical
Society

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre

Court House, Baltimore,
Maryland

The New-York Historical
Society

Mrs. Milton Cornell

Art Commission, City
of New York

Francis Pickens Miller

Library Company of
Philadelphia

Andrew Longacre

Mrs. William Hacker

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre

Independence National
Historical Park
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
National Collection of
Fine Arts
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Subject
Wythe, George
Addendum
Adams, John
Boone, Daniel
Gerry, Enbridge

Artist

James B. Longacre

James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre
James B. Longacre

Owner

Andrew Longacre

Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre
Andrew Longacre

Portraits for Portraits of American Newsmakers (total 86)

(All owned by Time-Life, Inc., who sponsored the exhibition)

Subject

Abrams, Creighton
Bacall, Lauren
Baez, Joan
Baldwin, James
Bernstein, Leonard
Black, Hugo
Brooke, Edward
Buckley, William
Bundy, McGeorge
Carson, Johnny
Cerf, Bennett
Child, Julia
Dennis, Sandy
Dirksen, Everett
Eisenhower, Dwight D.
Eisenhower and Nixon
Faulkner, William
Finch, Robert
Franklin, Aretha
Fulbright, William
Fuller, R. Buckminster
Galbraith, John Kenneth
Gardner, John
Gleason, Jackie
Goldwater, Barry
Harriman, Averell
Harris, Julie
Hefner, Hugh
Hope, Bob
Hopper, Edward
Hull, Bobby
Humphrey, Hubert H.
Javits, Jacob
Johnson, Lady Bird
Johnson, Lyndon
Kennedy, Edward M.
Kennedy, Ethel
Kennedy, Jacqueline
Kennedy, John F.
Kennedy, Robert F.

Artist

Louis Glanzman
Boris Chaliapin
Russell Hoban
Boris Chaliapin
Henry Koerner
Robert Vickrey
Henry Koerner
David Levine
Robert Vickrey
Robert Berks
Pietro Annigoni
Boris Chaliapin
Boris Chaliapin
Robert Vickrey
Ernest Hamlin Baker
James Chapin
Robert Vickrey
Vincent Perez
Boris Chaliapin
Robert Vickrey
Boris Artzybasheff
Gerald Scarfe
Boris Chaliapin
Russell Hoban
Bernard Safran
Boris Chaliapin
Henry Koerner
Marisol

Marisol

James Chapin
LeRoy Neiman
Louis Glanzman
Robert Vickrey
Boris Artzybasheff
Pietro Annigoni
René Bouché
Jan De Ruth
Boris Chaliapin
Pietro Annigoni
Roy Lichtenstein

427
428

Subject

Kennedy, Robert F.
Kerr, Jean

King, Martin Luther, Jr.

Kissinger, Henry
Lindsay, John
Lodge, Henry Cabot
Lombardi, Vince
Lowell, Robert
Luce, Henry R.
Mansfield, Mike
McCarthy, Eugene
McLain, Denny
Merrick, David
Monk, Thelonius
Mosbacher, Emil Jr.
Moynihan, Daniel P.
Nixon, Pat

Nixon, Richard M.
Novak, Kim
Oswald, Lee Harvey
Parseghian, Ara
Reagan, Ronald
Rockefeller, Nelson
Rockefeller, Winthrop
Rogers, William
Romney, George
Roosevelt, Theodore
Rowan and Martin

Schlesinger, Arthur, Jr.

Scranton, William
Shriver, Sargent
Simon, Norton
Sinatra, Frank
Stevenson, Adlai
Streisand, Barbra

Tillinghast, Charles, Jr.

Truman, Harry S
Updike, John

Wallace, George and Curtis Lemay

Warren, Earl

Westmoreland, William C.

Wilkins, Roy
Williams, Tennessee
Wyeth, Andrew
Young, Whitney

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Artist

Louis Glanzman
René Bouché
Robert Vickrey
Louis Glanzman
Henry Koerner
Robert Vickrey
Boris Chaliapin
Sidney Nolan
Robert Vickrey
Boris Chaliapin
David Stone Martin
Robert Heindel
David Stone Martin
Boris Chaliapin
Charles Lundgren
Boris Chaliapin
Robert Vickrey
Boris Chaliapin
Robert Vickrey
Boris Artzybasheff
Boris Chaliapin
Marion Pike
Henry Koerner
Peter Hurd

Boris Chaliapin
Boris Chaliapin
Aaron Bohrod
Gerald Scarfe
Boris Chaliapin
Robert Vickrey
Ben Shahn
Bernard Safran
Aaron Bohrod
James Chapin
Henry Koerner
Peter Hurd

Boris Chaliapin
Robert Vickrey
Robert Grossman
Ernest Hamlin Baker
Robert Berks
Henry Koerner
Bernard Safran
Henriette Wyeth Hurd
Boris Chaliapin
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY 429

Other Portraits on Loan to the Collection

1 July 1968-30 June 1969

Subject Artist Owner
Addams, Jane Unknown William R. Glennon
Johnson, Lyndon Baines  Jimilu Mason Jimilu Mason

Loans from National Portrait Gallery to Other Institutions
1 July 1968-30 June 1969

Subject Artist Borrower

Anderson, Marian Laura Wheeler Waring Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Audubon, James J. Unknown National Museum of
History and Technology

Barrow, Joe Louis Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Barnett, Claude Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Barthe, Richard Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Bethune, Mary McLeod Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Bolin, Jane M. Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Bontemps, Arna Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Bunche, Ralph Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burleigh, Harry T. Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Campbell, William A Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Carson, Rachel Una Hanbury National Museum of
History and Technology

Douglas, Aaron Betsy Graves Burlington County
Community Action
Program
430

Subject
DuBois, W. E. B.

Ericsson, John

Fauset, Jessie R.

Gershwin, George

Granger, Lester

Hastie, William H.

Houston, Charles H.

Ives, Herbert E
Jefferson, Thomas

Johnson, Charles S.

Johnson, Mordecai

Jones, John Paul
Keller, Helen

Lawless, Theodore

McClellan, George

Mulzac, Hugh H.

Patterson, Frederick D.

Randolph, Asa Phillip

Robeson, Paul

Artist
Betsy Graves

Arvid Nyholm

Betsy Graves

Self-portrait

Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

Chester W. Slack

Michael Sokolniki after

Tadeusz Kosciuszko
Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

J. E. Haid
Jo Davidson

Betsy Graves

Julian Scott

Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Borrower

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

National Museum of

History and Technology |

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

National Museum of

History and Technology |

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

National Museum of

History and Technology

National Museum of

History and Technology

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

National Museum of

History and Technology

National Museum of

History and Technology

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

National Museum of

History and Technology

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Subject
Sampson, Edith

Schoenberg, Arnold
Sims, William Sowden

Temple, Ruth

The Signing of the Treaty
of Versailles
Thurman, Howard

Williams, Paul

White, Walter

Portraits

Subject

Adams, John Quincy
Arthur, Chester A.

Bell, Alexander Graham
Black, Hugo L.
Brennan, William J.
Bromfield, Louis
Brown, John

Chase, William Merritt

Clark, “Champ” (James

Beauchamp)
Debs, Eugene
Duveneck, Frank

Douglas, Stephen Arnold

Douglas, William O.
Draper, Ruth

Everett, Edward

Farragut, David Glasgow

Fortas, Abe
Frankfurter, Felix

Artist
Betsy Graves

Muriel Turnoff
Irving Ramsay

Betsy Graves

John C. Johansen

Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

Betsy Graves

2 |

Borrower

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

National Museum of
History and Technology

National Museum of
History and Technology

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

National Museum of
History and Technology

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Burlington County
Community Action
Program

Added to Permanent Collection

Artist

George Caleb Bingham
Matthew Wilson

Moses Dykaar

Oscar Berger

Oscar Berger

Zoss Melik

J. C. de Blezer
William Merritt Chase
Michael Jacobs

Louis Mayer

William Merritt Chase
Joseph Ternbach
Oscar Berger

Mary Foote

Hiram Powers

Attributed to William
Swain

Oscar Berger

Oscar Berger

1 July 1968-30 June 1969

Donor or fund

Purchase

Transfer, Harry S.
Truman Library

Transfer, NCFA

Gift, Oscar Berger

Gift, Oscar Berger

Purchase

Gift, Alfred Volkenberg

Purchase

Gift, Kimball Clark

Purchase

Purchase

Gift, Joseph Ternbach

Gift, Oscar Berger

Gift, Mr. and Mrs. Franz
Oppenheimer

Gift, Mrs. Charles C.
Glover, Jr.

Transfer, NMHT, Smith-
sonian

Gift, Oscar Berger

Gift, Oscar Berger
432

Subject

Franklin, Benjamin

Frost, Robert

Frost, Robert

Fulton, Robert

Gilbert, Cass

Hart, Moss

Hampden (Doughtery),
Walter

Harlan, John M.

Hemingway, Ernest

Hill, James J.

Hough, William Jarvis

Irving, Washington

Jackson, Andrew

Johnson, Andrew
Kahn, Otto

Kane, Elisha Kent

Kaufman, George
Lewis, Sinclair
Lindbergh, Charles A.
Loomis, Eben Jenks

McKinley, William
Madison, James

Marshall, Thurgood
Mayo, William James
and Charles Horace

Meyer, Adolph

Nagel, Charles
Nathan, George Jean
Pratt, Matthew
Roosevelt, Franklin D.

Sheridan’s Ride

Sherman, John

Shreve, Henry Miller

Sloan, John with Dolly
Sloan, Robert Henri
and Linda Henri

Sousa, John Philip

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Artist

Johann Martin Will
after C. N. Cochin
Jose Buscaglia

Walker Hancock
Jean-Antoine Houdon
R. B. Brandegee

Zoss Melik

William Glackens

Oscar Berger

Zoss Melik

Muller-Ury

J. Brayton Wilcox
Daniel Huntington
James Barton Longacre

Thomas Nast
Jo Davidson

Attributed to Giuseppe
Fagnini

Zoss Melik

Zoss Melik

J. Stubbs

Edwin Burrage Child

August Benziger

Attributed to Chester
Harding

Oscar Berger

An original composition
(after two oil paintings
by Louis Betts) by
Charles J. Fox

Hildegard Woodward

Anders Zorn

Zoss Melik

Matthew Pratt

Douglas Chandor

Thomas Buchanan Read

Henry Ulke
Unknown
John Sloan

Harry Franklin Waltman

Donor or fund

Purchase

Gift, Banco Credito y
Ahorro Ponceno, San
Juan, Puerto Rico

Gift, Walker Hancock

Purchase

Purchase

Purchase

Gift, Sansom Foundation

Gift, Oscar Berger

Purchase

Gift, Jerome Hill

Gift, Mrs. Violet Sheperd

Purchase

Gift, Swedish Colonial
Society

Purchase

Gift, Mrs. John Barry
Ryan

Purchase

Purchase

Purchase

Gift, George O’Connor

Bequest, Mrs. Millicent
Bingham

Gift, Marieli Benziger

Purchase

Gift, Oscar Berger
Gift, The Mayo Founda-
tion

Gift, Mrs. Julia Asher

Gift, Charles Nagel, Jr.

Purchase

Purchase

Purchase

Transfer, NMHT, Smith-
sonian

Gift, Mrs. Louis A. Bolin

Purchase

Purchase

Gift, The Sousa Corpora-
tion

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Subject
Sousa, Mrs. John Philip

Stewart, Potter
Strong, Benjamin

Sumner, Charles

Tarkington, Newton
Booth

Taylor, Frederick Wins-
low

Warren, John Collins

Warren, Earl

White, Byron R.

Whitney, William C.

Wilson, Edith Bolling
Galt

Wollcott, Alexander

Artist
Harry Franklin Waltman

Oscar Berger
Gari Melchers

Edgar Parker
Walker Hancock

Samuel Murray

Francis Alexander
Oscar Berger
Oscar Berger
Unknown

Emil Alexay

Zoss Melik

433

Donor or fund

Gift, The Sousa Corpora-
tion

Gift, Oscar Berger

Gift, General Phillip B.
Strong

Purchase

Gift, Walker Hancock

Gift, Stevens Institute of
Technology

Purchase

Gift, Oscar Berger

Gift, Oscar Berger

Gift, Michael Straight

Gift, Alan Urdang

Purchase

Decorative Arts Added to the Collections

Pair of Ming vases

Pair of eighteenth-century Holland Delft

tobacco jars

One nineteenth-century tole flower holder
Pair of Japanese wood chests

Pair of nineteenth-century hurricane shades
Pair of nineteenth-century Chinese flower pots
One eighteenth-century oval, Chinese platter
One eighteenth-century Chinese plate, floral

design

Pair of carved Adam torchéres

1 July 1968-30 June 1969
Object

Donor

Victor Proetz Fund

Victor Proetz Fund

Victor Proetz Fund
Victor Proetz Fund
Victor Proetz Fund
Victor Proetz Fund
Gift of Mrs. Alcott F. Elwell
Gift of Mrs. Alcott F. Elwell

Gift of J. Bruce Bredin
‘ie

weer = teell

Bear ¢-

8 ott ber We)
pocrte
wii ie

ad t Ww FA

>

teri ik |

) Saal « = ne
} 'aroe-'!

it |

yes . 4 “iy fay

Ay) es -
a eb Pn od Dl a.
peaetg) | Set) y
= Sealy =
ral
at
a |
=
A
1% cast"
we
mnt trad’
. ”y ns
" y
& Q Whig ve
ou een ye s
]
a Ww
I »

Hass el

3 Poem? 4 OH |

NM. T2etist
a Sieve sa) hie feces ped

4 i, lo cok i vint te

vow,

cs

i ead

wkd

, es
svieserl/ scarey ive
aed wae

nwo

Dremial F =. @

aout

mes) 21 Tb.

(ii LA.

Lvs Cote
Lan ae

ohm STA
rey er i eee
mir Pi

wu .2hnee pee
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

ABRAM LERNER, Director

N 1968-1969 THE JOSEPH H. HIRSHHORN MUSEUM, under Director

Abram Lerner, has continued to move toward the realization

of its primary goals: the development of plans for the opening of the

new Museum on the Mall, the acquisition of new paintings and sculp-

tures, and the maintenance of its services to scholars and institutions in-
volved in the history of modern American and European art.

On 8 January 1969 President Lyndon B. Johnson and Joseph H.
Hirshhorn broke ground for the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden. President Johnson, Mr. Hirshhorn, Secretary Ripley,
Chief Justice Earl Warren addressed the distinguished guests, who in-
cluded Gordon Bunshaft of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, architects

of the new Museum, the Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents, Con-
gressional leaders, and prominent members of the government and the
art world. Director Abram Lerner, assistant curator Cynthia J. Jaffee,
historian Frances R. Shapiro, and registrar Thomas J. Girard repre-
sented the Hirshhorn Museum at the historic event.

In his remarks at the ground-breaking ceremony, Mr. Hirshhorn said
in part:

I have spent the greater part of my life with art, with artists, and as a collector

of art. When I began to collect, it was considered absurd to believe that American

art could ever achieve international significance, that it could ever become a vital
art.

It was an honor for me to give my art collection to the people of the United
States. I think it is a small repayment for what this great nation has done for
me and others who have come to this country as immigrants.

435
436 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Triptych — Inspired by T. S. Eliot’s Poem “Sweeney Agonistes.” By Francis
Bacon (English, born Dublin, 1909-). Oil and pastel on canvas, each (3)
78 x 58 inches. 1967.
JOSEPH H. HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 4Si

Portrait of Philippe Soupalt. By Robert Delaunay (French, 1885-1941). Oii on
paper, 51 X 7614 inches. 1922.
438 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Le Questionnat. By Yves Tanguy (French, 1900-1955). Oil on canvas, 23 x
32 inches. 1937.

Whip Out. By Jules Olitski (American, 1926—). Aluminum with acrylic air-
drying lacquer, 5 xX 21 x 12 feet. 1968.

“|
”
JOSEPH H. HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 439

Sabine Houdon. By  Jean-
Antoine Houdon (French,
1741-1828). Marble, 24 inches
high. 1791.

Woman with Baby Carriage.
By Pablo Picasso (Spanish,
-1881-). Bronze, 80 inches high.
1950.

440 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
The Collection

In 1969 Mr. Hirshhorn’s enthusiasm and generosity again led to the
addition of over five hundred new paintings and sculptures to the super-
lative collection of fine art he has donated to the United States for the
benefit of the people.

The more than twenty-five hundred sculptures in the Hirshhorn Col-
lection range historically from antiquity to the works of today’s young
creators. Its fine representation of African art is highlighted by a superb
group of Benin bronzes. Of its renowned European and American
sculptures of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, one hundred forty
monumental works are located at the Hirshhorn Sculpture Garden,
Greenwich, Connecticut, where they were viewed in 1969 by partici-
pants in twenty-four benefit tours for educational, cultural, and philan-
thropic organizations. Among the outstanding sculptures acquired in

1969 are:

Artist Title
Benin (Nigeria) Head of an Oba
Calder, Alexander Mobile-Fleche
Carpeaux, Jean-Baptiste Bust of Anna Foucart de Valenciennes
Giacometti, Alberto Femme 1929
Houdon, Jean-Antoine Sabine Houdon
Magritte, Rene La Folie des Grandeurs
Matisse, Henri Jeanette III
Moore, Henry 3-Piece Sculpture: Vertebrae
Nicholson, Ben White Relief, First Version, 1938
Olitski, Jules Whip-Out
Picasso, Pablo Woman with Baby Carriage
Schoffer, Nicholas Spatiodynamique 17

The Collection’s paintings focus on the 20th century. From the works
of precursors such as Thomas Eakins and Winslow Homer to the can-
vases of today, the course of painting in America is covered in depth.
Complementing the American section is a strong selection of paintings ©
by modern European masters and young contemporaries. Notable paint-
ings added to the Collection in 1969 include:

Artist Title

Albers, Joseph Four Xs in Red

Anuskiewicz, Richard Spectra Squared

Bacon, Francis Triptych 1967: Inspired by T.S. Eliot’s
poem “Sweeney Agonistes”

Bluemner, Oscar Morning Light (Dover Hills, October
1916)

Delaunay, Robert Portrait of Philippe Soupault

Glarner, Fritz Relational Painting-Tondo #20

Leger, Ferdinand Nu Sur Fond Rouge

Newman, Barnett The Covenant

JOSEPH H. HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN 441

Artist Title
Noland, Kenneth Via Breeze
Pascin, Jules “Salon” at Marseilles
Reinhardt, Ad Number 88
Still, Clyfford Untitled, 1953
Tanguy, Yves Le Questionnat

The Hirshhorn Collection is a major source for museums and art
historians preparing retrospective exhibitions, biographies, or catalogue
raisonnés of 20th-century artists. In 1969 numerous requests for research
information, loans, and photographs have continued to be received
and acknowledged by the staff. Visiting scholars, artists, and officials
are received at the Collection office and warehouse in New York City.
Despite the necessarily curtailed loan program, two hundred works
from the Collection have been loaned to museums and galleries
throughout the world. The following loans are representative:

To exhibition

Balthus Retrospective: Tate Gallery,
London

Bissier Retrospective: San Francisco
Museum of Art; Phillips Gallery,
Washington; Carnegie Institute,
Pittsburgh; Dallas Museum of Fine
Arts; Guggenheim Museum, New
York City

Broderson Retrospective: Fine Arts
Gallery of San Diego

“The Sculpture of Thomas Eakins’’:
Corcoran Gallery, Washington

Levine Exhibition: California
Palace of the Legion of Honor,
San Francisco

Sheeler Retrospective: National
Collection of Fine Arts, Smithso-
nian Institution; Philadelphia
Museum; Whitney Museum,
New York City

Smith Retrospective: Guggenheim
Museum, New York City

Opening Exhibition: National
Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian
Institution

Works on loan
2 paintings

Artists
Balthus

Bissier, Jules 2 paintings

Broderson, Morris 12 paintings

Eakins, Thomas 2 sculptures

Levine, David 4 paintings

Sheeler, Charles 1 painting

Smith, David 4 sculptures

Soyer, Raphael 1 painting

Appel; LeBrocquy;
Rivers; Meadows
Hopper; Kline; Marin

de Moulpied; Snelson;
di Suvero

4 paintings;
sculptures
4 paintings

3 sculptures

366-269 O—70—_29

Opening Exhibition: Gimpel &
Weitzenhofer, New York City

‘*From El Greco to Pollock’’:
Baltimore Museum of Art

**1968 Annual Exhibition of
Contemporary American Sculp-
ture’: Whitney Museum, New
York City
449 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. ae
ae ©

Ground-breaking ceremony, 8 January 1969: (left to right) Chief Justice
Warren, Secretary Ripley, Mr. Hirshhorn, President Johnson. (Photo by Jack
Rottier, National Park Service.)

The Museum

On 17 May 1966, the President requested that Congress enact leg-
islation to authorize acceptance of the Hirshhorn Collection as a gift
to the United States. By the Act of 7 November 1966 (P.L. 89-788, 89th
Cong., S. 3389), Congress provided a site on the Mall—bounded by
7th and 9th Streets SW, Independence Avenue, and Madison Drive—
and provided statutory authority for the appropriation of construction
and operating funds.

On 12 July 1968, the 90th Congress provided contract authority as
well as an initial appropriation of $2,000,000 for construction. The
ground-breaking ceremony was held on 8 January 1969. Construction of
the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden is expected
to commence next year.
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts

and Design

RicHArD P. WuNDER, Director

MMEDIATELY FOLLOWING the take-over of the Cooper Union Museum
by the Smithsonian on 1 July 1968, the Museum’s name was
changed to Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design, thus honoring Peter
Cooper, founder of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science
and Art, and his granddaughters, the Misses Sarah, Eleanor, and Amy
Hewitt, who were the Museum’s founders in 1897. An Advisory Board
was established, bylaws drawn up, and members chosen from the Com-
mittee To Save the Cooper Union Museum, headed by Henry Francis
du Pont and other interested persons. Following Mr. du Pont’s death,
Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan, the Board’s vice-chairman, was appointed to fill
the vacant chairmanship. Members of the Advisory Board are as follows:

Henry Francis du Pont, chairman*
Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan, chairman elect
John B. Trevor, Jr., vice-chairman
Mrs. Howard J. Sachs, secretary
Mrs. Vincent Astor

William A. M. Burden

Mrs. Freda Diamond

Albert Edelman

William Katzenbach

William C. Pahlmann

Mrs. Bliss Parkinson

Harvey Smith

Mrs. Calvin Stillman

Charles van Ravensway

Frederick P. Victoria

Alexander O. Vietor

S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio

During the year four full meetings and an equal number of ad hoc
meetings were held. At the April 1969 meeting the name Cooper-Hewitt
Museum of Decorative Arts and Design was approved.

*Died 11 April 1969.
443
“Please Be Seated,” luncheon preview, benefit for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
of Design, sponsored by the New York Chapter of the National Home Fashions
League Foundation, Inc., Hotel Pierre Grand Ballroom, New York City,
13 November 1968. Left to right: S. Dillon Ripley, guest speaker; Henry
Francis du Pont; Miss Jean Budde, vice president, National Home Fashions
League; and William Katzenbach.

Installation of “A Treasury of
Design” exhibition mounted by
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of
Design, in New York, showing
a Shaker rocker and a “direc-
tor’s” chair designed by John
Fitz Gildons; in the back-
ground, a Swedish tapestry by
Marta Fijetterstrém; and over-
head, a French glass sunray
chandelier.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN 445

In addition to work performed by staff members, the Museum has
been fortunate to have the services of four faithful volunteers—Donald
Gurney, Mrs. E. Elizabeth Page, Hubbell Pierce, and Mrs. Morton J.
Seifter—who put in a total of 870 hours of work during the year. Special
projects worked on by volunteers have included tabulating and checking
of box and storage lists in the Department of Drawings and Prints and
that of Textiles, affixing accession numbers and measuring of textiles,
assisting at the reception desk and with record-keeping in the office of
the Registrar, and maintaining and posting of mailing lists and donors
lists. Through the dependability of its volunteer services, the Museum
has been able to go forward with its housekeeping chores.

Objects added to the Museum’s collections have totaled 5,108, of
which 4,707 have been received as gifts from 117 donors and 401 have
been purchases. Three objects considered unrelated to the Museum’s
immediate needs have been eliminated from the collections by public
auction sale. This growth of the collections represents more than twice
the number of gifts received the previous year, though from nine fewer
donors. Significant among those gifts received are:

Decorative arts Donor

Inlaid marble and gilt bronze
inkstand belonging to Mark
Twain’s parents-in-law

Glass bottle by Ariel Bar-Tel

Nineteenth-century Chinese
spinach jade table screen

Architectural fragment by Louis
Sullivan

Eighteenth-century South Ger-
man ceramic stove

Anonymous

America-Israel Cultural Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Balamuth

Davis Brody and Associates

Miss Katharine Cornell

3 nineteenth-century American
leather-covered boxes
Miniature labeled bandbox
Eighteenth-century French bidet,
stamped Baudin
Nineteenth-century American
bentwood rocking chair
English Regency card table
Eighteenth-century English plant
stand; Ming Dynasty vase
with eighteenth-century
French bronze mounts; table
designed by Elsie de Wolfe
13 Philippine Moro culture
boxes; pair of eighteenth-cen-
tury French doors; 15 Far
Eastern porcelain and metal
objects

Mrs. Paul G. Darrott

Miss Elizabeth Dennison
Mrs. W. G. Dunnington, Jr.

George G. Fino

Maurice M. Freidman
Mr. and Mrs. Rodman A. Heeren

Mr. and Mrs. Maxime Hermanos
446

Decorative arts

Japanese lacquer desk and 2
Chinese glass paintings

3 ceramic bowls, New York, 1941

Contemporary American steel
and glass table, director’s
chair, bookcase, and screen

3 side chairs and writing desk
designed by Frank Lloyd
Wright for the Imperial Hotel,
Tokyo

Glass necklace by René Lalique

Bronze cat by Antoine Louis
Barye

American Shaker rocking chair;
tortoise-shell box

7 lengths of wallpaper; 150 casts
of ancient seals

20 pieces of Chinese porcelain
and jade

Seed picture; 3 constructions by
Karl Mann

Eighteenth-century French rock
crystal chandelier

5-piece suite of art nouveau
furniture

47 pieces of twentieth-century
furniture

Twentieth-century Italian glass
vase by Venini

21 pieces of French furniture
(circa 1935) designed by
Jean-Michel Frank

35 pieces of miscellaneous In-
dian, English, Spanish and
Canadian furniture, tiles and
metalwork; 272 samples of
wallpaper

Eighteenth-century Japanese
folding screen

Eighteenth-century French Nev-
ers figurine

26 pieces of French eighteenth-
century furniture

Chinese lacquer chest; lamp by
Tiffany and Co.; 6 English
Georgian wine rinsers

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Donor
Mrs. Revell Hoover

International Business Machines Corporation +
Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. |

Tetsuzo Inumara

Jacques Jugeat
Orrin W. June

Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan
Mrs. Germaine Little
Paul Manheim

Karl Mann

Frits Markus

Mrs. Peter J. Perry
James M. Osborn
Christian Rohlfing

Mr. and Mrs. Forsythe Scherfesee

Harvey Smitth

Mrs. Calvin Stillman
Frederick P. Victoria
Bequest of Mary Hayward Weir

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Wiesenberger
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN

Drawings and prints

Costume design, Les Amies de
don Juan, by W. Gyarmathy

335 drawings by Harriet Black-
stone

43 drawings for unexecuted en-
gravings by Antonio Tempesta

Study for a mural by Kenyon
Cox

Drawing, If the Soap Falls Out
of the Bathtub, by Rube Gold-
berg

2 wood engravings after Winslow
Homer

2 figure drawings by Hokusai;
drawing by Johann Christian
Schoeller

395 French and American
twentieth-century designs for
wallpaper

Collage, Renissance Fagades, by
Hubbell Pierce

10 watercolor renderings by
Otto E. Gaertner

27 designs for American wall-
paper; 84 designs for French
nineteenth-century wallpaper

12 etchings by Gerald K. Geer-
lings

Autograph manuscript, Le Loup-
garou, ou Hoste de Lemnos,
France, 1707; 32 etchings by
Edouard Chimot (1928)

30 drawings by Ulfert Wilke

34 drawings by and 360 photo-
graphs of the work of Ezra
Winter

Textiles

52 samples of Near Eastern car-
pets

French eighteenth-century bed-
cover

Loom, weaving materials, and
notebooks by Ethel Chase

40 pieces of nineteenth-century
Danish folk costumes

3 Peruvian pre-Columbian
textiles

Eighteenth-century Chinese em-
broidered headboard

Donor
Anonymous

Miss Stell Andersen
Bernard Black and H. W. Nadeau
Allyn Cox

Rube Goldberg

Ben Goldstein

Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan

Mrs. Germaine Little

Hubbell Pierce
Mrs. Henry Rogers Pyne

Harvey Smith

Allen T. Terrell

Bequest of Mary Hayward Weir

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Wiesenberger

Estate of Mrs. Ezra Winter

Donor

Anonymous

Miss Alice B. Beer
Estate of Ethel Chase
Miss Ida-Gro Dahlerup
Harry Dennis, Jr.

Mrs. Anne M. Ford

AAT
448 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Textiles Donor
6 eighteenth- and nineteenth- Mrs. Benjamin Ginsburg
century English cottons; six-
teenth-century Italian dam-
ask; 3 English and Italian
embroideries and 13 other
textiles
Seventeenth-century Brussels Mrs. William Ford Goulding
tapestry
Sketch for an embroidered wall Miss Sheila Hicks
panel for the Ford Founda-
tion Building, by Sheila
Hicks
587 samples of American early Mrs. Germaine Little
twentieth-century fabrics
Eighteenth-century French ec- Mrs. Robert Reichenbach
clesiastical cope
19 Central European costume Miss Agnes Sakho

decorations
182 miscellaneous textiles Harvey Smith
2 Near Eastern carpets Mrs. Edward Stern
11 contemporary African tex- Mrs. Calvin Stillman
tiles

37 African and Asian textiles, Alan L. Wolfe
mid-twentieth century

Donors of objects to the Museum are as follows:

Anonymous (2)

Mrs. Daniel Putnam Adams

Advisory Board of the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum of Design

American Institute of Interior Designers

America-Israel Cultural Foundation

Miss Stell Andersen

Mrs. Anne Arbuckle

Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Balamuth

Miss Muriel F. Barnes

Miss Alice B. Beer

Dr. Gertrude Bilhuber

Bernard Black

Estate of Mrs. Berthilde D. Bullowa

Mrs. Xenia Cage

Estate of Miss Ethel Chase

Clarence House Fabrics

Miss Lois Clarke

Miss Katherine Cornell

Peter Cotton

Allyn Cox

Mrs. Edna J. Curran

Miss Ida-Gro Dahlerup

Mrs. Paul G. Darrott
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN

Davis Brody and Associates, Architects

Mrs. Mildred J. Davis

Mrs. M. Walter Daub

Harry Dennis, Jr.

Miss Elizabeth Dennison

Jack Denst Designs, Inc.

Doyle, Dane, Bernbach, Inc.

Mrs. W. G. Dunnington, Jr.

George G. Fino

Miss Eliane Flach

Mrs. Anne McDonnell Ford

Maurice M. Friedman

Dr. George V. Gallenkamp

Mrs. Benjamin Ginsburg

Rube Goldberg

Ben Goldstein

Countess Alvise Gozzi

Graf Wallpapers, Inc.

Mrs. William Ford Goulding

Mr. and Mrs. Rodman A. Heeren

Mr. and Mrs. Maxime Hermanos

Mrs. David Herselle

Mrs. Thomas Hess

Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Hickman

Miss Sheila Hicks

Mrs. Harry L. Holland, Jr.

Mrs. Revell Hoover

International Business Machines Corpora-
tion

Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.

Tetsuzo Inumaru

Mrs. Deane F. Johnson

Mrs. Orrin F. Judd

Jacques Jugeat

Orrin Wickersham June

William Justema

Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan

William Katzenbach

Miss Amy R. Knox

LaVerne International

Derek Lee

Mrs. C. W. Lester

Mrs. Germaine Little

Mrs. Willard E. Loeb

Louis W. Bowen, Inc.

McCann-Erickson

Paul Manheim

Karl Mann Associates

Frits Markus

Miss Marian Miller

Bob Mitchell Designs

449
450

Mrs. Katherine S. Morrison

Hugues-W. Nadeau

National Collection of Fine Arts, Smith-
sonian Institution

James M. Osborn

Mrs. Cary T. Peebles

Mrs. Peter J. Perry

Piazza Prints, Inc.

Hubbell Pierce

Anthony Putnam

Mrs. Henry Rogers Pyne, in memory of
her father, Otto Edward Philip
Gaertner

Viggo Bech Rambusch

Miss Marion Rasnick

Mrs. Robert Reichenbach

Mrs. Addie Reinberger

Mrs. Joseph E. Renier

Mrs. Harold Roberts

Christian Rohlfing

Mrs. Minna Rosenblatt

Miss Agnes Sakho

Mr. and Mrs. Forsythe Scherfesee

Mrs. Helen Segal

Mrs. Morton J. Seifter

Randolph Shaffer, Jr., in memory of
Frederick S. Coe, Jr.

Miss Paula Simmons

Harvey Smith

Thomas Smith, Inc.

Mrs. J. S. Stein

Mrs. Edward Stern

Mrs. Calvin Stillman

Allen T. Terrell, in memory of Clarence
John Marsman

Miss Janet Thorpe

Ambassador and Mrs. Fumihiko Togo

U.S. Department of the Interior, Nation-
al Park Service

United Wallpaper Co.

Arnold Van Fossen

Frederick P. Victoria

Jan Vidra

Dr. Karl Vogel

L. J. Wallace

Bequest of Mary Hayward Weir

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Wiesenberger

Donald N. Wilber

Miss Jessie G. Willing

Estate of Mrs. Ezra Winter

Alan L. Wolfe

Woodson Wallpapers, Inc.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN

Donors to the Museum Library are as follows:

Miss Edith E. Adams

Albright-Knox Art Gallery

American Heritage Publishing Co., Inc.

Andrew Dickson White Museum of Art

The Asia Society, Inc.

Miss Alice B. Beer

Bowdoin College Museum of Art

Miss Martha Casamajor

Estate of Miss Ethel Chase

Christie, Manson and Woods

c1BA Limited, Basle

Colonial Williamsburg, Inc.

Country Beautiful

Cristal Lalique Paris

Mrs. Mervyn Davies

Dayton Art Institute

Mrs. Elaine E. Dee

Doubleday and Company

Dover Publications, Inc.

Mrs. Catherine L. Frangiamore

Miss Margaret B. Freeman

Moses F. Gantz

M. M. Geffen

Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.

Hearthside Press

Houston Museum of Fine Arts

International Business Machines Corpor-
ation

Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas,
Mexico

Isaac Delgado Museum of Art

Istituto di Storia dell’Arte, Pisa

Jewish Museum, New York City

William Justema

Kunstgewerbemuseum, Cologne

Kunstindustrimuseet, Oslo

Mrs. Germaine Little

Los Angeles County Museum

Donald D. MacMillan

Merrimack Valley Textile Museum

Musée d’Arts Décoratifs, Saumur

National Collection of Fine Arts, Smith-
sonian Institution

New Haven Colony Historical Society

Miss Patricia Nimocks

Osterreichisches Museum fiir Angewandte
Kunst

Mrs. Merriweather Post

Reinhold Book Corporation

Harold Ritman

451
452 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Royal Academy of Arts, London
Mrs. Howard J. Sachs

Max Saltzman

Janos Scholz

Charles Scribner’s Sons

Shelley Marks Company

Harvey Smith

Smithsonian Institution

Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum
Milton F. Sonday, Jr.

Miss Janet D. Thorpe

Iwan Tirtaamidjaja

University of Kansas Museum of Art
Wadsworth Atheneum

Leo Wallerstein

Bequest of Mary Hayward Weir
Whitworth Art Gallery

Richard P. Wunder

York Typesetting Company

The release of funds designated for the purchase of objects—frozen
over the five-year period of indecision regarding the Museum’s future—
has permitted the acquisition of a number of important objects for the
collections as well as general reference books for the Library. Note-
worthy purchases include:

Decorative Arts
French 20th-century glass chandelier in the form of a sunray
Kinetic light sculpture by Chuck Prentise (1958)
Composition in mercury, by Ronald Mallory (1969)
Pair of Italian porcelain bowls by Richard-Ginori (1924)
4 glass vases by René Lalique (circa 1925)
Glass vase by G. Argy-Rousseau (circa 1925)
Glass bowl by Décorchemont (circa 1925)
Lamp with isinglass shade, glass base (circa 1925)
Ceramic inkwell by Rookwood Pottery Co. (1903)
181 pieces of 19th-century Italian jewelry by Carlo Giuliano and Augusto

Castellani
Cased glass vase by Daum (circa 1900)

Wooden library steps by Charles C. Burke (1969)

Blown glass vase by Julian Wolff (1969)

Silver and plique-a-jour enamel bowl by Claire H. Strauss (1969)
Silver and cloisonné enamel box by Hilda Kraus (1969)

2 enameled copper vases by C. Fauré (circa 1925)

Pate-de-verre dish by Henri Cros (circa 1895)

Colored Orrefors glass dish by Sven Palmqvist (circa 1946)

Oak cabinet with art nouveau metal hinges and mounts
16th-century Italian ivory inlaid walnut cassone

Drawing and Prints
157 nineteenth-century American designs for printed cottons
Japanese block print of two actors, by Kunisada
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN 453

Detail of a painted and mor-
dant-dyed cotton coverlet, Mad-
ras, India, first half of the 18th
century. (Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum purchase.)

2 costume designs by Storie
2 animated cartoons for the film, The Yellow Submarine

Drawings and Prints

Woodcut, Print 13, by Akira Matsumoto
Textiles

12 eighteenth-century Indian painted and mordant-dyed cottons (bed hangings,
bedcovers, and fragments)

Seventeenth-century Spanish embroidery

French Empire embroidered flounce

Guatemalan head cloth

English eighteenth-century silk

2 Italian eighteenth-century bizarre silk fragments

Tenth-century Persian silk twill

English eighteenth-century copperplace printed cotton

Lace construction, Do Not Rip Up My Little Universe, by Luba Krejci, 1964

Twentieth-century Ghanese stamped cotton hanging

Sixteenth-century Turkish velvet

Sixteenth-century Persian velvet

Recognizing the need for further development within certain areas
in the collections and in anticipation of featuring Museum material in
special exhibitions planned for the future, a considerable proportion of
the available purchase funds have thus been utilized. The acquisition of
twelve rare examples of painted cottons produced in India in the 18th
century for the English and continental market makes this Museum’s
454 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Lamp-worked glass figurine, Nevers, France, mid-
18th century. (Given to the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum by Frederick P. Victoria.)

holdings one of the most complete in this area in the United States. It is
anticipated that much of this material will be included in a special exhi-
bition in process of being mounted jointly by the Royal Ontario Museum,
in Toronto, and the Victoria and Albert Museum, in London, and
shared, hopefully, with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. In anticipation of
the Museum’s sponsoring a major exhibition of contemporary glass
design, which will include key historical pieces as well, the Museum
has been at pains to develop its glass collection with the purchase of
French glass produced in the 1920s by a variety of designers and manu-
facturers, the name of René Lalique being the most familiar today. By
good fortune, the American agent for the Lalique factory, Jacques
Jugeat, has shown his interest in the Museum by donating a unique
carved glass necklace by Lalique, and in addition has promised the gift
of a number of other important pieces of French glass. In observance
(a) Gold brooch with carved sapphire cameo, framed by sapphires, diamonds,
ruby and emerald chips, and a pendant sapphire drop weighing 13.5 carats,
by Augusto Castellani, Rome, Italy, second half of the 19th century. (Cooper-
Hewitt Museum purchase.) (b) Brooch of gold filigree and agates, by Augusto
Castellani, Rome, Italy, second half of the 19th century. (Cooper-Hewitt
Museum purchase.) (c) Pendant of enameled gold set with pearls, rose
diamonds, and a star ruby, by Carlo Giuliano, England, second half of the
19th century. (Cooper-Hewitt Museum purchase.)

of the Museum’s opening in its new quarters, in 1972, a spectacular
jewelry exhibition is planned. This exhibition will focus upon an extra-
ordinary group of 181 pieces by the 19th-century Italian designers,
Carlo Giuliano and Augusto Castellani, which the Museum was fortu-
nate to acquire en bloc. Nowhere else can the work of these two eminent
designers be studied in such variety or depth.

In addition to utilizing its own purchase funds for the acquisition of
objects, three significant purchases have been made from other sources.
The Advisory Board has made possible the purchase of a large and
imaginative lace construction by the contemporary Czechoslovakian
designer, Luba Krejci. With funds contributed by friends of the late
Louisa Bellinger, a lifelong friend of the Museum and an eminent scholar
in textile weaves, the Museum has acquired a rare 16th-century Persian
velvet of pale green and gold hues that possesses all the beauty and sub-
tlety of a Moghul miniature. From the celebrated Demidoff collection,
the last remaining portion of which was auctioned off in Florence,
Italy, in April 1969, an important Italian 16th-century cassone inlaid in
ivory has been purchased through funds raised at a special benefit spon-
sored by the American Institute of Interior Designers.

Eliminations from the collections of material considered as being no
longer pertinent to the Museum’s needs have been two paintings, views
of Venice, by Luca Carlevaris (bequest of Annie Schemerhorn Kane),
456 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

sold at public auction by Sotheby and Company, London, and a French
18th-century tall case clock (anonymous gift), sold at public auction by
Astor Galleries, New York. The Adrian Van Muffling collection of
early aviation photographs has been transferred to the Air and Space
Museum; 277 folders of clippings relating to the printing and paper
trades and nine bound volumes of Numismatic Notes have been trans-
ferred to the library of the Museum of History and Technology; and
approximately 16,000 World War I cartoons clipped from newspapers
and periodicals have been transferred to the Division of Political History,
Museum of History and Technology, Smithsonian Institution.

In preparation for the move and eventual reinstallation of the col-
lections, an intensive repair and restoration program is under way. A
total of 72 objects have been sent off premises for repair and a great many
more are scheduled in the ensuing year.

Cataloging has been completed on 823 objects in the collections, but
with the acceleration in new acquisitions, it is apparent that, unless
additional staff is provided, the cataloging of objects, which establishes
factual information and assures its increased usefulness to the public,
will fall behind schedule. This is a prime curatorial activity and responsi-
bility that must be emphasized.

During the year the Library has been enriched by the addition of 547
books, of which 354 have come through gifts from sixty-five donors, and
193 through purchase. The most important single gift has been that of
124 general reference books, largely in the field of French 18th-century
art, and 57 rare books, from the bequest of Mary Hayward Weir. The
rare books from the Weir estate include a number of fine bindings from
the libraries of Cardinal Mazarin, Anne of Austria, the duc d’Orleans
and others, as well as illustrated works by Arthur Rackham, Kate Green-
away, and W. Russell Flint. Significant purchases include Walter and
Smith’s A Guide to Workers in Metal, 4 volumes, Philadelphia, 1846;
Kokuho, National Treasures of Japan, 6 volumes in twelve parts, Tokyo,
1963-67; and Textiles in the Shosoin, 2 volumes, Tokyo, 1963. The last-
named item has been acquired through funds generously contributed by
Mrs. Vincent Astor.

Six exhibitions have been held within the Museum during the year.
Three, carried over from the previous year, are Early 20th Century
Posters, a selection from the Philip Sills gift; Paintings by Winslow
Homer from the Museum’s collection; and Sketches by Frederic Edwin
Church, seventy-six items from the Museum’s extensive holdings. New
exhibitions include: A Treasury of Design, 1963-1968 (24 October-
22 March 1968-1969), in which 134 objects selected from among sev-
eral hundred acquired by the Museum during the five-year period of
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN 457

indecision has given recognition to its supporters during these difficult
days and, at the same time, has pointed up the need by a design museum
of diverse sorts of objects ranging from African beadwork necklaces to
Matisse lithographs to contemporary Indian silks; Counterchange and
New Color 26 April-24 May 1969), arranged by the New York Guild
of Handweavers, has striven to give new dimension and design possi-
bilities to basic weaves; and Contemporary Japanese Posters (9 June-
29 August 1969), provided by the Japan Society, Inc., has comprised
fifty-one posters by twenty-six Japanese artists and constitutes the first
New York showing of this exhibition, many items of which have been
shown originally in the Japan Pavilion of Expo 67 in Montreal.

One off-premises exhibition, made up exclusively of items from the
coilections, has featured the original designs for the interior decoration
of the Royal Pavilion at Brighton, England, assembled for and shown at

iy
ee
-.
,
:

Side chair with needlepoint
embroidered silk upholstery,
possibly Austrian, circa 1907.
(Given to the Cooper-Hewitt
| Museum by Mrs. Peter J.
E Perry.)

366-269 O—70-—_30

458 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

the Art Museum of Princeton University from 15 April 1968 to
11 March 1969.

A total of 111 objects have been lent to the following twenty-two
institutions:

Number of
Name of institution objects lent
Northern Arizona University Art Gallery, Flagstaff, Arizona 1

Museum of Fine Arts, St. Petersburg, Florida
Parrish Art Museum, Southhampton, Long Island, New York 2
Pen and Brush Club, New York City 1
Museum of Contemporary Crafts, New York City 2
Museum of Graphic Art, New York City, Traveling Exhibition 4
The Jewish Museum, New York City 4
Webb House, Wethersfield, Connecticut (to illustrate lecture by Erica
Wilson Kagan) 4
Textile Museum, Washington, D.C. ze
The Grolier Club, New York City 5
American Federation of Arts, New York City 3
Arizona Costume Institute, Phoenix Museum of Art, Phoenix, Arizona 6
Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 5
Rose Art Museum, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts 1
Worcester Art Museum, Worcester, Massachusetts 3
University of Michigan Museum of Art, Ann Arbor, Michigan 4
Finch College Museum of Art, New York City 2

Princeton University Art Museum, Princeton, New Jersey 38
The Lighthouse, Amateur Needlework of Today, Inc., New York City 3
Hallmarks Cards, Inc., New York City 10
Museum Section: Guild Hall, East Hampton, Long Island, New York 6
Parke-Bernet Galleries, New York City G:

The Museum has played host to a number of schools, organizations,
and special groups, including the Japanese Sword Society, the New
York Guild of Handweavers, New York University, Traphagen School
of Fashion, New York School of Interior Design, Parsons School of
Design, and ten other special groups. With the New York University
Division of Continuing Education, the Museum has continued to coop-
erate by providing a special series of twelve lectures during the Univer-
sity’s fall semester entitled ‘“Textiles and Interior Design.” As part of
the course, two field trips have been arranged to textile and carpet design
studios. The cost of the course has been underwritten in part by the
Resources Council, Inc., and has been subscribed to by stylists, interior
and general designers, and technicians, as well as by persons from other
museums sharing an interest in the manufacture and use of textiles.
Three of the lectures have been given by Museum staff members, the
remainder provided by outside authorities on specified subjects.
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN 459

Necklace of glass carved in the shape of lovebirds on a silver link chain, de-
signed by René Lalique, France, circa 1920. (Given to the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum by Jacques Jugeat.)

Special events held outside the Museum have included two benefit
luncheons, the proceeds of which have been turned over to the Museum.
The occasion for one, sponsored by the National Home Fashions League
and held at the Hotel Pierre on 13 November 1968, was a preview of
“Please Be Seated,” an exhibition of contemporary chairs organized
and circulated by the Decorative Arts Program of the American Feder-
ation of Arts in collaboration with the Museum. Secretary Ripley was
the guest speaker. The other benefit luncheon was given at the Plaza
Hotel on 20 March 1969 by the American Institute of Interior Designers.

During the year the Museum has been visited by 6,908 persons, a
marked decrease from that of the previous year when the attendance
figures had been greatly increased both by the Mary Cassatt graphics
exhibition and by the presence of the Four Winds Museum Theatre
460 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

group, which gave a number of scheduled performances in the Museum’s
furniture galleries. In analyzing the attendance figures, it should be
noted that 1,604, or somewhat more than one fourth of the visitors,
have received special attention and services by staff in the Library and
the departmental study rooms. Attendance figures by quarter (July—
September, October-December, January-March, April-June) are as
follows:

Ist 2nd 3rd 4th Total
Library 145 209 233 169 756
Decorative Arts (and Wallpaper) 17 62 227 18 *324
Drawings and Prints 12 120 95 65 292
Textiles 43 39 75 75 232
Total consultations 217 430 630 327 1, 604
Total unattended visitors 1,146. 1,416). 03, 23a 5, 304
Total attendance 1,363 1,846 1,861 1,838 6, 908

*Includes 250 individuals personally conducted through the Museum by a
curatorial staff member.

Two special publications have been issued by the Museum: a six-page
catalog, in mimeographed form, of the contemporary Japanese poster
exhibition; and a folder describing the Museum’s collections, history,
and goals. In addition, special bibliographies have been prepared in
conjunction with the “Textiles and Interior Design” course. Individual
staff publications are as follows:

Deg, Exarine E., Views of Florence and Tuscany by Giuseppe Zocchi 1711-1767.
33 pages, 77 plates. Washington, D.C.: International Exhibitions Foundations,
1968.

TuorPE, JANET. ‘“Damascening,” “Patina,” “Thomas Chippendale.” 3 pages in

Grolier’s Encyclopedia International. New edition. New York: Grolier Society,
1968.

Staff activities are too numerous and varied to mention in detail. The
Museum has been represented at seven professional conferences:

Pennsbury Manor Fall Antiques Seminar, Morrisville, Pennsylvania

Computer Conference, Metropolitan Museum of Art

Williamsburg Antiques Forum, Colonial Williamsburg, Virginia

New York State Council on the Arts, Museum Training Program on Registration
Methods, Museum of Modern Art, New York City

Special Libraries Association Annual Conference, Montreal, Canada

Third Annual National Fund-Raising Conference, Statler Hilton Hotel, New
York City

Fifteenth Annual Winterthur Conference on Museum operation and connoisseur-
ship, Winterthur, Delaware
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DECORATIVE ARTS AND DESIGN 461

The director delivered a public lecture, “Challenges in Historic Pres-
ervation,’ before the Tennessee Federation of Historic Houses, Nash-
ville, Tennessee, 15 November 1968; took part in a public report panel
on the Survey of the Albany Institute of History and Art, sponsored by
the New York State Council on the Arts, in Albany, New York. 11 No-
vember; as a member of a committee of private citizens formed to save
from demolition the Hudson County (New Jersey) Courthouse building,
appeared before the Senate Appropriations Committee of the New
Jersey State Legislature, at Trenton, New Jersey, 12 March 1969; and
made a 15-minute TV tape on the Museum and its collections for
the program “Surveying the Art Scene” on Channel 6, 21 May 1969.
He also has served in the capacity of director of the Drawing Society,
on the Board of Directors of the Museum of Graphic Arts, Inc., on the
Advisory Committee of the Museum of American Folk Art, on that of
the Archives of American Art, on the Consultative Committee of the
Art Quarterly and on the Advisory Committee of the Resources Council,
Inc. Within the Smithsonian he has served on the Editorial Policy Com-
mittee of the Smithsonian Institution Press and on the Editorial Board
of the Smithsonian Journal of History.

Mrs. Blackwelder has served as national chairman of the Membership
Committee of the Special Libraries Association, Museum Division.

Improvements made to the Museum’s physical appearance and utility
have been the construction of three administrative offices in the room
that formerly served as a textile display gallery (the display area has
been reinstalled in the north portion of the center gallery, heretofore
reserved for special exhibitions) , and the closing in of a small portion of
the Third Avenue hall to provide a place for maintenance staff to dress.

Following a long and arduous search for a future home for the Mu-
seum, a magnanimous offer has been made by the Carnegie Corpora-
tion whereby the historic Andrew Carnegie Mansion and adjoining
Carnegie-Miller house that fronts onto Fifth Avenue from 90th to 91st
Streets are destined to be turned over to the Smithsonian, rent free, at
the termination of the lease of the present occupants, Columbia Univer-
sity’s School of Social Research, 1 July 1970. With the opportunity to
move to New York’s “museum row,” the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s
collections and programs should receive even greater recognition. The
Carnegie property will permit considerably greater expansion of its
facilities for display and services offered to the design world in general.
Anticipating the move to the new locale, the services of a competent
architectural firm are being sought to effect the remodeling and changes
necessary to adapt the existing structure to the Museum’s collections and
operation. At the same time, a professional fund raiser is being sought
to administer the forthcoming fund-raising drive.
462 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The administrator spoke over Station wNyc on the Museum’s pro-
grams 1 July 1968; introduced “Unto Thee a Garden,” presented by
the Four Winds Museum Theatre at the Metropolitan Museum of Art
27 October; served on a jury for the Artist-Craftsmen of New York
annual exhibition 10 April 1969. He also has served on the Board of
Directors of the Four Winds Museum Theatre and on the Board of
Advisors of the Museum of Illustration Art.

Mrs. Dee delivered a public lecture, “Pleasures and Palaces in 18th-
Century Italy,” at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond,
6 January 1969. She also has served on the National Exhibitions Com-
mittee of the American Federation of Arts.

Miss Beer has given two public lectures, “Embroidery Designs in the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum,” at Old Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge, Massa-
chusetts, 27 January 1969, and “17th- and 18th-Century Textiles Used
in American Colonial Houses,” at the Bowne House, Flushing, New
York, 12 May. She also has served as a board member of the Embroiders’
Guild.

At the request of the Secretariat of the Smithsonian, and with the
sanction of the Advisory Board, the fund-raising firm of Bowen, Gurin,
Barnes, and Roche, Inc. has been engaged to solicit the opinions of
various persons and to prepare a survey report, outlining procedures
recommended for initiating a capital fund-raising campaign for the
Museum. The findings have been encouraging, on the whole, and it
has been deemed advisable to increase the Museum’s publicity by
focusing upon its image, purposes, programs, and needs, and to engage
at once the services of an individual experienced in fund raising.
During the ensuing year, it is the Museum’s intention to effect these
recommendations.

Taken in retrospect, the year ending has been one of adjustment and
challenge for everyone concerned with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
An expression of deepest gratitude is due the members of the former
Committee to Save the Museum for the financial support given that
will assure continuance of the Museum’s operation at least for the next
two years. Thankful recognition is also owed the members of the
Advisory Board for their untiring efforts in volunteering to assist with
the formulating of a new image for the Museum, in bringing to it new
friends, programs, ideas, and financial support. In the year ahead, the
Museum must make every effort to project this new image on the New
York scene as an important showcase of good design in everyday life.
National Air and Space Museum

S. PauL Jounston, Director

OR THIS MUSEUM—as well as for the country at large—the past
Beicive months will be remembered as “the Year of Apollo.” The
spectacular success of the four manned flights, beginning 11 October
1968 and continuing with the close approach to the moon by Apollo 10
in May 1969, was climaxed of course by the actual landing on the moon
of Apollo 11 on 20 July 1969.

Popular interest in these events has brought thousands of visitors to
inspect the Saturn V rocket components, the Apollo 4 spaceship, and the
full-scale engineering backup “Surveyor” and “Lunar Orbiter” vehicles
exhibited in the South Hall of the Arts and Industries Building. These
specimens have been displayed against a backdrop of space photography
and space-oriented paintings and sculpture. During actual operations of
the Apollo program, live television coverage was provided for visitors
in the NAsM Aerospace Art Galleries.

The importance of these displays was demonstrated in the use of
both the North and South Halls as a prime communications center by
the major TV and radio networks during the two-day coverage of the
progress of Apollo 11 toward the moon.

The 1967 agreement between the National Air and Space Museum
and nasa (National Air and Space Administration) already has paid
substantial dividends and will continue to do so, It is hoped that the
Smithsonian will be among the first to put samples of lunar material
on public display. More than one hundred tons of rocket- and space-
oriented specimens have been received at the Silver Hill facility, while
hundreds of other items have been accessioned in situ at the several
NASA centers and then put on loan to their original locations. This

463
464 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

mat | ae Se ii, wt }
ts ANE See A | | mi i
™

The Navy flying-boat NC—4, which made the first transatlantic crossing by air

in May 1919, is displayed on the Mall for the 50th Anniversary of its historic
flight.

transaction relieves the manpower and space shortage problem at the
NASM storage facilities but at the same time guarantees control over
future disposition.

By June of 1969 a total of eighteen Mercury, ten Gemini, and two
Apollo spacecraft, plus many space suits, rocket motors, and associated
equipment has come into NASM inventories. Not all of these items
have been flown. Some are test vehicles or backup hardware, but the
Museum is acquiring an ever-increasing stock of equipment to imple-
ment its own display requirements and to satisfy requests from other
museums for specimens to be loaned.

During the year, NASM Gemini spacecraft exhibits have been dis-
played in Europe (London, Luzerne, Barcelona, and Munich) and in
the Far East (Japan and Australia). Major support planning is under-
way for exhibition in Expo 70 at Osaka, Japan, in cooperation with
usta and the United States Department of Commerce. The assistant
director (Astronautics), Frederick C. Durant, is responsible for the
planning and coordination of staff personnel. An important by-product
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 465

of these programs has been financial support for his travel far beyond
the museum’s own budgetary capabilities. It has thus been possible to
maintain contacts with other museums and to attend and to partici-
pate in related scientific and technical meetings normally outside of the
fiscal reach of NASM.

In cooperation with the Public Relations Office of Nasa the Museum
has provided space for public testing of Nasa displays designed to be
sent around the country and overseas as presentations to the general
public of useful background material on space-related subjects.

On the “air” side of the house, several events of great public interest
have taken place during the year that also have added significantly to
NASM’s inventories and historical research capabilities and that have
strengthened relationships with other goverment agencies.

Fifty years ago (in May 1919) the United States Navy mounted an
operation to fly aircraft across the Atlantic under its own power—a feat
never before accomplished. A squadron of three- and four-engined Navy-
Curtiss (NC) flying boats was activated on Long Island and launched
across the ocean via Newfoundland and the Azores. One machine, the
NC-+4, made it all the way to Plymouth, England.

The experimental high-speed (over 4500 mph) and high-altitude (over
350,000 feet) X-—15, presented by the United States Air Force, rests beneath
the wings of the original Wright Brothers plane and the Spirit of St. Louis.

466 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The original NC-—4 has been in the custody of the National Air
Museum for many years, most of the time in storage warehouses. At the
request of the Chief of Naval Operations, the reconditioning of the air-
craft, beginning in July 1968, was accelerated. By late April 1969 it was
assembled (under a 24-hour naval guard) on a Mall site to the west
of the original Smithsonian Building. The Secretary of the Navy and
the Secretary of the Smithsonian participated in the unveiling
ceremonies.

During the entire month of May the NC-4 attracted thousands of
visitors. To most of them (now accustomed to daily transatlantic
schedules) the remarkable exploit by the United States Navy in 1919
was a forgotten bit of aviation history. Early in June, because no building
is available to provide year-round protection to the NC-4, the aircraft
was disassembled and returned to storage. The cost of site preparation,
maintenance, and restoration, together with all public relations activi-
ties associated with this display, has been borne by private subscription,
and no federal money has been involved.

Also in the spring of 1969, the museum received a long-sought speci-
men from the United States Air Force, the Number 1 X—15, an experi-
mental and high-speed research aircraft. This machine, which has flown
higher (over 350,000 feet) and faster (over 4,500 miles per hour) than
any other airborne vehicle, has been used by Air Force, Navy, and NASA
pilots to explore the fringes of space. It was presented to the Museum
by the Secretary of the Air Force. Installed in the North Hall, under
the wings of the original Wright “Kitty Hawk” Flyer, it provides not
only an astonishing contrast in design configuration and usage of mate-
rials for the period of 1903-1969, but it also defines the total spectrum
of manned flight. It is unlikely that any future attempt will be made to
design an airborne vehicle to exceed its performance.

An important policy decision, principally affecting the Museum’s air
activities, has been further implemented during the year: the placing of
selected aircraft specimens on loan to qualified outside organizations for
restoration and temporary display pending the availability of new facili-
ties in Washington. A careful investigation of shop capability for pre-
serving and restoring specimens to museum standards and the prepa-
ration of complete restoration specification for the specimens selected
are the prerequisites of such loans. In addition, during the course of
this work, inspection visits by NASM personnel are made to insure that
standards are being met.

Under this program, one major specimen (Lockheed XC-35) is un-
dergoing restoration in a commercial shop (supported by a Lockheed
grant) ; two (Curtiss R3C—2 Racer and General Mitchell’s SPAD-16)
are at the Air Force Museum, Wright Patterson Air Force Base; three
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 467

(Pfalz D-XII, SE-5, and Oscar IT) are assigned to the Experimental
Aircraft Association Museum; and one (Ryan FR-1) to the San Diego
Aerospace Museum. The usual arrangement calls for restoration and a
three-year exhibit period (renewable thereafter at one-year intervals)
for each specimen.

Although the greater part of NAsM manpower at Silver Hill has been
occupied with the restoration, installation, and re-storage of the Navy
NC~+4 flying boat during the year, considerable progress has been made
on Project Shoplift. The new Building 22 has been completed and is ready
for occupancy, and the installation of additional steel racks in Build-
ings 8, 9, and 21 has greatly increased the total storage capacity. Al-
though another twelve months will be needed before final arrangements
are accomplished, the planned assignments of Building 20 as a staging
and study area for restored aircraft, Building 21 for rocket and space-
related material, and Building 22 for the storage (on pallets) of the most
valuable aircraft specimens in the collection have made visible progress.
The Preservation and Restoration Division has handled some 1,700
specimens whose total weight has been in excess of 150 tons.

Both the “air” and “space” components of the Museum have par-
ticipated actively in a cooperative program with the Smithsonian Mu-
seum Shops that has proved sufficiently successful to warrant reschedul-
ing for the summer of 1970. The A&I Building sales shop adopted a
model-building (airplane and rocket) theme for the period of June
through August 1969. Drawing on NasM’s extensive inventory of models
of all kinds, the shop built a backup static display, supplemented by a
model-building workshop manned by volunteers, that has attracted
individuals of all ages and has produced a phenomenal turnover in the
sale of model kits and related items. To launch the operation, model
airplane and model rocket contests under the supervision of nationally

The Apollo Exhibit in the South Hall gives visitors an opportunity to examine
full-scale space artifacts, including Apollo 4, Lunar Orbiter, Surveyor, Saturn
rocket engines, and a 35-foot model of the complete Saturn V booster.

468 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

*

% Ya, et uke "he
etn ©) re we .

The opening of a cooperative program between the Smithsonian Museum Shops

and NASM was marked by a day of aircraft and rocket model contests on the
Mall.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 469

recognized organizations were held on the Mall. These contests gen-
erated a considerable degree of public attention.

Kites, as another form of aircraft, attracted much public notice.
NasM historian emeritus Paul Garber organized, implemented, and
managed the Third Annual Kite Carnival, under the auspices of the
Smithsonian Associates, on the Mall. His fame in this activity spread
around the country to such a degree that he was in great demand by late
spring to assist other organizations in kite making and kite flying. He
gave sixteen lectures on the subject and managed kite contests all the
way from San Antonio, Texas, to Boston, Massachusetts.

Members of the professional and curatorial staffs have participated
in technical and scientific meetings both in this country and abroad
during the year. Frederick C. Durant chaired the second annual “His-
tory of Astronautics” sessions at the New York meeting of the In-
ternational Astronautics Federation. Louis S. Casey attended 1com

The facilities of the Historical
Research Center have been
augmented by carrels for visit-
ing students with index files
right at hand.

———

’
470 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Apollo 8 Colonel Frank Borman addresses a capacity audience in the North
Hall following his appearance before Congress.

meetings in Germany and Canada. Serving as chairman-organizer of
the newly formed International Association of Transportation Mu-
seums, he has been elected a member of its board.

Robert B. Meyer, Jr. and Casey have been active for the second year
in Project 400, a curriculum-enrichment program in the District of
Columbia public school system. Their program includes fundamental
flight theory and actual familiarization flights for students and instruc-
tors. Both men are active in local aeronautical and pilots’ organizations.

Specialized research programs are in progress in the Aeronautics and
the Astronautics Departments. Casey is continuing his work on the early |
history of Curtiss and has made notable progress in a computerized list- |
ing of all aircraft in the collections of the known air museums of the
free world. Meyer is engaged also in compiling a similar list for aircraft
power plants. His investigation of the early work of a relatively little-
known inventor, Matthew Sellers, has brought to light valuable addi-
tions to our knowldege of developments in the first post-Wright years.

Durant has continued his investigations of 19th-century Congreve
and Hale rockets. He is studying clues and origins of spin-stabilized

Hale-type rockets apparently used in the Chattanooga, Tennessee, area ‘
during the Civil War. He also has reviewed and authored major articles
on “Rockets and Guided Missiles” and “Space Exploration” for the |

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 471

Encyclopaedia Britannica, “Principles of History of Space Explora-
tion” for the Encyclopedia Americana, and encyclopedia yearbook arti-
cles on “Earth-Oriented Satellites’ and “Astronautics—1968.” AsTRO
research files have been augmented by over 200 historical photographs,
a fact that makes NAsM’s collection the largest single source of such
reference material.

Apart from his special lectures on kites, Paul Garber has given, in
cities all over the United States, 87 lectures on the history and develop-
ment of flight. He is engaged also, under the auspices of the Navy
Department, in video-taping a series of ten lectures covering aviation
history. Copies of these tapes will be placed in NAsM Research Center
files.

During the year, Robert Meyer has given, in the United States and at
museums in western Europe, twelve illustrated lectures on the history
of aircraft power plant development.

The Historical Research Center (HRc) staff has served 2,092 visitors
and researchers and has answered 5,306 telephones and letter requests.

Several outstanding collections have been received. Most prominent
of these are the papers of Glenn H. Curtiss, gift from his son, and
the Thomas Scott Baldwin photo albums and scrapbooks. Because of
increased usage and added material, the reference area of HRC has
been doubled in size.

Regular monthly meeting have been held in HRc by the Antique
Airplane Association, the American Aviation Historical Society, and
the International Plastic Modelers Society.

A program has been established with the Aero Club of Washington
to obtain volunteer assistants to sort documentary material.

A meeting of the International Council of Museums was attended
by several staff members. Attendees represented the air and space
museums of the United States and Canada. Other meetings have in-
cluded the Northeast Aero Historians, at which an information display
on HRC was exhibited.

The weekly “lunch box seminars” have continued through the year.
This program brings before the Smithsonian and Nasm staff—plus
neighboring, cooperating agencies that include the Department of
Transportation, the National Aeronautical and Space Administration,
and the Department of Defense—outside speakers discoursing infor-
mally on subjects pertinent to the interests of NasM. As a fallout from
this program many artifacts and documents have been added to NASM
collections.

A docents’ training program in which all curatorial members of
the staff participated has been established and includes nine docents who
472 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Secretary Ripley and Dr. Blitzer
are introduced to some of the
problems of aircraft restoration
by Curator Louis Casey.

have operated a scheduled program of tours (for elementary and second-
ary school students) through the Museum.

The investigation of the impact of the Guggenheim-founded aeronau-
tical laboratories and schools on the subsequent development of air and
space technology has been continued by Guggenheim fellow Alexis Dos-
ter. In conjunction with the project, visits have been made to the Gug-
genheim schools at the Californian Institute of Technology, Stanford
University, the University of Washington, and the University of Michi-
gan to assess their several contributions. Many tape-recorded interviews
have been obtained from each of these visits.

The Oral History Project of HRc has continued its program of con-
ducting tape-recorded interviews with pioneers in the development of
aviation. A master oral history bank has been established. This deposi-
tory is designed to preserve historical recordings. Under the present pro-
gram, cooperating agencies furnish tape recordings to be copied into the
master bank.

Additions to the collections received during the year have totaled 476
specimens in 169 separate accessions listed below. Those from govern-
ment departments are entered in the records as transfers; others have
been received as gifts.

Advanced Research Projects Agency: H1IBEx flight vehicle (NAsM 1962).
Aerojet-General Corporation: Chamber assemblies (NAsm 1967) ; injectors, cover

and header, brackets, and plate (NAsm 1972).
Aeronca Company: Model aircraft, Aeronca C—3 (NAsM 2084).
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM 473

Air Force, United States: From Air Force Systems Command: X-~—15 aircraft,
United States Air Force No. 1 rocket-powered plane (NASM 2125). From
Headquarters, Washington, D.C.: Aircraft, Bell UH—13J, first presidential
helicopter, used by President Dwight D. Eisenhower (NAsm 1968). From
Morton Air Force Base, California: Atlas missile guidance pod (NAsMm 1965).

Air Mail Pioneers: Painting, ‘“‘Old 249” mailplane (NAsm 1963).

American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics: Aircraft model, Martin
B-10 (Nnasm 2100).

Army, United States: From Fort Eustis, Virginia: Aircraft parts, Hughes XV
9A (NAsM 1981).

Baugh, P. J.: Sailplane, Sisu 1-A, used by Alvin H. Parker to make the first
sailplane that flew in excess of 600 miles (NAsm 1960).

Bensen Aircraft Corporation: Bensen gyrocopter, “Spirit of Kitty Hawk,” which
set a total of twelve world and national records for autogyros in speed, dis-
tance, and altitude (NASM 2122).

Brussel-Smith, Bernard: Seventy-two block prints on aeronautical history (NASM
2121).

California State Legislature: Resolutions Number 213 and Number 236 com-
mending the Air Mail Pioneers and John W. Hackbarth for the reconstruc-
tion of the De Havilland 4B ‘‘Mailplane 249” (NAsm 1980).

Carter, S/Sgt. Robert E.: Astronaut signatures (NAsM 1959).

Cooper, Eddie: Two wheels of De Havilland mailplane type (NAsm 2089).

Curtiss Wright Corporation: Aircraft, Curtiss Wright X-100 (NAsm 1969).

Dean, Hilliard: Painting, “Space Exploration” (NAsm 2112).

Desatoff, John: Painting, “Gemini” (NAsm 2119).

Doughty, Stewart E.: Machine guns, Hotchkiss .303 and Vickers bipod (NASM
202s).

Douglas Aircraft Company: Aircraft models, Douglas F5D and D 571/F4D
(nasM 2094).

General Services Administration: Three recognition aircraft models (NASM
2091) ; aircraft model, Grumman F85—F (NAsm 2102).

Hendricks, James: Paintings, “Detail Lunar Surface II” (Nasm 2116), “Lunar
Orbiter II” (Nasm 2117).

Hughes Aircraft Company: Space-probe model, Surveyor (NAsM 2104).

Johnson, Robert E.: Aircraft model, Curtiss 0-1 (NAsm 2092).

Lockheed Aircraft Corporation: Aircraft models, Lockheed L 2000 and super-
sonic transport (NASM 2093).

Lockheed California Company: Aircraft model, Lockheed YF-12A (NASM
2096) ; three aircraft models of Lockheed supersonic transport (NAsM 2097).

McDonnell Aircraft Company: Paintings, “Orbital Workshop” and “Saturn
IV Upper Stage” (NAsm 2132).

McDonnell Douglas Astronautics Company: Wind-tunnel model kit (NAsM
2088).

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc.: Oil paintings from the movie “2001: A Space
Odyssey” (NAsM 1983).

Mion, Pierre, and Norman Rockwell: Painting, “Lunar Takeoff” (Nasm 2113).

National Aeronautics and Space Administration: From Manned Spacecraft Cen-
ter, Houston, Texas: Gemini adapter sections (NAsm 1966—A); Mercury
trainer couch, ejection seats, space suits, Gemini parachutes and shingles
(wasMm 1971) ; space suit of astronaut Frank Borman, Apollo 8 (NAsM 2133).
From McDonnell Douglas Corporation: Hatch-release mechanism (NASM

366-269 O—70——31
474 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

1964) ; miscellaneous hardware (NAsM 1966); Gemini surplus property, in-
cluding flight-plan and propellant quantity indicators, water-tank assembly,
primary oxygen system, cabin and suit temperature indicators, and voice con-
trol center (NAsm 1970); pressure tank, grip assembly, thrust chambers,
inner-window glass, docking-bar and water-tank assemblies, stop clock, heat
exchanger, cannister, rotometer, and thrust chambers (NASM 1978).

National Gallery of Art: Paintings, “Moppets and the Moon,” 68 watercolors
by school children from Brevard City, Florida; Peoria, Illinois; and Washing-
ton, D.C. (Nasm 2120).

Navy, United States: From Naval Air Systems Command: Aircraft, McDonnell
F4A “Sageburner” (NAsM 2087).

Peck, Edward: Model engine, Rogers 29 (NAsM 2126).

Puskas, John F.: Ceramic mosaic, “Nimbus I” (Nasm 2118).

Rhodes, Charles: Aircraft, ground effect machine (NAsMm 1982).

Rindler, Robert, Sr.: Aircraft, 1922 Waco glider (NASM 2083).

Rocket Development Corporation: Honeybee sounding rocket (NASM 1957).

Rockwell, Norman: Paintings, “First Step on the Moon” (NASM 2114) ; “‘Astro-
naut” (NASM 2115).

Rowe, Captain Basil L.: Hinkel Trophy, 1924 (nasm 2106) ; Curtiss Trophy,
1925 (wasm 2107) ; two 1926 Air Races plaques (NASM 2108) ; six 1924 and
1926 National Air Races medals (Nas 2109).

Sellers, Matthew Bacon: Collection that includes aircraft engines, propellers,
propeller blades, wing ribs, fuel tank, and airfoil specimens (NASM 2110).

Smithsonian Institution: From Department of Armed Forces History: Fifteen
aircraft guns of World War I (Nasm 2086) ; aircraft model, Northrop YB 35
(NAsM 2101).

Topping, Incorporated: Helicopter model, Sikorsky HSS-2Z (nasm 2099).

Treasury Department, United States: Spandau aircraft machine guns (NASM
1961).

United Air Lines: Model aircraft, Vickers Viscount V—700 (nAsM 2085) ; Rolls-
Royce turbojet engine, propeller, and spinner (NAsM 2111).

Voorhees, T. C.: Engine, Curtiss Conqueror V—-12 (NasM 2124).

Wines, James P.: Naval aviator’s wings (NASM 2082).

The Museum’s Historical Research Center has been greatly enriched
during the year with valuable research materials. The cooperation of
the following persons and organizations is gratefully acknowledged:

Air Force Association Diehl, William

Air Force, United States Durant, F. C., III

Air Transport Association of America Early Birds of Aviation, Inc.

Albright, Sydney J. Fairchild Hiller Corp., Sherman Fair-
Allegheny Airlines child Technology Center

Avco Corporation Farquhar, H. D.

Benas, Rose A. Field Enterprises Educational Corpor-
Coast Guard, United States ation

Caproni, Count Giovanni Flight Safety Foundation, Inc.

Cash, Charles R., Jr. General Dynamics, Convair Division
Cooper, J. Gookins, Herbert H.

Curtiss, Glenn H., Jr. Guinnane, William J.

Curtiss Wright Corporation Hall, Mrs. C. Wesley

Custom Component Switches, Inc. Hegener, Henri
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Heinen, Ken

Hunsaker, Dr. Jerome C.

International Business Machines

Jsekoff, Michael

Lockheed California Company

Lockheed Georgia Company

Lundahl, Eric

Martin, Alice Connolly Walsh, estate of

Morehouse, Mr. and Mrs. Harold

Navy, United States

Naval Aviation Safety Center, United
States

New Horizons Publishers, Inc.

Rowe, Captain Basil L.

Sanderson Films, Inc.

San Diego (California) Aerospace Mu-
seum

Scott, Denham

475

Shank, Mrs. Robert F.

Smith, Earl L.

Smith, Dr. Richard K.

Stephens, James L.

Teague, C. M.

Tegler, John H.

Time-Life Books

Department of Transportation, United
States Coast Guard Reserve

Department of Transportation, Federal
Aviation Agency Library

United Air Lines

Villard, Henry S.

Walsh, Robert

Weisinger, Joseph G.

Westinghouse Electric Corporation

Wigton, D. C.
salt i healed ‘SS Bie 1

sre te ee ig:
eliillioge Sighs law RNG teeth oP hae. ho tap ka
debit Ob NOP MDA ACE. oo. Garter
ete, TR agal dase panes | | 0, PIERS
SR a TERE Pe “ane ie
a 4 da 7 YR bit “Tita ae i rat a
ne, ae Mb ve oe oe vd ite ee
ia * at ti Leis he ’ mi
Y Viog

TUIAF a ies 1 ge a

t
wea arte, Nee Nils he 2 Te cena daa” wtnte

o

wi oh { 4) y a: iar. Li ; y P
; ae ee sd Cee
Pied eee

i
aet @ Wy

ae
De ;

4! A, » Lt’ bedi /
National Armed Forces Museum Advisory
Board

Joun H. Macruper III, Director

N 15 JANUARY 1969, the Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents
O approved the submission of legislation to the Congress to pro-
vide for the establishment of a National Armed Forces Historical
Museum Park and a study center to be designated the Dwight D. Eisen-
hower Center for Historical Research. This proposal was referred to
General Eisenhower by the Chancellor and on 7 February 1969 the
former president replied by letter, embracing the proposal but suggest-
ing that no commitments be made involving expenditures of federal
funds until such time as the new administration had an opportunity to
assess its programs. On 3 February 1969, the Smithsonian’s legislative
proposal was submitted to the Bureau of the Budget, Executive Office
of the President, for advice as to the relation of the proposal to the pro-
gram of the Administration. Representative Frank T. Bow, on 14 April
1969, introduced House Bill H. R. 10001, incorporating the Regent’s
recommendations and seeking authority for the Board of Regents and
the Secretary of the Interior to enter into an agreement for the joint
use of certain lands in the Fort Foote area of Prince George’s County,
Maryland, as the site for the museum park. The site would include lands
already under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior and lands
to be acquired under authority of the Capper-Cramton Act of 1930 and
Section 19 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968.

Subsequently—it appearing doubtful that the federal government
would be able to acquire some of the anticipated park lands in the Fort
Foote area as authorized under the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968—
the Advisory Board staff, in close cooperation with the National Park
Service, explored various alternatives with a view to rounding out the

477
478 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Rear Admiral E. M. Eller, USN (Ret.), Director of Naval History, rings the
engineroom gong of the U.S. monitor Tecumseh for the first time in 105 years.
This gong was rung last the morning of 5 August 1864, when Tecumseh led
Admiral Farragut’s Gulf Squadron into Mobile Bay. Tecumseh fired the opening
shot of the battle but was sunk by a Confederate torpedo (mine), prompting
Farragut’s immortal ‘Damn the torpedoes! Full ahead, Captain Drayton. Jewett,
four bells!” Four bells referred to the traditional signal to the engineroom for
full speed ahead. Tecumseh’s gong was retrieved during the summer of 1968
while divers were examining the vessel’s condition preliminary to raising her for
permanent display in the proposed National Armed Forces Historical Museum
Park. Observing Admiral Eller are (left to right) David Lloyd Kreeger, member,
NAFMAB; Colonel J. H. Magruder III, Director, NAFMAB; William H.
Perkins, Jr., member, NAFMAB; Admiral Eller, representing the Secretary of
the Navy; Smithsonian Secretary Ripley; and John Nicholas Brown, Chairman,
NAFMAB.

required acreage. At the suggestion of George B. Hartzog, Director,
National Park Service, the Smithsonian is investigating the possibility
of combining Fort Foote Park with another site under Department of
the Interior jurisdiction—Jones Point Park, approximately 50.28 acres
lying on the southern fringe of Alexandria, Virginia, across the Potomac
and slightly upstream from Fort Foote.

In the fall of 1968 the staff supervised further engineering examina-
tion of the Civil War monitor USS Tecumseh, lying on the bottom of
Mobile Bay, Alabama, where she was lost in battle in 1864, The results

NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD 479

This view of cadet living quarters in West Point’s central barracks was made
about 1879. Ninety years afterward, as the historic building crumbled under the
wrecker’s ball, a victim of the Military Academy’s expansion program, the
Advisory Board staff dismantled and removed one of its original rooms for
reconstruction in the proposed National Armed Forces Historical Museum Park.

confirmed previous findings that Tecumseh’s structural condition is such
as to permit her being raised intact and restored for eventual display
in the proposed National Armed Forces Historical Museum Park. Work-
ing in the area of the engine room, divers obtained a portion of a
blower housing, pieces of cast-iron deck plate, and a section of the hull
including wrought-iron exterior plating and a portion of a transverse
frame. An analysis of these specimens by the Naval Research Labora-
tory—published in NRL Memorandum Report 1987—Examination of
the Corrosion and Salt Contamination of Structural Metal from the USS
Tecumseh, by H. R. Baker, R. N. Bolster, P. B. Leach, and C. R. Single-
tery, Surface Chemistry Branch, Chemistry Division (Washington,
D.C.: Naval Research Laboratory, March 1969)—indicated that the
wrought-iron hull is in unexpectedly good condition. The report sug-
gested techniques for treating the hull to remove scale and inhibit
corrosion.

During late April and early May 1969, as part of the Tecumseh
project, Colonel Robert M. Calland, of the Advisory Board staff, in
company with Robert M. Organ, Chief of the Conservation Analyti-
cal Laboratory, United States National Museum, conducted on-site
480 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

studies of significant ship restorations in Europe, notably, the Swedish
sixteenth-century man-of-war Vasa at Stockholm, Viking ships at Copen-
hagen, Lord Nelson’s flagship HMS Victory at Portsmouth, and the
nineteenth-century merchantman Cutty Sark at Greenwich.

During November 1968, to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the World
War I armistice, the Advisory Board sponsored a special exhibit of
watercolor and oil paintings by a noted artist, the late Charles Hoffbauer
(1875-1957), who served in the French army during the conflict. The
exhibit, made possible by the generosity of the artist’s widow, attracted
much favorable comment while dispalyed in the National Museum of
History and Technology.

Notable additions in fields such as ordnance, land vehicles, and air-
craft have been made to the collections of military and naval objects
being assembled by the Advisory Board staff for the proposed National
Armed Forces Historical Museum Park—among them the last of the
navy’s flying boats, an early West Point barracks room, and a number of
valuable artillery pieces.

On 12 July 1968, a giant SP-5B Martin Marlin (often called a PSM),
last of a line of navy seaplanes spanning half a century, landed at
Patuxent River Naval Air Station, Maryland, at the end of a sentimental
farewell flight from North Island Naval Air Station, San Diego, Cali-
fornia. Vice Admiral Thomas F. Connolly, Deputy Chief of Naval Oper-
ations for Air, presented the forty-ton craft to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Mr. John Nicholas Brown, Advisory Board chairman, noted in
his acceptance speech that

“the passing of the flying boat from the naval service is akin to the retirement
of the horse from the cavalry . . . . The float plane holds a special significance—
an historical nostalgia—to the sea service which no wheeled aircraft can ever
replace . . . . In ceremonies . . . at the commencement of this historic last
flight, Admiral Karaberis [Commander, Fleet Air, San Diego] dedicated this
P5M to the youth of America .... The words of Admiral Karaberis are
especially appropriate to this plane’s future with the Smithsonian.”

In June 1969, a cadet room, complete with furnishings, was dis-
mantled and removed by the Advisory Board staff from West Point’s
venerable central barracks, the home, during their cadet days, of such
famous soldiers as Pershing, Patton, and MacArthur. The building,
constructed during the period 1845-1851, is being torn down as part of
the Military Academy’s expansion program. The austere room, little
changed throughout a century and more of. constant use, will be re-
constructed in the proposed Museum Park.

During August 1968 the ordnance collection was enriched by fifteen
artillery pieces of the Civil War and World War I periods and other
historic materials, transferred to the Smithsonian by Major General
NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD 481

a
aa

In July 1968 the United States Navy’s last flying boat, an SP—5B Martin Marlin,
left the fleet and joined the Smithsonian Institution, destined for future exhibit
in the proposed National Armed Forces Historical Museum Park. As seen above,
the giant seaplane begins her run down the sea lane in San Diego Harbor, Cali-
fornia, en route to transfer ceremonies at Patuxent River Naval Air Station,
Maryland, closing an era in naval aviation which began in 1912.

Richard Snyder, the adjutant general of the commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.

The American Military Institute in June 1969 deposited its library of
some 15,000 items with the Advisory Board. This valuable collection
of books, pamphlets, and periodicals on numerous aspects of military
and naval historical and technical subjects will serve as the nucleus of
the library of the proposed Dwight D. Eisenhower Center for Historical
Research.

Colonel John H. Magruder III, director, National Armed Forces
Museum Advisory Board, has been making an extensive study of Admiral
D. G. Farragut’s Gulf Squadron in operations on the Mississippi River
during 1862 and 1863. Evidence has come to light indicating that it was
the audacious Farragut who, in the early spring of 1863, finally influ-
enced General Ulysses S. Grant to forsake the fruitless attacks on Vicks-
burg by way of the Yazoo River and to cross over the river below the
Confederate stronghold to envelope it from the south and east. The
decisive role played by the navy—both in Washington on the part of
Secretary Gideon Welles and his able assistant, Gustavus Fox, and on the
Mississippi by Farragut—has long been overlooked by historians. The
discovery of hitherto unknown personal correspondence between Lieu-
482 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

tenant Colonel John L. Broome, usmc (Farragut’s Senior Marine Off-
cer), Welles, and Admiral Walke, points to a new understanding of the
impact that Farragut may have had on Grant’s operations and ulti-
mate strategy in bringing this historic siege to a victorious end for the
Union.

Major John M. Elliott, staff museum specialist, has conducted research
in techniques and processes of reproduction-casting for museum pur-
poses, lecturing on the subject at the aviation meeting of the Interna-
tional Congress of Museums in May 1969. He has continued work on a
book about protective coatings and markings of United States naval
aircraft from 1921 to the present.

Mr. James S. Hutchins, assistant director, has continued work on a
book about the development of United States cavalry saddles and
bridles, 1833-1916, and pursued his studies of the role of the armed
forces in westward expansion and of the development of animal-drawn
and animal-borne military transport and the field equipment of the
individual soldier.

Mr. James J. Stokesberry, staff historian, has continued research into
the strategic, economic, and sociological aspects of naval ship design
and naval operations during the American Civil War period, as exem-
plified by the monitor Tecumseh.

Staff Publications and Papers

E.LuiotTt, Joun M. “The Marine Corps’ First Fighter Squadron.” Journal of
the American Aviation Historical Society (fall 1968), volume 13, number 3,
pages 225-226.

Hutcuins, James S. “The Dodge Blanket Roll Support, 1892-1909.” Military
Collector & Historian (fall 1968), volume 20, number 3, pages 92—95.

Macrup_er, Joun H., III. “The Eagle, Globe, and Anchor.” Marine Corps
Gazette (November 1968), volume 52, number 11, pages 38-45.

STOKESBERRY, JAMES J. “USS Tecumseh: Treasure in Mobile Bay.” U.S. Naval
Institute Proceedings (August 1968), volume 94, number 8, pages 147-149.

. “Military History is Social History.” Seminar on museum and historical

agency administration, 5 February 1969, State University College, Buffalo,

New York.

Woodrow Wilson International Center
For Scholars

BENJAMIN H. Reap, Director

HE WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS was
established by Act of Congress, approved on 24 October 1968 (P.L.
90-637), to be a “living memorial expressing the ideals and concerns
of Woodrow Wilson . . . symbolizing and strengthening the fruitful
relation between the world of learning and the world of public affairs.”
Congress has placed the Center in the Smithsonian Institution under
the administration of its own fifteen-man, mixed public and private
Board of Trustees to be appointed by the President. The members of
the Board appointed by President Johnson and President Nixon in 1969
are: Hubert H. Humphrey, chairman; Allan Nevins, vice chairman;
James MacGregor Burns, Ernest Cuneo, Robert H. Finch, Charles A.
Horsky, Barnaby Keeney, Harry C. McPherson, Jr., Daniel Patrick
Moynihan, L. Quincy Mumford, James B. Rhoads, S. Dillon Ripley,
John P. Roche, and William P. Rogers. At its organization meeting in
March 1969, the Board appointed Benjamin H. Read as acting director.
In April of 1969 the Ford Foundation extended a $45,000 grant to
cover the initial operating expenses of the Center. In addition, public
appropriations have been requested to cover other early planning and
operating costs.

Chairman Humphrey and the acting director have been in correspond-
ence with several hundred persons—educators, public officials, pro-
fessional people, businessmen, and others—in every state and a number
of countries to obtain advice and suggestions about the future sub-
stantive role of the Center. Discussion meetings have been held in
Washington and elsewhere for the same purpose. When the Board met in
October 1969, it passed on a series of recommendations concerning the
_ future goals and objectives of the Center.

The Smithsonian Institution contracted with Mr. Ralph G. Schwarz,
president of the Urban Design and Development Corporation, a non-
profit District of Columbia corporation established by the American

483
484 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Institute of Architects, to study the feasibility of the recommended site
for the Center on the proposed Market Square across Pennsylvania
Avenue from the National Archives Building. This corporation reported
its conclusions to Secretary Ripley and the Board of Trustees in Sep-
tember 1969.

On 28 April 1969 President Nixon’s message to Congress on the Dis-
trict of Columbia described the Center in the following terms:

. a significant addition to Pennsylvania Avenue . . . an appropriate memo-
rial to a President who combined a devotion to scholarship with a passion for
peace . . . a center for men of letters and men of affairs . . . “an institution
of learning that the 22nd century will regard as having influenced the 21st.”

These goals the center hopes to achieve.
American Studies Program

Wiicoms E. WASHBURN, Chairman

HE AMERICAN STUDIES PROGRAM Of the Office of American Studies

has continued for the fourth consecutive year in cooperation with
universities in the local area. Although the head of the program, Wil-
comb E. Washburn, has been on sabbatical leave during much of the
year, the program has been carried on under the administration of
Harold Skramstad. An orientation seminar was given in the fall of
1968. The subject of the course this year was “The Material Culture
of Victorian Washington, 1850-1900.” Students in the seminar were
encouraged to continue with specialized research and reading courses
in the spring semester. A seminar in “American Technology and Its
Cultural Impact” was also given by Harold Skramstad during the spring
semester.

The American Studies Program now includes, in addition to entering
graduate students taking the orientation seminar, advanced students
preparing doctoral dissertations with Smithsonian advisors, as well as
others who are preparing for comprehensive examinations at their
respective universities in fields of specialization taken at the Smith-
sonian, The total number of graduate students in the program this year
is eighteen, of which nine were in the orientation seminar and ten were
involved in advanced reading and research or preparation for their
comprehensive examinations or doctoral dissertations. The students
participating are from George Washington University, Georgetown Uni-
versity, Catholic University, and the University of Maryland. Staff mem-
bers of Smithsonian Institution museums have participated in the pro-
gram, which has been organized and coordinated by the acting head
of the Program.

During the summer of 1968, Dr. Washburn and Mr. Skramstad par-
ticipated, with historian Constance McLaughlin Green and planner
Frederick Gutheim, in a joint Smithsonian-George Washington Uni-
versity Summer Institute in American Studies on the subject of “The
Growth and Emergence of Washington as the Nation’s Capital.” Fifteen
students from all over the country participated in the seminar.

485
486 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

In July 1968 Mr. Skramstad organized the Smithsonian portion of an
East-West Center Program in American Studies (offered in conjunction
with George Washington University and the Library of Congress) for
Oriental students in graduate school.

During the year a Historical Laboratories Program has begun to
evolve under the direction of Mr. Skramstad in which graduate stu-
dents and staff could work together on common historical problems
involving specific historical sites. Tentative arrangements are being
developed so that St. Mary’s City and Annapolis, Maryland, and Wash-
ington, D.C. can serve as historical laboratories for studies in 17th-,
18th-, and 19th-century American history.

Dr. Washburn, during his sabbatical, has presented scholarly papers
at the Colloquium on Early Brazilian History sponsored by the Instituto
Historico e Geografico Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and at the
International Meeting on the History of Nautical Science sponsored by
the University of Coimbra, Portugal. In addition, he has commented
on several papers on “Science in America: New Interpretations” at
the annual meeting of the American Historical Association; has par-
ticipated in a panel discussion at a Conference on the Legal Rights
of Indians in the Twentieth Century, which was sponsored by the Law
Schools of the University of North Dakota and the University of Mani-
toba, at Grand Forks, North Dakota; and has presented a paper on ex-
hibit techniques at a National Park Service Seminar at Grand Canyon,
Arizona.

Mr. Harold Skramstad has presented a paper on the subject of
museum-university cooperation in higher education at a meeting of the
New England Conference of the American Associations of Museums.

During the year, Dr. Washburn was elected to membership in the
American Antiquarian Society, was elected to the executive council of
the American Studies Association as Member-at-Large for History, was
named to the Board of Visitors of the Peabody Museum of Archeology
and Ethnology at Harvard University, and was elected vice president of
the Japan-America Society of Washington.

Staff Publications

WASHBURN, WiLcoms E. “Are Museums Necessary?” Museum News (October
1968), volume 47, number 2, pages 9-10.

. “Speech Communication and Politics.’”’ Today’s Speech, the Journal of

the Speech Association of the Eastern States (November 1968), volume 16,

number 4, pages 3-16.

. “Examen Critique des Questions Cartographiques dans la Découverte.”

Pages 77-87 in La Découverte de L’ Amérique, Proceedings of the 10th Stage

AMERICAN STUDIES PROGRAM 487

International D’Etudes Humanistes, Tours, 1966. Paris: Librairie Philosophi-
que J. Vrin, 1968.

. “Temple of the Arts: The Renovation of Washington’s Patent Office
Building.” AIA Journal (March 1969), volume 51, number 3, pages 54-61.

ik able hike conenpg sce X, an
She

Fa ee er + ei

vd aot

The Joseph Henry Papers

NATHAN REINGOLD, Editor

T THE END OF THE YEAR the Henry Papers staff is ready to start
A editing the first of a projected series of 20 volumes of previously
unpublished documents of Joseph Henry, the early American physicist
and first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Devoted to the early,
Albany, New York, period of Henry’s life, this volume will contain
approximately 340 documents by, addressed to, or referring to Henry,
as well as several hundred items on the intellectual, social, and institu-
tional environment in which Henry first attained prominence as an
experimental physical scientist.

Copies of these Albany documents and an additional 16,000 manu-
scripts covering the entire range of Henry’s long career have been
acquired by an extensive canvass of domestic and foreign institutions by
mail and by personal visit. While this hunt is far from complete, the
project will shortly have in its possession not only all the known Albany
period items but also most of the extant documentation for Henry’s life
at Princeton, 1832-1846. Although the Henry Papers staff has located
many sources for Henry’s Smithsonian period, 1846-1878, particularly
the early formative years, the bulk of these manuscripts necessarily will
remain unprocessed until the work of the early volumes are further
advanced. All of the primary sources are being described and indexed
by a computer system.

The ultimate purpose of an edition of the Henry Papers is not the
mere convenience of having source materials in readable form but that
our knowledge and understanding of the past is significantly increased.
So much fresh material has come to light that the staff faces an embar-
rassment of riches in making the selection for the letterpress edition.
While certain topics suffer, unfortunately, from the loss of documenta-
tion, others are profusely illustrated by manuscripts of great intrinsic
interest. The early Albany period lacks many key items of evidence on the
origins and nature of Henry’s early research. For the Princeton years,
there are very many splendid manuscripts on Henry’s intellectual devel-
opment. Much has turned up on the growth of Henry’s ideas on educa-
tion, on scientific method, and on the history of the American scientific

366-269 07032 489
490 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

community in this period. Despite destruction in the fire of 1865, many
items on Henry’s concept of the Smithsonian Institution and on its
operations in the early years have been located by the Henry Papers staff.

Staff Publications and Papers

REINGOLD, NaTHan. “National Aspirations and Local Purposes.” Transactions of
the Kansas Academy of Sciences (1968), volume 71, number 3, pages 235-246.

_ “American Indifference to Basic Research, a Reappraisal.” University of

Illinois, Champaign, Illinois. May 1969.

. “Using a Computer in Historical Research.” University of Illinois,

Champaign, Illinois. May 1969.

SPECIAL PROGRAMS

FRANK A. TAYLOR
Director General of Museums
and
Director, United States National Museum
ars
. _ r a ee ‘on i if
ane - are PON @
y, Ce oT >
oe 7 7 2
ae 4 - y ~~ . , "
i ( Pes “ : ix
yh cal ty we Pe ik ia Lg a Re teak or, sy.
eee ee

iit Of iene & ir ore “a
, mreq °y ee Py _ by onthe
| -

Office of the Director General of Museums

FrANK A. Taytor, Director General of Museums

N IMPORTANT EVENT OF THE YEAR for the museums of the United
States has been the publication of the Belmont conferees’ report
describing the urgent needs of America’s museums. The Belmont Report
outlines the opportunities museums have within their grasp to make
outstanding contributions to the cultural and educational development
of the United States and to improve the quality of life for all Americans.
Ironically, its publication coincided with announcements by officials of
several large cities of their intent to reduce or terminate the financial
support of museums.

The report states the problems museums face in meeting their respon-
sibilities and recommends continuing studies of broad museum needs.
For this purpose it speaks affirmatively of the National Museum Act as
an authorized means to fund the studies required to develop justifica-
tions and procedures to obtain new aid for museums. The accreditation
of museums and the setting of standards of performance and eligibility
to qualify them for public aid is a necessary and complex undertaking.
The Smithsonian under the authority of the National Museum Act has
responded to requests from the American Association of Museums
(AAM) for grants in aid of the Association’s accreditation study.

Similarly, the Smithsonian under the authority of the act has coop-
erated with the Southeast Museums Conference in an experiment to
improve the value of the annual meetings of regional conferences. The
response to publication of the results of the two annual meetings has
been so favorable that officers of other regional associations have re-
quested advice and aid for developing similar meetings. At the request
of AAM, the Smithsonian has made a grant to the Association to carry
on the experiment in each of its six regional conferences.

Smithsonian documentary resources required to respond to steadily in-
creasing requests for information about museums and for advice and
assistance in meeting museum problems have been enlarged this year.
Substantial aid has been given to the final editing of the report on a
museum questionnaire circulated two years ago. This report was pub-
lished in the summer of 1969 by the Office of Education.

493
494 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The Office of the Director General of Museums has responded to
numerous requests for advice from university, city, and state museums
involved in reorganizing or rebuilding their institutions. Smithsonian
scientists, museum directors, exhibits specialists, conservators, and others
have gone to these museums to advise on problems and plans.

Officers and staff of the Smithsonian have cooperated with the
director and officers of the American Association of Museums and the
officers of the United States Coiamittee of the International Council
of Museums to establish a working relationship between the two groups
for the benefit of domestic and foreign museums. Through the imagina-
tive guidance of Peter Powers, Smithsonian general counsel, a permanent
development secretary for 1com will join the headquarters staff of AAM.
At the annual meeting of aam the director general participated in a
panel discussion demonstrating to the American museum professionals
the values of 1com for museums of Canada, Mexico, and the United
States. He pointed out that strong representation of museums before
international cultural and development organizations can have impor-
tant consequences for the museums of the United States. The director
and the general counsel attended the working sessions, the executive
committee meetings, and the general assembly of the 1com Triennial
Conference in Germany as representatives of Secretary Ripley, who was
elected vice president of 1com.

The director, in cooperation with the officers of the 1com Inter-
national Committee for Museums of Science and Technology, has con-
tinued to plan a laboratory to be established in India to produce basic
science exhibits designed to meet the specific needs of individual develop-
ing countries. The Smithsonian Office of International Activities is co-
operating in the support of a meeting to be held in Bangalore, India,
to define the project in detail.

Experimentation and investigation of the methods required to im-
prove the impact of museum exhibits has continued during the year.
The annual meeting of the Southeast Museums Conference mentioned
earlier was based on the subject of exhibits evaluation and testing. This
was followed by a seminar at the Smithsonian on museum communica-
tion and the new techniques available to involve viewers with exhibits
and to collect information about museum visitors and what they con-
sider relevant to their interests. The visitors’ survey is continuing, and a
summer institute for selected undergraduates on the subject of exhibition
objectives and methods was held under the direction of Peter Welsh.
Conversations are continuing between the director of Academic Pro-
grams and a number of university people to determine ways and means
of producing exhibitions on issues and concerns of the times that will
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF MUSEUMS 495

permit the viewer to make choices of priorities and solutions, to see the
consequences of his decisions, and to register his likes and dislikes.

The Exposition Hall programs under the direction of Lloyd Her-
man are providing opportunities for experimentation with exhibits of a
temporary kind. At the request of members of the Federal City College
faculty, classes on design and reporting have been held in the “Photog-
raphy and the City” exhibition. The exhibition “The Concerned Photog-
rapher” is being used as a test of the principle of charging admission
to special exhibits. An exhibition surveying United States industrial
design in 1968, co-sponsored by Industrial Design magazine, has been
visited by industrial design classes from as far away as Baltimore. Film
showings and a guest industrial design speaker have underscored the
importance of good design in our environment. The premier exhibition
of “Please Be Seated,” tracing the history and evolution of the chair
from 2000 B.c. to the present, has offered local art and history students
opportunities for class visits and a “sketch-in” at the exhibit. The re-
habilitation of public spaces and the general improvement of the ap-
pearance of the Arts and Industries Building have continued.

Laboratories and offices of the Smithsonian have provided instruction
in museum practices for more than 500 museum personnel who came
from other institutions to spend from a day to a year learning techniques
of exhibition, conservation of museum objects, management of collec-
tions, and administration. These visitors came from 35 states and 25
foreign countries. Many attended on international travel grants pro-
vided by international foundations. A number obtained college credit
under cooperative arrangements between their universities and the
Smithsonian Office of Academic Programs.

Mr. Welsh participated on three occasions at the New York State
Historical Association at Cooperstown in seminars on the use and pres-
entation of nonverbal material in teaching social studies. In addition,
he has taught a seminar in the Cooperstown Graduate Program that
investigated the attitudes and values in American naive art. He con-
tinues to serve as editor of the Smithsonian Journal of History.

Planning for the Smithsonian’s participation in the Bicentennial
of the American Revolution, the events leading to it, and the subsequent
development of the United States, has been accelerated through the
efforts of John J. Slocum, a Foreign Service Information Officer detailed
by the United States Information Agency in February 1969 to serve
as Special Assistant for Bicentennial Planning. Mr. Slocum, has had
extensive experience in international exhibitions and celebrations both
in this country and abroad.
496 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

He is now coordinating the plans of various Smithsonian offices and
is serving as the liaison officer between the Smithsonian and the Ameri-
can Revolution Bicentennial Commission, other government agencies,
and private organizations.
Office of Exhibits Programs

Joun E. Ancuiim, Chief

MITHSONIAN EXHIBITS HAVE ATTEMPTED to reach the public at every
available level of communication, giving multidimensional per-
sonalized meaning, in the sense of today, to the facts of history, and
science, and technology. Under its chief, John E. Anglim, and assistant
chief, Benjamin W. Lawless, the Office of Exhibits Programs has sought
to develop an especially meaningful rapport between the exhibit and
the visitor, inviting truly significant museum-to-visitor mutual
involvement.

Exhibits have had more impact, more relevance than ever before,
seeking to tell their stories with candor and clarity. They have related
the object to the visitor, the visitor to the object, the visitors to each
other and to their predecessors. For only in this way can the real mean-
ing of the historic, the scientific, the technological be understood. Only
when the visitor can become personally involved with the exhibit will he
gain a sense of himself, will he understand the object being exhibited.
This has been the aim of the exhibits throughout the museums in
1969—those mounted by the staff assigned to the National Museum
of History and Technology under the direction of Benjamin W. Lawless,
chief, and Richard F. Virgo, chief of design; those by the staff at the
National Museum of Natural History under the direction of James A.
Mahoney, chief; and those by the staff of the National Air and Space
Museum under the direction of Harry Hart, chief.

Epitomizing especially this mutual involvement of visitor and object
has been the spectacular exhibit “The History of Jazz,” which filled the
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum with visitors for six weeks during
the winter and then went on to reopen in downtown Washington at
the Corcoran Gallery of Art’s new Dupont Center. Designer Kenneth
Young of the exhibits staff, assigned to the National Museum of History
and Technology, has summarized the purpose of the exhibit as giving
the “feeling of jazz” by teaching (relating the history of jazz to the
music of today) and by community involvement (the youngsters of
Anacostia presented their own interpretation of jazz through a mural
that they painted for the exhibit). In an Environment Room (using

497
498 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The Lilly Collection of Gold Coins, designed by Steven Makovenyi (above),
was one of the year’s major exhibitions (photo courtesy Larry Stevens).

Exhibits specialist Frank Caldwell mounts one of the 6,018 gold coins in the
Lilly Exhibition (photo courtesy Larry Stevens).

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS PROGRAMS 499

two films and six slide projectors), visitors felt that they were actually
walking amid a street-marching Jazz band. They also saw musical instru-
ments associated with the history of jazz: the trumpets of Dizzy Gil-
lespie and Louis Armstrong. There were paintings from Birdland in
New York portraying some of the greats of jazz: Sarah Vaughn, Count
Basie, Billy Eckstine, Ella Fitzgerald, Earl Garner, and more. The total
exhibit told the story of jazz in a vital, meaningful way that embraced
the visitor; the Anacostia youngster became a part of it; it gave him a
“sense of himself.”

This has been just one of the unprecedented number of special exhibits
in which the Office of Exhibits Programs has sought to reach the
Smithsonian’s millions of visitors, and, at the same time, to insure that
the museum represented and communicated with all Americans. Other
exhibits so motivated have included “Human Rights,” “Quest for the
Presidency,” “Hail to the Chief,” “Women, Cameras, and Images,” and
“Music Making Country Style” in the History and Technology Building ;
“Right to Existence,” “African Interlude,’ and “Masada” in the
Natural History Building; and the Saga of Anacostia” at the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum.

Mrs. Samuel K. B. Asante of Ghana African Interlude, an exhibition of
examines a work of sculpture in the indigenous arts, artifacts, and tex-
“African Interlude” exhibit with Mrs. tiles from several African nations,
Willie Mae Pelham, museum aide in aattracted large crowds, including
the Division of Cultural Anthropology. many youngsters.

500 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The exhibits of 1968-69 also have included “The Japan Expedition,”
designed by Lucius Lomax, handsomely commemorating Commodore
Matthew Calbraith Perry’s historic and successful mission to open Japan
to United States trade in the mid 19th century. In the National Museum
of History and Technology has been the immense Lilly Collection of
Gold Coins, designed by Steven Makovenyi to present the 6,000 gold
coins collected by Josiah K. Lilly, Jr. In the Arts and Industries Build-
ing, which is being readied for its role as the Smithsonian’s Exposition
Hall, have been, among other exhibits: “Please Be Seated,” encompass-
ing the little-known history of the chair; the “Bolivian Exhibit,”
brought from HemisFair; “1968 Design Review;” and “Urban Design:
Manhattan, West.”

All of these have been special exhibitions (as opposed to perma-
nent)—temporary and relatively low-cost. The Office of Exhibits Pro-
grams has produced sixty-six of them in 1969 and has edited and printed
labels for thirty-four more for the Traveling Exhibition Service. By
their very nature, temporary shows are superbly valuable as experimen-
tal vehicles. They permit the testing of ideas and philosophies, and me-
chanical innovations as well, suggesting further development of those
that prove good, and offering easy discard of those that do not. Expe-
rience with the specials has been applied to the permanent exhibits as
ways were continually explored to make permanent halls more flexible
and more current to new concepts of science, history, and technology.

Exhibits fabricators Herbert L.

Brumback (left) and Olaf L.

Leatherland construct coin cab-

inets for the Lilly Collection.

Utmost accuracy of measure-—
ment was required to insure the

necessary tight seal (photo cour-

tesy Larry Stevens).

as
‘NA
Yoruba Textiles and Clothing, a new exhibit in the Cultures of Africa and Asia

Hall, was the project of a trainee whose nine-month fellowship permitted
extensive study of exhibits techniques.

A colorful woodblock print in The Japan Expedition depicts a “foreign ship and
some of the people it brought,” according to the Japanese legend at far right.
Commodore Perry is represented in the upper row, extreme right (photo
courtesy Mariners Museum).

3B SHA SS Br

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Mrs. Terezia Takacs works on a
design for the philately special
exhibit Commonwealth in Africa
and the Caribbean.

Workmen install a piece of pottery for Masada, a portrayal of one of the most
dramatic episodes in Jewish history.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS PROGRAMS 503

Exhibits technician Nicholas Michnya Fisk University trainees learn silk-
prepares a silk screen for an exhibits screening techniques in the History
label (photo courtesy Larry Stevens). and Technology Exhibits laboratory.

Karen Loveland, who heads the Exhibits film unit, directs shooting of a movie
for The History of Jazz. Films such as this and other audiovisual projects have
contributed much to a rapport with museum visitors.

HAIL TO THE CHIEF

Hail to the Chief, a lively record of Presidential inaugurations, succeeded Quest
for the Presidency, the story of America’s colorful political campaigns.
OFFICE OF EXHIBITS PROGRAMS 505

Significant work has continued in the past year on thirty-two perma-
nent and semipermanent halls, especially the Halls of Electricity, Autos
and Coaches, and Iron and Steel in the History and Technology Build-
ing, the Hall of Living Things in the Natural History Building, and
(editing and printing for) the National Portrait Gallery.

Air and Space exhibits, which reverted in 1969 to the Office of Ex-
hibits Programs, have included the first Annual Aerospace Model Ex-
hibit, with model-building demonstrations that continued through the
summer; a presentation in the Arts and Industries Building of the exper-
imental rocket plane X—15—1; and the exhibition on the Mall of the
NC-—4, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the first transatlantic
flight.

Also among the exciting developments of the year have been the film
and audiovisual programs, both undertaken to create more and increas-
ingly effective communications with visitors. Under the direction of
Karen Loveland, the Film Unit made eleven movies, including two
for the jazz exhibit; a lively film on pottery-making that now captures
the visitor’s attention as he approaches the Ceramics Hall; and a movie
in the Agriculture Hall that compares old and modern sawmills.

The widely ranging audiovisual supplements developed under the
direction of Eugene F. Behlen have added dimensions to exhibits
throughout the museums: the “Star-Spangled Banner,” narrated by
Archibald MacLeish; various sounds of the Smithsonian, including the
1401 steam engine, clocks and watches, tools, power machinery, and
country music—all in the History and Technology Building; the ele-
phant, whales, and porpoises, and many other sounds in the Natural
History Building. Slide shows throughout the buildings now provide yet
another facet to scores of exhibits. In 1969, twenty-eight new audiovis-
ual programs have been installed.

Now in the Natural History Building and soon to be installed in the
History and Technology Building is the “By-Word” audio system, which
provides additional information about exhibits to visitors renting head-
sets. These curator-approved exhibits supplements, developed under
the direction of senior museologist A. Gilbert Wright, further involve
the visitor in the exhibit, often presenting unique sounds relevant to
the subject as well as more detailed information than is possible in most
exhibits labels.

New organizations set up within the Office of Exhibits in 1969 have
included a special unit under the direction of Harry Hart to produce
traveling exhibits on Negro history—exhibits intended to show the right-
ful role of the American Negro in the development of the nation. One
such exhibit has been written by Joanne Lewis; another, now in pro-

366-269 O—70- 33

506 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

duction, was written and designed by Larry Thomas of the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum.

Another new and vital organization, headed by Carl A. Alexander, is
the training division to coordinate and conduct the many programs
under which the Office of Exhibits provides instruction for visiting stu-
dents, grantees, and representatives of museums around the world.
Many of the trainees are young people who offer the Smithsonian fresh
approaches to the avenues through which the museum can communi-
cate with its visitors. The students themselves are thoughtful and candid,
eager to pierce through the myths of traditionalism as they seek out the
facts of history. For example, a group of students from Fisk University
enrolled in a formal twelve-week seminar with the Office of Exhibits
in the summer of 1969. They chose Color Me Mankind as the subject
of the exhibit that they produced. It was displayed first at the Smith-
sonian, later at Fisk and elsewhere.

In all, 26 persons from seven states and nine foreign countries have
been trained a total of 6,065 hours in 1969, trainees that include the
recipient of a special nine-month fellowship granted by the National
Foundation of Arts and Humanities. The exhibit of Yoruba textiles
developed by this student is now in the Cultures of Africa and Asia Hall
in the Natural History Building.

Participating in many of the training programs, as well as in the per-
manent and special exhibitions, in By-word, in numerous tape record-
ings, and in other exhibits-related material has been the Exhibits Edi-
tor’s office under the direction of Mrs. Constance Minkin. The writing,
editing, and typographic services of this unit in 1969 have included the
production of approximately 14,000 labels, ten leaflets, brochures, and
directories, and the coauthorship of a popular publication supple-
mentary to the Philately Hall.

Also contributing to the exhibitions in both the Natural History and
the History and Technology Buildings, as well as the many exhibits for
other organizations in and outside the Smithsonian, have been the light-
ing and special-effects unit directed by Carroll B. Lusk, the freeze-dry
laboratory directed by Rolland O. Hower, the sound-systems office, the
horticultural section, the conservation laboratories, the plastic shops, the
model shops, and the silk-screen facilities. William M. Clark, assisted
by Stanley M. Santoroski, heads the production laboratory for the
National Museum of History and Technology, while Frank A. Nelms,
assisted by Charles W. Mickens, heads the laboratory for the Museum
of Natural History.
Visitors examine old political banners assembled for Quest for the Presidency,
a colorful exhibit that highlighted the 1968 campaign.

Human Rights Year (1968), a special exhibition in the Hall of Historic Ameri-
cans, depicted the struggles of American women and of American Negroes in
enlarging their basic human rights.

508

SPECIAL ExHIBITS

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

History and Technology Building

Exhibit

Quest for the Presidency

American Folk Craft Survivals

Jet Surgery

National Portrait Gallery

Stencil Ornaments of Louis Sullivan
Drawings by Edgar Dorsey Taylor
Malta Stamps

Patent Controversies in History of Radio
Raphael Soyer’s Prints

Women, Cameras, and Images I (Cunningham)
Puppet Theater I and II
Abandoned Mine Scenes

Recent Accessions ITT

Memorial to General Eisenhower
Music Making Country Style
Townshend Act

The Capitol of the Future

High School Graphics

Inaugural Medals

Art and Astronomy

Helium Centennial

Anniversary of the Armistice

Coins and Medals of Israel
Reading is Fundamental

Lilly Collection of Gold Coins
Lingering Shadows
Commonwealth in Africa and the Caribbean
Ginning Cotton

Hail to the Chief

Human Rights

Swiss Folk Art

West German Stamps

Golden Spike

Coke Push

Designer

Alfred McAdams
Deborah Bretzfelder
Deborah Bretzfelder
Kenneth Young
Jerald Shelton
Deborah Bretzfelder
Deborah Bretzfelder
Nadya Makovenyi
Deborah Bretzfelder
Nadya Makovenyi
Terezia Takacs
Terezia Takacs
Deborah Bretzfelder
Robert Widder
William Haase
Barbara Fellows
Richard Virgo
Barbara Fellows
Robert Widder
Kenneth Young
Alfred McAdams
Deborah Bretzfelder
Steven Makovenyi
William Haase
Steven Makovenyi
Nadya Makovenyi
Terezia Takacs
Jerald Shelton
Alfred McAdams
William Haase
Barbara Fellows
Terezia Takacs
Kenneth Young
Kenneth Young

Natural History Building

Berlandier in Texas
Carl-Henning Pederson
Birds of the Eastern Forest
Masada

African Interlude

Joseph Shannon
James Mahoney
William Haase
William Haase
James Speight
OFFICE OF EXHIBITS PROGRAMS 509

Natural History Building—Continued

Exhibit Designer

The Japan Expedition Lucius Lomax
Right of Existence James Speight
Man’s New Environment Lucius Lomax
Tibetan Carpets Dorothy Guthrie
Daraniyagala Paintings Lucius Lomax
Yoruba Textiles Lucius Lomax

Arts and Industries Building

1st Annual Aerospace Modeling Harry Hart
X-15-1 Harry Hart
Apollo Harry Hart
Planetary Exploration Harry Hart
Urban Design: Manhattan, West Richard Virgo
Concerned Photographer James Speight
Please Be Seated Robert Widder
Bolivia Richard Virgo
The Mall
NC—Y+4, First Transatlantic Flight Harry Hart

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

The History of Jazz Kenneth Young

16 Washington Artists Larry Thomas and James
Mayo

Sage of Anacostia Larry Thomas and James
Mayo

All “27” of Me Larry Thomas and James
Mayo

Other

FBI Block (shown at D.C. National Bank) Deborah Bretzfelder

Chesapeake Bay Project (traveling) Morris Pearson

History of Photography (traveling) Steven Makovenyi

Printing of the Past (shown at National Press Build- Deborah Bretzfelder
ing, District of Columbia)

National Portrait Gallery
(editing and printing)

This New Man
Longacre Engravings
510

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

(editing and printing)

The American Landscape—A Living Tradition
Stitching

Marine Combat Art—Viet Nam

Hans Christian Andersen

Discovering Color In Nature

Japanese Dolls

Colors and Patterns in the Animal Kingdom
Paul Feeley: Watercolors and Drawings
The Paintings and Drawings of Justin Daraniyagala
UNESCO Reproductions of Paintings From 1900 to 1925
Handicrafts of the Southeast

The Color of Man

German Posters

Radius 5

John Held Jr.: “The Roaring Twenties”
Polish Children and UNICEF

Toledo Glass National II

Polynesian Art

Silent Cities: Mexico and the Maya

Easter Island

Carl-Henning Pedersen

Recent Graphics from Prague

Preservation of Abu-Simbel

Photo Graphics

View from Space

Moppets and the Moon

Recent British Prints

Stage Design by Stewart Chaney
Embrodieries by Children of Chijnaya
Southern Sculpture 67

Visual Arts and the Deaf

Yugoslav Naive Paintings and Sculpture
Georgian Country Houses

Icon-Idea

PERMANENT EXHIBITIONS IN PROGRESS

Exhibit

Graphic Arts
Foucault Pendulum
Petroleum
Philately
Electricity
Merchant Shipping

History and Technology Building

Designer

Alfred McAdams

Jerald Shelton

Alfred McAdams

John Clendening

Nadya Makovenyi

Steven Makovenyi and
Barbara Fellows
OFFICE OF EXHIBITS PROGRAMS ait

History and Technology Building—Continued

Exhibit Designer
Physical Sciences John Clendening and
Kenneth Young
Armed Forces John Clendening
Agriculture Alfred McAdams
Everyday Life in the American Past Deborah Bretzfelder
Autos and Coaches John Clendening
Light Machinery Jerald Shelton
Growth of the United States Deborah Bretzfelder
First Ladies Deborah Bretzfelder
Medical Sciences Deborah Bretzfelder
Ceramics Robert Widder
Doll House Nadya Makovenyi
Nuclear Energy Alfred McAdams
Musical Instruments Richard Virgo
Railroads Kenneth Young

Natural History Building

Hall of Living Things Joseph Shannon
Cultures of Africa and Asia Lucius Lomax
Life in the Sea Lucius Lomax
Comparative Osteology Morris Pearson
Physical Geology Dorothy Guthrie
Paleontology Lucius Lomax
Meteorites Dorothy Guthrie
Physical Anthropology Joseph Shannon
Gems Dorothy Guthrie
Elephant Morris Pearson

National Portrait Gallery

(editing and printing)
The Presidents
“Permanent Exhibitions”

National Air and Space Museum

Various Harry Hart
AUDIOVISUAL INSTALLATIONS

History and Technology Building

Women, Cameras, and Images (Cunningham)
Music Making Country Style

Quest for the Presidency

Sounds of the Clocks, Light Machinery hall
Ipswich House, Growth of the United States hall
512 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

AUDIOVISUAL INSTALLATIONS—Continued
History and Technology Building—Continued

Stereophonic Chairs, Musical Instruments hall
Slide Presentation, Musical Instruments hall
Kerr-McGee Drilling Rig, Petroleum hall
Pottery Making, Ceramics hall

Hail to the Chief

Political Parade, Hall of Historic Americans
Machine Shop, Tool hall

Sawmills, Farm Machinery hall

Natural History Building

Whale and Porpoise Sounds, Life in the Sea hall
The Japan Expedition

Foyer

Tibetan Rugs

Right of Existence

Masada

African Interlude

Volcano, Physical Geology hall

Arts and Industries

Photography and the City
Museum Shops
Bolivia
Urban Design
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Making of a Museum
The History of Jazz
Sage of Anacostia

Other
The History of Jazz, Corcoran Gallery Dupont Center

EXHIBITs FILMS

Film Installation or Purpose

Pottery Making Ceramics Hall

Jazz (two films) The History of Jazz

Nehru Presented to Mrs. Nehru

The Stamp Engraver as an Artist Philately Hall

Endangered Species Right of Existence

- Volcanoes Physical Geology

Docents Produced for Office of Academic Pro-
grams

Organic Forms Produced for Office of Academic Pro-
grams

Sawmill Agriculture Hall

Moppets in Space Children’s Film

Hail to the Chief (Editing of Presidential Films)
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory

Rosert M. Oroan, Chief

HE EXTREMELY VARIED ACTIVITIES of the laboratory staff fall, of
course, into the two principal categories of conservation and
analysis.

Analytical work requested by curators for use in their own research
and publications has continued steadily.

The analytical methods in use are kept under review. At present,
using available instruments, a method of quantitative analysis by x-ray
fluorescence spectrometry is being developed that holds promise of
being more generally satisfactory for museum needs than others that
adequately serve industry.

Analytical facilities are being extended into neutron-activation analy-
sis, making use of the atomic pile at the National Bureau of Standards.
Papers have been published already on the use of this method to dis-
tinguish among excavated pots of the American colonial period those
that were imported from England. Expansion of this work into studies of
ancient glass is projected.

Another project, carried out by a summer interne, has involved
analysis by infrared spectrophotometry of samples of a blue Mayan
pigment with the object of discovering its relationship to a blue pig-
ment currently made and used by the Seri-Indians. This work has
been part of a larger project, still incomplete, aimed at identifying
the coloring factor in Maya Blue.

About fifteen requisitions have given rise to more than eighty analyses
of various degrees of complexity, ranging from spectrographic estima-
tions (e.g., Oriental bronze and Peruvian silver) of forty elements at
a precision of +50 percent of the quantity found to the simple identifi-
cation of crystalline substances (e.g., pigments from paintings, corrosion
crusts found on objects from underwater).

The problem of proper conservation of the millions of objects within
the Smithsonian collections is immense and fragmented.

In general, the Conservation-Analytical Laboratory has sought to keep
itself widely and well informed about sources of deterioration and to
convey relevant information, analytical data, and, in emergency, even

513
514 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Oval daguerrotype photograph (about 15 inches high) of former President
Lyndon Johnson as a small boy aged four. As received (left), varnish and photo-
graphic emulsion scarred and chipped and the paper gouged, also marked with
crayon. After treatment (right), damaged varnish removed manually with
precision scalpel, gouged areas filled with paper pulp and inpainted. Final spray-
ing with nonyellowing synthetic varnish.

physical assistance to those individuals throughout the Smithsonian
who become involved in the handling, care, or use of objects, At
present, only two of its eight-member staff can specialize in practical
problems of conservation. It is hoped that recruitment during the next
year will enable greater assistance to be provided. A realistic attempt,
however, to deal economically with the colossal problem of conservation
in the Smithsonian Institution will involve effective integration of activi-
ties and of facilities that at present are scattered. In addition, investment
in an adequate engineering plant and in fumigation equipment is needed
to control specific and major sources of deterioration.

Practical activities directed toward conservation of the collections
have assumed various forms.

There has been continuous discussion and evaluation of conservation
problems that will be encountered later; for example, in the preparation
of exhibitions and during the raising of the USS Tecumseh.
CONSERVATION-ANALYTICAL LABORATORY. 515

A series of weekly lectures over a period of six months explaining the
chemistry underlying both deterioration and many procedures for con-
servation has been attended regularly by almost sixty persons who work
with museum objects.

During the year a research associate has worked with the Laboratory
on problems of conservation in the course of obtaining a master’s degree
from New York University.

Surveillance of the conditions of relative humidity and temperature
found in the galleries has continued since control of environment is less
expensive and less destructive than repeated restoration of objects.

Assistance has been given to the Office of Exhibits by testing materials
used in display cases for compatibility with the objects to be displayed.
Unsatisfactory woodwork and paints have been detected, and materials
to counteract tarnishing have been suggested and provided without delay
to construction. In preparation for other exhibits, tests have been made
of the paper, synthetics, textiles, plastic foils, and adhesives that have
been proposed for prolonged contact with graphic art and other objects.

The early part of the year was devoted to completing the reconstruc-
tion and reorganization of the laboratory space. Streamlining of space
and procedures has improved productivity. During the more productive
part of the year, nearly eighty requisitions have been completed in-
volving 200 objects received from twenty-seven sources within eight
museums of the Smithsonian.

Advice on conservation has been given by letter (approximately 250
typed pages) and by telephone (at least 150 calls) to other museums and
to members of the public.

Actual treatment has been given to 120 objects; another 150 have
been examined and treatment prescribed. The majority of these objects
have consisted of graphic art on paper, but silver coins, a brass gong, a
leather bookbinding, and a limestone bust were treated. About forty
objects and one hundred requisitions are still in hand awaiting early
attention.

Professional contacts have been maintained by actvities in support of
the Committee for Conservation of the International Council for
Museums.

Staff Publications and Papers

Olin, J. S., M. E. Salmon, and C. H. Olin. “Investigations of Historical Objects
Utilizing Spectroscopy and Other Optical Methods.” Journal of Applied Optics
(January 1969), volume 8, number 1.

Olin, J. S., and E. V. Sayre. The Analysis of English and American Pottery of
the American Colonial Period. Publication 12719. Brookhaven National Lab-
oratory, 1968.
516 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

. “Compositional Categories of Some English and American Pottery of
the American Colonial Period.’ Proceedings of American Chemical Society
Symposium on Archaeological Chemistry [in press].

Organ, R. M. Design for Scientific Conservation of Antiquities. xi+497 pages,
230 figures, 27 tables. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press; Lon-
don: Butterworths, 1969.

. “Humidification of Galleries for a Temporary Exhibition.” In Museum

Climatology, G. Thomson, editor, IIC, 1968.

. “Conservation of Ancient Bronzes.” In A Symposium on Classical
Bronzes. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Fogg Art Museum, M.I.T. Press [in
press].

Salmon, M. E. ‘An Improved Method of X-ray Fluorescence Analysis for
Museum Objects.” Annual Meeting of International Institute for Conserva-
tion—American Group, Los Angeles, 1969.

Office of the Registrar

HELENA M. Weiss, Registrar

HE OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR passed a major milestone this year

when the Office, with the exception of the shipping and mail
sections, was moved from the Natural History Building to the Arts and
Industries Building. The smooth transition was made possible by the
excellent cooperation of the Buildings Management Department and
the director of the National Museum of Natural History. Activities
have remained the same but have been characterized by a greater volume
in most areas. Responsive to new and energetic programs and con-
tinuing public interest in the Smithsonian, this volume of activity has
continued to increase. During the year, mail service has been extended
to the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum and to the units of the Smith-
sonian located in the Pension Building. The eighty-ton Alexander Calder
sculpture Gwenfitz and, by way of contrast, several shipments of deli-
cate animal brains for special study have been entered through United
States Customs. Official travel documents have been obtained for 291
travelers to foreign countries.

An average of more than 5,000 inquiry letters has been received
monthly, of which a good percentage has been channeled for reply
through this office. Items appearing in the press or on the air are
reflected immediately. For example, a popular television show asked its
viewers to look around their homes for items of value and to write to the
Smithsonian Institution for more information, a suggestion that piqued
the imagination of scores of correspondents. The Department of Civil
History has been the recipient of the largest number of such letters
referred for reply, with First Ladies’ gowns, Stradivarius violins, and
coins remaining the most popular subjects for inquiry.

The number of accessions to the collections in the National Museum
of History and Technology have continued to show a leveling off, fol-
lowing the peak years of the museum’s transition to its new building.
Acquisitions for collections of the National Museum of Natural History
also seem to have tapered off. In addition to staff scientists and research
aides conducting research in the records, scholars from widely scattered
parts of the world have come to study methods of accessioning and rec-

517
518 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

U.S. Customs inspection of ethnological items imported from Pakistan. Customs
inspector Abraham F. Binder (center) and museum staff members are shown.

Transportation specialist Gleason R. Shaver and shipping clerk Roland D.
Watson surrounded by outgoing shipments.

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 519

ord keeping and to search the early files. Among the visitors have been
Dr. Sampurno Kadarsan, Bogor Museum, Indonesia; Dr. P. H. D. H.
de Silva, Director of National Museums, Colombo, Ceylon; Mr. A. G. K.
Menon, Calcutta, India; Mr. Wayne Davis, University of British
Columbia; and Mr. Martin Murphy, University of New Mexico.

Customs work for the office has been marked by two important
changes. The United States Customs facility at the National Airport has
been closed, its function shifted to Dulles International Airport, and the
Washington Customs office has been elevated in status from that of a
port to a district. Our relations remain good after this administrative
change, and the transition to Dulles has been smooth although the loca-
tion is less convenient. All but 23 of the 135 customs entries filed during
the year have been for air shipments.

The central shipping office with its two branches has maintained an
efficient service in effectively moving a diversity of museum objects.

Shipping Office Activity

Shipments (surface and air) Pieces Pounds
Incoming

Freight 11, 309 851, 470

Express 875 43,119
Outgoing

Freight 1, 374 327, 972

Express 628 44, 620

Parcel Post 6, 700 224, 997
eit et pet

‘Wa sh
a elie? ah, il Ps

a .
cet Min miteth a. Ml
4 :
HUY |
a. 78) =
‘4’ ba 4 je Pel
4 Mati WJ Spat ‘
yA. en
a Les A { ete | 5
! “ ,
A te hae he
¥ j "
sf '
‘
‘
. i
i
i
= 4
r
t
iw
' a
’
"
evi
/ ‘
fj
. iy
i. F ;
i
' f
aint i
1 ~ 7 .
Wh i A, ’

ti

:

Pa 4
q ‘
’
,
y
r
4
\
I
‘
é
‘
{
{
’
Traveling Exhibition Service

Mrs. DoroTHy VAN ARSDALE, Chief

HE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

completed its 18th year in 1969. Despite one staff member less than
last year, sITES has continued to expand its offerings to the 112 shows
listed in its 1969-1970 catalog, plus an additional list of 14 in process of
negotiation.

With the closing of one major traveling exhibition service and cur-
tailment of another, siTEs is challenged to expand its role in supplying
museums of all sizes and character and other educational institutions
and facilities with a broad range of exhibitions in all budget categories.

SITES is slowly increasing its roster of science and history exhibitions
and is pleased to take over for tour many exhibitions organized by Smith-
sonian museums for their own programs. Among these are Jean Louis
Berlandier, Photography and the City, and, later, The Endangered
Species. SITES is happy also to cooperate with the Anacostia Museum
in planning to circulate The Sage of Anacostia. Another Smithsonian
Exhibit will be World War I, posters from the Department of Graphic
Arts of the National Museum of History and Technology.

In turn, many of strEs’ exhibitions have opened at the Smithsonian.
Among these are Paintings and Drawings of Justin Daraniyagala, T1-
betan Carpets, Paintings by Carl-Henning Pedersen, The Stencil Orna-
ments of Louis Sullivan, Urban Design Manhattan, The Concerned Pho-
tographer, and Swiss Folk Art.

This year stTEs has tried a new venture, an exhibition of paintings
by deaf children entitled Shout in Silence — Visual Arts and the Deaf.
Many bookings have been made, clearly indicating an interest in work by
the physically handicapped.

SITES continues to counsel community colleges, libraries, art councils,
and various institutions regarding circulating exhibitions, and also to
provide the material. stres has been visited by many museum directors
seeking advice as well as our traveling exhibitions. Advice has been given
on various subjects from budgeting to box building.

SITES is continuing its cooperation with the Department of State and
has been written into the Cultural Exchange Agreement between the

366-269 O—70——34 521
522 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Smithsonian Secretary Ripley
and Ceylonese Ambassador
Oliver Weerasinghe at _ the
opening of Paintings and Draw-
ings of Justin Daraniyagala,
held at the National Museum of
Natural History.

United States and Romania. The third exhibition of five proposed
Yugoslav exhibitions, Yugoslav Naive Paintings and Sculpture, is ready
for tour.

In July of 1968, stres’ chief and the program assistant previewed the
exhibition Swiss Folk Art in Basle, Switzerland. This major exhibition
is currently touring the United States after a June opening at the
Smithsonian.

An example of sITEs’ successful collaboration with the National Gal-
lery of Art is the tour of Physics and Paintings, which ended in April
1969. This exhibition, prepared by Grose Evans, shows how the theories
of Plato, Galileo, Newton, Einstein, and other thinkers are reflected
by Duccio, Raphael, El Greco, Picasso, and other artists. The exhibition
was booked in sixty-one institutions between October 1961 and April
1969. This represents a tour of twenty-six states from Maine to Califor-
nia, and also Canada. An estimated quarter of a million people have
viewed this exhibition and have read the title panel: “Circulated by the
Smithsonian Institution.” If this figure were projected for just one
hundred other exhibitions, stres would have a viewing audience of
about three and a half million people a year. Actually, the figure is
much greater than this since Physics and Paintings was a low-key,
inexpensive, educational exhibit and sires’ annual budget has not
averaged $200,000 for these years; therefore, on the basis of this con-
servative figure the show costs five cents or less for each viewer. It should
be pointed out further that sires’ budget is 100 percent recoverable.
TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 523

siTEs has produced several noteworthy catalogs: Swiss Folk Art, Carl-
Henning Pedersen, The Art of John Held, Paul Feeley, and Venetian
Bronzes. Several leaflets also have also been printed.

Mrs, Van Arsdale has been a guest at many of the monthly meetings
of the cultural attachés and has given a talk on siTEs to a monthly
meeting of the counselors. She has attended openings in Philadelphia,
New York, Pittsburgh, and Toronto, has appeared on Danish television
in connection with the exhibit 140 Years of Danish Glass, and she has
recorded a program for “Capital Assignments” on the Mutual network.

SITEs could not function in its present capacity without the help of the
embassies, more specifically the cultural, press, and information officers,
our own Department of State, NASA, UNESCO, UNICEF, the Library of
Congress, and various Smithsonian bureaus.

SITES continues to arrange exhibitions of foreign material, and new
ones include shows from Switzerland, Denmark, Italy, Nepal, Yugosla-
via, Ceylon, Great Britain, Czechoslovakia, Mexico, and Belgium.

Carried over from prior years have been 75 exhibitions: 34 have been
initiated and 26 have been dispersed. The 1969-1970 catalog, published
June 1969, lists 126 exhibitions.

Paintings by Carl-Henning Pedersen opening at the National Museum
of Natural History.

k CARL-HENNING PEDERSEN
OTe

®t.
S eet
a “a

524 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

<=<<s....2——

tI

Recent British Prints: 15 Artists, installation photograph at IBM Gallery, New
York City.

The Stencil Ornaments of Louis Sullivan, installation photograph at Dartmouth
College, Hanover, New Hampshire.

TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE 525

EXHIBITIONS INITIATED IN 1969

Painting and Sculpture

John E. Costigan

Paintings and Drawings of Justin Daraniyagala
Paul Feeley

Paintings of Carl-Henning Pedersen

Venetian Bronzes

Drawings and Prints

Recent British Prints
The Art of John Held, Jr.
Recent Graphics from Prague

Architecture
Urban Design—Manhattan

Design and Crafts

Stage Designs by Stuart Chaney
Japanese Dolls

Mexican Folk Art

Polish Children to UNICEF
People Figures

Handicrafts of the Southeast
Stitching

Swiss Folk Art

Tibetan Carpets

Plastic as Plastic

History

Eastern Island
Artist in Vietnam

Children’s Art
Children and Animals
Moppets and the Moon
Shout in Silence

Natural History and Science

Computer Technology
John Desatoff

Photography
Color of Man
The Concerned Photographer
Discovering Color in Nature
Photographie
Polynesian Art
Silent Cities
View from Space
526 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Reproductions

UNESCO Reproductions of Paintings from 1900-1925

EXHIBITIONS CONTINUED FRoM Prior YEARS

1967-1968

The American Landscape: A Living Tradition
Eyewitness to Space (II)

Contemporary Art of India and Iran

Isleta Pueblo Paintings

Radius 5

Antique Maps

Cross-Section of Contemporary Graphics—American, European, and Japanese
Finnish Graphics Today

Master Prints of the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries
Contemporary Mexican Prints

Ornamental Pen Drawings

The Grand Design

Ten Italian Architects

The Stencil Ornaments of Louis Sullivan

140 Years of Danish Glass

Wood Turnings from India

Kaleidoscope Orissa

Folk Art from India

Popular Art from Peru

Yugoslavian Tapestries

The Carvings of Sanchi

Paintings by Children of Many Lands (II)
Tunisian Children’s Art

Transformation of Space

Australia: The Sunburnt Country

Laos: The Land and the People

1966-1967

Islamic Art from the Collection of Edwin Binney 3rd
Graphic Art from Yugoslavia

Albers: Interaction of Color

Cape Dorset

The Arts of an Eskimo Community

German Posters

Victorian Needlework

Color and Light in Painting

The People’s Choice

Les Enfants de Paris

Paintings by Children of Many Lands (I)
Things and Other Things

Tokyo Children Look at the Olympic Games
TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Animal Behavior
Minerals Magnified (2)
Prehistoric Paintings of France and Spain

1965-1966

Eyewitness to Space (1)
Action Reaction

Polish Graphic Art

Six Danish Graphic Artists
Early Chicago Architecture
Folk Toys from Japan

Jazz Posters

Posters from Denmark

Danish Children Illustrate Hans Christian Andersen

Embroideries by Children of Chijnaya
Museum Impressions

The Preservation of Abu Simbel

New Names in Latin American Art

1964-1965

Bridges, Tunnels, and Waterworks

Eskimo Graphic Art (III)

Pier Luigi Nervi

American Costumes

American Furniture

Colors and Patterns in the Animal Kingdom
The Stonecrop Family: Variations on a Pattern

1963-1964
Alvar Aalto
Birds of Asia
Religious Themes by Old Masters (I and II)
Eero Saarinen
Swiss Posters

1962-1963

Craftsmen of the City

Paintings by Young Africans
UNEsco Watercolor Reproductions
Contemporary Italian Drawings
The Face of Vietnam

Le Corbusier

Robert Capa: Images of War

527
ela

f

seal

:*

PUBLIC SERVICE AND
INFORMATION ACTIVITIES

WILLIAM W. WARNER

Assistant Secretary
i “OVA SDV ASe OMe
SARTIVI \ Woitsa

: asuga W és Law

o iS vs Yor gs tee
Smithsonian Associates

Lisa SuTER, Program Director

T IS PLEASANT TO GLANCE BACK at the achievements of the Smith-
I sonian Associates during its third remarkable year. Membership
has surged to 9,200 individuals and families. Activities have radiated
in all directions, have been refined and retouched until they bear their
present distinctive imprint. The kaleidoscope of programs has added up
to something far-reaching and conveys the excitement and special char-
acter by which the Institution is known.

Many speakers are remembered with admiration. The Creative Per-
sons series has presented poet Carolyn Kizer, composer David Amram,
photographer Cornell Capa, decorator John Greer, and designers Jack
Lenor Larsen and David Rowland. Challenging and enlightening lec-
tures on Our Dynamic Earth have been given by scientists who investi-
gate earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, flying objects, oil spills, and other
short-lived phenomena as they occur.

Associates’ classes have provided a stimulating and noncompetitive
environment for students of all ages. More than 150 courses have been
offered in over 50 subject areas: art, architecture, archeology, anthro-
pology, interior and urban design, history, literature and aesthetics,
antiques, drama, cinema, astronomy, space science, ecology, paleon-
tology, oceanography, mineralogy, and zoology. In addition there have
been human awareness workshops dealing with perception, sensitivity
and creativity; laboratory courses in the earth and life sciences; and
Studio courses in drawing and design, mixed media, filmmaking, and
photography.

A new degree of interest also has been shown in Ancient Crafts Re-
vived, workshops in batik, weaving, mosaic, stained glass, bookbinding,
marble-and-paste papers, cloisonné, enamel, plique-a-jour, decoupage,
and tole, all of which have been virtually oversubscribed. Instruction
has been added in crafts that have special appeal for the young: papier
maché, puppet making, paper weaving, enamel, wire sculpture, and
Egyptian paste.

Groups of associates have studied in unusual and far-off places. Smith-
sonian curators have conducted walking tours of Washington, visits to

Jal
532 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Dr. Mason Hale from the De-
partment of Botany teaches a
young scholarship girl how to
examine specimens under the
microscope. This course is one
of many given on a variety of
subjects for young Associates
and scholarship children from
local schools.

museums, historic houses, and private collections in New York, Boston,
Providence, Newport, Winston-Salem, Charlottesville, Princeton, Phil-
adelphia, Baltimore, Annapolis, Williamsburg, and Winterthur, as well
as research expeditions to eastern and northern Appalachia, Ver-
mont, and Maine. The Ladies Committee has sponsored study trips
to South America and the Caribbean.

Field trips have continued to provide adventures and fun within
the reach of everyone. Spring and fall wildflower forays have been
added to the ever-popular mushroom, mineral, and fossil hunts, shore
and forest strolls, bird, bee, and botany walks. Industrial archeology
buffs have been offered trips to old railroad yards, factories, foundries,
and mills.

The Smithsonian has become a showcase for new and experimental

films. The Associates’ Film and Producer series has continued with ab- |

sorbing showings and discussions by James Blue, Charles Guggenheim,
Paul Ronder, Arthur Barron, Richard Leacock, and Frances Flaherty.
In January 1969 Henri Langlois’ rare evening of 19th-century Lumiére
films added special sparkle to the program.

Another memorable event was the New York Chamber Soloists’ per-

formance on 6 May 1969 of Music from the Court of the Sun King,

Louis XIV, enhanced with recitations from Moliére, Racine, and La ©

Fontaine by Madeleine Renaud and Jean-Louis Barrault. An altogether

delightful and amusing Evening of Mini Operas on 10 June ranged
from Donizetti’s Rita to contemporary pieces written expressly for the |

a ote
SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES 533

The Ancient Crafts Revived
series runs throughout the year.
Here is a participant in the
batik workshop, which is held
out of doors and has been re-
peated many times.

Field trips are held in the spring and fall and cover a variety of walks. Above,
families search for fossils.

534 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

occasion. The Capitol Ballet Company’s performances of Stravinsky’s |
Ebony Concerto and a jazz ballet by Lloyd McNeill on 27 June were ~
splendid, as was the folk music of The Young Tradition and The Blue
Nile Group.
Enraptured young audiences have been introduced to the Magic of ©
the Theatre through modern and classical dance recitals, films, impro-
visational drama, woodwind, brass, and string concerts, poetry readings ©
and scenes from selected operas, puppet, and light shows. Through |
Perceptions the Associates have brought to adult audiences boldly experi- |
mental performances by the American Place Theatre, Meredith Monk, —
Alwin Nikolais, and others pioneering advances in modern theater.
For diversion and fun, on 16 December 1968 members brought instru- |
ments and joined in a musical event to honor Beethoven. On 15 October

Associates activated the machines in an Electronic Environment created —
by Juan Downey and on 6 December participated in Communication
and Symbols. Earlier shows (16-17 August) were Integrated Mixed
Media Science and other Happenings and Events.

The hospitality of the Smithsonian has been enjoyed at the grand
opening of the new National Portrait Gallery and at numerous previews
of exhibitions. In light and charming biweekly luncheon talks, staff
curators have given hints on collecting paintings, sculpture, prints, draw-
ings, ceramics, glass, and furniture. The annual benefit for the scholar-
ship fund, the gala premiere of Star! in November 1968 was preceded |
by Donald Brook’s showing of the costumes he designed for the film.
The Kite Carnival, Zoo Night, Sketch-ins at the Zoo, Morning Talks,
and other experimental programs for children have been repeated for the —
third year by popular request.

Mrs. Lisa Suter has resigned as program director. She was replaced
by Mrs. Susan Hamilton on 1 July 1969. Mr. Marlin Johnson has been ©
appointed to the newly created position of program manager.

The Smithsonian Associates has survived its infancy and begun to.
flower. It is clear that its force is strongly felt in the community and that —
its impact is spreading.

Smithsonian Associates Membership

Our deepest gratitude is extended to our more than 8,500 members
for their interest and generous support of the Smithsonian Associates —
this year, and especially to those listed below, who have contributed ©
amounts in excess of the membership dues. |
—

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

535

Founder Members
($1000 and up)

The Honorable and Mrs. David K. E.
Bruce

Mrs. Morris Cafritz

The Honorable Douglas Dillon

Mr. Charles E. Eckles

The Honorable and Mrs. John Clifford
Folger

Mr. Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt
Mr. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. P. A. B. Widener
Mr. Christian A. Zabriskie

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Sustaining Members
($500 and up)

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt
Mr. Joel Barlow
Mr. William R. Biggs
Mr. George A. Binney
Mr. Hardy Jefferson Bowen
Mrs. L. Roosevelt Bramwell
Mr. A. Marvin Braverman
Mr. John Nicholas Brown
Mr. Bertram F. Brummer
Mr. Leon Campbell, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael
Clarke and Rapuano Foundation
(Mr. Gilmore D. Clarke)
Mrs. Frances A. Davila
Mr. and Mrs. Henry F. du Pont
Mr. Newell W. Ellison
Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Freidman
Mr. Richard E. Fuller
Mr. and Mrs. Hy Garfinkel
Mr. George A. Garret
Mr. Crawford H. Greenewalt
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
_ Mr. William H. Greer, Jr.
Mr. Melville B. Grosvenor
Mr. Gilbert Hahn
Mr. Laurence Harrison
_ Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Mr. Philip Johnson
_ Miss Brenda Kuhn
Mr. Harold F. Linder

Colonel and Mrs. Leon Mandel

Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

Mr. William McC. Martin, Jr.

Lieutenant Commander and Mrs. P. J.
Maveety

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Miss Katherine A. A. Murphy

Neuberger Foundation, Inc.

Duke of Northumberland

Mrs. K. D. Owen

Dr. and Mrs. Melvin M. Payne

Miss Lucy M. Pollio

Mrs. Merriweather Post

Mr. Peter Powers

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour J. Rubin

Mr. H. C. Seherr-Thoss

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Dr. and Mrs. Carl Swan Shultz

Mr. Robert T. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III

Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mrs. Carll Tucker

Mr. Alexander O. Vietor

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Warner

Dr. Alexander Wetmore

Mr. and Mrs. W. Bradley Willard

Mrs. Rose Saul Zalles

Contributing Members
($100 and up)

Mr. John D. Archbold

1 Mrs. Howard Ahmanson

_ Mr. and Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
Mrs. Robert Low Bacon

Mr. and Mrs. James C. H. Bonbright

Colonel and Mrs. Donald L. Bower
Mr. Maxwell Brace

Mr. J. Bruce Bredin

The Honorable William A. M. Burden
Mrs. Jackson Burke
536

Mr. and Mrs. William N. Cafritz

Mr. and Mrs. G. Howland Chase

Mr. and Mrs. David Sanders Clark

Mr. Thomas G. Corcoran

Dr. William H. Crocker

Mrs. Lilla B. Cummings

General Jacob L. Devers

Mr. and Mrs. Ewen C. Dingwall

Mr. and Mrs. Bryan M. Eagle

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eames

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz

Colonel Horace H. Figuers

The Reverend Thomas R. Fitzgerald

Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann

The Honorable and Mrs. Edward Foley

The Honorable and Mrs. Peter
Frelinghuysen

Miss Mary S. Gardner

Mr. T. Jack Gary

Mr. W. E. Gathright

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Geuting, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan

Mr. and Mrs. Charles C. Glover III

Mrs. Katherine Graham

Mrs. Philip L. Graham

Dr. Sheila H. Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Homer Gudelsky

Mr. Henry Clay Hofheimer II

Mr. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr.

Miss Elisabeth Houghton

Mrs. Edward F. Hutton

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Joyce

The Honorable and Mrs. R. A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. Dan A. Kimball

Mr. David I. Kreeger

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Land

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Lee

Mrs. Cazenove Lee

Mrs. Newbold Legendre

Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Leon

Mrs. Demarest Lloyd

Mrs. J. Noel Macey

Dr. James M. Nabrit, Jr.

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Mr. Gyo Obata

Mrs. Carolyn C. Onufrak

The Honorable and Mrs. Jefferson
Patterson

Mr. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. James H. Ripley

Mrs. John Barry Ryan

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel A. Stern

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart

Mrs. Edward C. Sweeney

Martha Frick Symington, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Toro

Mr. and Mrs. Middleton Train

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Train

Mr. and Mrs. E. Russell True, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. van Roijen

Mr. George C. Webster

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Weedon

Miss Helena M. Weiss

Mr. and Mrs. Donald L. White

Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Wiggins

Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke Wilkinson

Mrs. Orme Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Winkler

Supporting Members
($50 and up)

The Reverend and Mrs. F. Everett
Abbott

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley N. Allan

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

The Honorable Frances P. Bolton

Mrs. Linda C. Burgess

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Caplan

Mr. George L. Chapel

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace M. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Connelly

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Coolidge

Mrs. Chester Dale

Mrs. Albert H. Ely

Dr. Richard J. Feinberg

Mr. John W. Galston

Mr. and Mrs. James Gibbons

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Goldsmith
Mrs. Nancy K. Gullet

Mr. and Mrs. W. Averell Harriman
Dr. and Mrs. James I. Hatleberg
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Hausman

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hughes
Mr. J. A. King

Miss Nathalie P. Kuhn

Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer C. Lebowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Liggett

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Dr. and Mrs. Charles U. Lowe
Mrs. Charles Hamilton Maddox
Mrs. Charles D. Mahaffie

Mr. Rogers McVaugh

Mrs. E. P. Moore

Mr. Ellsworth H. Mosher

The Reverend and Mrs. Philip R.

Newell
Mr. Estrada Raul Oyuela
Mrs. Duncan Phillips
Mr. Donald H. Price

366-269 O—70 35

Miss Margaret Rathbone

Mrs. Albert J. Redway

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Dr. and Mrs. Saul Schwartzbach
Mr. and Mrs. Don T. Settles

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Sigmon
Mrs. Sally Sweetland

Dr. and Mrs. George Sweet

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Watson
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Wilson
Mrs. Leslie H. Wyman
bah wae Vila exe

S¥4, 4 # Pere g,.
a ee le oping vite how vl Ac) Se pieanad
We) yF Aed While ee ht te
Arm yi mal Md el M oy, ye
‘FP ii,
Se pal heed: xh: en
‘ ’ we
— i
) "PT. "FP bin FS '
mn id - 1 Mt ener s
ie? ‘ i; Coa
~
> ly ¢ | is, :
. Werk
. - >"
ee |
‘a!
oh alee
~
wit MM id,
~ : ibs
w® j
i
i.
Fed
-.
Wa
ere
Ld
Wwe
<7 ee
| 1
} , ‘ 4) La
A ’ ea 4 sp
A bi Mr wd ee r
‘ , 1 eu a
é ; e? seg Vv i A
ve order wie Netiete FB,
f ins)
wey Ala t ‘ot.
sty eng Le oa
Office of Public Affairs

FrepDERIC M. Pups, Director

FFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS activities have ranged this year from
O producing a prize-winning motion picture to issuing a major
new publication, from a family of dinosaurs to a Christmas calendar,
from establishment of a nationwide educational radio service to the
inaugural ball.

These were some of the bubbles in the champagne of another busy
year for an office broadly responsible for serving visitors to the Smith-
sonian and the public at large in the areas of public communication and
public activities—including special events, visitor orientation, public
inquiries, automatic telephone information services, communications
media and community relations, audio-visual services, motion pictures,
and publications.

Festival in Washington, first production of the newly established
Smithsonian Institution Motion Picture Unit, has received the Golden
Eagle Award from the Council on International Non-theatrical Events
(cINE) and has been shown at film festivals in the United States and
overseas. The film documents, colorfully and musically, the Smith-
sonian’s second annual Festival of American Folklife. Early in the year
the motion picture unit became a component of the office through con-
tract with Eli Productions, Washington, D.C., to produce documentary
films for public television and other distribution. The unit also has
produced a documentary on the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum,
A Short Bus Ride, which was well received when shown on public tele-
vision and elsewhere. It was engaged at year’s end in the first of a pro-
posed series of monthly science reports.

Radio Smithsonian is another new departure. The primary product
of this educational radio service is a half-hour weekly radio program
designed to cover the full spectrum of Smithsonian disciplines in the
arts, sciences, and history through discussions, interviews, music, reports
on research findings or major events, book reviews, lectures, and other
elements that grow naturally out of Institution collections and activities.
Fred M. Gray, previously a broadcaster on a Washington station, has
joined the staff to provide the required technical and production exper-
tise. Following initiation of this service with short taped segments made

539
540 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

available to a number of stations, the weekly program was broadcast in
Washington commencing early in the summer of 1969, and will be dis-
tributed to some 150 educational radio stations throughout the country.
For the second year, as well, the concert series Music at the Smith-
sonian—a series of nine 90-minute programs—has been broadcast on
educational radio in Washington. In addition to these regular pro-
grams, plans also have called for making materials in specific subject
areas available with the cooperation of curators and other scholars.
Establishment of this radio service has marked, in effect, the Smith-
sonian’s return to regular radio programing since conclusion of the
popular science series The World Is Yours, in the early 1940s after sev-
eral years of weekly broadcasts in the Washington area.

Increase and Diffusion is the title of a comprehensive and definitive
introduction to the Smithsonian Institution—history, components, pro-
grams, and activities—prepared by members of the office with Benjamin
P. Ruhe of the news staff as compiler and Jewell B. Dulaney, administra-
tive officer, as production director. The bureaus and offices of the Insti-
tution have cooperated closely in bringing together material for this
publication to serve the general public, members of the many specialized
communities in the United States and overseas whose concerns bring
them into contact with the Smithsonian, and the communications media.
This publication became available in limited numbers late in the winter
of 1968. A second edition, with some revisions and modifications, is
scheduled for publication in the coming year. Increase and Diffusion,
which incorporates material from The Smithsonian Institution of 1959,
now out of print, will be published in updated and revised editions in
future years.

The cover page of a striking wall calendar for 1969, mailed across
the nation and overseas at Christmas of 1968, contains a longer version
of James Smithson’s familiar quotation: “An Establishment For The
Increase and Diffusion of Knowledge Among Men.” Prepared through
the generosity of the Scott Paper Company, with the participation of a
number of staff members, the outsize calendar presents superb, full-
color photographs of objects in the collections of the various bureaus
along with a text that itself provides a short introduction to the Insti-
tution. When distributed in the limited numbers available to friends of
the Smithsonian, beginning with the President of the United States and
with the Duke of Northumberland, the calendars drew such interest
that an effort has been mounted to secure a sponsor for subsequent
years. The aim is an annual project that brings a high level of artistic
talent to bear on significant objects in the collections. The results hope-
fully will be of value far beyond the conclusion of each twelve-month
period.

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 541

Shortly after Christmas 1968, a significant event took place in Wash-
ington—the inauguration of President Richard M. Nixon. The Smith-
sonian was invited to hold an inaugural ball in its newest building, the
National Museum of History and Technology. Meredith Johnson, chief
of the Office’s special events branch, played a major role in overseeing
the extensive arrangements required to accommodate the President and
his party and many thousands of persons including officials and mem-
bers of the diplomatic corps. Also, as part of the inaugural celebrations,
the Smithsonian was host in the same Museum to a reception honoring
Vice President Spiro T. Agnew and to another reception following the
inaugural concert, of which Secretary Ripley was vice-chairman. These
are three of some six hundred occasions through the year in which the
Office has played a principal part, from meetings and lectures to the
opening of the National Portrait Gallery, groundbreaking for the
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the Smith-
sonian’s third international symposium.

And the family of dinosaurs? They were built for the Sinclair Oil
Company for the New York World’s Fair of 1965, toured the country
thereafter, and this year were turned over to the Office of Public Affairs.
Arrangements have been made in cooperation with the National Zoo-
logical Park and the National Museum of Natural History to place the
nine authentically designed fiberglas dinosaurs on display at the zoo
after completion of an appropriate landscape design.

News Releases Issued

128 Works Displayed by Alexander Archipenko 4—7-68
Friday Series of Free Outdoor Films Instituted 8—7-68
12 Art Exhibitions Through 1969 at NCFA &—7-68
Townshend Acts Bicentennial Commemorated 8—7-68
Sales Shop Opens in Arts and Industries Building 11—7-68
Last of Navy’s Flying Boats Given to Smithsonian 11—7-68
Performance Workshop by Washington Dance Theater 16—7-68
National Portrait Gallery Presents Historic Faces of America 17—7-68
Dejan’s Olympia Brass Band Performs at Smithsonian 18—7-68
John Paul Jones Letter Given to Smithsonian 25-7-68
Cooper-Hewitt Curator of Drawings and Prints Named 30—7-68
Smithsonian To Exhibit Newberger Art Collection 30—7—68
Smithsonian To Show ‘Music Making-Country Style” 31—7-68
Wood Sculpture Exhibit To Open at Smithsonian 18-68
Exhibition Traces ‘““The Quest of the Presidency” 1-8-68
Smithsonian To Show Industrial Art Exhibit 18-68
Smithsonian Given Grant’s Carriage 8-868
Drum To Lecture on Science and Involvement 12—8-68

Smithsonian Associates Offer Compositions by Humphrey Evans 12-8-68
542 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Jet-Age Surgical Instruments Go On Display

Afro-American Dance Group Performs on Mall

Center for Short-Lived Phenomena Established

Smithsonian To Exhibit Photos by Cunningham

Smithsonian To Present Dutch Puppet Theater

“Cars of America-Tomorrow” Presented by Smithsonian, DOT
First Hammond Electric Organ Given to Smithsonian
Smithsonian Puppet Theatre Scheduled

Presidential Portraits for NPG Opening Exhibition
Smithsonian, DOT Auto Festival Stresses Safety, Not Style
NPG Will Present Historic Faces of America

Background of National Portrait Gallery

Interior Decorator Addresses Smithsonian Associates

Junked Car Sculpture Added to Auto Festival

Rarely Seen Philatelic Items Shown at APS Meeting
Smithsonian Associates Offer Fall Courses for Adults, Youths
Seminar Considers New Approach To Urban Planning

NPG Features Distinguished Presidential Collection

Stamps of Malta Shown in Smithsonian Exhibit

Guest Artists Demonstrate Traditional Puppetry of India
Sheeler Retrospective Presented at NCFA

WPA Prints Go On Display at NCFA

Philately Display To Be Sent to National Stamp Show
United States Scientists Report on Costa Rica Volcano
Perry’s Voyage to Japan Commemorated by Smithsonian
Library, Portrait Inventory Make NPG Major Reference Center
NPG Promises Surprises in Opening Exhibit

Gallery’s Home Comes Naturally By Its Role

Smithsonian To Participate in Mexico Olympic Program
Smithsonian Sets Mexican Crafts and Arts Exhibit

National Collection of Fine Arts To Offer Free Film Theater
Assistant Director Named for National Collection of Fine Arts
Scholars Discuss The American Character at NPG Symposium
Official Washington Will Dedicate National Portrait Gallery
National Portrait Gallery: Staff Biographies

Smithsonian Philatelic Show To Be Exhibited in Mexico City
Smithsonian To Get Rare Edition of Breeches Bible

“Reading Is Fun-damental’’ Program Launched at Smithsonian
Theatre Festival To Introduce New Mall Tent Design

Most Museums To Be Closed Mondays

Special Smithsonian Exhibit Shows Children’s Space Art
Apollo Lunar Program Traced in Smithsonian Exhibition
Poetry Reading Scheduled for Smithsonian Associates

Gustav Leonhardt To Open Smithsonian Concert Season
Architect Angelos Demetriou Addresses Smithsonian Associates
Freer Gallery of Art Shows Special Oriental Portraiture
“Star!” Premiere To Benefit Associates Scholarship Fund
Luncheon Talks Scheduled for Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian To Exhibit 4000-year Evolution of the Chair
Chief Joseph Stamp Honoring NPG Will Be Issued

Museum Shops To Show American Printmakers

13-8-68
15-8-68
15-8-68
15-8-68
16-8-68
20-868
20-8-68
21—8-68
228-68
27-8-68
288-68
28-8-68
28-8-68
30-8-68
3-9-68
9-9-68
9-9-68
11-9-68
12-9-68
13-9-68
16-9-68
18—9-68
18—9-68
18-9-68
20-9-68
23-9-68
239-68
249-68
25—9-68
25-9-68
26—9-68
26—9-68
309-68
30-9-68
30-9-68
3-10-68
7-10-68
8-10-68
11-10-68
14-10-68
17-10-68
17-10-68
17-10-68
17-10-68
21-10-68
21-10-68
22-10-68
22-10-68
28-10-68
28-10-68
29-10-68
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Judd and Detweiler Gives Smithsonian 1879 Hoe Press
Smithsonian Will Exhibit Prints By Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Lyndon Johnson Donates Inaugural Gown to Smithsonian
Cooper-Hewitt Museum Exhibiting 200 Recent Acquisitions
Special Exhibition Presents Art and Culture of Bolivia

S. Dillon Ripley To Open National Zoo Lecture Series
“This Thing Called Jazz” Presented at Anacostia Museum
United States Art from 34th Venice Biennale To Be Exhibited
“Perceptions” Series of Creative Theatre, Dance & Music
Emily Hahn To Lecture on ‘‘The Animals We Keep”
Human Rights Struggle Traced in Smithsonian Show

Major Exhibition To Trace Endangered Species

Scientists Will Use Deep-Sea Habitat for Research

Puerto Rican Bank Gives Bust of Robert Frost to NPG
Graphic Art of Winslow Homer Exhibited at NCFA
Smithsonian Research Center Imperiled by Panama Oil Spill
Registration Open for Winter Semester Smithsonian Classes
Works of Distinguished Ceylonese Painter Exhibited
History of the Hirshhorn Museum

Comments on the Hirshhorn Collection

The Hirshhorn Collection

Ground Broken for Hirshhorn Museum on Washington Mall
Hirshhorn Biography

Exhibit Chronicles History of Presidential Inaugurals
Hirshhorn Museum: Architecture

Remarks by S. Dillon Ripley, Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum
Smithsonian To Show Tibetan Carpets

Marvin S. Sadik Named Director of NPG

“The Roots of Mankind” Traced in Zoo Discussions
Smithsonian Presents Talk on Origin, History of Cinema
Dillon Named To Direct Seminars for Smithsonian
Designer David Rowland To Address Smithsonian Associates
SIE Services Available to Non-Government Users

Smithsonian Sends American Art to Romania and Czechoslovakia

Smithsonian To Exhibit Works of Rico Lebrun

Radiation Biology Lab Presents Graduate Series on Environment

MacInnis and Lindbergh Discuss Underseas Programs
Neighborhood Museum Plans Negro History Week Exhibit
Daniel J. Boorstin Named Director, MHT

Smithsonian To Present 1968 Industrial Design Review
The Gregg Smith Singers To Perform at Smithsonian
Portrait Bust of Ex-President Johnson Put on Display

Guam Ecological Research Area Program

Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program

Exhibition Will Honor 19th-Century Philadelphia Engraver
Tours of NPG, Available to Public, School Groups
Smithsonian To Show Mining Art Exhibit

Exhibition, Volume Offered on Texas Indians of 1830s
Exhibit of Art by Danish Painter Carl-Henning Pedersen
International ‘Man and Beast’? Symposium Scheduled
Mexican Meteorite Shower Draws Quick Response

543

29-10-68
1-11-68
13-11-68
14-11-68
14-11-68
19-11-68
27-11-68
2-12-68
5-12-68
5-12-68
6-12-68
9-12-68
10-12-68
16-12-68
16-12-68
17-12-68
24-12-68
30-12-68
2-1-69
2-1-69
2-1-69
—69
-—69
—69
-69
—69
7-1-69
13-1-69
14-1-69
14-1-69
15—1-69
16—1-69
17-1-69
17-1-69
21—1-69
22-1-69
23—1-69
24—1-69
27-1-69
30-1-69
30-1-69
31-1-69
7-2-69
7—2-69
12-—2-69
13—2-69
19-2-69
19-2-69
19-—2-69
20—2-69
20-—2-69

2-1
2-1
2-1
6-1
7-1
544 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Avant-Garde Dance Company To Perform at Smithsonian
Danzi Woodwind Quintet To Appear at Smithsonian
“Mount Sinai” Lecture Subject at Freer Gallery of Art
Museum Shops Offer Contemporary European Tapestries
Colombian Andes Peaks Explored by Two Staff Members
Monosoff and Weaver Recital Scheduled

Major Exhibit of Contemporary European Paintings Planned
Contemporary European Paintings at NCFA

Background: Woodrow Wilson Center

“Perceptions” Series Presents “Boy on the Straight-Back Chair’
First “Producer” Film Series Presented

Lecture Series To Focus on Biological Hierarchies

Graphic Art of District High School Students To Be Displayed
NCFA Expanding Free Art Film Theater in April

Exhibition Surveys American Posters from 1856 to Now
Puppet Theater Presenting New Productions, New Times
Newcombe Parlor Displayed in MHT

Smithsonian Establishes “Dew Line” for Scientific Phenomena
Lecture Series on Origin and Dynamics of Biological Hierarchies
Kite Contest Rescheduled for 19 April at Monument

Lecture on Persian Miniature Paintings at Freer Gallery of Art
Exhibition Presented of Bird Paintings by Young Canadian
Lecture to Focus on Diggings at Israel’s Tell El Qadi

First United States Exhibit of Collection of Folk Crafts from Holland
National Collection of Fine Arts To Show Kuniyoshi Retrospective
Alwin Nikolais Dance Group Will Appear in New Mall Theater
Lecture Series To Focus on Biological Hierarchies

Smithsonian To Present Museum Education Day

River Basins Survey Office Transferred to National Park Service
Richard Latham Lectures on “Industrial Design Today”
Cooper-Hewitt Adds Five Members to Advisory Board

Hillwood Estate Will Be Smithsonian Art Museum

Museum of Touchable, Climbable Displays Opened for Children
Historic Photographs Exhibited

Dr. Alex Kwapong of Ghana Chairs Global Symposium
Leaf-Cutting Ants Destroy Peruvian Tropical Farmland

Popular Museum Exhibit Is Just a Matter of Time
Communications Parley Includes Top-Level Executives

Auditions Held for Musical Comedy Productions

New York Guild of Handweavers Show at Cooper-Hewitt

Words and Music from the Court of the Sun-King, Louis XIV
NCFA Stages Community Festival for First Anniversary

Design Expert Lectures on “Transit and Its Impact”

Pepsi Cola and Park Service Fund Mall Tent Theater

Golden Spike Rail Centennial Commemorated

United States Entry in 10th Sad Paulo Biennial

Time Magazine Cover Portraits To Be Exhibited

858-Carat Gachala Emerald Donated by Harry Winston

Hurd Portrait of President Johnson Displayed at NPG

25-—2-69
25-—2-69
27-2-69
27—2-69
27-2-69
27-2-69

4-3-69

4-3-69

5-3-69

7-3-69
10-3-69
10-3-69
12-3-69
14—3-69
14-3-69
17-3-69
26-3-69
27-3-69
27-3-69

14-69

2-4-69

2-4-69

34-69

44-69

84-69

84-69

9-469
10-469
14—4-69
14-469
14-4-69
15-4-69
174-69
16—4-69
17-469
17-469
19-4—69
204-69
214-69
23-469
23—4—69
24-469
25-469
28-469
28-469
29-4-69

1-5-69
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Smithsonian, Navy Exhibit NC-4—First Airplane To Fly Atlantic

Two Museum Shops Display Hollywood Posters

Jule Charney and Arie Haagen-Smit Receive Hodgkins Medal

Masada Exhibit Depicts Jewish Zealots’ Sacrifice

Official Statement on “Minnesota Iceman”

Smithsonian Last Resting Place for American Horse “Lexington”

Dr. David Scott Resigns as Director of NCFA

“Concerned Photographer” Exhibit Chronicles Historic Events

Josiah K. Lilly and His Gold Coin Collection

Model Plane Championships and Demonstration Held

Pennsylvania Featured State in Annual Folklife Festival

Cafriz Foundation Gift of Calder Sculpture To Be Dedicated

Alexander Calder Biography

Music and Dance of Turkey Presented in Theatre on the Mall

Smithsonian Associates Offer Summer Classes for All Ages

Smithsonian Creates Center for the Study of Man

Oceanographic Design Concepts To Be Exhibited

First United States Showing of Japanese Poster Exhibit at Cooper-
Hewitt

Electronic Sculpture Exhibited at NCFA

Major Swiss Folk Art Show Exhibited in MHT

Sales Exhibition of Appalachia Photos by Tress

Czech Artist’s Paintings of Mars on Exhibit

Art Treasures from Tibet Exhibited at NCFA

Equipment Spanning History of Typesetting Gift of Mergenthaler

Children’s Theater Will Stage English Fairy Tale

Woodcuts by German Modernist Werner Drewes Exhibited

Gum-Bichromate Prints by Betty Hahn, Gayle Smalley

Berenice Abbott Retrospective Will Open at Smithsonian

Vickers “Vimy” Light Is Honored by Smithsonian

Reeves Telecom Corp. Plans Permanent Appalachian Art Archive

3rd Annual Folklife Festival To Be Held 1-6 July

Special Events

Meetings, conferences, lectures, symposia
Presentations
Openings of exhibits

DAD

6-5—69
6-5-69
6-5-69
8-5-69
9-5-69
9-5—69
9-5-69
22-5-69
235-69
27-5-69
28—5-69
28-5-69
28-569
2-6-69
5—6-69
5—6-69
6-6-69

11-6-69
11-6-69
11-6-69
11-6-69
12-6-69
17-6-69
18-6—69
20-6—69
20-6-69
24—6-69
246-69
256-69
26—6-69
27-6-69

118
17
53

Motion picture showings (exclusive of Smithsonian Film Theater shown

below)
Press previews
Special museum tours
Luncheon, dinner meetings for SI Boards, commissions
Smithsonian Associates events
Museum Shops activities
Receptions, ceremonies, miscellaneous functions
Professional and government groups
Foreign nations, international organizations

22
27
13
38
62
15
41
96
17
546

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Smithsonian Film Theater Programs
(Accompanied by curatorial lectures)

2 October 1968 The Smithsonian Institution; A Short Bus Ride: The Smith-

9 October
16 October
23 October
30 October

6 November
13 November
20 November
27 November

4 December
11 December
18 December

8 January 1969

15 January

22 January
29 January

5 February
12 February
26 February

5 March
12 March
19 March
26 March

2 April

9 April
16 April
23 April
30 April

7 May
14 May
21 May
28 May

sonian in Anacostia; Festival in Washington

The World of Jacques Yves Cousteau

Kaleidoscope Orissa

The Hidden World; Instincts of an Insect

Biography of the Motion Picture Camera; The Clown Princes;
Abel Gance, Yesterday and Tomorrow

Aluminum; Steel on the Rouge

The Winged World

Vincent Van Gogh—A Self-Portrait

A Man’s Dream—Festival of Two Worlds

Man, Beast, and the Land

Recent Achievements of the National Space Flight Program
Americans on Everest

The River Must Live; The Last Frontier

Waves Across the Pacific; Physics and Chemistry of Water;
Ocean Tides—Bay of Fundy

Mark Twain’s America

The Weapons of Gordon Parks; We Have No Art

Eruption of Kilauea; Arenal Volcano

Pelican Island; Albatross

Amazon

Dive into History

Gauguin and Tahiti: Search of Paradise

Early Stone Tools; Dr. Leakey and the Dawn of Man

Wings at Work; A Place To Land

Shaped for Living; Why Man Creates; Worth How Many
Words

Amazon

Voyage to the Enchanted Isles

Recent Achievements of the National Space Program

Rhesus Monkey in India; The Mountain Gorilla; Gelada:
The Mountain Baboon of Ethiopia

Calder’s Circus; Works of Calder

Noh Drama; Bunraku—Pubpet Theater of Japan
Transatlantic Flying and the Story of the NC-4

Festival in Washington; To Hear Your Banjo Play; Tradi-
tional Pottery Production of North Georgia

Major Radio and Television Programs

“Moment With” Deena Clark (NBc—rv). Dr. Charles Nagel, Director, National

Portrait Gallery.

“21st Century” Walter Cronkite (cBs—tv). Dr. Ira and Roberta Rubinoff,
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 547

“From Kitty Hawk To Paris” (aBc-Tv). Paul Garber, National Air and Space
Museum with collections.

“The Enormous Egg” (nsc—tv). Rebroadcast of children’s story of a dinosaur
at the National Zoological Park and the National Museum of Natural History.

‘Jacques Cousteau Under The Sea’”’ (asc—tTv). Discussion of whales under Na-
tional Museum of Natural History blue-whale model.

The Inaugural Ball (cas, nBc, anc, Metromedia tv). Live coverage of inaugural
ball for President Richard M. Nixon in the National Museum of History and
Technology.

Groundbreaking Ceremonies for Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden (aBc, NBC, CBS—TV). President Lyndon B. Johnson officiated along
with Secretary Ripley and Mr. Hirshhorn.

Opening of National Portrait Gallery (Asc, NBc, cBs—Tv, Canadian Broadcast-
ing Company, Japan Broadcasting Company). District of Columbia Mayor
Walter Washington officiated along with Secretary Ripley.

Ceremonies marking the 50th Anniversary of the First Flight across the Atlantic
by the NC-4 (nc, cBs-Tv). Secretary of the Navy Chafee, Deputy Chief of
Naval Operations Connolly, Secretary Ripley, National Air and Space Museum
Director S. Paul Johnston officiated.

Dedication of a stabile by Alexander Calder on the terrace of the National
Museum of History and Technology (NBc, aBc-tv). Donated to the Smith-
sonian by Mrs. Gwendolyn Cafritz.

“Washington Today” (Mutual Broadcasting Company). Interviews with Dorothy
Van Arsdale of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service;
Roger Pineau, Smithsonian Institution Press ; Herbert Collins, Mendel Peterson,
Dr. Walter Cannon, of National Museum of History and Technology.

“Today” (NBc-Tv). Report on National Portrait Gallery by critic Aline Saarinen;
interview with Dr. Sidney R. Galler, Assistant Secretary for Science; Dr.
Marcus Cunliffe, Sussex University, participant in upc symposium.

“Music At The Smithsonian” (wamu Radio). Weekly series of concerts by the
Division of Musical Instruments, NMHT.

Public Broadcast Laboratory (Nationwide public television). Interview with
Secretary Ripley.

“The Breakfast Show” (Voice of America worldwide broadcast). Mrs. Ripley,
separate interview with Secretary Ripley.

“Betty Groebli Show” (Ngoc Radio). Interview with Secretary Ripley.

“Festival of American Folklife’ (npc, cBs, aBc, Metromedia tv). Extended
coverage of Mall activities over 4 July period.

“Panorama” (Metromedia tv). Interview with artist Peter Hurd, painter of
portrait of President Johnson at National Portrait Gallery.

Interview with Peter Hurd (Canadian Broadcasting Corporation). Live coast-to-
coast broadcast.

“Martin Agronsky’s Washington” (cBs-Tv). Report on the Junior Museum at
the National Collection of Fine Arts.

“First Tuesday” (nBc-tv). Report on ecological study program in the Pacific.

“The Concerned Photographer’ (public television). Documentary on this major
temporary show of photographs in the Arts and Industries Building.

“Robert Goddard” (asc-rv). Documentary with Smithsonian assistance on work
by this pioneer in the science of rocketry, who received Institution financial
support in his work earlier in this century.
548 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

P5M Presentation (cBs, NBC, Metromedia tv). Coverage of ceremony at Patux-
ent River Naval Air Station turning over last operational navy flying boat
to the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board.

Third International Symposium (Voice of America, wAMU). Excerpts from the
symposium ‘Man and Beast: Comparative Social Behavior” were broadcast
internationally by the Voice of America and locally by wamu. cBs and AaBc
televised brief reports locally.

Public Inquiries

Dial-a-Museum calls 36, 000
Dial-a-Satellite calls 132, 000
Calls for information 21, 900
Letter requests for information 8, 320

Awards

Festival in Washington (film). Golden Eagle Award, Council on International
Non-Theatrical Events (cINE).

The Torch (employees’ newspaper). Third place in government-wide judging
of over 300 papers.
Office of International Activities

Davin CHALLINOR, Director

HE FOCUS OF THE OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES during
| past year has become increasingly directed toward the world-
wide environmental and conservation interests of the Smithsonian In-
stitution. This growth in emphasis reflects the concern of both scientists
and statesmen with the ability of our planet to maintain its expanding
human population. National boundaries have relatively little effect on
human mobility and of course none at all on the aerial or aquatic disper-
sal of environmental pollutants. Only a truly international effort in
studying and planning for the wise use of human and environmental
resources seems to give promise of effective counteraction. To this end
o1A has devoted much of its attention.

In addition to maintaining close liaison with the Department of State,
various agencies of the United Nations, and the diplomatic missions in
Washington, the o1a has taken over the in-house distribution of in-
formation on extraordinary natural events reported by the Smithsonian’s
Center for Short-Lived Phenomena. The Office is also the central agency
for the Iran-United States Science Cooperation Agreement and thus is
responsible for its implementation. The o1a has been closely involved
with conservation efforts in Dominica, the Galapagos, and the Pacific
islands, especially the Hawaiian group. Plans are now under way for
colloquia on the endangered species of Hawaii and on the research
results of the past three years by Smithsonian scientists in Ceylon.

Foreign Currency Program

In its fourth year of operation, the Program has continued to award
grants for basic research in disciplines of traditional Smithsonian interest
to American institutions of higher learning. The Program has received
an appropriation of $2,316,000 in “excess” foreign currencies (resulting
from the sale of agricultural commodities under Public Law 480) to
support research in Burma, Ceylon, Egypt, Guinea, India, Israel,
Morocco, Pakistan, Poland, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.

549
550 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

University of Minnesota archeologists remove a fresco from the ruins of the
Palace of Diocletian, Split, Yugoslavia.

The Program authorization has expanded in 1969 to include astro-
physics in addition to established interests in anthropology and systema-
tic and environmental biology. The Program continues to make
occasional modest awards in radiation biology, history, art, and muse-
ology under its congressional authorization for ““Museum Programs and
Related Research.”

This year has seen a considerable broadening of research opportunities
within the excess currency countries. In Yugoslavia in June 1969 Secre-
tary Ripley signed an agreement with the Federal Administration for
International Technical Cooperation to open the way for Program-
sponsored research in ecology. Morocco, which was added to the list
of excess currency countries this year, indicated that it would welcome
biological research projects supported by the Smithsonian. The Foreign
Currency Program Biological Sciences Advisory Council subsequently
approved a survey of the marine flora and fauna in Morocco that will
inaugurate there the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program.

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES Hoi

As the Program has developed new opportunities for research, the
list of countries in which the United States owns an excess in local
currencies unfortunately has diminished. As a result of rapidly dwin-
dling reserves of excess currencies in both Israel and Ceylon, the Program
has begun a phasing out of research activities in these countries. While
an estimate from the United States Treasury has indicated that there
is no immediate danger of the removal of either Israel or Ceylon from
the list, all available funds have been committed to continuing re-
search, but no additional funds are expected for the support of new
projects.

In India, where most PL 480 funds are available, the Program has
continued to take significant steps toward the development of mutually
beneficial research. Discussions with the American Institute of Indian
Studies resulted in an agreement that the aus would provide facilita-
tive services for Program-sponsored scholars in India. This alliance
promises to be a step toward Joseph Henry’s goal of a “global network
of correspondents for basic research and publication.” In addition to the
foregoing, the Foreign Currency Program has increased by $25,000 its
grant to the United States National Committee for the International
Biological Program of the National Academy of Sciences. This action
followed the November 1968 meeting of the committee, wherein it en-
dorsed the use of these funds to develop joint United States-Indian
ecological research that conformed to 1BpP objectives.

By the close of fiscal year 1969 the Foreign Currency Program has
supported nearly one hundred separate research projects conducted by
over forty United States institutions. Following is a brief list of the
highlights of Program-supported research.

1. The University of Pennsylvania’s project in Egypt to study the
Temple of Akhnaten by computer sorting and by matching photographs
of the thousands of widely scattered temple blocks has proved to be a
highly successful and exciting venture. The temple facades, destroyed
since antiquity, will thus be photographically recreated.

2. Physicists from the University of California at Berkeley have
proved the technique of using cosmic ray high-energy particles to
“x-ray” three Egyptian pyramids located at Gizeh and Dahshur (the
X-rays revealed no previously undiscovered chambers) .

3. A team of anthropologists from the Peabody Museum, Yale Uni-
versity, discovered the jaw of a Gigantopithecus-like ape in the Siwalik
Hills near Chandigarh, India, a find that may push back the age of man
beyond fourteen million years.

4. The University of Minnesota continues to make discoveries in
its excavations of Diocletian’s Palace at Split, Yugoslavia. This is one
552 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

of nine important archeological excavations in Yugoslavia undertaken
with Program support since the summer of 1967.

5. The second volume of the Handbook of Indian Birds has been
published under the direction of Secretary Ripley and Dr. Salim Ali
of the Bombay Natural History Society.

6. Research results from the Palearctic Migratory Bird Survey directed
by Dr. George Watson, chairman of the Smithsonian’s Department of
Vertebrate Zoology, have demonstrated that migratory birds carry live
viruses and virus antibodies and that these birds could serve as vectors of
human diseases. This project—like most projects receiving Foreign Cur-
rency Program grants—has provided research opportunities in this case
for five United States and five foreign students in bird identification and
banding and blood serology techniques in Egypt, India, the Chesapeake
Bay Center, the National Museum of Natural History, and Yale Uni-
versity. Dr. Watson typifies the Smithsonian staff scientists whose re-
search benefits from Foreign Currency Program grants.

Foreign Visitor Program

The Office has continued to act as the Institution’s center for greeting
and establishing programs for foreign visitors. Some one hundred visitors
were received during the year. Special programs were prepared for

Kenneth O. Horner and Sherif
Teufik, an Egyptian student
brought to the United States for
training under the Palearctic
Migratory Bird Survey, release
a captured flicker from a mist
net at the Chesapeake Bay
Center.

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES 553

officials from Kenya, Tunisia, and Mozambique. A reception was given
by the Office for the foreign delegates to an international symposium on
“Methodology and Theory in Archeological Interpretation.” There were
also small lunches for government ministers from Egypt and Pakistan,
and the new United States ambassadors to Tunisia, Yugoslavia, India,
and Somalia were briefed, prior to their departure, on areas of Smith-
sonian concern in the countries to which they had been assigned.

Cooperative Programs

The Office of International Activities has cooperated with the Inter-
national Union for the Conservation of Nature by making a grant of
excess Indian rupees to the Union to help it finance research symposia
conducted at the tenth General Assembly held in New Delhi in Novem-
ber 1969. Assistance in fund raising has also been offered the Charles
Darwin Research Foundation for its work in the Galapagos and to the
Linnean Society of London for refurbishing the storage facility housing
Linnaeus’ original type specimens. Cooperation has continued with the
Organization of American States in regard to its fellowship program that
places Latin American students at the Smithsonian and American uni-
versities. Finally, through the Director’s membership in the International
Coordinating Commitee of inp, the Office has maintained its close
liaison with the National International Biological Program Committee.

366-269 O—70——36
t id WARNE ane Nbr Bitte”
I camp woh anan dime ety tbl
Pe ae” Go ee
RR te NS SIPC rae vee Oe

Of gi fe at SU ee or Sette
Deen? Ov kite GY Cuttiom, is etc owt

eT oe Wale Tsu nie ee

tr’ 4“ rere oC

b tree

a s

iene Ween atc: ae wea
Ts eke tiena “yield kee oe eect yy tthe 24
liadciies bore ier eRe =P oly ied Wo Benth
tal. Si 4 Leberg

bt WF py tint pl ee
{ 1 creat

-

iat ' ayit) ni yl GE
as . » aetoee a
rlawert j “ : is ir ma
iva ft = ee
7 $ Sie
t 'r

Division of Performing Arts

James R. Morris, Director

CTIVITIES OF THE DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS this year have
A gained momentum after a diversified start last year and have
been sharpened in focus in several major areas.

Highlights of this development have been the continuation of the
Festival of American Folklife and its related programs, the initiation of
a program of contemporary forms in performing arts entitled Percep-
tions, the establishment of the Smithsonian Resident Puppet Theatre
and the innovative Theatre-on-the-Mall as permanent facilities in
which continuing programs of quality and exciting theater can be pro-
duced, and the establishment of resident companies in puppet theater,
children’s theater, and musical theater, as active producing units, exem-
plifying vital theatrical forms.

Activities conceived in the spring of 1968 for the National Park
Service Summer in the Parks program have been produced and per-
formed. As the new fiscal year began, mobile art demonstrations, jazz
and folk concerts, puppet theater, and a film theater traveled to twenty
parks during a ten-week period throughout Washington, climaxed at
the summer’s end by an exciting, contemporary, and highly theatrical
presentation on the Mall by the Mura Dehn Dance Company, which
traced the development of urban Negro dancing in this country.

The second annual Festival of American Folklife in July 1968, which
brought more than half a million people to the Mall, presented craft
demonstrations and concerts, offered the sale of artifacts and the service
of traditional foods, and contributed to the great and urgent need of
Americans to understand more about themselves and their cultural
roots. In cooperation with the Department of State, the Division of
Performing Arts produced an American Folk and Jazz Company,
drawn from Folklife Festival performers, for performances at the XIX
Olympiad at the Olympic Cultural Festival in Mexico City in the fall
of 1968 and for additional appearances in St. Louis, Missouri, as part
of the same tour.

Perceptions, a series of six programs in theater, music, and dance, has
dealt with the contemporary and avant-garde work of recognized

555
556 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

American artists. Produced in cooperation with the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates, this series has presented artists whose work strongly reflects the
innovative character of contemporary American culture. The programs
have included Peter Schickele’s composer-performer trio called The
Open Window, the Gregg Smith Singers, Meredith Monk’s specially
choreographed piece Museum Dance, the American Place Theater pro-
duction of Ronald Tavel’s Boy On The Straight-Backed Chair, the
Alwin Nikolais Dance Company, and a restaging of the Federal Theatre
script One Third Of A Nation.

Under the general heading of Touring Performances, a variety of
programs dealing primarily with aspects of American culture have been
conceived and have had their initial engagements across the country
this year.

The Smithsonian Resident Puppet Theatre has provided profes-
sional, informative entertainment for children five days a week, with
capacity audiences, since its opening in November 1968 in a specially
designed theater in NMHT, has given special Christmas performances,
and has featured guest appearances by the Van Deth puppets from
Holland and the Andhra Shadow Puppets from India. A specially
commissioned company of performers has produced two live children’s
plays in the Theatre-on-the-Mall during the summer of 1969, continuing
the lively precedent set by the Resident Puppet Theatre for quality
children’s entertainment as a vital museum activity.

Calling attention to the exciting and creative work being done by
college students in theater, the Division has represented the Smith-
sonian as one of five cosponsors of the first American College Theater

Imago (The City Curious) pre-
sented by the Alwin Nikolais
Dance Theatre, featuring Mur-
ray Louis and Phyllis Lamhut,
opened the Theatre-on-the-
Mall on 22 April 1969. The
staging, choreography,  cos-
tumes, sound score, and lighting
were created by Mr. Nikolais.

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS Slay

The Theatre-on-the-Mall at 12th Street and Madison Drive NW is a steel and
nylon structure with a seating capacity of over 900 people. With a conceptual
design by Richard Lusher, technical director of the Division of Performing Arts,
the theater has been used for the first American College Theatre Festival and for
other performing arts programs.

Festival, providing production staffs and facilities for the festival at
Ford’s Theatre and in the specially designed Theatre-on-the- Mall.

Recognizing that America’s most significant contribution to this ritual
ceremony that man calls “theater” has been the play with music,
commonly known as the American musical comedy, the Division of
Performing Arts completed its summer 1969 production schedule with
four full weeks of professional musical theater in the Theatre-on-the-
Mall, where it presented Annie Get Your Gun and Of Thee I Sing to
critical praise and enthusiastic audiences.
Smithsonian Museum Shops

Car Fox, Director

NE OF THE LARGEST OF MUSEUM SHopPs at the Smithsonian was
O opened early in July 1968 in the Arts and Industries Building.
Under the design direction of James Mahoney, assisted by Michael Car-
rigan, this shop features a permanent sales exhibition area, a children’s
section, an adult section, a bookshop, and a storage area. Of the eight
special sales exhibitions held at the A&I shop was one organized through
the invaluable cooperation of Sr. Miguel Aleman and Sr. Octavio
Trias Aduna of the National Tourist Council of Mexico. Utilizing every
square foot of display and sales space as well as the 75-foot area beneath
the skylight, this exhibition of Mexican craft, opening in October 1968,
was a cultural salute to Mexico, host to the Olympics. Craft centers,
villages, and workshops throughout Mexico were combed for traditional
crafts by Caroline MacChesney, Tonatiuh Gutierrez, and the director.
A major part of the National Tourist Council’s collection was selected
by Dorothy Van Arsdale and Frances Smyth for the Smithsonian In-
stitution Traveling Exhibition Service, which opened in February 1969
its national traveling schedule of Mexican Crafts at the International
Business Machines Gallery in New York City.

The National Air and Space Museum and the Museum Shops, in
cooperation with the International Plastic Modelers Society, the Acad-
emy of Model Aeronautics, and the National Association of Rocketry,
sponsored in June 1969 the First Annual Aerospace Modeling Exhibit
at the same A&I shop. The exhibition was researched by the curatorial
staff and installed by Harry Hart, Winthrop Shaw, and Mr. Hart’s
exhibit staff. As a side attraction, a special weekend competition of
model flightcraft and model rocket launching was held on the Mall.
Continual demonstrations by members of model-making groups was a
feature of the summer-long exhibition and sale.

Ralph Rinzler and the director researched the Index of American
Design at the National Gallery for an exhibition of original watercolor
renderings. Contemporary but traditional American crafts were selected
by Mr. Rinzler to accompany the paintings. This exhibition was taken

559
560 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

7 MMM MMM ME MM NI
uN ALAS CS HAE aay DAHER Mi

Folk Arts of Mexico, sales exhibition, Museum Shop,
Arts and Industries Building.

by the Mexican government to the cultural Olympics in Mexico City in —
October 1968.

An exhibition of early New England gravestone rubbings from the
shop’s collection was loaned to the famous Barr department store of St.
Louis in October 1968.

Richard Virgo and the Office of Exhibits redesigned, repainted, and
relighted the attractive shop on the Mall side of the National Museum of
History and Technology.

The director of Museum Shops attended the World Crafts Council
meeting August 1968 in Lima, Peru, where, as a panelist with Madame

Movie Posters of the 40s, sales
exhibition, National Museum of
History and Technology Ro-
tunda Shop.

Arts and Crafts of West Africa, sales exhibition, Museum Shop,
Arts and Industries Building.

Tribal Arts of India, sales exhibition, Museum Shop,
Arts and Industries Building.

562 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Dayan of Israel and Madame Jayakar of India, he participated in a dis-
cussion, “The Dialogue in Marketing.” He also selected the exhibition
material and wrote the introduction to a catalog for the Nelson A. Rocke-
feller collection of Mexican Folk Arts at the Museum of Primitive Art
in New York City. Finally, he wrote a report for the New York State
Council on the Arts, “The Craftsman in the Market Place.”

Smithsonian Museum Shops Sales Exhibitions
Held During the Year

Folklife Festival (five sales tents on the Mall) July 1968

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

American Printmakers (November—December 1968)

List Art Posters (May—June 1968)

New England Gravestone Rubbings (August-September 1968)

Multiples (July 1968)

Wood Engravings by Winslow Homer and his Contemporaries (March—April
1968)

Movie Posters of the 40s (May—June 1968)

NATIONAL Museum oF HisTory AND TECHNOLOGY

Appalachian Crafts (July 1968)

Eleven Photographers (August-September 1968)

New England Gravestone Rubbings (July 1968)

Japanese Prints (March 1969)

Eskimo Prints (March 1969)

Mexican Arts and Crafts (October 1968)

Christmas around the World (November—December 1968)

Movie Posters of the 40s (May 1969)

Appalachia: People and Places, photographs by Arthur Tress and Appalachian
crafts (June 1969)

NATIONAL Museum oF NaTURAL History

Index of American Design and American Traditional Crafts (July 1968)
Ann Ruppert, Animal Prints (April-May 1968)
Curatorial Publications (December—January 1968)

ARTS AND INDUSTRIES BUILDING

Sculpture by Charles Butler, Canadian Primitive (July 1968)
Mexican Arts and Crafts (October-December 1968)
Indonesian Arts and Crafts (August 1968)

India: Tribal Crafts (January 1969)

Arts and Crafts of West Africa (February 1969)

European Tapestries (March 1969)

Folk Arts from the Netherlands (April-May 1969)

First Aerospace Modeling Exhibit (June 1969)

Belmont Conference Center

Davin B. CuaseE, Director

OW IN ITS THIRD YEAR OF OPERATION, the Belmont Conference
Center continues to attract an increasing number of conference
groups. During the year, fifty-one conferences, sponsored by twenty-seven
government agencies and public and private organizations, have been
held at Belmont. With the Center operating close to maximum capacity
during the spring and autumn months, a number of groups that have
requested dates during these peak periods could not be accommodated.
Smithsonian groups that have held conferences at Belmont during
the year include the Smithsonian Council, the Interdisciplinary Com-
munications Program, and the Program for Postdoctoral Fellows in
Education Research, the latter conducted by the Smithsonian under a
grant from the United States Office of Education.

Belmont Conference Center. North front of the main house.

564 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

With the completion of an additional bedroom in the main house,
the number of conference guests who can be housed overnight has
been increased to twenty-four. The daytime capacity of the Center is
thirty people and, when necessary, arrangements are made to house
additional overnight guests in a nearby motel. Two more bathrooms also
have been installed in the main house.

Catering services by an outside supplier were discontinued during
the year when a highly experienced chef joined the full-time staff. This
new arrangement permits greater flexibility in planning meals and a
better control of food service.

Efforts are being continued to preserve and enhance the unique
character of the main house and its setting. Several beds of the original

|
|
|

flower garden near the house have been planted for the first time since —
the property was acquired by the Smithsonian. Arrangements have —

been completed to replace the roof of the main house using materials
similar to those of the existing surface.

Conference operations continue to be directed toward the needs of
small groups that require the kind of attractive and secluded setting
which Belmont provides, together with the advantages of easy access to
Washington and Friendship International Airport.

ee

a
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Joun R. Kinarp, Director

N SETTING FORTH THE PURPOSES of the Anacostia Neighborhood

Museum, Secretary Ripley, in Smithsonian Year 1968, incorpo-
rated lofty goals to which all museums ought to aspire: “To anyone
interested in what I have called ‘social biology,’ the linking in a common
cause for research of modern biologists, especially ecologists and sociol-
ogists, the so-called slums are the areas ripe for studies cut in a new
fashion and tailored to new dimensions.”

This idea certainly challenges not only museums located in large
urban centers, where massive social, economic, and political problems
abound, but also it gives direction and purpose to every division pre-
viously situated in the museum complex. The natural scientist, his-
torian, anthropologist, and ethnologist can make their research and ex-
hibits relevant to current human situations. The neighborhood museum
must meet the practical needs of its community; indeed, its existence is
predicated upon the proposition that there are critical needs to be met.
The neighborhood museum exists to articulate those needs, to graphi-
cally illustrate those needs, and to take firm action that will provide
for creative satisfaction of those needs. It must attract a significant num-
ber of neighborhood people on all levels to insure its involvement and
‘strengths. It should also make every effort to analyze and interpret
the history of its community.

The past year has indeed been one of increased involvement and
activity at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. The educational pro-
grams, directed by Miss Zora Martin, have covered a broad spectrum
for guiding children and adults through exhibits and workshops for
community reading assistants of the Anacostia Model School Project
to special science units led by a part-time teacher on loan from the

District of Columbia Board of Education.

__ Members of the Youth Advisory Council, meeting with Smithsonian
personnel, have helped plan a major exhibit on jazz. The exhibit was
‘so successful that it later traveled to the Corcoran Gallery of Art’s
Dupont Center. This group of young people subsequently assisted in
‘raising funds to enable three of their members to spend the summer in

565
566 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Africa under the auspices of Operation Crossroads Africa, Inc. Mem- |
bers of this committee have continued their efforts at fund raising and |
have initiated a Travel Fund to enable the entire group to travel abroad 6
in 1970 for part of the summer.

In February 1969, the educational staff provided a well-organized
series of lectures, discussions, films, and dramatic performances for the
Museum’s celebration of Negro History Week. In addition to this, the —
staff has provided guided tours for the exhibit “The Sage of Anacostia,”
a graphic history of the Afro-American, featuring the life of Frederick |
Douglass. This has been the most successful exhibit executed by the
Anacostia Museum and, undoubtedly, one of the most informative. It was |
attended by approximately twenty-seven thousand metropolitan area
school children.

Throughout the year, the Museum has presented various programs |
of educational and popular interest related to current exhibits. These
have included jazz performances, gospel singing, and science demonstra-
tions, as well as tours of the Smithsonian. In addition, local talent was
spotlighted for several weeks in March 1969 during the second annual
“Festival of the Arts of Anacostia.” Skits, plays, concerts, and dance —
programs received extensive local and national coverage. Through these |
programs, both children and adults in the neighborhood have been given |
challenging opportunities for creative self-expression.

This year also has seen the establishment of the Museum’s Research ©
Center and Library for the purpose of furthering the development of |
the neighborhood museum concept. The center will serve not only the
needs of Anacostia but a wider area as well. The Research Center and |
Library is directed by Larry Erskine Thomas, the Museum’s research |
and design coordinator. The development of this research facility will |
enable the community, the general public, and all who make use of its
services to understand the true significance of the black man’s social |
and cultural environment and his influence on the progress of a great |
nation. The Center’s initial achievement has been the exhibit “The
Sage of Anacostia,” which will be circulated throughout the country
by the Smithsonian’s Traveling Exhibition Service. The Center already
has consulted with and provided services to a wide variety of museums
and organizations as they in turn seek to reshape their programs and
exhibits. |

Additional funds have made possible the transfer of arts and crafts q
activities to another building. James Campbell, coordinator for the
Crafts Center, has extended his services to include the teaching of |
model-making techniques in numerous elementary schools and Head
Start Centers. He also has conducted demonstrations for the District
of Columbia Recreation Department and other organizations. Evening

ft

I
ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM 567

classes in model making are held for adults at the Crafts Center, which
also houses workshops in pottery and photography for community resi-
dents of all ages. During the summer months of 1969, Neighborhood
Youth Corps enrollees did a photo-journal of community organizations
and projects in Anacostia. Neighborhood children were provided with
a learning experience in African culture and history through partici-
pation this summer in crafts, painting, drawing, sewing, dramatics,
field trips, and various means of research.

The Junior League of Washington has presented the Museum with
a two-year grant of $44,000 to be used for a Mobile Division. Fletcher
Smith is coordinator of this project, which allows the Museum to bring
traveling exhibits, programs, speakers, and creative activities to all areas
of the community.

During the first six months of 1969, more than 102,000 children and
adults visited the Museum. The Museum continues to seek every means
of working directly with the needs of the community and with problems
as it sees them in an effort to enhance the quality of life in Anacostia.
Many of Anacostia’s needs are the needs of America. As the Museum
seeks to provide creative solutions to these human problems, others also
may be led into such paths.
arc Unerger alan apenas Be Prater, ~ 20. 8H
Ad= Sréeiangy cule ot
wpugest epee? platabton «cork

ita Qa ~= qh) f= savin
aitve Cor devel a ae ell, OVE T
woke Mie Aletided cab eons y
woos Grud! tte> ote ele hen ee
Se Ve GI ae te as 1 dren yo S48

(KOC re ole y ota? t Mig,

am ot euniecr apie

Dept it oe topes eon” atiaqeleben aie
rysetw OF

Sale Aa
Smithsonian
(Magazine)

EGINNING 2 JANUARY 1969, an experimental task force was orga-
B nized under the leadership of Edward K. Thompson, as prospec-
tive editor, to investigate extending the scope of the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates to a national group by means of a magazine, ultimately to be
called Smithsonian. Leading design and expert publishing consultants
were engaged.

A small editorial staff was assembled during the final six months of
fiscal year 1969. The conclusion reached, concurred in by Secretary
Ripley, was that the project was promising enough to proceed into
more realistic stages. Samples of what various parts of the magazine
might look like were shown at the May 1969 Regent’s meeting.

Specifically, the exploratory work showed that a wealth of good
editorial material exists, that the project should begin to pay its own
way in the third year of operation, and that the magazine would fill a
niche in a profitable specialized field. It would enhance the Smith-
sonian’s national image.

As of 30 June 1969 much work remained to be done: completion of
an editorial staff, assembling of a business staff, conducting the neces-
sary direct mail tests, letting of various production contracts.

Smithsonian has been conceived as a class magazine, approximately
half of it in color, to be published monthly, the page size 8% inches
wide by 111% inches deep, on coated paper. It will probably be printed
in the Washington area to achieve quality control by the staff.

The subject matter, according to the Secretary’s specifications, will
include all the chief interests of the Smithsonian—natural, physical,
and behavioral sciences; the arts, folk and fine; and cultural history.
These subjects will relate to modern man, whether it be to conserve
his resources, improve his environment, or in other ways lead him to
a fuller and richer life.

366-269 O—70——37 569
eli oeot: hee) dadiewoaresiay am
“uiwer ae pereyenrr ly: 2k atey eh Oo rte
ath whiney ne wtt To mot HAD pOIbeieS
act) citewutly \eankieeine © lo nade 7

Richipet tat ’ teenie Pynt/ o>, Dea Te

lo AGnot vin Ld a pat Ceddaorng aa
ar a) aT,
ry vatelcan histew 4

Jeu Pe
”" oe al
vy ’ AL art
. ; aT ft, i
j | I Ti eee te pire ty
+ ' ¢ * ' y} i Prive
ri PeSi) Lee
pevii weubousboiae inde aporciesed a PY
Hines sediwwliny wai
ar 4 it j ra a 4yi- wma £
te > i ' malt | WJ Epdtcw a b tasted Lavy adh
ney Ad : iteuy ) “mW, tputy
ety at ee imi
he oe ge eres r eA ‘
oe TT ee | io Leos i hetics dee af) pr
yeoedt, Lalit! ah Weer wm tare aie. 2h
ve y eb oi rate Ata Giese oe

dtd ladl agave wor oe Jariernives 4
Archives

SAMUEL T. SuratTt, Archivist *

RIGINATED MERELY AS A DEPOSITORY for older letters, scientific
papers, and similar documents that were deemed worth saving,
the Archives has existed, at least nominally, almost from the beginning
of the Smithsonian, but only in recent years has it been organized into a
viable operating unit, with a staff of its own. The growth of the collec-
tion has been partly systematic—with regard to the official correspond-
ence of the Secretary, for instance—and partly a random accumulation.
The bulk of the holdings consists of official correspondence, most of it
dating from around 1865, when much of the earlier correspondence
was destroyed by fire. This material has been supplemented from time to
time with correspondence and papers relating to various Smithsonian
divisions and projects and with the professional papers of eminent
scientists such as William Healey Dall, G. Brown Goode, and W. H.
Holmes, who either worked for the Smithsonian or contributed their
collections to the National Museum.

In the past year, the Archives has been involved mainly with reorga-
nizing its holdings, many of which have never been described or cata-
loged. This will provide historical scholars with usable and important
primary sources on a wide range of topics, especially the growth of science
in America in the nineteenth century. The staff is increasingly occupied
with research requests, from other parts of the Smithsonian and from
the country at large, and it also serves the needs of visiting scholars.

A continuing and long-range enterprise is the microfilming of the
collections, which is well underway. This is especially important as a
partial substitute for an extensive preservation program. The Archives
also provides microfilm for special requests, as was done, for example,
with the official correspondence of the Smithsonian with President
Lyndon B. Johnson and his staff.

The accessibility and value of the Archives collections will be enhanced
when the office moves to new quarters in the renovated part of the
Smithsonian Institution Building. At that time, the Archives will be in

* Resigned 21 April 1969; replaced by Nathan Reingold.
571
Sie SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

a better position to undertake a close survey of all branches of the Smith-
sonian in order to locate and describe manuscript materials. Because of
limited space and staff, the accession program continues on a restricted
scale. As in the past, it will not be limited to the Smithsonian itself, as
evidenced by the recent acquisition of the papers and records of the
Washington Philosophical Society.

Plans for the future include a central information bank on manuscript
and photographic materials in the Smithsonian, a computerized infor-
mation-retrieval system, an expanded program of preservation and
microfilming, and special historical projects utilizing the most valuable
parts of the collections.
Smithsonian Institution Libraries

RUSSELL SHANK, Director

EDERAL FISCAL RESTRAINTS during this year have dictated caution
Fn the advancement of new programs. The Libraries have thus been
delayed in setting and implementing plans to create a library environ-
ment fully commensurate with needs that arise from new emphases
in education and research in the Institution. Attention instead has
been given to the most essential demands of users and to several basic
housekeeping functions that tend to put collections and services in
better order pending the start of more rapid change in library service
programs. Emphasis has been given to the gathering of information
about users’ needs, the conditions of the libraries and their collections,
the streamlining of portions of the collections, the curtailment of low-
priority services, and the testing of ideas for the future by discussions
with several library committees within the Institution.

In a major move to strengthen the planning and operation of im-
proved readers’ services, Frank Pietropaoli, a senior member of the
Smithsonian’s Library of Congress liaison staff, has been reassigned
to the office of the Director of Libraries to serve as a public service
advisor. He has surveyed the working collections in the National
Museum of Natural History and has produced the publication Guide to
the Library of Congress for Smithsonian Researchers, the first of a
proposed series of orientation leaflets on the use of the Libraries. At
the close of the year he was at work on the problems of obtaining access
to the National Agricultural Library in its new location.

The Central Reference and Circulation staff has maintained its
high standard of service, even increasing its productivity in the face
of reduced staff. The 34,500 reference questions handled by this small
staff is an increase of about twelve percent over the previous year. The

573
574 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

staff also has handled nearly thirty percent more interlibrary loan

forms, although the fulfillment rate for requests to borrow material |

showed little change. In order to accommodate the extra workload
with a reduced staff, the Libraries have curtailed office deliveries and

have reduced the hours of public service. The Library of Congress, |
the National Agricultural Library, the Geological Survey Library, and |

the Department of Interior Library remain the principal suppliers of
interlibrary loans coming into the Institution.

Funds for the purchase of library materials, which have been difficult |

to acquire, came to the Libraries intermittently throughout the year. |

Fortunately, since the professional staff of the Institution has continued
to select new titles, there has not been a dearth of requests to which
funds could be applied. The Libraries’ inability to match the timing
of its response to the pressure of requisitions for library materials has

—

forced various departments of the Institution to divert a significant ©
portion of their own funds to the purchase of library materials that —

were kept for use only within the departmental offices.

Strong library collections attract additional material and thus grow —

even stronger. The Institution has been the honored recipient of a num-
ber of exceptionally important and valuable library collections. Among
these are the Dwight-Tucker Ornithological Collection given by Mrs.
Carll Tucker; a collection on Ceylon given by Mr. N. A. Forde, a former
British army officer who served in that country; and a collection of
Chinese reference books from the oriental scholar Dr. Rhea Blue. The
close affiliation of the patent examiners and the curators in the National
Museum of History and Technology has resulted in the transfer of
nearly 40,000 volumes from the Patent Office to the Smithsonian In-
stitution—principally pre-1900 material in technology now quite essen-
tial to the study of the development of American science and industry.
The American Military Institute has deposited its collection of approxi-
mately 10,000 volumes on military history with the Smithsonian, which
has placed them in the charge of the National Armed Forces Museum
Advisory Board. Not as dramatic, but nevertheless as vital, is the steady
input of materials obtained through individual gifts and through the
exchange of the Smithsonian’s own publications with those of other
scholarly agencies.

The Libraries have taken every opportunity to improve the quality
of management of collections and services. A memorandum on the
management of the Libraries was issued by Secretary Ripley during
the year to guide operational decisions toward effective use of our
resources. The working collections in the various departments and
divisions of the National Museum of Natural History have been sur-
veyed in order to provide an analysis of library operations on which
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 575

rules for management to meet users’ needs efficiently will be established.
Near the end of the year an experimental exchange of cataloging copy
was initiated between the National Gallery of Art Library and the
National Collection of Fine Arts and National Portrait Gallery Library.
Hopefully this will increase the amount of cataloged art material and
will foster fuller exploitation of our art libraries.

The automation of the Libraries has proceeded slowly and carefully
as the part-time task of several key staff members. The machine-readable
data base, available from the already automated acquisition functions,
has been used to create a monthly in-process list that charts the course
of purchased books through the processing routines and announces the
availability of newly cataloged books. The data base also has been used
to measure the performance of the vendors of library materials with
which the Libraries deal. Plans are being made to test the efficiency of
processing routines through an analysis of the records of the flow of
books through the various task groups as these records are updated. The
products of these analyses are powerful tools for the proper manage-
ment of the Libraries that could never have been economically obtained
except through the advent of automation. The design of the system and
the specification of forms and data elements for the automation of the
purchase records for serials was accomplished by the close of the year
through close cooperation with the Information Systems Division. The
creation of a machine-readable data base for the control of serials
acquisition is a major goal for the ensuing year.

The stature of a research library is in part determined by the quality
of its contribution to the world of librarianship. In this effort, commen-
surate with the talents and the time of the staff, the Smithsonian Li-
braries have been active to the fullest extent possible. The Smithsonian
has completed the second of its two-year elected term on the Federal
Library Committee, and the director and assistant director continued
membership on three of the FLc task forces. The affairs of two im-
portant segments of the American Library Association have been man-
aged within the Smithsonian Institution. The director served as the
president of the Information Science and Automation Division, and
Carol Raney, head of the Cataloging Division, served as acting president
of the Resources and Technical Services Division. Mary Huffer, the
assistant director of Libraries, won election as president of the D.C.
Chapter of the Special Libraries Association; Jean Chandler Smith
assisted in the formation on the national level of the Natural Resources
Division of the Association; and Mrs. L. Frances Jones accepted ap-
pointment to a subcommittee of the Seminars on the Acquisition of
Latin American Library Materials.
576 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

William Walker, librarian of the National Collection of Fine Arts and
National Portrait Gallery Library has continued his work on the revision
of the Library of Congress classification schedule for fine arts. The
director has accepted an appointment to a committee in the office of the
Deputy Librarian of Congress to offer counsel on conducting a study of
the problems in converting retrospective catalog records to machine-
readable form for computer processing. The director also has continued
his service to the National Library of Medicine in the analysis of the
capabilities of various American universities to fulfill the educational
mission of the Medical Library Assistance Act. Jack Goodwin, librarian
of the National Museum of History and Technology Library further
enhanced his and the Smithsonian’s leading position in the bibliography
of the history of technology through his preparation of the annual
bibliography on this topic for the Society for the History of Technology
and through his many book reviews in leading historical journals.
Though time has been a precious commodity to the Libraries in this
difficult year, these commitments nevertheless have been deemed vital
to the upgrading of the quality of that part of the library world within
which Smithsonian Libraries operate.

Staff Publications and Papers

Goopwin, J. “Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1967).”
Technology and Culture, 1969, volume 10, pages 228-303.

SHANK, R. ‘Automation in Design for Change.” Missouri Library Association
Quarterly, 1969, volume 30, pages 65—72.

. “Cooperation between Special Libraries and Other Types of Libraries.”

[Paper presented at the Institute on Cooperation between Types of Libraries,

University of Illinois, Allerton House, November 1968.]

. “Libraries and their Ancillary Complex.’ [Paper presented at the An-
nual Business Meeting of the Engineering Division of the Special Libraries
Associaton, June 1969, Montreal, Canada.]

SmitH, J. C. “Bibliography on the Biochemistry of Endoparasites.” Experi-
mental Parasitology, 1968, volume 22, pages 352-422.

International Exchange Service

J. A. Cotuins, Director

HE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE has operated continuously

since 1849, having been established by the Smithsonian Institution
to provide a means through which it could supply its publications to
libraries in other countries and would receive in return the publications
of those foreign institutions. Since then, other organizations in the
United States have been permitted to use the Service.

Colleges, universities, museums, societies, and individuals forward
their publications through the Service to similar organizations in other
countries and, in return, receive through the Service publications from
foreign libraries. More than 350 organizations and individuals have
exchanged publications through the Service during the past year.

Progressive weight of publications received for

transmittal through the International Exchange Service

between 1850 and 1969, (by five-year periods)

Five-Year Periods (Each column = 200,000 pounds) Weight in Pounds
1850—1854 | 46,696
1855—1859 | 95,154
1860—1864 96,609
1865—1869 113,750
1870—1874 159,409
1875—1879 364,495
1880— 1884 613,888
1885—1889 763,257
1890—1894 1,102,742
1895—1899 1,452,485
1900—1904 ee 2,261,814

eS SS Be ee
1905—1909 a 2,327,420
1910—1914 2,775,158
1915—1919 1,532,483
1920—1924 2,754,213
1925—1929 2,833,276
1930—1934 3,270,382
1935—1939 3,206,444
1940—1944 1,734,428
1945—1949 3,066,323
1950—1954 ewe Sees 4,098,909
1955—1959 3,954,631
1960-1964 Ee Se ee ee ee ee eS 4,676,346

DRE Hl Sane ww SSS a ee ee
1965—1969 | 4,899,886

* Interruption of service in World War I.

* Interruption of service in World War II.

577
578 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Packages received for transmittal from foreign and domestic sources,
fiscal year 1969

For transmittal Received by the
abroad by the Smithsonian for
Smithsonian distribution in
Classification the United States

Number of Weight in | Number of Weight in
packages pounds packages pounds

U.S. parliamentary documents

received for transmission

ABTOAG h5 30d Ah tie BEE 870,160 388, 903 == 7
Publications received from

foreign sources for U.S.

parliamentary addressees...... = = 23, 027 27, 063
U.S. departmental documents

received for transmission |

AROMA ote She cays oe Se, Suan 180,715 — ATE 252 = =
Publications received from

foreign sources for U.S. de-

partmental addressees........ = = 9, 633 11, 756 ©
Miscellaneous scientific and

literary publications received

for transmission abroad....... 158,063 204, 418 = =
Miscellaneous scientific and

literary publications received

from abroad fcr distribution

in the United States.......... - - 47, 048 90, 077
gl fo 21 Uta OO UIs IL ee ee a 1, 208,938 764, 573 79, 708 128, 896
Total packages received........ 1, 288, 646
Total pounds received.......... - - - 893, 409

Publications weighing over 700,000 pounds have been received from
organizations in the United States for forwarding to libraries in other
countries during the year. Over 100,000 pounds of publications have
been received from the foreign exchange bureaus for addressees in the
United States.

During the past five years, packages of publications weighing more
than 4,800,000 pounds have been received from both foreign and
domestic sources. This is the largest amount of publications received
during any five-year period in the history of the Service.

Medical and dental publications have been received from more than
150 libraries in the United States for exchange with medical and
dental libraries in other countries.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE 579

Official United States government publications represent the largest
single item of exchange through the Service. Over 350,000 pounds of
documents have been received for exchange with the parliamentary
libraries of other countries. These exchanges are based on (1) bilateral
treaties between the United States and other countries, (2) conventions
to which the United States is a signatory, and (3) other agreements for
the international exchange of publications. During the year the Cyril
and Methodius National Library in Sofia, Bulgaria, was added to the
list of recipients of the partial sets of official documents. Full sets of
official United States documents have been exchanged with 60 foreign
libraries, and partial sets of official documents have been sent on ex-
change to 45 libraries.

A strike of the longshoremen on the east coast of the United States
during the winter has delayed the sending of many publications and
also has delayed the receipt of publications from foreign exchange
bureaus.
ia at
a
| oN 0}
. ¥ id iy '
i. ae ah Me

it
‘hal

7 ial
a

Information Systems Division

NicHo.as J. SUSZYNSKI, JR., Director

HE INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION, offering a total dimension of

information services, utilizes advanced computer systems and tech-
niques to gather, organize, and apply information to the Institution’s
diverse needs. Divisional activities encompass designing, programing,
and processing of computer applications; managing complete com-
puterized information systems; and providing mathematical modeling,
simulation, and scientific computations.

This Division, equipped with a staff competent in information re-
trieval and indexing techniques, mathematical computation, and man-
agement information services, offers Smithsonian museologists technical
assistance in systems design, programing of new systems, and program-
ing maintenance of previously developed information systems. In addi-
tion, the Information Systems Division provides support to Smithsonian
administrative, curatorial, and research activities by supplying auto-
matic data processing for business and fiscal data. The staff has con-
ducted several research and development projects to discover new
computer techniques for museum application. This Division also has
sponsored educational training programs of introductory, intermediate,
and advanced courses in computation to acquaint the Institution staff
with computers and their uses. In an effort to encourage knowledgeable
uses of these facilities, this year these courses have been made available
to any Smithsonian employee whose responsibilities involved or were
directly related to computation.

The Information Systems Division is structured to support four func-
tional information-technology needs: information storage and retrieval,
scientific applications, library systems, and management systems.

The Information Storage and Retrieval Section, in cooperation with
members of the National Museum of Natural History, has developed
the Smithsonian Institution Information Retrieval system (sur) that
provides an investigator with the ability to direct a broad spectrum of
questions to a data bank consisting of specimen records and related
bibliography in the field of natural history. While the system is being
expanded to encompass a variety of specimen-related data, it is cur-

581
582 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

rently processing data on birds, crustacea, and rocks and minerals. Soon
this information-retrieval system also will be able to process mammalian
data.

Another project—with a different orientation, developed in coopera-
tion with Smithsonian botanists—provides an automated information
collection and dissemination system for botanical types. The project
now is being expanded to create a data bank of taxonomic type data
derived from botanical specimens. In this system a record for each type
specimen is prepared containing the specimen-related data with a list
of “housekeeping” information displaying the particular institution’s
acronym, a catalog number, and the kind of types reported by various
cooperating herbaria. Institutions participating in the botanical types
project receive distribution records reflecting the holdings that have
been reported for a given taxon. This system prevents a redundant mail-
ing of records and also insures that no institution in the network is
bypassed. It is capable of rapidly processing large volumes of data while
facilitating data validation, correction, and printing of reports on the
collected holdings of cooperating herbaria.

During the year this section also has developed a system of coordinate
indexing of ship models for the Division of Transportation in the
National Museum of History and Technology. The investigator may
retrieve data from a machine-compiled index or from a deck of punched
cards. In the latter case, information can be located by passing a needle-
like rod through the apertures in the deck to select the appropriate infor-
mation. In addition, a continuing program of research and development
in information storage and retrieval techniques is being conducted to
bring the Institution a range of systems that provide maximum capability
at minimum cost. When new applications are developed, an attempt is
always made to implement generic systems that will be flexible enough to
be of specific utility to particular requirements, yet general enough to
have more than one application in the Institution.

The Scientific Applications Section has generated several systems to
fulfill the needs of various departments. Programs have been written for
the Department of Paleobiology to produce tables on the velocities of
free-falling particles in a viscous fluid. Another set of computer pro-
grams has been developed for the Department of Vertebrate Zoology to
conduct a zoogeographic study that facilitates an analysis of faunal
relationships without prior knowledge of the ecological parameters. In
cooperation with the Department of Anthropology, this Division has
developed mathematical approaches to study the microstructure of bone
by electron probe processing. The program converts the raw data, cal-
culates ratios, and performs elementary statistical analysis. Efforts also
have been initiated with the Department of Anthropology to construct a
INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION 583

Fe

SOT:

Shane a
Mice:

ste ;
\ Sper

New information-retrieval projects are reviewed by participating units. ISD’s
Reginald Creighton and Dr. Melvin Jackson of NMHT discuss coordinate
indexing of ship models as an aid in research activites.

proposal for the mathematical analysis of archeological teeth data. It is
hoped not only that this study will reveal a historical sketch of the types
and transmission of periodontal diseases found among various popula-
tions of ancient man, but also that the research will provide results
applicable to these diseases when found in modern man.

A set of artifact materials excavated by the Smithsonian in the thirties
contains the greatest diversity of materials located at any known site. A
project in the Anthropology Department has been undertaken to study
and publish the material in order to determine a model of hunter-
gathering culture in the late Pleistocene. Computer programs have been
written to establish a data bank of the variables associated with the
specimens and to perform descriptive statistical calculations on this data.
Multivariate analysis of this quantifiable artifact data, combined with
ecological and geographical variables hopefully will provide a model to
help understand the way of life of that time. Descriptive statistical cal-
culations also have been performed for the Division of Petrology to com-
pare the variation of deep-sea basaltic lavas with continental basaltic
lavas, a study that attempts to determine the origin of deep sea lavas.

The installation of the telecommunications line connecting the H—1250
computer to the CDC—6400 computer at the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory has provided additional calculational capabilities to Smith-
584 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

sonian scientists. The UCLA Biomedical Computer Programs library
of mathematical routines has been installed on the Astrophysical Observ-
atory computer system. The telecommunications line has provided the
capability to perform various special projects for scientists in the Depart-
ment of Paleobiology, projects that otherwise would have been too large
to handle with the present facilities. These programs have included
univariate and bivariate analyses of morphometric data, multivariate
analysis of variance, and canonical analysis. In addition, the mathe-
matical computations section has provided programing support to the
external customers who make use of the telecommunications line.

In cooperation with the Office of the Director General of Museums,
the Information Systems Division has developed a computer-processable
questionnaire now used to interview Smithsonian visitors. In addition,
a postcard-size questionnaire has been prepared for information feed-
back from organized visitor tours. Once the survey is completed, exten-
Sive statistical analyses of the data will be performed.

The Library Systems and Programs Maintenance Section is responsible
for the development and implementation of information systems for
Smithsonian Libraries and for the continuous upgrading and mainte-
nance of selected computerized systems. In its research activity this
group is concerned with automated systems for the processing of biblio-
graphic data. This Section has implemented an In-Process Inventory File
for the Libraries based on the successful conclusion of a pilot project
conducted last year. The system supplies the library, research, and cura-
torial staffs with up-to-date information on the status of published
monographs.

An automated bibliography, prepared for the Flora North America
Project, also has been designed to produce a concise diagnostic manual
of all vascular plants north of Mexico. When completed, it should stimu-
late new research in plant systematics and related fields. The current
system’s capability prepares an index to new species and new chromosome
counts as cited in the literature.

In cooperation with the National Portrait Gallery, this section is sched-
uled to generate an interface between the file of cataloged portraits and
scholars via an automated portrait-information-retrieval system. The
combined efforts of the staffs of the Information Systems Division and
the National Portrait Gallery's Catalogue of American Portraits have
yielded a final system design to be implemented next year. It will provide
the means for housing and maintaining a major portion of the cata-
loged information through three unique, yet closely cross-referenced and
related, data banks. The application of machine retrieval will make it
possible to do both quantitative and qualitative studies.

:
INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION 585

Computer facilities at ISD operate seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Roy Perry
(center) supervises the handling of one of the many programs processed at this
installation.

A study has been performed for the Smithsonian Libraries to deter-
mine what benefits may be obtained from placing the serial purchase
record in a machine-readable form. The results of the investigation
suggest that at least two advantages can be expected once the file is con-
verted. The machine will be able to take over time-consuming tasks of
file surveillance in order to initiate renewals or process order titles into
the system. It also will provide up-to-date listings to keep the librarian
posted on actions to be taker. in a more accurate and timely manner
than possible under any manual method.

Research also has been initiated to determine how the Institution’s
computational facility may be applied to develop a multifaceted access
to the architectural records in the National Museum of History and
Technology. Another newly initiated project deals with the placement
of the vitae of the Institution’s professional staff into a machine-read-
able form for the Office of Academic Programs.

The Management Systems Section, in addition to modifying and
maintaining its production programs, has implemented new accounting
systems for the federal and private accounting offices to provide more
timely and accurate accounting data. Reports produced for these
offices vary from the initial verification of transaction data to the final
posting in the general ledger. In addition, a system has been designed

366-269 O—70 38
586 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

by this section to provide the Buildings Management Department with
procedures and methods of reporting and accumulating cost and work-
backlog data for labor and materials at all management levels to facili-
tate expenditure analysis and to report future projections of required
labor and materials.

A system design has been completed and programing has been ini-
tiated to develop a combined payroll and personnel system. Reporting
requirements for this system are now being revised to satisfy current
needs, while all aspects of information flow requiring manual interven-
tion are either simplified or eliminated. From the payroll aspect, the
new system will simplify manual procedures and add greater flexibility
to the maintenance of data. The system will provide an up-to-date auto-
mated personnel system to replace the present manual procedures for
the Office of Personnel Management and Resources. All personnel
data and associated costs will be readily available. Once an employee is
entered into the system, all future actions will be accomplished auto-
matically, either as a result of a coded input or as a result of prepro-
gramed testing for certain conditions within the contents of the data
bank.

The Smithsonian Subscription Fulfillment Program, developed in
cooperation with the Office of Public Affairs and the Smithsonian
Associates, has been substantially modified to provide greater flexibility ,
in maintaining control over the mailings and the status of Smithsonian
Associates accounts. Indicative of the activity connected with this
program is the size of the member file, which contains the addresses of
over 37,000 people to whom more than 300,000 individual mailings
were provided. Labels for these mailings have been selected and printed
under the control of the Division’s computer programs.

The computer facility with its supporting staff has provided services
this year in the form of data preparation, data conversion, and computer
time to process the Smithsonian’s workload. In addition, it has acted
as a service bureau to United States government agencies. Computer
operations are conducted on a 24-hour basis seven days a week. The
computer center functions on a nonprofit, cost-recoverable basis. It is
fully reimbursed by individual users through payment for the machine-
time used in the solution of their problems. Costs associated with this
service are approximately fifty percent less than a comparable com-
mercial facility would charge.

The fiscal year billing of this computer center has amounted to
slightly more than a quarter of a million dollars, representing a like
saving to the government. In addition to the saving realized through
lower computer costs, the Smithsonian Institution has benefited through
overhead recovery of approximately $45,000.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION 587

Members of the Management Systems Section discuss plans for personnel and
payroll applications with Leonard Pouliot, director, Personnel Division.

In the past year the Information Systems Division has provided
services to other government agencies in an excess of $120,000. These
services have included systems development, programing, and various
data-processing operations on the computers. Among agencies receiving
such services are: Bureau of Mines; Bureau of Yards and Docks; De-
partment of Health, Education, and Welfare; General Service Adminis-
tration ; Naval Ordnance Laboratory ; Office of Business Statistics ; Office
of High Speed Ground Transportation; Department of the Army; and
Post Office Department.

During the year, the Information System Division staff has partici-
pated in conferences designed to share new techniques in museum
data processing with other institutions. A training session on the appli-
cation of data processing to collections in natural history was attended
by museum directors from the National Museum of Canada; the
Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan; the Museum of Natural
History, University of Kansas; New York Botanical Gardens; and the
Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago. Other demonstrations have
been offered throughout the year to acquaint interested investigators
from home and abroad with the Division’s indexing and information
storage and retrieval techniques.
588 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Museums and institutions throughout the world have expressed
interest in projects currently under operation in this Division. The
SIR system, in particular, has continued to be an item of special interest,
and requests for information and documentation on it have increased.
Of these, one request was received from visiting scientists of the Centre
de Documentation de l’Armement, Paris, interested in applying the
system to their aerospace museum. A similar request was received from
the United States Military Academy regarding possible application of
the information retrieval technique to the history of ordnance in the
library at West Point.

Technical information also has been made available to the Univer-
sity of Mexico (a multi-index and concordance system) and to the
University of Virginia (documentation of the Joseph Henry Papers
Project to be applied to its George Washington Papers Project).

In summary, it may be stated that the activities of this Division in the
past year have been characterized by a continuous effort to coordinate
new data-processing techniques with existing museum resources, to de-
sign additional systems capable of aiding scientists and researchers in
their tasks, and to disseminate the products and techniques of these
activities throughout the museum community. Above all, efforts are con-
stantly under way to develop and implement the most expeditious meth-
ods of utilizing information. Staff members cooperate with scientists
and museologists to develop information-dissemination systems, to de-
sign experiments, and to generate statistical methods to support the
conclusions of these experiments.

New information-retrieval projects are reviewed by participating units.
Dr. Charles Nagel and Mrs. Virginia Purdy of the National Portrait Gallery
examine automated catalog of portraits with James Crockett of ISD.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION 589

Staff Publications and Papers

CREIGHTON, REGINALD, and RicHArp Kine. ‘The Smithsonian Institution In-
formation Retrieval (SIIR) System: For Biological and Petrological Data.”
Proceedings of the Sixth Annual National Information Retrieval Colloquium,
May 1969.

Pracesi, DANTE, and REGINALD CREIGHTON. “An Approach to the Geography
Problem in Museums.” Proceedings of the Sixth Annual National Information
Retrieval Colloquium, May 1969.

Suszynsk1, Nicuotas J. “Installation Management.” Data Processing, October
1968, volume 8.
eri
tego ee) Vernet lies An ~meqqall«

11 Weve@!” 5% eh 2 a von EB Y ipod At» one)

mo oo we wat :

if anf i ¢ om vy ‘s ile ae | ree it

Ake 7 ~ 3 u% a : ae a he a

Pe cole Yount ade { > New baa
> ay , “ : =

y

s
My Fath ur arity OE Petal a Se
(evince otal sere® Goel) ae
: > j ie aie f 7 ‘7 je HA
oe i Fi poly A ini } At reatagier*s hh worst

f
¢
Smithsonian Institution Press

ANDERS RICHTER, Director

URING THE YEAR the Press has conceived, refined, and executed plans
D inaugurating four series for dissemination of basic research in the
natural sciences. The first numbers of Smithsonian Contributions to
the Earth Sciences, Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, Smithsonian
Contributions to Paleobiology, and Smithsonian Contributions to Botany
were in press or distributed by the close of the year. Formats for the new
series and standardization of style have been established by editor Albert
L. Ruffin, Jr., through consultation with the Publications Committee
of the National Museum of Natural History and with the later assistance
of Charles L. Shaffer, who joined the Press staff in October 1968 as
production manager of serial publications. Format for the covers and
for a fifth new serial entitled Smithsonian Studies in History and Tech-
nology was developed by managing designer Stephen Kraft. A form
solicitation, describing the several Smithsonian series and stating distri-
bution policies, has been sent to libraries and has resulted in approxi-
mately 800 new subscriptions for one or more series. These revisions and
improvements in the serials publication program, which include numer-
ous details of economy and simplification, will yield a substantial gain of
effectiveness in the Institution’s diffusion of knowledge to the scholarly
community.

The book publishing program has advanced in sales volume from
$100,678 in the previous year to $235,049, a gain of 134 percent. Sales in-
creases have occurred in all sectors: to the domestic trade through
Random House, to foreign customers, and to the Smithsonian Museum
Shops. The decision has been made to distribute Smithsonian books to
European customers more directly from a British depository. On 22
August 1968 an agreement was signed with David & Charles (Pub-

591
592 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

USA
 unmeconuan Uncrmuimawan Snitvonian Jstilatin

Smithsonian publications displayed at the 13th International Congress of En-
tomology in Moscow, August 1968. These were the only American publications
on exhibit at the meeting. Note between desk lamps the label giving publisher’s
name in Russian and English.

lishers) , Ltd., of Newton Abbott, Devon, for exclusive sale of Smithson-
ian books in the United Kingdom and Europe, effective 1 July 1969.
A large stock order of backlist and forthcoming titles has been re-
ceived for shipment to England.

The foregoing gains have been made in the face of fiscal stringencies
in both federal and private funds. Despite a backlog of 7500 manuscript
pages in the house awaiting production at the beginning of the year,
no effective increase has been allowed in the Press budget of federal
funds. As a result, the Press has imposed a procedure of “page budg-
ets’ for the several museums and offices that submit manuscripts for
publication in the Smithsonian series. Most of the principal sources of
new manuscripts expended their page budgets by the end of October
1968. By March 1969, when the backlog and thin flow of new manu-
scripts had been processed, the Press rescinded these restrictions, though
in the interim many authors had elected to publish their manuscripts
elsewhere. Consequently, the Press has been enabled to operate within
its budget and to conclude the year with no backlog of manuscripts
in hand.

A concomitant economy of private funds has caused the Press to
closely examine its third major program, popular publications, where
considerable investment in museum guides and pamphlets have con-
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 593

sistently failed to return sufficient income from sales. At the request of
the Acting Assistant Secretary for Public Service, the Press director
has chaired three meetings of an ad hoc committee on popular publi-
cations composed of representatives from the administration, various
public service offices, and the museums. This committee has produced
a list of recommendations that the Secretary approved in April 1969,
including the curtailment of publishing in this area until priorities can
be established and marketing deficiencies solved, and the continuance
of the committee to oversee these objectives.

Attention has been focused also on catalogs for temporary exhibitions
or permanent collections in the Smithsonian museums. Recently, the
Institution has launched two major art galleries in new quarters and
has taken over another, and in prospect are the openings of two new
art museums in Washington. The publication of exhibit catalogs soon
will assume a large dimension. Though catalogs in the past have been
published with private funds because of the demands of high-quality
printing and difficult schedules that the Government Printing Office
cannot meet, they are an integral part of a museum exhibition program
that has been supported historically by the federal government. Ac-
cordingly, the Press director, the Treasurer, and the Legal Counsel have
discussed the matter at length with managers of cpo and with staff of
the Joint Committee on Printing. Following these meetings, a waiver
requesting the exemption of catalogs from cro production was sub-
mitted and was approved by the Joint Committee on Printing in June
1969. In the future, such catalogs may be produced outside cro with
federal funds.

The titles of one hundred publications issued under the Smithsonian
imprint during fiscal year 1969 are listed below. The sharp decline in
output from 151 titles published in the previous year is attributed to the
moratorium on manuscript submissions, and to a minimum manuscript
size of thirty pages newly instituted for the serials. Production costs of
seventy-one publications were funded by federal appropriation in the
amount of $333,304.08; twenty-three were supported by Smithsonian
private funds in the amount of $200,754.04; and six were subsidized by
grants or loans in the amount of $100,980.83. The Press warehouse dis-
tributed 241,126 publications during the year, while Random House
shipped 34,308 Smithsonian books on order, for a total distribution of
275,434 publications.

Among the year’s new titles are works of major significance. The
Japan Expedition 1852-1854: The Personal Journal of Commodore
Matthew C. Perry, edited by Press managing editor Roger Pineau and
introduced by Samuel Eliot Morison, has received a long approbation
in the New York Times Book Review as well as favorable notices in
594 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

other media. The original manuscript, unpublished and dispersed, has
been assembled and carefully annotated by Pineau. Of major documen-
tary importance, it is eminently readable. Design and Color in Islamic
Architecture by Sonia P. Seherr-Thoss, with extraordinary photographs
by Hans C. Seherr-Thoss, likewise will serve scholars for decades to
come, in this case by preserving the details of rapidly disintegrating
monuments of incomparable artistic refinement. The book itself, con-
taining 138 color plates, is a triumph of design and offset reproduction.
The Cwilizational Process by Darcy Ribeiro, formerly rector of the Uni-
versidade de Brasilia and now under political arrest in Brazil, has been
given major critical attention in Natural History magazine and Current
Anthropology. This dialectical survey of the rise of civilizations by a
citizen of the “third world” promises fertilization of anthropological
theory north of the border.

The Smithsonian’s cooperative venture with the American Heritage
Publishing Company has been less successful. The Smithsonian Library,
a series of illustrated popular books, was a commercial disappointment
to American Heritage, which terminated the series after publication of
the sixth volume. The Evidence of Evolution by Nicholas Hotton III,
Bridges, Canals, and Tunnels by David Jacobs and Anthony E. Neville,
America’s First Civilization by Michael D. Coe, and Worlds Around the
Sun by Lee Edson have appeared in the series during the year.

Shortage of office space on the Mall has dictated transferal of the
Press administrative, editorial, production, and promotion offices to
the Pension Building on G Street, between Fourth and Fifth Streets
NW. The new offices are large and in contiguous layout, though these
advantages are partly offset by the disefficiency of more distant com-
munication with Mall authors. The Print Shop, which has remained in
the Arts and Industries Building, has completed 816 jobs during the year.

In January-February 1969 the director was detailed for eight weeks
as the Smithsonian’s first candidate to the Federal Executive Institute in
Charlottesville, Virginia. He again has represented the Institution on
the Interagency Book Committee. The managing editor has organized
an exhibition of Commodore Perry memorabilia about which one re-
viewer has said, “The viewer who explores this exhibition does so with
astonishment and delight. No Washington museum in recent years has
offered a show of greater interest.’”’ The managing editor also has served
on the Copyright Committee of the Association of American University
Presses, and continued as a trustee of the Japan-America Society of
Washington. He was interviewed on “Washington Today” (Mutual
Broadcasting Company) concerning the Perry Exhibit, and he and the
director have been interviewed together over wAMu on the American
University radio program “Social Values in Transition.” The managing

;

ij

¥
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 595

designer has been awarded a Distinctive Merit Award by the Art Direc-
tor’s Club of Metropolitan Washington for his design of the Islamic
architecture book. He also has taught a two-semester course “Graphic
Design Techniques” at The American University and has conducted a
seminar for the American Association for State and Local History. He
has been impanelled as a critic of periodicals by the American Institute
of Graphics Arts; and he and the director have served as panelists for the
Georgetown Writers’ Conference. Editor Louise J. Heskett has been
awarded third place in competition by the Federal Editors Association
for her design and editing of The Invention of the Sewing Machine.

Staff Publications

PinEAU, Rocer, editor. The Japan Expedition 1852-1854: The Personal Jour-
nal of Commodore Matthew C. Perry. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press, 1969.

. The Japan Expedition 1852-1854 of Commodore Matthew Calbraith

Perry. Exhibit catalog. Privately published, 20 pages, October 1968; 32 pages,

November 1968; 12 pages, March 1969.

PUBLICATIONS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1969

BOOKS

BERLANDIER, JEAN Louis. The Indians of Texas in 1830. Edited by
John C. Ewers. xii+ 209 pages, 20 plates, 39 figures. Publication 4745.
7 April 1969. Cloth $10.00, paper $5.95.

Charles Sheeler: Essays by Martin Friedman, Bartlett Hayes, and
Charles Millard. 156 pages, 170 illustrations. Publication 4746. Octo-
ber 1968. Cloth $10.00, paper $5.95.

GeskE, Norman A. Venice 34: The Figurative Tradition in Recent
American Art. 131 pages, 10 color plates, 60 black and white illustra-
tions. September 1968. Cloth $10.00, paper $5.95.

Goopricu, Lioyp. The Graphic Art of Winslow Homer. Foreword by
Donald H. Karshan. 136 pages, 123 gravure illustrations. 2 June 1969.
$10.00.

GREENEWALT, Crawrorp H. Bird Song: Acoustics and Physiology. 194
pages, 168 figures. 9 December 1968. $12.50.

Museums and Education. Edited by Eric Larrabee. 262 pages. 18 July
1968. $6.50.
596 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

O.tver, SmirH HEMpsTONE, and Donatp H. BERKEBILE. The Smith-
sonian Collection of Automobiles and Motorcycles. 164 pages, 125
illustrations. Publication 4719. November 1968. Cloth $4.95, paper
$2.95.

Oroan, R. M. Design for Scientific Conservation of Antiquities. 497
pages, frontispiece, text figures, tables. 5 May 1969. $16.00.

Perry, MatTHew C. The Japan Expedition 1852-1854: The Personal
Journal of Commodore Matthew C. Perry. Edited by Roger Pineau
with an introduction by Samuel Eliot Morison. xix+ 241 pages, 48
color plates, 40 black-and-white illustrations, endpaper maps. 7 April
1969. $10.00.

PETERSON, MENDEL. History Under the Sea: A Handbook for Under-
water Exploration. xvit208 pages, 57 plates, 1 map. Originally pub-
lished in 1965, reprinted in cloth. March 1969. $5.95.

Rrperro, Darcy. The Civilizational Process. Translated and with a fore-
word by Betty J. Meggers. 201 pages, 3 illustrations. December 1968.
$6.50.

Riptey, S. Ditton. A Paddling of Ducks. Wlustrated by Francis Lee
Jaques. 256 pages, line drawings throughout text. Originally published
1957, reissued 15 April 1969. $5.95.

RITTERBUSH, Puitip C. The Art of Organic Forms. 149 pages, 45 figures,
23 plates, color frontispiece. Publication 4740. 16 September 1968.
Cloth $10.00, paper $5.95.

SEHERR-T Hoss, Sonia P. Design and Color in Islamic Architecture:
Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey. Photography by Hans C. Seherr-Thoss,
introduction by Donald N. Wilber. 312 pages, 138 color plates, 14 text
figures. 21 October 1968. $27.50.

SwaNTON, JoHN R. The Indian Tribes of North America. vit726
pages, 5 maps. Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 145, originally
published 1952, reissued in cloth 15 April 1969. $15.00.

This New Man: A Discourse in Portraits. Edited by J. Benjamin Town-
send, introduction by Charles Nagel, with an essay by Oscar Handlin.
217 pages, 163 illustrations. Publication 4752. October 1968. Cloth
$12.50, paper $6.95.

VAZQUEZ DE Espinosa, ANTONIO. Description of the Indies (c. 1620).
Translated by Charles Upson Clark. xii+ 862 pages. Smithsonian Mis-
cellaneous Collections, volume 102, entitled Compendium and De-
scription of the West Indies, originally published in 1942, reissued in
cloth 16 September 1968. $12.50.

Wetmore, ALEXANDER. The Birds of the Republic of Panama: Part 2.—
Columbidae (Pigeons) to Pictdae (Woodpeckers). v+605 pages, 76
illustrations. Publication 4732. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collec-
tions, volume 150, part 2. 2 September 1968. $15.00.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 597
BOOKLETS

BisHop, Puitip W. Petroleum. 32 pages, illustrated. Publication 4751.
17 April 1969. $.50.

Kinnarp, Harry W. O. Vertical Airlift. 24 pages, illustrated. Publication
4761.6 December 1968. $.75.

Purpy, Vircinia C., and DANIEL J. REE. Presidential Portraits. Edited
by J. Benjamin Townsend. iv+74 pages, 38 illustrations. Publication
4748. 4 October 1968. $1.25.

SCHLEBECKER. JOHN. Living Historical Farms: A Walk into the Past.
32 pages, illustrated. Publication 4747. 15 November 1968.

SERIAL PUBLICATIONS

UnITEp States NATIONAL MusEUM—BULLETINS

258. J. LAURENS BaRNARD. Gammaridean Amphipoda of the Rocky
Intertidal of California: Monterey Bay to La Jolla. x+ 230 pages, 65
figures. 14 May 1969.

261. Davip A. Younc. Taxonomic Study of the Cicadellinae (Homop-
tera: Cicadellidae): Part 1, Procontini. viit+287 pages, 261 figures.
25 July 1968.

266. H. F. Loomis. A Checklist of the Millipeds of Mexico and Cen-
tral America. v+ 137 pages. 24 October 1968.

271. J. Laurens Barnarp. The Families and Genera of Marine
Gammaridean Amphipoda. 535 pages, 173 figures. 14 May 1969.
272. J. T. Penney and A. A. Racex. Comprehensive Revision of a
Worldwide Collection of Freshwater Sponges (Porifera: Spongil-

lidae). v + 184 pages, 15 plates. 24 September 1968.

273. MicueL A. ScHon. The Muscular System of the Red Howling
Monkey. vit 185 pages, 49 figures, 5 tables. 12 August 1968.

275. Gary L. Rancx. The Rodents of Libya, Taxonomy, Ecology,
and Zoogeographical Relationships, viit+264 pages, 54 figures, 16
plates. 2 October 1968.

276. FREDERICK W. STEHR and Epwin F. Coox. A Revision of the
Genus Malacosoma Hiibner in North America (Lepidoptera: Lasto-
campidae) : Systematics, Biology, Immatures, and Parasites. vit 321
pages, 399 figures. 30 December 1968.

279. Cuarves W. Baker. Larval Taxonomy of the Troginae in North
America with Notes on Biologies and Life Histories (Coleoptera:
Scarabaeidae). v+79 pages, 59 figures. 16 December 1968.

280. Jay C. SHarrer. A Revision of the Peortinae and Anerastiinae
(Auctorum) of America North of Mexico (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).
vit 124 pages, 178 figures, 12 maps. 27 November 1968.
598 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

283. Sujir Kumar Das Gupta and Witiis W. WirtH. Revision of
the Oriental Species of Stilobezzia Kieffer (Diptera, Ceratopogo-
nidae). iv+149 pages, 99 figures, 1 table. 28 August 1968.

284. Victor G. SPRINGER. Osteology and Classification of the Fishes
of the Family Blennidae. 85 pages, 16 figures, 11 plates. 10 September
1968.

285. THomas R. WALLER. Two FORTRAN Wt Programs for the
Univariate and Bivariate Analysis of Morphometric Data. vit+55
pages, 2 figures. 3 April 1969.

287. KENNETH J. Boss, Jos—EPH ROSEWATER, and FLoRENCE A.
RunorF. The Zoological Taxa of William Healey Dall. vit 427 pages,
25 November 1968.

289. Donatp R. Davis. A Revision of the American Moths of the
Family Carposinidae (Lepidoptera: Carposinoidea). v+105 pages,
122 figures, 10 maps. 11 March 1969.

290. RicHarp E. Wuire. A Review of the Genus Cryptocephalus in
America North of Mexico (Chrysomelidae: Coleoptera). iv+124
pages, 140 figures. 31 January 1969.

292. FENNER A. Cuace, Jr., and Horton H. Hosss, Jr. Bredin-
Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of Dominica: The Fresh-
water and Terrestrial Decapod Crustaceans of the West Indies with
Special Reference to Dominica. 258 pages, 76 figures, 5 plates. 14
May 1969.

294. REMINGTON KELLocc. Cetothere Skeletons from the Miocene
Choptank Formation of Maryland and Virginia. viit 40 pages, 2 fig-
ures, 25 plates, 23 tables. 14 May 1969.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE
Museum oF History AND TECHNOLOGY

(Short papers are issued individually and later collected into Bulletins, all of which
are casebound)

31. Viaprmir CLaIn-STEFANELLI. “History of the National Numis-
matic Collections.” 108 pages, 140 figures. 16 April 1969. (To be in
Bulletin 229.)

63. RicHarp E. AHLBoRN. “The Penitente Moradas of Abiquit.” 46
pages, 55 figures. 11 October 1968. (To be in Bulletin 250.)

64. Craupia B. Kipweiti. ‘Women’s Bathing and Swimming Cos- —
tume in the United States.” 32 pages, 18 figures, 29 January 1969. —
(To be in Bulletin 250.)

BULLETIN 252
(Papers 69-72 on technology)
72. Joun N. Horrnan. “Anthracite in the Lehigh Valley of Pennsyl-
vania.” 53 pages, 23 figures. 3 July 1968.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 599

BULLETIN 253
C. Matcotm Warkins. The Cultural History of Marlborough, Vir-
ginia. vilit 224 pages, 91 figures, 89 line drawings. 24 October 1968.
BULLETIN 254
Grace Rocers Cooper. The Invention of the Sewing Machine. viii
156 pages, 137 figures. 2 July 1968.
BULLETIN 269

Epcar M. Howe tt and Donatp E. Kuoster. Catalog of United States
Army Uniforms in the Collection of the Smithsonian Institution:
Volume 1, United States Army Headgear to 1854. xiit75 pages, 54
figures. 9 May 1969.

BULLETIN 274

DEBORAH JEAN WarNER. Alvan Clark & Sons: Artists in Optics. vit 120
pages, 28 figures. 13 November 1968.

BULLETIN 281
Rita J. Aprosxo. Natural Dyes in the United States. viit 160 pages, 11
figures (1 color), frontispiece (color). 25 November 1968.
CoNTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM
(Bulletin subseries with volumes numbered separately and issued in parts)
VOLUME 34
7. Witt1am Louts CuLBErRson and Cuicita F. Cuuserson. “The

Lichen Genera Cetrelia and Platismatia (Parmeliaceae).” Pages
i-iv + 449-558, 25 plates, 31 figures. 10 July 1968.

VOLUME 37

5. Peter H. Raven. “A Revision of the Genus Camissonia (Ona-
graceae).” Pages 161-396, 81 figures, frontispiece. 5 February 1969.
6. Marie L. Farr. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Survey of

Dominica: Myxomycetes from Dominica.” Pages 397-440, 5 figures.
31 January 1969.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MuSEUM
VOLUME 125
(Final volume of series)
3658. A. STANLEY Ranp and SrepHeN S. Humpurey. “Interspecific
Competition in the Tropical Rain Forest: Ecological Distribution
among Lizards at Belém, Para.” 17 pages, 2 figures. 30 July 1968.
600 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

3660. J. F. Gates Cxiarxe. “Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XVII:
Notes and New Species of Phaloniidae.” 59 pages, 30 figures, 4 plates.
30 July 1968.

3664. Marvin C. Meyer. “Moore on the Hirudinea with Emphasis on
His Type-Specimens.” 32 pages. 19 November 1968.

3665. Oxiver S. Fuint, Jr. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological

Survey of Dominica, 9: The Trichoptera (Caddisflies) of the Lesser |

Antilles.” 86 pages, 231 figures. 13 December 1968.

3666. Nastma M. Tirmizt and Raymonp B. Mannine. “Stomatopod
Crustacea from West Pakistan.” 48 pages, 17 figures. 13 December
1968.

3667. Kart BANsE and KaTHERINE D. Hopson. “Benthic Polychaetes
from Puget Sound, Washington, with Remarks on Four Other Spe-
cies.” 53 pages, 8 figures. 20 December 1968.

3668. Perry C. Hort. “The Genus Pterodrilus (Annelida: Branchiob-
dellida) .”’ 44 pages, 12 figures. 19 November 1968.

SMITHSONIAN ANNALS OF FLIGHT
VOLUME 1

3. Pup S. Dickey III. The Liberty Engine, 1918-1942. x+ 110 pages.
10 July 1968.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

VOLUME 6
(Whole volume)

CiirForp Evans and Betty J. Meccers. Archeological Investigations
on the Rio Napo, Eastern Ecuador. xviii+130 pages, 80 figures, 94
plates, frontispiece, 15 tables. 4 October 1968.

VOLUME 8
(Whole volume)

Oxca Linares DE Sapir. Cultural Chronology of the Gulf of Chiriqui,
Panama. xiiit 119 pages, 55 figures, 20 plates, 12 tables. 6 December
1968.

VOLUME 10
(Whole volume)

Sau. H. Rresenserc. The Native Polity of Ponape. 1x+115 pages, 12
plates, 4 figures. 31 December 1968.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES

1. Grorce Switzer and WiLu1AM G. ME son. “Partially Melted Kya-
nite Eclogite from the Roberts Victor Mine, South Africa.” 9 pages,
5 figures. 15 April 1969.

—
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 601

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

1. Raymonp B. Mannine. “Notes on Some Stomatopod Crustacea from
Southern Africa.” 17 pages, 4 figures. 9 June 1969.

2. B. D. Burks. “Species of Spalangia Latreille in the United States
National Museum Collection (Hymenoptera: Pteromalidae).” 7
pages, 3 figures. 13 June 1969.

3. Howarp E. Evans. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian Biological Sur-
vey of Dominica: Bethyloidea (Hymenoptera). 14 pages, 16 fig-
ures. 13 June 1969.

5. RicuHarp E. Younc and Cryo: F. E. Roper. “A Monograph of the
Cephalopoda of the North Atlantic: The Family Cycloteuthidae.”
24 pages, 3 figures, 9 plates. 9 June 1969.

6. KristTaAN FaucHa.p, “A Revision of Six Species of the Flavus-Biden-
tatus Group of Eunice (Eunicidae: Polychaeta) .” ii+ 15 pages, 6 illus-
trations. 13 June 1969.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

VOLUME 152

3. THomas E. Snyper. “Second Supplement to the Annotated Subject-
Heading Bibliography of Termites, 1961-1965.” ii+ 188 pages. Pub-
lication 4705. 31 December 1968.

VOLUME 153

2. Porter M. Kier. “Echinoids from the Middle Eocene Lake City
Formation of Georgia.” 45 pages, 44 figures, 10 plates. Publication
4738. 11 October 1968.

3. CLayTon E. Ray, ALEXANDER WETMORE, Davip H. DUNKLE, and
Paut Drez. “Fossil Vertebrates from the Marine Pleistocene of
Southeastern Virginia.” 25 pages, 2 figures, 12 plates. Publication
4742. 2 August 1968.

4. C. Lewis Gazin. “A Study of the Eocene Condylarthran Mammal
Hyopsodus.” iv+90 pages, 10 figures, 13 plates. Publication 4744.
27 November 1968.

5. C. G. Assot and Lena Hirt. “A Long-Range Forecast of Tempera-
ture for 19 United States Cities.” ii+21 pages, 1 figure, 4 tables.
Publication 4753. 31 May 1969.

OTHER SERIAL PUBLICATIONS
(Editorial or production services by Smithsonian Institution Press)
Atoll Research Bulletin. Number 127: “Ornithology of the Marshall

and Gilbert Islands,” by A. Binion Amerson, Jr. 348 pages. 28 May
1969.

366-269 O—70 39

602 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

CATALOGS

Abandoned Mine Scenes: Oil Paintings by Carol Riley. Exhibit folder.
June 1969.

Annotated List of Photographs in the Division of Agriculture and Forest
Products. Compiled by Pauline B. Christian. 126 pages. 30 January
1969.

Hasersticu, Davip, Women, Cameras, and Images I: Imogen Cun-
ningham. 2 pages, 1 illustration. December 1968.

McCLELLAND, Donatp R. The Paintings and Drawings of Justin Pieris
Darantyagala. 8 pages. 11 December 1968.

Sixty Afternoons in Austin, Texas. Exhibit folder. October 1968.

STEWART, RoBert G. A Nineteenth-Century Gallery of Distinguished
Americans. Foreword by Charles Nagel. vit+93 pages, 168 plates.
19 February 1969.

Recent British Prints. Exhibit folder. April 1969.

INFORMATION LEAFLETS

The Arts and Industries Building. Guide map.

Chesapeake Bay Center for Field Biology. Folder. June 1969.

A Guide to the National Museum of Natural History and Museum of
Man. May 1969.

Hodgkins Medal. Folder. 6 pages. June 1969.

Museum of History and Technology Hall Guide. Folder. 22 August
1968.

National Collection of Fine Arts. Folder. April 1969.

National Portrait Gallery. Guide map. April 1969.

National Portrait Gallery. Folder. April 1969.

The NC-4: The First Transatlantic Flight. 12 pages, 6 illustrations.
8 May 1969.

Organs in Early America. Folder. 5 February 1969.

SHELDON, RoBertT E. Wind Instruments. Folder. 11 February 1969.

Sage of Anacostia: An Exhibit on Afro-American History and High-
lights in the Life of Frederick Douglass. Foldout. 24 January 1969.

SETZER, Henry W. Directions for Preserving Mammals for Museum
Study. Smithsonian Information Leaflet 380. 20 pages. November
1968.

Smithsonian Institution. Folder. July 1968.

ANNUAL REPORTS

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year
1967. Volume 1: “Proceedings.” xviiit+136 pages. 22 April 1969.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS 603

Smithsonian Year 1968: Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution
for the Year Ended 30 June 1968. viit557 pages, illustrated. Publi-
cation 4760. 10 April 1969.

OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS

A Guide for Smithsonian Researchers at the Library of Congress. 8
pages. April 1969.

Smithsonian Research Opportunities 1969-1970. 16+204 pages, 16
illustrations. October 1968.
wn i
Neabe titel schnonin’ eins

Sint agatha
Ai te"
Ane bil viel ar 4 rio vd nik ah

Puglisi Oey agi nd eh Borie
bi \n Sos iar) *\ ip sala
nt hoa

t 2* 91°15 ea. el ae é¥ wee
sr Oahg, ‘i nt see eat
¢ ci see ea ligt Y “ ¢ “iar ae
etiedida. Papen rtioren NL

a

Ae ih! LeoRehi ad fide i. es Ch wedvatels

he Be soar 4 A eae tas ti, ted et
‘é Ly FAavworst Ay || "haat 5 aged
; Por , wih ¢

Fi ws Sh) wk Le =

i" A ‘ial

hd o-abeetiogh & iti
a
oy sy ia? . y 5 }

Be
4 ‘ if:

: Mi"
“i
;
4
hi ’
‘i
{
i
rf it, ag
a i Pt ila ae

Pus, 7 i ae 9 Oe
Science Information Exchange

MonroeE E. FREEMAN, Director

N 3 DECEMBER 1968, the Science Information Exchange commemo-
O rated the twentieth year of its establishment with a program
at the National Museum of History and Technology. In attendance were
Secretary Ripley and other leaders from the governmental and private
scientific and information communities. Dr. Charles W. Shilling, one
of the founders and a former chairman of the Governing Board of sir,
recalled the early history as a pioneering enterprise in the science infor-
mation field. Members of the ste staff briefly reviewed the growth of its
data base and the expansion of its usage throughout the national research
community. Highlighted were siz’s accomplishments in the design, de-
velopment, and testing of new methods and techniques in the large
scale processing of scientific information.

A number of significant changes have been initiated during the past
year. A user-fee system to provide for partial cost recovery has been neces-
sitated by the rapidly increasing workloads, an increasing number of
users, and rising operational costs. Service fees have been initiated for
nonfederal users in December. Federal users will be subject to the same
service fees after 30 June.

A number of developments designed to produce more information in
more varied arrangements at lower costs became operational during
the year. New computer programs have been developed and tested using
the sie subject-index system to produce catalog material on magnetic
tape compatible with the Government Printing Office Linotron. This
substantially reduces the printing costs of the annual catalogs siz prepares
for several of the federal agencies. Two large catalogs—Water Resources
Research, volume IV, and Marine Sciences—were delivered on com-
puter tape. Others are in preparation.

Another important development, in cooperation with federal agencies,
has been to receive agency research records on compatible magnetic
tape that feeds directly into the st computer. Almost fifty percent of the
federal research records are now entering the siz data bank this way at
a saving of more than $1.50 per record.

605
606 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

ROLE OF SIE IN THE
NATIONAL INFORMATION NETWORK

FEDERAL MULTIDISCIPLINARY INFORMATION CENTER SPECIALIZED INFORMATION
AGENCIES CENTER
DOC - Clearinghouse National Referral Center
MASS
AEC ee aX Highway Research
2 yo SS

Crime Delinquency

DOC aN
ue x je

DOD

Rehabilitation of the Disabled

Dental Research

Health Information Center

Clearinghouse for Mental
Health

Research in Child Life

World Coffee information
Center

Self instruction Materials

Center for Applied Linguistics

Foundation State Government individual University Industry Foreign

NON-FEDERAL ORGANIZATIONS

New retrieval programs, including random access for the compilation
of administrative information, have reduced computer search time from
four hours to fifteen minutes. This development provides faster response
time and offers a wider variety of services to all users at a much lower
cost.

These and other innovations, as well as continual surveys and studies
on user needs, user acceptance, and user satisfaction, have been reported
in the publications and conference presentations listed below. Staff mem-
bers have served as panelists and moderators at the annual meeting of
the American Society of Information Science.

In summary, siz has maintained its routine services to the national
science community and has actively continued the development of new
methods of organizing and handling scientific information to provide the
fastest and most comprehensive service at reasonable rates while main-
taining the scientific quality that is expected from the nation’s largest
processor of information about research in progress.
SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE

AB-123-6-2
Accession Number

G-HEW-PHS-NTH~MH

Agency Code

GEMeC

Misc. Codes

TENN-27 (A) ne

Agency No. f Te \
Us! a

———
\?,

AF-482973
Contract No.
10/68
Beginning Date
9/69
End Date
69
Fiscal Year
$25,499
Funds

Adams, H. E.

Principal Investigator

iF
i

Oe -@

GROSS-FILING BY CONCEPT TO OVER 20,000 CATEGORIES INDEXED AND RITEIFVED BY SUBJECT SPECIALISTS

(=

4-192-24-403 SIE DATA BANK
Location Code SS
Chemistry

“ Master File
Dept. or Specialty ——eE=

—~G@—-
Provides for Retrieval by;

ORR, H. C....
ROGERS, J. L. Th, Fig OTE
b. Where
Other Investigators c. “hen
dad, How Much

L-BRAIN
L~SHOCK
K-NR-INFO
O-MAN
P-PHOSPHATE
P-DAUNOMYCIN

Subject and Administrative

a. What and/or Who, Where
When, and How Much

fo

Subject Index Codes

NEW CELL CULTURE Inverted Subject File

Title
(Ranitom Access Distribution
By using various culture Storage)
techniques additional
substrates for vaccine 1. For Immediate Subject Retrieval

production will be
Text

(2-3 minutes per question)

Staff Publications and Papers

607

- § 5500 55 750 25 995
Subject Index Code

15759-1-1

4088-8-1

1175-5-1

FY Continu-
ation

* a
Grant Accession
or Number
Contract

FREEMAN, M. E. “The Role of the Science Information Exchange.” Science Infor-
mation Exchange, 20th Anniversary program, at the Smithsonian Institution.

3 December 1968.

Hersey, D. F. “Improving the System.” Science Information Exchange, 20th
Anniversary program, at the Smithsonian Institution. 3 December 1968.

. “Interrelationship of Microbial Agents and Antigens in Selected Diseases.”
Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Washington, D.C. 23 April 1969.

, W. R. Foster, M. SNyDERMAN, and F J. Kreysa. “Conceptual Index-
ing and Retrieval of Current Research Records: An Analysis of Problems and
Progress in a Large Scale Information System. I, The Science Information
Exchange: Description and Problems; II, Recent Improvements in the sIE
System, and an Evaluation.” Methods of Information in Medicine, Journal of
Methodology in Medical Research, Information and Documentation [German
journal] (July 1968), volume 7, number 2, pages 172-187.

, W. R. Foster, E. W. STavper, and F. J. Kreysa. “Determination of
Acceptable Noise Levels in Subject Requests from an Information System.”
American Society for Information Science meeting at Columbus, Ohio. 20-24

October 1968.
608 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

, and E. D. SHaw. “Viral Agents in Hepatitis —- A Review.” Laboratory
Investigation (November 1968), volume 19, pages 558-572.

Kreysa, F. J. “Management of R&D Information for Future Technological
Growth with Special Emphasis on Czechoslovakia.’ Fourth Congress, Czecho-
slovak Society of Arts and Sciences in America, Inc. 1 September 1968.

. “Participants in the Science Information Exchange System.” Science
Information Exchange, 20th Anniversary Program, at the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. 3 December 1968.

Lone, B. L. Presentation regarding Marine Council activities with particular
emphasis on the Food-from-the-Sea Program. The State Department. 19 July
1968.

Rotn, H. M. Presentation on Science Information Exchange services before a
conference entitled “Hard-Core Education and Training and Employment.”
The National Industrial Conference Board, Princeton Inn, New York City.
4 September 1968.

SNYDERMAN, M., and B. Hunt. “Seventeen Ideas for Managing Small Computer
Installations.” Journal of Data Management (July 1968), pages 20-26.

, and R. A. Kune. “Job Costing a Multiprogramming Computer.”

Journal of Data Management (January 1969), pages 19-20.

ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

JAMES BRADLEY

Assistant Secretary
PS) ASAT CAT as
t “us etn ey rie
iv Be PAN wpm Te?
at in! ey ul i}
Val 900 Gna
PSM a

ane agit Ee (RE
Dy aing Lait fuer 5
Raiowany’ ® : | lis

Val ee Olt SOC Poneto Fait :

Covad Gaskets ei ACO Seay IS vie Wis

ori alidbeatiohlis ae: Sie SR eal

Tite esate. Oa age oe CA eine 2s Gaaee

i? pany: ae at

itl ere] Te) A) ee eve

. 3 4 ti
a fol 8 , } wai’ | WAR! Te Pie ae ahr

J it MAS iol

a ;
, VeRO 1 x Au VET) as
nts F wee yi YAR, eevee

or ag SS AO
nihie Ss ime i Bipbiy ht .
Administrative Management

JAMES Brabey, Assistant Secretary

HE CHARACTER OF MODERN CIVILIZATION has been largely determined by the
Ss influences of democracy and science. The evolutionary theory of
Management views democracy and science as dynamic factors which must be
integrated into both the practice and the theory of management. Just as the
factory has been viewed as the representative work place of a technically advanced
society during the past two centuries, the work which typifies the future will be
performed in the laboratory and the study. Management practice, organization
structure, and leadership style must be revised to meet the requirements of the
knowledge-oriented institution.*

The evolving need to pursue this theory and practice in the adminis-
tration and management of Smithsonian affairs has been well recognized
during recent years. The diversity of our new and expanding programs,
the growing importance and use of the National Collections, the devel-
oping of an unrivaled complex of museums and art galleries available
to millions of visitors, and the continuing dedication of the Smithsonian
to works of scholarship have demanded that its administrative and
management policies and practices be pliant, responsive to new and
changing needs, innovative, and progressive.

Accordingly, too, the program-support groups have been guided by
similar objectives to help assure the successful accomplishment of the
Smithsonian’s main purposes. These groups have not benefited by posi-
tion and funding increases corresponding to the growth of the Smith-
sonian program units and, in addition, they have experienced serious
cutbacks under the Revenue and Expenditure Control Act of 1968.
Despite this, they have performed a remarkable amount of excellent
support work this year. Organizational changes, reassignment of per-
sonnel, personal sacrifices, increased efforts, increased use of automatic
data processing, and elimination or deferral of lower priority projects
have contributed in large part to the achievements made by these groups.
The following statement highlights some of their activities.

*Waino W. Suojanen. Preface to The Dynamics of Management, New York,
N.Y.: Holt, Rinehart & Winston, Inc., 1966.

611
612 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969
PROGRAM SUPPORT ACTIVITIES

O ffice of Personnel and Management Resources

A continuing responsibility of this Office is to advise and assist all
Smithsonian staff in fostering an administrative management environ-
ment that encourages high achievement and makes optimum use of
resources. A successful, close-working relationship now has been estab-
lished between the personnel management consultant staff and man-
agers throughout the Smithsonian. The value of such a coordinated
effort in meeting common objectives has been brought into sharp focus
this past year. The restrictions of the federal Revenue and Expenditure
Control Act of 1968, coupled with an existing awareness of the need to
derive maximum use of Smithsonian manpower, has presented a major
management problem. To cope effectively with this difficulty, this Of-
fice has developed a new system whereby all position vacancies are
assessed critically to determine how they relate to the accomplishment
of essential programs and objectives. All levels of management partici-
pate in fixing the priority for filling each vacancy, and their collective
evaluations are reflected in a listing of position vacancies presented to
the Secretary for his personal review and final action.

Working with other Smithsonian units concerned, a new computer-
ized payroll-personnel system has been developed. Among the benefits
to be realized from this program will be the capability of obtaining very
comprehensive and timely management information to aid in making
critical decisions. Also, increased efficiency in accomplishing routine
operations will permit some redirection of staff efforts toward more
support of professional activities.

An innovation this year has been the biweekly publishing of a “Recruit-
ing for” bulletin that lists all vacant Smithsonian positions. Distributed to
all employees, this publication has kept them informed of promotion
opportunities and also has brought forth their assistance in recruiting
outside applicants for some of its vacancies.

The Incentive Awards Program has been expanded to include a spe-
cial award for citizen contributions to the Smithsonian’s programs and
mission. Designs have been completed for the Secretary’s Exceptional
Service Gold Medal award and for a new bureau director’s award for
Scientific or Curatorial Excellence.

Employee development and educational programs have been strength-
ened, and special attention has been given to employing and training
persons in need of enhanced job opportunities, the handicapped, and
young adults during the summer.
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 613

The Executive Profile Catalogue of key Smithsonian officials, pre-
pared this year, has been a particularly helpful reference source for
Smithsonian management staff.

The Treasurer’s O ffice

Combining the Office of Programming and Budget, the Fiscal Divi-
sion, the Contracts Office, and internal audit expertise under the new
Smithsonian treasurer has resulted in a number of marked benefits in
the administration and management of the financial affairs of the In-
stitution. Further, the more recent merging, in May 1969, of the fed-
eral and private fiscal groups under a new accounting division that
reports to the assistant treasurer will induce additional economies in
personnel and other resources and will offer greater career opportunities
for staff members in the unit. Improved communications among the
individual groups have resulted from these reorganizations and have
enhanced the financial staff’s ability to provide guidance, assistance, and
instructions to all Smithsonian program units.

The forward planning and budgeting of private funds has been
placed on a thoroughly professional basis and is coupled with a system
of monthly management reports that enable all units to maintain a con-
tinuing control of private fund expenditures throughout the year.

Another innovation this year has resulted in a comprehensive analysis
of federal expenditures for all organization units. This detailed exami-
nation of the base resources of each unit not only makes possible a more
informed allocation of current federal resources but also supports sound
planning for the future use of these limited resources.

A sophisticated combined payroll-personnel system—developed
through the coordinated efforts of this Office, the Office of Personnel
and Management Resources, the Information Systems Division, and the
Administrative Systems Division—will be operational in fiscal year 1970.
This computer-supported program will provide a wide variety of addi-
tional financial and personnel-management data on a timely, scheduled,
and continuing basis.

Buildings Management Department

Largest of all Smithsonian units, this Department’s responsibilities
include operating and maintaining the physical plant, which contains
nearly 3.5 million square feet of floor space; safeguarding the priceless
national collections; and guiding, assisting, and protecting the millions
of people who visit the Smithsonian each year.
SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

614

O&Z ‘OS ‘OI

161 ‘¥6z ‘I
8ZE ‘ZOZ ‘I
169 ‘bP ‘I
L96 ‘EOL
LL6 ‘BLP
ZSI ‘66

28S ‘GOF
OFS ‘ECC
€GG ‘OGG
829 ‘88S
6OL ‘964 ‘T
Z0S ‘80 ‘I

$]0}0 I.

LLI ‘991

292 ‘El
ZIP ‘BI
eatery
LLU ‘II
oor ‘El
ECE ‘OI

#60 ‘ZI
268 ‘FI
L6G ‘61 z
BSI ‘Ol
812 ‘ZI
ILb ZI

$943}
11D1jL0g pup
SPLP aun

140 “bLI “b

9G ‘C6b
L19 ‘ESF
GSS ‘IES
Z9E ‘GLE
029 ‘Z6I
816 ‘IFI

868 ‘O81
EFS ‘SIZ
1Z0 ‘L2z
089 ‘Z2z
0S8 ‘Oc9
$0 ‘68S

Supping
A dojouysa T
pup d10j8177

PLE ‘6LI

6ES “bz
CEE “FZ
816 “CZ
680 ‘TI
649 8
PGE ‘L

COF ‘9
EEL ‘6
29S ‘Ol
Pol ZI
ZG6 ‘IZ
FIL ‘OI

up
fo d4ajj0)
AddL

‘yJeq [eo1sojooZ yeuonenN 24) ye gcg‘gPg‘G parewNse Ue pue yy jo Asayyey
jeuOneN OM 3B QEEESS‘T SoPNpoUT Yyorym “9B6‘Z9G*LT U99q Sey xo[duI0D UeTUOSYIIUIg 94} JO syed [[e 0} IIA SIY} SIONSTA Jo [e101 DUT ¢

"8961 19q0190 g pouado AsoT[eH WenIOg [euoNneN sy], z
"6961 [dy Z [HUN ggGI 19q0190 [Z Woy shepuoy UO dI[qnd oy} 0} ‘BuIpymg ASojouysay, pue A10)sIF] oy) 3d90x9 ‘sduIpying [je Sutsojo
jo uonoe pajuspescidun oy} Ur pernser ggg] JO IY JONUOD smppuedxg pue onusAcsy oy) Aq posned yes pren3 oy} ut suononpoy ;

656 ‘GZz ‘T

COP ‘861
606 ‘EFI
6EE ‘981
€S0 ‘F8
ZE6 ‘6h
16€ “Eh

6ZL “EE
€00 “Sc
986 “6S
BEE ‘G9
€8r ‘991
166 ‘6E1

suipping
an0gs
pup 4 V

6bL ‘916 Z

91Z “bSE
$92 ‘06
C8E ‘Orr
FOP “02
$58 ‘“6EI
CLG ‘ZI

L8I ‘SII
F6E ‘O81
G00 ‘991
OSt “FSI
9ZE ‘LE
60L ‘“F62

Supping
ALOIS IFT

LLIN

IFl ‘S6P ‘T

€1S ‘80%
162 ‘ILI
919 ‘8bz
288 ‘BIT
00S ‘FZ
19¢ ‘29

693 ‘ZS
GL6 ‘6L
2S6 ‘EL
$99 ‘EL
686 ‘9LI
6GF ‘ISI

suipying
Satdjsnpuy
pun sjip

6S2 “CLZ 2 5]}0_[,
paso[y ounf
Peso[yD Arey
Pesol Indy
P2so[D yoleyy
peso Adeniqeq
peso Arenuef
6961
P2eso[D Jaquis99q7
P2so[D JIQUISAO NT
P2so[D 139G019QO
PES ‘OS requiaidag
168 ‘021 isnsny
PEI ‘FOI Amt
suipjing 8961
upiuosyjiMms

6961 Punf’ O¢—8961 AIM 1—1 6961 IAA Teosty Burinq ssoystA Jo provy
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 615

The complete success of the Institution’s diversified research, cul-
tural, educational, and public-enlightenment programs frequently is
contingent in large part upon the timely, understanding, and effective
support provided by the Department's staff.

Among the major construction contracts, totaling an estimated ex-
penditure of $4.7 million, which has required the Department’s atten-
tion at varying stages from initial planning through completion, are:
the Calder Stabile and Pool, renovation of the Smithsonian Institution
Building, the Renwick Gallery renovation, mezzanine construction in
the Arts and Industries Building, modernization of elevators in the
Natural History Building, and construction of Building 22 at Silver
Hill, Maryland. Other projects requiring extensive manpower and
materials support during the year have included: restoration of the
Offices of the Director General of Museums, construction of numerous
offices and laboratories, and relocation of several activities and collec-
tions in the Pension Building and in the former Records Center at
Alexandria, Virginia.

Major effort also has been expended for the 2,300 special events
and ceremonies that have occurred this year. Highlights of these affairs
are: the Vice President’s Reception and the Inaugural Ball held in
the History and Technology Building, opening of the newly renovated
quarters of the National Portrait Gallery, and the ground-breaking
ceremony for the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

Plans have been initiated for a new computer program designed to
provide the director with regular, detailed financial and work progress
data covering all projects under way in the Department. Implementa-
tion of this program in fiscal year 1970 is anticipated.

The Supply Division

Purchases this year have exceeded 11,000 units, an estimated increase
of 1,000 over the previous year. Under the government property dis-
tribution and utilization programs, items from rockets to art objects,
with an original acquisition value exceeding $3,000,000, have been
obtained for exhibition and research purposes.

The combining last year of property management, stocking, and
receiving activities under one manager has resulted in the elimination
of a position and more efficient and economical use of personnel and
other resources.
616 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The Photographic Services Division

In direct support of the Smithsonian research, educational, cultural,
and public service programs, the Division has produced 21,117 nega-
tives, 14,000 color slides, 50,000 microframes, and 111,000 prints.

Photographic talents and other resources of the Division have con-
tributed to the completion of seventy-three new exhibit units in eight
main exhibition halls. Successful rush treatment necessary to produce
forty-two special, temporary exhibitions has been provided. This work
has required the application of unusual techniques and spectacular
photographic treatments to assure attractive and meaningful presenta-
tion of exhibited items. Of special note has been the photographing of
a major portion of the recently acquired famous Lilly coin collection
containing some 6,000 items.

The branch photographic laboratory for the Oceanographic Sorting
Center has not been activated this year because of lack of funds for per-
sonnel and other purposes.

Travel Services O ffice

All aspects of the travel support services provided by the small staff
of three, have continued their upward trend. Compared with last year,
increases experienced are: air and rail reservations booked, 36
percent; travel itineraries issued, 291 percent; transportation requests
processed, 1514 percent; and hotel reservations booked, 35 percent.

Planning data, advisory services, and travel arrangements have been
provided to support national and international conferences, meetings,
and expeditions; e.g., the Symposium for the Association for Tropical
Biology at the University of Puerto Rico; an archeological expedition
to Yugoslavia, Greece, and other countries; the Olympics in Mexico
City; and the three-week Systematics Symposium in Washington, D.C.

A new venture started this year places responsibility on the Travel
Services Office for correlating activities of the Smithsonian Institution
with the American Institute of Indian Studies on travel matters associ-
ated with Excess Foreign Currency Awards made to the Institute.

Administrative Systems Division

A critical review of current Smithsonian administrative directives,
including policy and procedural materials, has resulted in a decision to
develop a new coordinated system for these management guidelines.
Smithsonian Staff Handbook—530, Property Management, was issued
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 617

Dr. V. Clain-Stefanelli, curator of numismatics, receives one of the rare “Jet Age
Dollars” from Mr. Herbert D. Ford of American Airlines. The medallion, issued
to American Airlines passengers ten years ago on the first transcontinental jet
flight, is being admired by Mrs. Clain-Stefanelli and Mrs. Betty V. Strickler.
Mrs. Strickler is chief of the Smithsonian’s Travel Services Office, where the
presentation ceremony was held.

in February 1969 and a similar handbook, Requtsitioning of Supplies
and Services, will be published early next year.

The Forms Management Unit has supported hundreds of Smith-
sonian activities from logs covering preventive maintenance in our
machine shops to forms for recording specimens on board ship by the
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center. Over 600 requisitions
for in-house reproduction of forms and form letters have been processed
in addition to more than 150 orders for purchases from the Government
Printing Office and other external sources.

CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS DURING
FISCAL YEAR 1969

Museum of History and Technology

CaLDER STaBILE. Design was completed by architect Walker Cain in
December 1968 and a construction contract was awarded to Barr and
366-269 O—70—40
618 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Barr Incorporated of New York. The stabile was completed in France
in March 1969 and arrived in Washington the following month. It was
installed in May 1969 and the dedication ceremony was held on 3 June.

National Zoological Park

Hospirat-RESEARCH BuILpiNc. Construction by the Lomack Cor-
poration continued through the fiscal year and is scheduled for com-
pletion in the fall of 1969.

MutticiimaTE House. Final design has been started by architects
Metcalf and Associates and will be completed early in fiscal year 1970.
Construction funds are available and construction can start upon com-
pletion of design.

Heatinc Stupy. Engineering consultant William Brown has com-
pleted a planning study for new heating plants at the Zoological Park.
This study will serve as a guideline for future design.

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum

Design was completed by the architect in January 1969, bids were
solicited on 20 March 1969, opened on 27 May 1969, and rejected in
June 1969. Demolition of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology
building started in January 1969 and was completed in February 1969.
A ground-breaking ceremony was held on 8 January 1969.

Restoration and Renovation of Buildings

RENOVATION AT SMITHSONIAN INstTITUTION BurLprNc. Construc-
tion work by Grunley-Walsh Construction Company has continued
through the year, and is now scheduled for completion in the spring
of 1970. A contract was awarded to William Pahlmann Associates in the
amount of $20,000 in June 1969 for interior design for furnishings and
finishes.

OcEANOGRAPHY SortTiING CENTER. Installation of air conditioning
by Marathon Service Incorporated was started in September 1968 and
completed in June 1969.

ReNwick Ga.uery. The Smithsonian assumed occupancy of the
Renwick Gallery from esa and from the construction contractor (Ameri-
can Construction Company) in February 1969. The incompleted build-
ing remains closed pending further appropriation of funds.
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT 619

Arts AND INnpustrRIes Buixpinc. Plans and specifications for ren-
ovation of the A&I Building have been essentially completed by archi-
tects Collins and Kronstadt. Construction funds will be requested in the
fiscal year 1971 budget.

RapiATION BrioLtocy Lasoratory. A lease has been negotiated
between csa and the Danac Corporation for a new building contain-
ing 50,000 square feet at Rockville, Maryland. The new building will
be completed about September 1969, at which time the laboratory will
be moved.

Feasibility Studies

Wooprow Witson CENTER. A feasibility study contract was
awarded to Urban Design and Development Corporation in the amount
of $35,000 on 4 April 1969. The contract completion date is 1 Septem-
ber 1969.

Parkinc. A feasibility study contract for parking garages under the
Mall and for parking at the National Zoological Park was awarded to
Wilbur Smith and Associates in the amount of $80,000 ($30,000 from
National Park Service and $20,000 from Zoo Construction) on 19 May
1969. Completion time is six months.

Storace. A feasibility study contract for redevelopment of Silver
Hill was awarded to the George M. Ewing Company in the amount
of $20,000 on 19 May 1969. Completion date is 1 October 1969.
a

is mayor now tl, ea
pri fe ~ 5 ak sates ast e un
‘ vival a6) ai T bi

MATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

JoHN WALKER

Director
iO YARAIAS TAR

Bo ta We pH =u

att

> |
The National Gallery of Art

JouNn WALKER, Director’

EAR MR. SECRETARY: Submitted herewith, on behalf of the Board
D of Trustees, is the report of the National Gallery of Art for the
fiscal year ended 30 June 1969. This report, which is the Gallery’s 32nd
annual report, is made pursuant to the provisions of section 5(d) of
Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress, 1st session, approved 24 March
1937 (50 Stat. 51; United States Code, title 20, section 75(d) ).

ORGANIZATION

The National Gallery of Art, although technically established as a
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and separately
administered organization and is governed by its own Board of Trustees.
The statutory members of such Board are the Chief Justice of the United
States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five General
Trustees continuing in office during the fiscal year ended 30 June 1969,
are Paul Mellon, John Hay Whitney, Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, Lessing
J. Rosenwald, and Stoddard M. Stevens. On 1 May 1969, Paul Mellon
was re-elected by the Board of Trustees to serve as President of the
Gallery, and John Hay Whitney was re-elected Vice President.

* Retired 30 June 1969; replaced by J. Carter Brown.
623
624 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The executive officers of the Gallery during the fiscal year ended
30 June 1969 are as follows:

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren, Chairman ”*
Paul Mellon, President

John Hay Whitney, Vice President

Ernest R. Feidler, Secretary and Treasurer

John Walker, Director *

E. James Adams, Administrator

Ernest R. Feidler, General Counsel

Perry B. Cott, Chief Curator *

J. Carter Brown, Deputy Director

The three standing committees of the Board as constituted at the
annual meeting on 1 May 1969 are as follows:

ExECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Earl Warren, Chairman
Paul Mellon, Vice Chairman
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, S. Dillon Ripley
John Hay Whitney
Dr. Franklin D. Murphy

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, David M. Kennedy, Chairman
Paul Mellon
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, S. Dillon Ripley
John Hay Whitney
Stoddard M. Stevens

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Paul Mellon, Chairman
John Hay Whitney
Lessing J. Rosenwald
Dr. Franklin D. Murphy
John Walker

APPROPRIATIONS

The Congress of the United States, in the regular annual appropria-
tion, and in a supplemental appropriation required for pay increases,
has provided $3,230,000 to be used for salaries and expenses in the oper-
ation and upkeep of the National Gallery of Art, the protection and care
of works of art acquired by the Board of Trustees, and all administrative
expenses incident thereto, as authorized by the basic statute establishing

* From 23 June 1969: Warren E. Burger, Chairman.
* Retired as of the end of fiscal year 1969.

ee
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 625

the National Gallery of Art (Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress,
1st session, approved 24 March 1937 (50 Stat. 51; United States Code,
title 20, sections 71-75) ).

The following obligations have been incurred:

Personnel compensation and benefits $2, 576, 908. 26

All other items $ 652, 408. 24

Total obligations $3, 229, 316. 50
PERSONNEL

At the close of the fiscal year full-time government employees on the
permanent staff of the National Gallery of Art numbered 309. The
United States Civil Service regulations govern the appointment of
employees paid from appropriated funds.

ATTENDANCE

There have been 1,283,398 visitors to the Gallery during the year.
The average daily attendance was 3,536.

Sitting Bull (?). By J. W. Brad-
shaw (American, probably last
quarter 19th century). Canvas,
20 x 16 inches. (Gift of Edgar
William and Bernice Chrysler
Garbisch.) National Gallery of
Art.

626 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Felucca Off Gibraltar. By Thomas Chambers (American, 1807/1808—living
1866). Canvas, 221% x 301% inches. (Gift of Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler
Garbisch.) National Gallery of Art.

ACCESSIONS

There have been 180 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as
gifts or extended loans during the year.

GIFTS
The following gifts have been accepted by the Board of Trustees:
PAINTINGS
Donor Artist Title
Colonel and Mrs. Edgar Bradshaw Plains Indian
William Garbisch Chambers Felucca Off Gibraltar
Unknown Northwestern Town
Frances Frieseke Kilmer Frieseke Memories
Brenda Kuhn Kuhn Wisconsin
National Gallery of Art, Claude Lorrain The Judgment of Paris

Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund Jordaens Portrait of a Man
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

627

ScuLPTURE
Donor Artist Title
Gustave Pimienta Pimienta Orpheus
Pimienta Eagle
Lauson H. and Marshall Sterne Seated Nude

H. Stone

Mrs. Ludwell Detzer

GrapuHic ARTS

Sherwin, after

Glass print: William Pitt

Denny Gainsborough
Colonel and Mrs. Edgar Strenge Fraktur Vorschrift
William Garbisch Tester Fraktur “Nicht Lotran’’
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Le Szabé 6 wood engravings
Bovit
National Gallery of Art, Rubens A Lion
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund
National Gallery of Art, Callot The Tree of St. Francis
Andrew Mellon Fund
Lessing J. Rosenwald Bonasone Portrait of Michelangelo
Bosch St. Martin with His Horse in a
Boat
Bunker Seasonal
Cranach The Stag Hunt
Della Bella 53 etchings
Feininger 17 prints
Kaplan, Jerome Diamond Shoals
Lipman-Wulf Portfolio of engravings
Maitin After a Time, Another Com-

Colonel and Mrs. Edgar
William Garbisch

Henry Moore

Parker and Neal

ment Concerning the Garden
Ideas for Sculpture
Two Seated Figures
3 portfolios of rubbings

Rossigliani Adoration of the Magi
Schrag 18 prints

Spruance 43 prints and drawings
Viesulas Since Then

Houdin Design for the Louvre
Direr 9 woodcuts

Hollar Great View of Prague

DECORATIVE ARTS

Unknown

American embroidered
picture

GIFTS OF MONEY AND SECURITIES

Gifts of money and securities have been made by Avalon Foundation,

Mrs. Ailsa Mellon Bruce, Mr. Thomas Gardiner Corcoran, J. I.
Foundation, Inc., Samuel H. Kress Foundation, Mrs. Cordelia S.
May, The A. W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, Mr.
Paul Mellon, Old Dominion Foundation, and others.
628

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

Owner

Catholic University of
America

Los Angeles County
Museum of Art

Colonel and Mrs. Edgar
William Garbisch

Ackland Art Center, Uni-
versity of North Carolina

Albany Institute of History
and Art

American Federation of
Arts

Museum of American Folk
Art

American Museum in
Britain

American Embassy,
London

Baltimore Museum of Art

Blair House

Cedar Rapids Art Center

Columbia Museum of Art

Columbus Museum of Arts
and Crafts

Georgia Museum of Art,
University of Georgia

High Museum of Art

Immaculate Heart Retreat
House

International Exhibitions
Foundation

Joslyn Art Museum

Robert E. Lee Boyhood
Home

National Collection of Fine
Arts

RECEIVED

Artist
Eakins

Copley

RETURNED

Various

LENT

Doughty
Quidor

Stuart
Phillips

Kensett
various
Phillips
Catlin
various
Copley
Whistler
various
Catlin
various
various

various

various
Pratt

Elliott

Catlin
various

Quidor

Title
Cardinal Martinelli

Portrait of Hugh
Montgomerie, 12th Earl of
Eglington

29 American paintings

Fanciful Landscape

The Return of Rip Van
Winkle

Lawrence Yates

Lady in White

Beacon Rock, Newport Harbor

34 American naive paintings

26 American naive water-
colors and pastels

Lady in White

4 paintings

9 paintings

Baron Graham

Self-Portrait

6 paintings

Indian File

7 mural sketches

20 American naive paintings

14 paintings

4 paintings
Madonna of Saint Jerome

William Sidney Mount

35 paintings
4 paintings

The Return of Rip Van
Winkle
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 629

Owner Artist Title
National Portrait Gallery various 18 paintings
National Society of Colonial Stuart Betsey Hartigan
Dames, Dumbarton Unknown Man
House
Norfolk Museum of Arts various 7 paintings
and Sciences
Phoenix Art Museum Catlin 28 paintings
Eakins The Biglin Brothers Racing
Memorial Art Gallery, Uni- Cole The Notch of the White
versity of Rochester and Mountains (Crawford
others Notch)
Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Hofmann Berks County Almshouse, 1878
Folk Art Collection View of Benjamin Reber’s Farm
Mader Berks County Almshouse, 1895
Royal Academy of Arts, Copley Watson and the Shark
London
St. Paul Art Center Catlin 26 paintings
Museum of Fine Arts, St. various 5 paintings
Petersburg
Smithsonian Institution various 5 paintings
Tampa Bay Art Center various 6 paintings
United States Capitol Lambdin Daniel Webster
Courter Lincoln and His Son Tad
United States Department various 4 paintings
of Justice
United States Department Catlin 7 paintings
of State Flemish tapestry
United States Supreme various 3 paintings
Court
White House various 8 paintings
Whitney Gallery of Western Catlin 72 paintings

Art

EXHIBITIONS

Paintings from the Albright-Knox Art Gallery. Continued from previous year
through 1 July 1968.

Prints of the Danube School. Continued from previous fiscal year through
10 October 1968.

Photographs by Alfred Stieglitz from the Alfred Stieglitz Collection. 16 August
through 3 December 1968.

Prints by Lucas van Leyden. 11 October through 26 November 1968.

Modern British Prints. 3 August 1968 through 21 October 1968 (with a portion
on view until 17 November 1968.)

J. M. W. Turner, A Selection of Paintings from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs.
Paul Mellon. 31 October 1968 through 21 April 1969.

Painter of Rural America: William Sidney Mount. 23 November 1968 through
5 January 1969.
630 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

An Exhibition of Christmas Prints from the Rosenwald Collection. 26 November
1968 through 5 February 1969.

17th-Century Landscape Prints from the Collection of the National Gallery of
Art. 4 December 1968 through 8 April 1969.

The Birds of America by John James Audubon. 25 January through 16 February

1969.

Prints and Drawings by Alphonse Legros. 6 February through 17 April 1969.

Rembrandt in the National Gallery of Art. 9 March through 11 May 1969.

Festivals and Fairs, Prints from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art.
9 April 1969 to continue into next fiscal year.

Lithographs by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec from the National Gallery of Art
Rosenwald Collection. 18 April through 24 June 1969.

John Constable, A Selection of Paintings from the Collection of Mr. and Mrs.
Paul Mellon. 30 April 1969 to continue into next fiscal year.

111 Masterpieces of American Naive Painting fiom the Collection of Edgar
William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch. 12 June 1969 to continue into next

fiscal year.

Bandboxes and Wallpaper from the Index of American Design. 25 June 1969 to
continue into next fiscal year.

Exhibitions of recent accessions: Mrs. Metcalf Bowler by Copley (16 July
through 9 August 1968) ; Pumpkins by Walt Kuhn (3 September through 12
December 1968); An Architectural Fantasy by Jan van der Heyden (13
December 1968 through 10 April 1969); The Judgment of Paris by Claude —
Lorrain (11 April through 5 June 1969) ; Portrait of a Man by Jordaens (20
June 1969 to continue into next fiscal year).

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

Under the direction of chief curator Perry B. Cott, the curatorial
department has accessioned 178 gifts to the Gallery during the year.
Advice has been given with respect to 1,431 works of art brought to the
Gallery for expert opinion, and forty visits to collections have been
made by members of the staff in connection with offers of gifts.

The Registrar’s Office has issued 112 permits to copy and 73 permits
to photograph. About 4,000 inquiries, many of them requiring research,
have been answered orally and by letter. There have been 250 visitors
to the Graphic Arts Study Room, and permits for reproduction involving
95 photographs have been issued.

Assistant chief curator William P. Campbell has continued to serve
as a member of the Special Fine Arts Committee of the Department of
State. Curator of painting H. Lester Cooke has continued as contribut-
ing editor of American Artist magazine and Nasa art consultant, visit-
ing Cape Kennedy with artists. He has lectured at the Richmond
library, has judged an art show in Reading, Pennsylvania, and has ap-
peared on several television shows during the year. Registrar Peter
Davidock has attended conferences in New York on the use of com-
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 631

puters in museum work. Assistant curator of graphic arts, Katherine
Shepard, has continued as secretary of the Washington Society of the
Archaeological Institute of America. She also has taught two courses
for MA candidates at the Catholic University of America. David Rust,
museum curator, has judged three art shows. Diane Russell, museum
curator, has taught two courses at the American University.

The Richter Archives has received and cataloged 272 photographs on
exchange from museums here and abroad; 1,326 photographs have
been purchased and about 3,000 reproductions have been added to the
Archives. Five hundred photographs have been added to the Icono-
graphic Index.

The Judgment of Paris. By Claude Lorrain (French, 1600-1682). Canvas,
4414 x 58% inches. (Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund.) National Gallery of Art.

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Portrait of a Man. By Jacob Jordaens (Flemish, 1593-1678). Wood, 4114 x 29
inches. (Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund.) National Gallery of Art.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 633

GRAPHIC ARTS

Graphic arts from the National Gallery of Art collections have been
included in two traveling exhibitions, and special loans have been made
to twenty-two museums, universities, schools, and art centers in the
United States and abroad.

RESTORATION

Francis Sullivan, resident restorer of the Gallery, has made regular
and systematic inspection of all works of art in the Gallery and on loan
to government buildings in Washington and periodically has removed
dust and bloom as required. He has relined, cleaned, and restored nine
paintings and has given special treatment to sixty-six. Twenty-eight
paintings have been x-rayed as an aid in research. He has continued
experiments with synthetic materials as suggested by the National Gal-
lery of Art Research Project at the Carnegie-Mellon University, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania. Technical advice has been given in response to
214 telephone inquiries. Special treatment has been given to works of
art belonging to government agencies including the United States Capi-
tol, the Treasury Department, the White House, and the Department
of State.

PUBLICATIONS

Report and Studies in the History of Art 1967, the first of a new series,
edited by Michael Mahoney, has combined scholarly articles with a
report by the director and a report of the Gallery’s activities. Contribu-
tions include a forty-three page study of the Leonardo da Vinci Ginevra
de’Benci by director John Walker, articles by Kress professors-in-resi-
dence Jakob Rosenberg and René Huyghe, and by National Gallery
fellows Charles Talbot, Catherine Blanton, and Mark Zucker. Ray-
mond S. Stites has readied the manuscript of his book The Sublimations
of Leonardo da Vinci for publication. H. Lester Cooke has written the
introduction for a book entitled Vietnam Combat Art. David E. Rust
has prepared for publication the catalog of illustrations of the European
paintings and sculpture in the National Gallery of Art. Anna Voris has
worked on publication of Paintings from the Samuel H. Kress Collec-
tion: Italian Schools XV-XVI Century, by Fern Rusk Shapley. Diane
Russell has written two book reviews for Museum News. Thirty-three
gallery leaflets have been revised, and fourteen new leaflet texts have
been prepared by members of the staff.

366-269 O—70—41
634 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

A Lion. By Peter Paul Rubens (Flemish, 1577-1640). Black chalk heightened
with white, 1014 x 1114 inches. (Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund.) National Gallery
of Art.

PUBLICATIONS SERVICE

To meet growing public demand, the Publications Service has taken
a major step by opening a new publications facility in April 1969.
Reproductions and publications are made available on a self-service
basis in a single centralized area comprising 3,800 square feet of floor
space.

The Publications Service has made available nine new publications:
A Guide to Art Museums in the United States by Erwin O. Christensen,
former curator of the Index of American Design; Art Treasures of the
World by Frank Getlein, with an introduction by John Walker, director
emeritus of the National Gallery of Art; French Painting in the Time
of Jean de Berry, The Boucicaut Master by Millard Meiss, the second
offering in the Kress Foundation Studies in the History of European
Art; The National Gallery of Art in the Newsweek “Great Museum
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 635

Series” (English and Italian editions) ; Paintings from the Samuel H.
Kress Collection, Volume II, by Fern R. Shapley, former assistant chief
curator; Favorite Subjects in Western Art by A. L. Todd and Dorothy
Weisbord, with foreword by John Walker, director emeritus of the
National Gallery of Art; National Gallery of Art Report and Studies
in the History of Art 1967.

The 1962 A. W. Mellon Lectures, Blake and Tradition, volumes I
and II, by Kathleen Raine, have been published this year; and Art and
Illusion by E. H. Gombrich, an earlier Mellon Lecture, has been issued
in a new paperback edition.

Four new catalogs of special exhibitions have been published and
made available: J. M. W. Turner Exhibition, William Sidney Mount
Exhibition, Rembrandt Exhibition, John Constable Exhibition. This
year the Gallery also has published an illustrated companion to the
Summary Catalogue of European Paintings and Sculpture.

An illustrated catalog of forty-eight Christmas cards using reproduc-
tions of paintings, sculpture, and prints from the Gallery’s collection
has been published and 40,000 copies have been distributed free of
charge. A total of 222,689 Christmas cards have been sold.

This year, twenty-seven full-color 11 x 14-inch subjects from the col-
lections and twenty-one new postcard subjects have been added to the
selection of reproductions.

Estimated number of customers served:

Publications Rooms Sh 15052
By mail 10, 843
Total number of customers 388, 175

The above figures compare favorably with the previous year after
taking into account the fact that the regular sales area was substantially
reduced for eight months during the remodeling period.

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES

The Gallery building, mechanical equipment, and grounds have been
maintained throughout the year at the established standards.

Improvements in the utilization of space has made possible the tempo-
rary construction of nine new offices and an increase in library shelving
of more than 500 lineal feet.

The building alterations for the new publications rooms have been
completed, and specially designed fixtures and furnishings have been
installed. At the end of the year, the modifications in the driveway,
636 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

sidewalk, and moat-wall openings at the west end of the building were
about eighty percent completed.

The Gallery greenhouse has produced flowering and foliage plants
in sufficient quantities to meet all of the decorative needs of special
openings, holiday periods, and the daily requirements of the interior

garden courts.

PRE-RECORDED TOURS

LecTour, the Gallery’s radio tour system, and Acoustiguide, a small
tape playback device offering a 45-minute highlight tour, have been
used by 38,916 visitors.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The program of the Educational Department has been carried out
under the direction of Dr. Margaret Bouton, curator in charge of educa-
tional work. Attendance figures for the series of lectures, tours, and
special talks are as follows:

Type of tour 1969
Introduction to the collection 20, 333
Tour of the week 9, 492
Painting of the week 15, 307
Sunday lectures 13, 389
Special appointments 28, 437
Scheduled visits for area school children 77,042
Pre-school children 281

Total public response 164, 911

Special tours, lectures, and conferences have been arranged for groups
from government agencies and the armed forces. Many Congressional
offices have arranged tours for groups of constituents. Tours and lec-
tures have been given for wives of Cabinet officers and Congressmen,
for American and foreign educators, foreign dignitaries, groups of men
and women attending conventions in Washington, and student and
scout groups from all parts of the United States.

The program of training volunteer docents has continued, and vol-
unteers from the Junior League of Washington, D.C., and the American
Association of University Women have conducted tours for children
from public and private schools in the District of Columbia and sur-
rounding counties of Maryland and Virginia.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 637

The program for pre-school children, begun two years ago in connec-
tion with the Cooperative Nursery Schools supervised by the District
of Columbia Department of Recreation Association, has continued;
twelve volunteer docents have conducted tours of the Gallery for chil-
dren from eleven schools.

On Sunday afternoons 51 lectures with slides or films have been given
in the auditorium. There have been 34 guest lecturers. Among these,
the Andrew W. Mellon Lecturer in the Fine Arts, Jacob Bronowski,
has given six lectures entitled “Art as a Mode of Knowledge.” Eleven
lectures have been given by members of the Educational Department,
and one full-length film has been presented.

The slide library now has a total of 55,936 slides in its permanent and
lending collections. During the year 15,807 slides have been borrowed
by 508 people (the majority have been professors at colleges and uni-
versities) , and it is estimated that the slides have been seen by 25,770
viewers.

Educational Department staff members have prepared texts for forty-
nine leaflets to accompany reproductions of the Painting of the Week
sold in the Publications Rooms. Thirty-eight radio talks have been pro-
duced for broadcast during intermission periods at National Gallery
Orchestra Sunday concerts, and members of the Educational Depart-
ment have begun preparation of a series of Radio Pictures of the Week
for national distribution. One new LecTour tape has been recorded,
eight gallery leaflets have been written, three have been revised, and
one text has been written for the Grade School Program.

Raymond S. Stites, assistant to the director for educational services,
has delivered seven talks outside the Gallery. William J. Williams has
taught a general art history course for the Smithsonian Institution’s
Employees’ Welfare and Recreation Association.

EXTENSION SERVICE

To serve the nation outside the District of Columbia, the Office of
Extension Service is circulating a number of programs to a growing
audience across the country. Traveling exhibitions, films, and slide and
film strip lectures are lent free of charge to more than three thousand
communities annually. During the year these programs have reached
approximately 2,757,000 persons, an increase of 581,000 over last year.

This year 210 traveling exhibits covering sixteen different subjects
have been viewed by an estimated 1,073,000 persons; 219 prints of three
films on the National Gallery of Art have been circulated and seen by
638 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

approximately 230,000 viewers; 2,425 slide lectures have been circulated
and seen by more than 779,075 viewers.

The Special Loan Project has been continued, and 385 slide lectures
have been lent to schools in 61 school systems, reaching approximately
675,000 classroom viewers.

The Loan Project having been so successful, it has been decided to
offer a basic set of five slide lectures to all school systems in cities of
500,000 population and above. As of 30 June 1969, fifteen school sys-
tems have responded, and slide lectures have been sent to these schools.
School systems participating in this program have agreed to furnish
the Extension Service reports of bookings at the end of each semester,
and the school systems are responsible for any loss or damage of
materials beyond normal wear and tear.

The recorded and printed text of the slide lecture Paintings of the
Great Spanish Masters has been translated into Spanish this year, and
several copies of the lecture containing the Spanish recording have been
placed in New York City schools with large numbers of Spanish-
speaking students. In addition, a copy of the lecture with a recording
of the Spanish text was used in the summer institute Educational Media
for the Spanish Surnamed, 9-20 June 1969, at Colorado State College,
Greeley, Colorado.

Starting in February 1969, the Extension Service in cooperation with
the Boardman School in Youngstown, Ohio, has conducted a series of
four telephone lectures featuring members of the Gallery’s curatorial
staff. In February Dr. Grose Evans gave the first lecture on Renais-
sance Art; in March Dr. Margaret Bouton gave the second lecture on
American Art; in April Dr. Evans spoke on 19th-Century French
Painting; and in May George Kuebler presented Contemporary Art.
The slides for each lecture had been forwarded in advance of the lec-
ture date. On the day of the lecture, the staff member was connected
by long-distance phone with the school. After a short presentation by
the staff member, the students were able to talk with the lecturer and
ask questions about the presentation. Reports from the Youngstown
school indicate that the series has been very successful.

LIBRARY

The library, under the direction of Miss Anna M. Link, has acces-
sioned by gift, exchange, and purchase 2,381 books, pamphlets, and
periodicals; has processed 2,217 publications; has filed 7,670 cards in
the main catalog and shelf list; has received by gift, exchange, or pur-
chase 3,578 periodicals; has charged to staff members 5,112 books; has
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 639

shelved 6,737 books; and has borrowed through interlibrary loan facili-
ties 694 books, of which 662 have been lent by the Library of Congress.

Under the exchange program the library has distributed 2,044
copies of National Gallery of Art catalogs and leaflets to foreign and
domestic institutions and has received 691 publications in exchange.

The library has continued to serve as the depository for black-and-
white photographs of the works of art in the Gallery’s collections. These
are maintained for use in research by the staff, for exchange with
other institutions, for reproduction in approved publications, and for
sale to the public. Approximately 6,945 photographs have been added
to the stock in the library during the fiscal year, and 1,363 orders for
6,352 photographs have been filled, including 425 permits for reproduc-
tion of 906 subjects.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

During the year thirty-eight exhibitions have been circulated in
seventy-one bookings in twenty states, the District of Columbia, and
Mexico. The Index also has circulated 183 sets of color slides (9,315
slides) throughout the country; 881 photographs of Index subjects have
been used for exhibits, study, and for publication. The Index has re-
ceived 232 visitors who studied the material for research purposes and
for collecting material to be used in design and publication, Eighteen
permits to reproduce 841 Index subjects have been issued for
publication.

A special exhibition has been prepared for display in the Gallery,
and a selection of Index of American Design watercolors has been on
view in the Gallery the entire year.

Special loan exhibitions have been prepared for the Smithsonian
Institution’s Summer Festival of the Arts; for exhibition in Mexico City
during the Olympic Games; for the Mariners Museum, Newport News,
Virginia; for the Department of State to circulate between the border
states and Mexico; for the Washington County (Maryland) Museum
of Fine Arts; and for the 1969 Seminar on Shaker Arts and Crafts held
in Pittsfield, Massachusetts.

MUSIC

Under the supervision of Richard H. Bales, assistant to the director
in charge of music, forty concerts have been given on Sundays in the
East Garden Court. These concerts have been financed by funds be-
640 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

queathed to the Gallery by William Nelson Cromwell, by grants re-
ceived from the J. I. Foundation, Inc., and by grants from the Music
Performance Trust Fund of the Recording Industry. The National
Gallery Orchestra, conducted by Mr. Bales, has played twelve of the
concerts. Six of the Sunday concerts during April and May comprised
the 26th Annual Music Festival held in the Gallery. All concerts have
been broadcast in their entirety by radio station WGMS, AM—FM.

Two National Gallery Orchestra concerts conducted by Mr. Bales
were taped for two one-hour color television programs, which were
shown with appropriate paintings from the Gallery’s collections
on wtTop-tv in November 1968 and February 1969.

The full orchestra and the National Gallery Strings, conducted by
Mr. Bales, have performed for several special openings at the Gallery
and also have performed as part of the 20th Anniversary Celebration
of Falls Church, Virginia, and for the Bowie May Festival in Bowie,
Maryland. The National Gallery Strings recorded the sound track
for the nsc—tv film, Art and the Bible, which was televised nationally
on Palm Sunday 1969.

The Gallery orchestra and station wrop-—tv have received an award
from the American Association of University Women for outstanding
contribution in the category of locally produced culture and entertain-
ment programs.

Mr. Bales’ activities during the year have included several talks
on music, an appearance on wrRc-Tv to discuss his compositions and
his work at the National Gallery of Art, and chairmanship of the
Music Sub-Committee for the Governors’ and Distinguished Guests’
Reception at the Sheraton Park Hotel, one of the pre-Inaugural events
in January 1969. A number of Mr. Bales’ compositions have been per-
formed by the Gallery orchestra during the season and by orchestras
in other cities. The orchestral score of Mr. Bales’ National Gallery Suite
No. 3: “American Design” has been published by Alexander Broude,
Inc., of New York City.

SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH

The Research Project at Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
currently is concentrating on two principal areas of investigation: the
damaging effects of light on museum objects and the characterization
of artists’ pigments. An interest in the development of stable protective
coatings, extending over more than a decade, is continued through the
current studies of the mechanism by which light causes thermoplastic
coatings to become insoluble. Specifications for durable thermoplastics
and means for their characterization in terms of three parameters have
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 641

been described in the past year: intrinsic viscosity, hardness, and solu-
bility characteristics.

Accompanying the investigation of basic causes for the fading of typi-
cal artists’ pigments such as alizarin and ultramarine, a program of
lightfastness tests on dyes needed in the repair of book papers and bind-
ings has led to the rejection of fugitive varities and the selection of
others having superior fastness. The neglected phenomenon of the light-
induced darkening of the important artists’ pigment vermilion (mercuric
sulfide) has been the subject of a preliminary report earlier this year;
latest results from the laboratory now indicate that the darkening may
be only partially reversible, with the result that a significant portion of
the change is likely to be permanent.

Research on the characterization of artists’ vehicles and pigments has
received major support through a three-year project designed to ex-
plore possible applications of nuclear science, sponsored jointly by the
Atomic Energy Commission and the National Gallery of Art.

One goal is the application of neutron activation analysis to “finger-

rinting” the pigments used by specific artists or groups of artists by
establishing concentration profiles of trace impurities. Initial studies have
shown that far greater caution must be exercised in analysis and inter-
pretation of this data than had been implied by previous workers in
the field. New methods for sample preparation prior to actual analysis
are under development. While data on white lead and ultramarine are
being tabulated, preliminary evidence suggests that natural and artificial
varieties of ultramarine can be distinguished objectively by this method.

A second goal of the joint project, that of distinguishing between
very recent forgeries and pre-World War II paintings, is close to being
realized. Data thus far obtained show that large increases in concen-
trations of Carbon-14 in the atmosphere owing to nuclear weapon
tests, are detectable in relatively small samples of linseed oil and other
biogenic products that have been produced since the mid 1950s. The
construction of a facility to make pertinent measurements in such ma-
terials is nearing completion.

A collection of the pigments of known manufacture or mineralogical
source is being assembled to facilitate the research on pigment charac-
terization. Samples of more than two thousand specimens of natural and
synthetic ultramarine have been cataloged in the past year, and char-
acterization of these and other pigments by activation analysis, emission
spectrography, x-ray diffraction, and by adsorption and reflectance spec-
trography is in progress. Through the application of spectrophotometric
methods of analyses, the Research Project recently has demonstrated
the presence of Vandyke brown and indigo in Colonial American
paintings. Spectral fluorescence characteristics also have been shown
642 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

to offer promising means of identifying pigments such as natural madder
and Indian yellow, which fluoresce under ultraviolet light.

In a major effort to characterize the pigments employed by a specific
painter, the National Gallery of Art has encouraged and sponsored Dr.
Hermann Kihn of the Doerner Institut, Munich, in an extensive investi-
gation of the pigments used by the seventeenth-century Dutch master
Vermeer. This research, extending over a period of more than two years,
provides detailed analytical data concerning twenty-nine paintings by
Vermeer (out of a total number of thirty-five attribued to this artist
by the Dutch authority A. B. de Vries) .

Through many individual requests for information and through
service on special committees of the International Council of Museums
and the Illuminating Engineering Society, the Research Project con-
tinues to provide assistance to museums here and abroad regarding the
control of the damaging effects of light. In June 1969 the Senior Fel-
low was invited by the Louvre Museum to assist in a special conference
to consider the potential hazards of photographer’s flash and flood
lamps.

The Research Project has resulted in the following publications:

R. L. FELLER. “Studies on the Darkening of Vermilion by Light.” Pages 99-111
in Report and Studies in the History of Art 1967. Washington, D.C.: National
Gallery of Art, 1968.

. “Problems in Reflectance Spectrophotometry.’’ Pages 257-269 in 1967

London Conference on Museum Climatology. Revised edition. London, 1968.

. “Research on Durable Thermoplastic Polymers for the Conservation of

Works of Art.” Pages 1099-1110 in Atti della XLIX Riunione SPIS, Siena,

23-27 Sept. 1967 (Rome, 1968).

. “Polymer Emulsions, III.” Bulletin of the American Group—IIC (1969),

volume 9, number 2, pages 15-17.

. “Synthetic Resins in the Conservation of Museum Objects.” In 1968

AAM Annual Meeting Section Papers. Washington, D.C.: American Asso-

ciation of Museums, 1968.

. “Transportation of a Panel Painting by Courier in Winter.” Pages 13-

14 in Papers Given at the Annual Meeting of IIC—American Group, Los

Angeles, 1969.

ADDITION TO THE NATIONAL GALLERY
OF ART

In July 1968 the Gallery entered into a contract with I. M. Pei and
Partners for their architectural services in connection with the design of
a new building or buildings to be constructed on the Mall adjacent to
and east of the present National Gallery of Art building for the pur-
poses of housing a Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts as
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART 643

well as exhibition facilities and offices. At the May 1969 meeting of the
Trustees, Mr. Pei presented a general design and development concept
for the proposed addition, which was subsequently approved in
principle.

The firm of Mueser, Rutledge, Wentworth, and Johnston also has
been retained to make studies of the subsoil conditions in the proposed
site area. That firm completed numerous core drillings and has made
its report on subsoil conditions.

Funds for the new building have been donated by Paul Mellon and
Mrs. Ailsa Mellon Bruce. Construction was authorized by the Act
approved 5 July 1968, Public Law 90-376, 82 Stat. 286.

PRINTS LOST DURING WORLD WAR II
RETURNED TO HEIDELBERG

Six woodcuts, dating from the fifteenth century, which have been in
the custody of the National Gallery of Art since shortly after World
War II, finally have been identified as the property of the University of
Heidelberg in Germany. They were returned to the library of that insti-
tution on 23 December 1968. This identification has been the result of
several years of study and investigation by Kennedy C. Watkins, deputy
secretary, treasurer, and general counsel of the Gallery, and has required
on his part extensive negotiations with the Embassy of the Federal
Republic of Germany, the Department of State, and eventually the
University of Heidelberg. These prints are important as a vital link in
the historical development of prints.

RETIREMENTS

On 30 June 1969 Mr. John Walker, director, and Mr. Perry B. Cott,
chief curator, retired from the Gallery staff.

Mr. Walker has been associated with the Gallery since 1938; he
helped in the design of the building and supervised the installation of
the Andrew W. Mellon Collection and the Samuel H. Kress Collection
prior to the opening of the Gallery in 1941. He was chief curator until
1956, when he was appointed director on the retirement of the Gallery’s
first director, Mr. David E. Finley. Mr. Walker and Mr. Finley, respec-
tively, were given the title of director emeritus at the May 1969 meeting
of the trustees.

Mr. Walker is succeeded by the deputy director, Mr. John Carter
Brown, who has been on the Gallery staff since 1961.
644 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Mr. Cott has been on the Gallery staff since 1949 and has been chief
curator since 1956. During his tenure in that post, the Gallery acquired
more than nine hundred paintings.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery will be made for the fiscal
year ended 30 June 1969, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public account-
ants. A report of the audit will be forwarded to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted.

ERNEST R. FEIDLER:

Secretary
Mr. S, Dillon Ripley

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR
THE PERFORMING ARTS

WiLuiAM McC. Briar, Jr.

General Director
John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

WiLuiAM McC. Brat, Jr., General Director

HE “TOPPING OUT’ of the Kennedy Center’s massive steel frame-
BP cont in September 1968 launched a year of continuing and tangible
progress. As the steel contract was completed, the work of erecting hun-
dreds of tons of the marble from Italy for the building’s facing began,
and the Center took on a new look.

Although construction has proceeded at a good pace, the Kennedy
Center has not been immune to the meteoric rise in construction costs.
In October 1968, Roger L. Stevens, chairman of the Board of Trustees,
announced that the trustees were seeking an additional $15 million in
order to complete the building. In spring 1969, after a private fund-
rajsing campaign was well under way, Representative Kenneth Gray
introduced H. R. 11249, providing for an increased matching federal
grant to the Kennedy Center and an increased loan from the United
States Treasury.

George London assumed his position as artistic administrator in
September 1968 and plans for the Center’s opening early in 1971
progressed. In December it was announced that the American Ballet
Theatre, one of the world’s foremost dance companies, would be the
Center’s resident ballet company.

Perhaps the most historic moment of the year was the announcement
in October 1968 that the Center’s theater would be named in honor
of General and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower. It was President Eisen-
hower who initiated the Center in 1958.

647
Pie gna

648 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Tre PON SE BEM 8

More than half of the Kennedy Center structure was complete when this view
of the site from the Potomac River was taken.

HISTORY

A national center for the performing arts has been the dream of many
people since the city of Washington became the nation’s capital. In
1800 President John Adams expressed the hope that the political center
of the nation would be its cultural capital as well. Only in recent years,
however, has positive action been taken to provide adequate facilities
for the performing arts in Washington, D.C.

President Eisenhower signed the Act of Congress creating the Na-
tional Cultural Center in 1958 (P.L. 85-874, 85th Cong., 2 September
1958) and gave the Center his support. President Kennedy encouraged
national support of the Cultural Center and in 1963 signed amending
legislation that extended the fund-raising deadline and increased the
membership of the Board of Trustees to forty-five.

On 23 January 1964 President Johnson signed into law a bipartisan
measure designating the National Cultural Center the sole official
memorial in the nation’s capital to President Kennedy, renaming it the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts (P.L. 88-260). In
December of that year President Johnson broke ground for the
construction.

The law also authorized $15.5 million in matching federal funds
and granted the Trustees the authority to issue revenue bonds to the
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 649

Secretary of the Treasury to a value not greater than $15.4 million.
The bonds are designated for construction of the 1600-car underground
garage and are payable from the revenues accruing to the Board.

Legislation to increase the matching federal grant to $23 million and
the Treasury loan to $20.4 million was under consideration by the
Congress at the close of the fiscal year (H.R. 11249).* These funds
will meet increased construction costs due primarily to the thirty percent
rise in building costs since 1964.

Completion of the Kennedy Center, forecast for early 1971, will at
last place Washington among the major capitals of the world that pro-
vide a focal point for the arts as well as for government.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Pursuant to the John F. Kennedy Center Act, the Board of Trustees
is made up of fifteen members who serve ex-officio and thirty general
members appointed by the President.

During the past year the terms of six general trustees have expired:
Mrs. Thomas W. Braden, Leonard H. Goldenson, Robert I. Millonzi,
Edwin Pauley, Arthur Penn, and Frank H. Ricketson, Jr.

Mr. Millonzi and Mr. Goldenson have been reappointed to ten-year
terms. Also appointed to ten-year terms by President Johnson: Mrs.
Rebekah Harkness, founder of the Harkness Ballet; Mrs. Michael J.
Mansfield; Thomas Kuchel, former United States Senator from Cali-
fornia; and Lew R. Wasserman, president of Music Corporation of
America.

Senator Edward M. Kennedy has been appointed to fill the unexpired
term of his late brother, Senator Robert F. Kennedy. Robert W.
Dowling has been appointed to the term left vacant by the death of
Howard F. Ahmanson, and Harry C. McPherson, Jr., has been ap-
pointed to the term of Robert Lehman, who resigned because of ill
health. Mr. Dowling’s term expires in 1972 and Mr. McPherson’s in
1976.

With the change in the national administration, several replacements
have taken place in the ex-officio membership of the Board. Robert H.
Finch has succeeded Wilbur J. Cohen as Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare. James E. Allen, Jr., has succeeded Harold Howe II,
as Commissioner of Education. John Richardson, Jr., has succeeded
Edward D. Re as Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cul-
tural Affairs.

*The House of Representatives passed H.R. 11249 on 8 July 1969.
366 -269 O—70——42
650 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

The Information Center at the construction site is staffed and operated by the
Friends of the Kennedy Center. Here visitors can see a scale model of the build-
ing, listen to daily slide talks, and obtain materials describing the Center.

Senator Ralph W. Yarborough of Texas has been appointed to fill
the Senate vacancy on the Board, replacing former Senator Joseph S.
Clark.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Trustees on 13 January 1969
the following officers were elected:

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

Robert O. Anderson, Vice Chairman

Sol M. Linowitz, Vice Chairman

Ralph E. Becker, General Counsel

Robert C. Baker, Treasurer

K. LeMoyne Billings, Secretary

Philip J. Mullin, Assistant Secretary and Assistant Treasurer
Herbert D. Lawson, Assistant Treasurer
Kenneth Birgfeld, Assistant Treasurer

Paul Bisset, Assistant Treasurer

L. Parker Harrell, Jr., Assistant Treasurer
Daniel W. Bell continues as Treasurer-Emeritus.

Under the bylaws the following officers continue to serve as mem-
bers of the Executive Committee:

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman
Robert O. Anderson, Vice Chairman
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 651

Sol. M. Linowitz, Vice Chairman
Ralph E. Becker, General Counsel
Robert C. Baker, Treasurer

K. LeMoyne Billings, Secretary

From the Board, the Chairman reappointed the following trustees to
the Executive Committee:

Abe Fortas Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.
George B. Hartzog, Jr. Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker Mrs. Stephen E. Smith
Erich Leinsdorf Jack Valenti

Mrs. Aristotle Onassis Walter E. Washington
S. Dillon Ripley II Lew R. Wasserman

At the annual meeting the following Trustees were reappointed to
serve on the National Council of the Friends of the Kennedy Center:

Mrs. George Garrett
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker
Mrs. Jouett Shouse

At the close of the fiscal year the membership of the Board of Trustees
of the John F. Kennedy Center is as follows:

Richard Adler Mrs. Michael J. Mansfield
Floyd D. Akers Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
James E. Allen, Jr. George Meany

Robert O. Anderson Robert I. Millonzi

Ralph E. Becker L. Quincy Mumford

K. LeMoyne Billings Senator Charles Percy

Edgar M. Bronfman John Richardson, Jr.

Mrs. George R. Brown S. Dillon Ripley II

Robert W. Dowling Richard Rodgers

Ralph W. Ellison Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.
Robert H. Finch Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Abe Fortas Mrs. Stephen E. Smith
Representative Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen Roger L. Stevens

Senator J. William Fulbright William H. Thomas

Mrs. George A. Garrett Representative Frank H. Thompson, Jr.
Leonard H. Goldenson Jack J. Valenti

Mrs. Rebekah Harkness William Walton

George B. Hartzog, Jr. Walter E. Washington
Senator Edward M. Kennedy Lew R. Wasserman

Senator Thomas H. Kuchel Edwin L. Weisl, Sr.

Mrs. Albert D. Lasker Representative James C. Wright, Jr.
Erich Leinsdorf Senator Ralph W. Yarborough

Sol Myron Linowitz

Mrs. Richard M. Nixon has accepted the Trustees’ invitation to
serve as Honorary Chairman of the Center together with Mrs. Lyndon
B. Johnson, Mrs. Aristotle Onassis, and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower.
652 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

GENERAL DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER

The Center lost one of its staunchest and most steadfast supporters
with the death of General Dwight D. Eisenhower on 27 March 1969.
As President he proposed the legislation creating the Center that cul-
minated with his signing of the National Cultural Center Act in 1958
and his appointment of the first trustees.

“The Cultural Center belongs to the entire country,’ General Eisen-
hower said. “The challenge of its development offers each of us a noble
opportunity to add to the aesthetic and spiritual fabric of America.”

In October 1968, it was announced that General and Mrs, Eisen-
hower had accepted the trustees’ wish that the Center’s theater be
known as the Eisenhower Theater. This dedication will serve to remind
visitors of the General’s extraordinary career and his role in the crea-
tion of the Center.

CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS

At the end of fiscal year 1969, the Center stands more than fifty per-
cent complete. Marble panels have been erected on the two exterior
walls of the Concert Hall and along two thirds of the exterior wall of the
Grand Foyer overlooking the River Terrace, completely enclosing the
southernmost third of the building.

Concrete work has been completed in the Concert Hall area and
in the substructure parking area and is thirty percent complete in the
Opera. A carpenter’s strike, which began on 1 May 1969, stopped the
pouring of concrete until the end of the fiscal year, with thirty per-
cent of the concrete work remaining to be done.

A large amount of masonry, plumbing, air conditioning, elevator,
and electrical work also has been accomplished. Erection of structural
steel was completed in September 1968.

During the year five subcontracts amounting to over $4 million have
been awarded. Total expenditures for architectural and construction
work, representing approximately fifty percent of the total estimated
cost, have reached nearly $33 million, of which $30.8 million are federal
funds, including nearly $15.4 million of repayable bonds.

New estimates, prepared for the trustees by the General Services
Administration, indicate a total construction cost of $66.2 million. This
$15.8 million increase during the five and one-half year interim since
January 1964 is broken down as follows:

Approximately 57 percent of the increase is due to the consistent
rise in construction costs, 9 percent to delay in subcontract awards owing
to lack of funds available for obligation, 72 percent to design changes
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 653

Principal dancers of the American Ballet Theatre in a performnce of “Giselle.”
This group, which has been selected as the Center’s resident dance company,
will perform in the Opera House.

necessary to reduce overall cost, 4 percent to strikes and an increase in
cost of acoustical insulation owing to jet aircraft traffic nearby, and
221% percent to underestimating the quantity and cost of structural
steel.

Contracts soon to be awarded include tile, terrazzo, wood floors,
interior glass, approaches, landscaping, interior painting, and the finish-
ing of administrative and rehearsal spaces. A program for procurement
of all furnishings, landscaping, and sound equipment will begin in the
immediate future in order to be coordinated with the completion
schedule.

The subcontracts awarded during the year are as follows:
Window wall and applicable glass and glazing work: The Southern Plate Glass

Company of Baltimore, Maryland; $1,110,000.

Deliver and erect marble facing: Granite Research Industries of Somerville,

Massachusetts (this company had the contract to fabricate the architectural

stone) ; $378,000.

Sealing, caulking: Joseph F. Murphy, Jr., Inc. of Flourtown, Pennsylvania;
$83,680.
654 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Architectural woodwork: Woodwork Corporation of America of Chicago, IIli-
nois; $833,700.

Masonry: John B. Kelly, Inc., of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (replaces contract
awarded Costello Company in 1968 which was withdrawn) ; $1,756,000.

REASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

The General Services Administration and the trustees, acting in con-
cert, have administered the construction work and directly related as-
pects of the project, such as design and contract administration, to
ensure that no commitments or scheduled work have been undertaken
beyond the total amount reported available for these purposes by the
trustees. No additional contracts are awarded until funds are available.

As of 30 June 1969, $54,719,111.00 had been made available by the
trustees and $51,828,000.00 had been committed or scheduled for com-
mitment to construction.

To fund the construction deficit the trustees requested that the Bureau
of the Budget include $15 million in the federal budget for fiscal 1970.
Both the Johnson administration and the Nixon administration have
approved the inclusion of $7.5 million as a contingency item in the
federal budget.

A “topping-out” ceremony marked
completion of the steel framework on
30 September 1968, coinciding with
the tenth anniversary of the legislation
which created the Center. A steel
replica of the classical Greek masks of
comedy (Thalia) and tragedy (Mel-
pomene) was hoisted to the highest
steel beam over the Eisenhower
Theater.

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 655

Authorization and appropriation by Congress will be necessary. Au-
thorization legislation has been introduced requesting $7.5 million to be
matched by private donation. This legislation will also increase the
borrowing authority by $5 million.

The drive for private funds to meet the matching requirements and to
provide additional capital for nonconstruction expenses was started in
September 1968 and will continue until all the financial needs are met.

GEORGE LONDON

The appointment of George London as Artistic Administrator was
announced on 12 July 1968. Mr. London, internationally known opera
and concert singer, assumed his position on 1 September 1968. His re-
sponsibilities include the supervision of the programing, booking, and
production of the musical activities of the Center.

Mr. London’s distinguished musical career began with his profes-
sional debut in 1941. He has performed with the San Francisco Opera,
the Vienna State Opera, the Glyndebourne Opera, and the Metropolitan
Opera, and has appeared at La Scala, the Bayreuth Festival, and the
Bolshoi Theater. He is a member of the Board of Directors of New
York City’s Lincoln Center and President of the American Guild of
Musical Artists.

AMERICAN BALLET THEATRE

The American Ballet Theatre was named as the Center’s resident bal-
let company on 4 December 1968. It is planned that the company will
perform two four-week seasons annually in the Center’s Opera House,
presenting one world premiere each year.

The selection of the American Ballet Theatre is in accordance with
the Kennedy Center’s policy of recruiting the most distinguished per-
forming arts organizations available. The company has taken major
ballet to all fifty of the states and has represented this country abroad
on fifteen international tours to forty-five countries.

The National Ballet of Washington also has been invited to use the
Center for its performances.

WATERGATE DEVELOPMENT

The Center’s trustees have reached a compromise agreement with
officials of the Watergate Development during the year with regard to
656 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

the proposed height and design of Building Number 1 of the apartment
complex.

This building has been redesigned to lower its height and to open up
an additional 350 feet between it and the Kennedy Center, which, in
general, meets the Center’s esthetic objections to the previously planned
relation between the two buildings.

THE FRIENDS OF THE KENNEDY CENTER

One of the major projects of the Friends of the Kennedy Center dur-
ing the past year, the first American College Theatre Festival, brought
ten of the nation’s best college and university theater companies to
Washington to perform at Ford’s Theatre and the Smithsonian’s new
Tent Theatre on the Mall.

The Friends were cosponsors of the Theatre Festival with American
Airlines and the Smithsonian Institution. The American Educational
Theatre Association and the American National Theatre and Academy
were producers of the Festival. The Friends provided administrative
support for the Festival’s selection committees, arranged transportation
of the companies and their theater baggage, and promoted the Festi-
val through news media and contact with local groups, area schools,
and members of Congress.

The Friends of the Kennedy Center, established as an auxiliary by
the trustees in 1966, have almost 3,000 members in forty-eight states,
with chairmen in twenty states. Every effort is being made to expand
membership in Washington and throughout the country.

On 6 June 1969, the National Council of the Friends met to elect
the following new officers:

Mrs. Polk Guest, chairman

Mrs. Norris A. Dodson, Jr., vice chairman
Mrs. Eugene Carusi, secretary

Mr. Henry Strong, treasurer

The third annual meeting of founder members was held 1 and 2 May
1969 at L’Enfant Plaza, Washington’s newest building complex.
Speakers included former Ambassador Lucius D. Battle, now vice presi-
dent of the Communications Satellite Corporation, Messrs London,
Stevens, and Blair of the Kennedy Center.

Other projects of the Friends this past year have included sponsor-
ship of the Second International University Choral Festival in co-
operation with Washington Cathedral and the Lincoln Center for the
Performing Arts. Festival performances by choirs from fourteen coun-
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 657

tries including the United States were given at the Cathedral on
22 March 1969 and, later, at Lincoln Center and on campuses across
the country.

The Information Center for visitors to the site has become an im-
portant part of the effort of the Friends to acquaint Americans and
foreign guests with the Kennedy Center and its goals. During the year
more than 3,500 visitors to the Information Center, including school
children, adult groups, ambassadors, and congressmen, enjoyed slide
talks by members of the Friends’ Speakers Bureau and viewed render-
ings and the model of the Center. The Speakers Bureau traveled to
nine states and the District of Columbia during the past year to present
programs to forty-six groups on the Kennedy Center.

DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

The Development Committee, under the chairmanship of Robert O.
Anderson, launched a major fund-raising drive in the fall of 1968 in
sponse to the trustees’ assessment of the deficit in construction funds.
The Committee has requested increased gifts from corporate and founda-
tion donors to the Center and has been seeking new sources of support,
primarily in industry. Donors to the Kennedy Center may designate their
contributions exclusively for endowment of the Eisenhower Theater,
one of the Center’s many endowment opportunities.

OPERA SEAT PRIORITY PLAN

A special seat endowment program, similar to the Theater Seat
Plan, has been established for the Center’s Opera House. A $3,500 seat
endowment in the Opera will carry opening night reservation privileges
for twenty-five years. The plan at present is limited to 100 seats.

GIFT OF AUSTRIA

Austrian Ambassador Ernst Lemberger announced on 16 May 1969
that Austria will be represented in the Kennedy Center by a magnificent
crystal chandelier and accompanying accent fixtures for the Opera
House. The chandelier, to be manufactured by J. & L. Lobmeyr, is
the eighth gift to the Center from a foreign nation.
658 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Ts

Austria will be represented in the Center by a magnificent crystal chandelier
and associated lighting fixtures for the Opera House. Shown above at the pres-
entation ceremony for this gift on 16 May 1969 are Ralph E. Becker, the Cen-
ter’s general counsel; Roger L. Stevens, Chairman of the Board; and Ambassador
Ernst Lemberger, who made a token presentation of a crystal goblet. In the
foreground is a model of the chandelier, designed by J & L Lobmeyr of Vienna.

SOUSA MEMORIAL

Completion of the $100,000 endowment by the John Philip Sousa
Memorial Fund was announced on 11 March 1969 at the American
Bandmasters Association Convention. Funds for the project have been
raised through donations from 692 high school and community bands,
individuals, and commercial firms throughout the country and will be
used to endow the stage in the Center’s Concert Hall in Mr. Sousa’s
memory.

Colonel George S. Howard, usar (Retired), former director of the
United States Air Force Band has served as chairman of the Sousa
Memorial Fund since its inception in 1964.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 659

“TOPPING OUT” CEREMONY

Completion of the Kennedy Center’s steel framework was marked
by a unique “topping out” ceremony on 30 September 1968. In lieu
of the traditional raising of the flag, large steel replicas of the Classical
Greek masks of comedy (Thalia) and tragedy (Melpomene), prepared
by Bethelem Steel, were hoisted and attached to the top steel girder
above the Eisenhower Theater.

The ceremony also marked the tenth anniversary of the signing by
President Eisenhower of the National Cultural Center Act.

Walter E. Washington, Mayor-Commissioner of the District of Co-
lumbia and a trustee of the Kennedy Center, addressed the audience of
more than five hundred, including trustees of the Center, members of
Congress, ambassadors of donor nations, other major donors, and mem-
bers of the Friends of the Kennedy Center.

During the ceremony the oath of office was administered to four new
trustees: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Robert W. Dowling, Mrs.
Rebekah Harkness, and Lew Wasserman.

MOVIE BENEFIT

The world premiere of MGM’s The Shoes of the Fisherman at
Washington’s new L’Enfant Theatre on 14 November 1968 was a
benefit for the Kennedy Center; it was organized by the Friends of the
Kennedy Center under the chairmanship of Mrs. Neylan McBaine.
Over $30,000 was added to the Center’s construction fund by this event.

MINNESOTA FLOWERING CRABAPPLE TREES

The Minneapolis Chamber of Commerce presented the first 12 of
100 Minnesota flowering crabapple trees to the Kennedy Center on
28 April 1969. During the brief presentation ceremony, Mr. Blair pro-
dicted that the trees would become a serious rival to Washington’s
famous cherry trees.
APPENDIX

—"
’
a
¢
'
. aig)
ry
4
~
*:
is
Appendix 1

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM
GRANTS AWARDED IN FISCAL YEAR 1969

Archeology and Related Disciplines

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF INDIAN STUDIES, PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. To
continue (fourth year) support for the American Academy of Benares, India,
an institution for research in archeology and art history.

AMERICAN RESEARCH CENTER IN Ecypt, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS. To con-
tinue support for a program of research and excavation in Egypt: (a) excava-
tion of the ancient city of Hierakonpolis, (b) continuation of an epigraphic
and architectural survey of Luxor, (c) continuation of a field project of a
stratified Pharonic site at Mendes, (d) cephalometric and dental analysis of
the Old Kingdom skeletal material from the Giza necropolis.

AMERICAN SCHOOLS OF ORIENTAL RESEARCH, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
To support excavations at Ai in Israel.

AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN Cairo, New York City. To survey and document
(second year) the domed Mausoea of Mamluk, Cairo.

BROOKLYN COLLEGE OF THE City UNIvEerRsITy OF New York, New York Cirty.
To conduct excavations at Starcevo in Yugoslavia.

LAWRENCE RapIATION LaBoRATORY, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY. To
continue (second year) the project utilizing cosmic rays for the discovery of
unknown chambers in the pyramids of Egypt.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES. To study prehistoric com-
munity life through excavations at Anzibegovo, Yugoslavia, in collaboration
with the Naroden Muzej at Stip.

CaRNEGIE Museum, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. To continue (fourth year)
excavations at Tel Ashdod, Israel.

Dovuctass CoLiece, Rutcers University, NEw Brunswick, NEw Jersey. To
support archeological excavations at Salona and on the islands of Salonitan
Bay, Yugoslavia.

DENISON UNIVERSITY, GRANVILLE, Onto. To continue excavation of the Roman
imperial metropolis at Sirmium in collaboration with the Archeological Insti-
tute of Belgrade, Yugoslavia.

DumsBarTon Oaks CENTER, WASHINGTON, D.C. To continue support of excava-
tions leading to the publication of a corpus of ancient mosaics in Tunisia.
JERUSALEM SCHOOL OF ARCHEOLOGY OF HEBREW UNION COLLEGE, CINCINNATI,

Onto. To excavate (fourth year) an archeological site at Gezer, Israel.

INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED StuDy, PrincETON, New Jersey. To support inter-
disciplinary research in the Bronze and early Iron Ages in northern Yugo-
slavia: excavations at the sites of Sticna (second year) and Morkrin.

663
664 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

UNIVERSITY OF MicuicGAN, ANN ArBor. To continue (third year) a program of
research and training in prehistoric archeology in Israel: excavations at the
site of Tabun.

To conduct excavations of the middle paleolithic site, Visoko Brdo, in
Northern Bosnia, Yugoslavia.

To continue (second year) a study of early neolithic cultures in Poland in
collaboration with the University of Krakow.

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA, MINNEAPOLIS. To continue (second year) exca-
vacations of the Palace of Diocletian at Split, Yugoslavia, and to study the
development of the palace from Roman through medieval times. «

To conduct paleoecological studies of early man in southwestern Iran. —

UNIVERSITY OF Missouri, CoLumMBIA. To continue (second year) excavation of
a Greek trade site in Israel.

To publish results of investigation of ancient glass-manufacturing sites in
Israel.

University Museum, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, PHILADELPHIA. To study
(third year) the inscriptions of the Dra Abu Naga Tombs in Egypt.

To continue (third year) the study of the remaining stones of the temple of
Akhnaten at Luxor by computer methods.

UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. To study early food-producing
cultures at Divostin, Yugoslavia.

PEABODY MusEuM, YALE UNIVERSITY, NEw HAvEN, CoNnNEcTIcCUT. To con-
tinue (second year) development of quarriable sites for earliest hominids in
the Siwalik Hills, North India.

Paleontological and stratigraphic studies of the paleocene, eocene, and
oligocene deposits in Egypt.

OFFICE OF ANTHROPOLOGY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C.
To conduct a study of ancient urban technologies in Pakistan and Ceylon that
will contribute to similar studies carried out in southern Asia.

SouTHERN METHopIsT UNIvERsITY, DALLAs, TExAs. To continue (second year)
study of prehistory of central Egypt.

UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON, SEATTLE. To continue (second year) study of
the kinship structure among the Veddas of Ceylon.

UNIVERSITY OF Wisconsin, Mapison. To re-examine the late prehistoric sites
of the Fayum and the Kharga oases, Egypt.

Systematic and Environmental Biology

UNIVERSITY OF CoLorapo, BouLpEr. Prehistoric paleontologic research in
Tunisia.

UNIVERSITY OF MicHIGAN, ANN ArBsor. To continue (second year) study of the
cytology of Indian mollusks.

UNIVERSITY OF THE STATE OF NEW York AT Stony Broox, Lone IsLAnp.
To continue (second year) study of the ecology of an Eilat coral reef in Israel.

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, WASHINGTON, D.C. To support research,
training, and trips for International Biological Program personnel.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C.

DEPARTMENT OF Botany. To study in India the comparative embryology and
floral anatomy of the olyroid bambusoid grasses.
APPENDIX 1. SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM 665

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY. To continue (second year) studies in
India of the structure and function of the respiratory organs of air-breathing
fishes.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY. To publish (second year) in India a
handbook of Indian birds.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY. To continue (second year) a migra-
tory bird survey in India.

DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZoOoLocy. To conduct a serological and ecto-
parasite survey of migratory birds in northeastern Africa.

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGY. To continue (second year) study
in Israel of biological interchanges between the eastern Mediterranean and
the Red Sea through the Suez Canal.

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LIMNOLOGy. To continue (third year) to sup-
port the Mediterranean Marine Sorting Center at Salammbo, Tunisia.

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LimNnoLocy. To conduct a survey of the
marine fauna and flora of Morocco.

OFFICE OF OCEANOGRAPHY AND LimnoLocy. To hold an international con-
ference on meiofauna in Tunisia.

OrFiceE or Ecotocy. To continue (second year) the revision of Trimen’s
Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon.

OrFiceE or EcoLtocy. To conduct ecological research planning studies for
the International Biological Program in Poland, Yugoslavia, Tunisia, Israel,
and India.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL ParK. To conduct comparative studies of the behavior
and ecology of Ceylonese primates (Cercopithicidae ).

OrFicE oF Ecotocy. To study the relationship of man and tame elephants in
Ceylon.

Orrice oF Ecotocy. To continue (second year) a study of the behavior and
ecology of the Ceylonese elephant.

NATIONAL Museum oF Natura History. To study the flora of the Hassan
District, Mysore State, India.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY. To continue studies of the birds of Bhutan.

Astrophysics

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
To study gamma rays through high-altitude balloon flights in south India.
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
To study in Israel the collective behavior of self-gravitating systems.
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
To continue (second year) in Israel construction of stellar models of evolv-
ing stars.

366-269 O—70——48
666 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

SMITHSONIAN CENTER FOR SHORT-LIVED PHENOMENA, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHU-
SETTS. To support reconnaissance missions and field expeditions of the Center.

Museum Programs

Boston Museum oF Fine Arts, Massacuusetts. To transport an exhibit of
Egyptian art treasures.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE, WASHINGTON,
D.C. To transport an exhibit of Tunisian mosaics to the United States for
exhibition in museums across the country.
Appendix 2

MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL
30 JUNE 1969

H. Harvarp ArRNASON. Vice president for Art Administration of the Solomon R.
Guggenheim Foundation, 1071 Fifth Avenue, New York City 10028. Born
1909. BS and MA, Northwestern University; MFA, Princeton University,
1939. Worked with the Office of War Information, 1942-1945, and the State
Department, Office of International Information and Cultural Affairs, 1945—
1946; from 1947 to 1961 served as professor and chairman of the Department
of Art at the University of Minnesota; appointed to present position in 1961.
Trustee, American Federation of Arts, and member of many professional
organizations. Author of numerous articles on medieval, eighteenth-century,
and modern art, Modern Sculpture (1962), Conrad Marca-Relli (1962),
Alexander Calder (1966), and Modern Art (1968).

Frep R. Eccan. Department of Anthropology, University of Chicago, 1126 East
59th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601. Born 1906. PhB, University of Chicago;
PhD, University of Chicago, 1933. Has been with the University of Chicago
since 1934 (chairman of the Department of Anthropology, 1961-1963, and
director of the Philippine Studies Program since 1953). Has served as the
official delegate to the Pacific Science Congresses in Manila (1953), Bangkok
(1957), Honolulu (1961), and Tokyo (1967), and is a member of the
Pacific Science Board, National Academy of Sciences (1968—), and of research
centers on the Indians of western United States and the tribes of the Philip-
pines. Author of Social Organization of the Western Pueblos (1959) and
The American Indian: Perspectives for the Study of Social Change (1966).
Editor of Social Anthropology of North American Tribes (1937 and 1955).

Donatp S. Farner. Professor of zoophysiology and chairman, Department of
Zoology, University of Washington, Seattle 98105. Born 1915. BA, Hamline
University; PhD, University of Wisconsin, 1941. Washington State Univer-
sity, 1947-1966 (dean of the Graduate School, 1960-1966). Has served as
president, International Union of Biological Sciences; as chairman, Division
of Biology and Agriculture, National Academy of Sciences-National Research
Council; and on the Executive Committee, International Council of Scientific
Unions. Contributor to many scientific publications, mainly on avian physiol-
ogy and control of annual cycles.

Antuony N. B. Garvan. Chairman, Department of American Civilization,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 19104. Born 1917. BA and MA,
Yale University; PhD, Yale University, 1948. Has been with the University
of Pennsylvania since 1951 (except three years, 1957-1960, as head curator
of the Department of Civil History at the Smithsonian Institution) and chair-
man of the Department of American Civilization since 1960. Editor of the

667
668 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

American Quarterly (1951-1957). Author of Architecture and Town Plan-
ning in Colonial Connecticut (1951), Index of American Cultures (1953).
Murray Geti-Mann. Robert Andrew Millikan Professor of Theoretical Physics,

California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, 91109. Born 1929. BS, Yale
University; PhD, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1951. Has served as
a member of the faculty of the California Institute of Technology since 1955,
formerly having taught and conducted research at the University of Illinois,
University of Chicago, and Columbia University. Has been a member of the
Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey, 1967-1968; fellow of the
American Physical Society; and member of the National Academy of Sciences
since 1960. Author (with Yuval Ne’eman) of The Eightfold Way (1964) and

numerous articles on elementary particle physics and related fields.

G. EveLtyn Hutcuinson. Sterling Professor of Zoology, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520. Born 1903. University of Cambridge. Has been
at Yale since 1928. Author of The Clear Mirror (1936), The Itinerant
Ivory Tower (1953), A Treatise on Limnology (volume 1, 1957; volume 2,
1967), A Preliminary List of the Writings of Rebecca West 1912-1951 (1957),
The Enchanted Voyage (1962), The Ecological Theater and the Evolution-
ary Play (1965), and many scientific papers. Studies lie in the fields of ocean-
ography and limnology, ecology, population biology, and biology in the
development of literature and the fine arts.

Jan LaRue. Department of Music, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, New
York University, New York City, 10003. Born 1918. BS, Harvard; MFA,
Princeton University; PhD, Harvard University, 1952. Taught at Wellesley
College, 1942-1943, 1946-1957 (instructor to associate professor and chair-
man of the Music Department), professor of music at New York University
since 1957. President, American Musicological Society, 1967 and 1968. Editor,
Congress Report, International Musicological Society (1961-1962), Festschrift
fiir Otto Erich Deutsch (1963), Aspects of Medieval and Renaissance Music
(1966). Author of numerous articles on eighteenth-century music, style analy-
sis, computers and music, ethnomusicology, papyrology, and music bibliography.

Currrorp L. Lorp. President, Hofstra University, Hempstead, Long Island,
New York 11550. Born 1912. BA and MA, Amherst College; PhD, Columbia
University, 1943. Was director of the New York State Historical Association,
1941-1946; organized the Farmers’ Museum, Cooperstown, New York, in
1942; director, State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1946-1958; honorary
director of Circus World Museum since 1955; vice president of the National
Railroad Museum since 1956; dean of the School of General Studies and pro-
fessor of history at Columbia University, 1958-1964. Member of many his-
torical associations. Author of Atlas of Congressional Roll Calls (1941),
Historical Atlas of the United States (1943, 1954), History of U.S. Naval
Aviation (1949), Teaching History with Community Resources (1964, 1967),
Clio’s Servant (1967).

Cuarvtes D. MicHENER. Watkins Distinguished Professor of Entomology and
of Systematics and Ecology, University of Kansas, Lawrence, 66044. Born 1918.
BS, University of California at Berkeley; PhD, University of California at
Berkeley, 1941. Assistant and associate curator of Lepidoptera, American Mu-
seum of Natural History, 1942-1948. Has been with the University of Kansas
since 1948 (Watkins Distinguished Professor since 1959). Served as state ento-
mologist, 1949-1961; president of Society for the Study of Evolution, 1967;
APPENDIX 2. MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 669

and president of Society of Systematic Zoologists, 1969. Author (with Mary
H. Michener) of American Social Insects (1951), (with S. F. Sakagami) of
Nest Architecture of the Sweat Bees (1962), and of approximately 200 techni-
cal works. Editor of Evolution (1963-1965). Work concerns social behavior and
ecology (especially of bees), bee systematics, and principles of taxonomy.

Peter M. Mitiman. National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa 7, Ontario.
Born 1906. BA, Toronto; PhD, Harvard University, 1932. Past president of
the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada and of the Meteoritical Society.
Author of This Universe of Space (1962) and editor of Meteorite Research
(1969). A meteoritic specialist whose studies include those of the upper atmos-
phere with planetary and space research; also interested in the culture of
Japan and international exchanges.

Ex.tinc E. Morison. Master, Timothy Dwight College, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520. Born 1909. BA, Harvard University; MA, Har-
vard University, 1937. Was a member of the faculty of Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, 1946—1966. Served as consultant to Houghton-Mifflin Company,
1946-1951, and to Research and Development Board, Department of De-
fense, 1946-1952. Author of Admiral Sims and the Modern American Navy
(1942), A Study of the Life and Times of Henry L. Stimson (1960), and
Men, Machines and Modern Times (1967). Editor of The Letters of Theo-
dore Roosevelt (8 volumes, 1951-1954), Cowboys and Kings (1954), The
American Style (1959).

Norman D. NeweE tv. Curator of fossil invertebrates, American Museum of
Natural History, New York City. Born 1909. BS and MA, University of
Kansas; PhD, Yale University, 1933. Since 1945 has been a professor at
Columbia University as well as curator of invertebrate paleontology at the
American Museum of Natural History. Author of The Nature of the Fossil
Record (1959) and Organism Communities and Bottom Facies, Great Bahama
Bank (1959) and organizer of the pelecypod volume of the Treatise on Inver-
tebrate Paleontology. Co-editor of the Journal of Paleontology (1939-1942).
Has visited many parts of North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia in the
study of the permians of the world.

Norman Howtmes Pearson. Professor of English and American Studies, Yale
University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520. Born 1909. BA, Yale University ;
PhD, Yale University, 1941. Has been with Yale University since 1941. Editor
(with W. R. Benet) of The Oxford Anthology of American Literature (1938)
and (with W. H. Auden) Poets of the English Language (1950). Author of
Some American Studies (1964), American Literary Fathers (1965), and The
History of American Literature (revised edition, 1969).

Gorpon N. Ray. President, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation,
90 Park Avenue, New York City 10016. Born 1915. BA and MA, Indiana
University; MA (1938) and PhD Harvard University, 1940. Taught at Har-
vard University, University of Illinois (vice president and provost), and New
York University (professor of English since 1962). Has been member of the
United States Educational Commission in the United Kingdom, 1948-1949;
adviser in literature to Houghton Mifflin Company since 1954; chairman,
Committee on Institutional Cooperation of the Council of Ten Universities
and the University of Chicago, 1958-1960; member of the Board of Trustees,
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Library Center, 1962-1968
(chairman, 1965-1968) ; member of the Board of Trustees, Center for Applied
Linguistics, since 1965; and trustee of the Modern Language Association of
670 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

America since 1966. Author of The Buried Life (1952) ; Thackeray: the Uses
of Adversity (1955); Thackeray: the Age of Wisdom (1958), (with Leon
Edel) Henry James and H. G. Wells (1958). Editor of The Letters and Private
Papers of William Makepeace Thackeray (4 volumes, 1945-1946) ; Thack-
eray’s Rose and the Ring, History of Henry Esmond, and Contributions to the
“Morning Chronicle”, and Wells’ Desert Daisy and History of Mr. Polly.

ANDRE SCHIFFRIN. Managing director, Pantheon Books, 201 East 50th Street,
New York City 10022. Born 1935. BA, Yale University, 1957. Received degree
from Cambridge, 1959. Has been with Pantheon Books since 1962. Con-
tributor to various journals on current writing and politics.

FEpERICK Seitz. President, National Academy of Sciences, 2101 Constitution
Avenue, NW, Washington, D.C. 20418. Born 1911. BA, Leland Stanford Jr.
University; PhD, Princeton University, 1934. Has taught physics at University
of Rochester, University of Pennsylvania, Carnegie Institute of Technology,
and University of Illinois (head of Department of Physics, 1957-1964; also
dean of Graduate College and vice president for Research, 1964-1965). Was
chairman of Governing Board of the American Institute of Physics, 1954—
1959. President, National Academy of Sciences since 1962. President, the
Rockefeller University, 1968—. Author of Modern Theory of Solids (1940)
and The Physics of Metals (1943).

Cyrit STANLEY SmiTH. Institute Professor, Room 14N—321, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139. Born 1903. BS, University of Birmingham; DSc, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology, 1926. Has been with American Brass Company, 1926-
1943; the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, 1943-1946; the University of
Chicago, 1946-1961; and Massachusetts Institute of Technology as institute
professor since 1961. Was a member of the President’s Science Advisory Com-
mittee in 1959. Co-author of The Pirotechnia of Vannuccio Biringuccio
(1942), Structure and Properties of Solid Surfaces (1953), Réaumur’s
Memoirs on Steel and Iron (1956), Treatise on Divers Arts by Theophilus
(1963). Author of A History of Metallography (1960) and Sources for the
History of the Science of Steel (1968). A primary interest is the historical
interaction between science and technology. He is a frequent consultant to
the Freer Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Office of Anthropology.

Joun D. Sprxes. Professor of biology, College of Letters and Science, University
of Utah, Salt Lake City 84112. Born 1918. BS, California Institute of Tech-
nology; PhD, California Institute of Technology, 1948. Has been with the
University of Utah since 1948 (dean of the College of Letters and Science,
1964-1968) except for a period on leave as cell physiologist of the Division
of Biology and Medicine of the Atomic Energy Commission. Author of numer-
ous publications in scientific journals and bulletins. Major research is in bio-
physics, especially photobiology.

STEPHEN E. Toutmin. Department of Philosophy, Michigan State University,
East Lansing 48823. Born 1922. BA, Cambridge University; PhD, Cambridge
University, 1948. Has taught at Oxford, University of Melbourne, University
of Leeds, New York University, Columbia University, and Brandeis Univer-
sity; from 1960 to 1965 was director of the Nuffield Foundation Unit for
History of Ideas. Author of The Place of Reason in Ethics (1950), The Phi-
losophy of Science, an Introduction (1953), Metaphysical Beliefs (author of
one of three essays) (1957), The Uses of Argument (1958), Foresight and
Understanding (1961); “The Ancestry of Science”: The Fabric of Heavens
APPENDIX 2. MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL 671

(volume 1, 1961), The Architecture of Matter (volume 2, 1962), The Dis-
covery of Time (volume 3, 1965) ; Night Sky at Rhodes (1963).

Warren H. Wacner, Jr. Botanical Gardens and Department of Botany, Uni-
versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48105. Born 1920. BA, University of Pennsyl-
vania; PhD, University of California at Berkeley, 1950. Has been a member of
the faculty of the University of Michigan since 1951, currently serving as
director of the Botanical Gardens, president of the Michigan Botanical Club,
and vice president of the American Fern Society. Served as panelist in sys-
tematic biology for National Science Foundation (1962-1965), president of
American Society of Plant Taxonomists (1966), and vice president, Section G
(Botanical Sciences), American Association for the Advancement of Science
(1968). Research centers on higher plants, origin and evolution of ferns,
methods of accurate deduction of phylogenetic relationship of fossil and living
plants.
Appendix 3

ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS
1968-1969

Postdoctoral Visiting Research Associates

Program in American Studies

Nicotar Crkovsky, Jr. Studies in the art theories of the Hudson River School,
with Dr. David W. Scott, National Collection of Fine Arts, from 1 Septem-
ber 1968 to 30 June 1969.

FREDERICK Friep. Studies of architectural ornament in America from the mid
nineteenth to the early twentieth century, with Dr. Richard H. Howland,
National Museum of History and Technology, from 5 August 1968 to 31 July
1969.

Irvinc Brinton Ho .tey, Jr. Biographical studies of General John M. Palmer,
United States Army, with Frederick C. Durant, III, National Air and Space
Museum, from 1 July 1968 to 30 June 1969.

Lupwe..t H. Jounson, III. Studies of the influence of party politics and
pressure groups on the conduct of the Civil War, including contraband trade,
with Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg, National Museum of History and Technology,
from 1 February to 30 June 1969.

Program in History of Science and Technology

Tuomas Parke Hucues. Study of the evolution of electric light and power
systems, national and regional, in the United States, Germany, and Great
Britain from 1880 to 1940, with Dr. Bernard S. Finn, National Museum
of History and Technology, from 1 February to 31 August 1969.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

WaLTER OLIveR CERNOHORSKY. Studies of the systematics of the molluscan
family Mitridae, with Dr. Harald Rehder, National Museum of Natural
History, from 1 July 1968 to 31 December 1969.

Leo Josepu Hickey. Studies of leaf architecture in the identification of fossil
dicotyledons, with Dr. Francis Hueber, National Museum of Natural History,
from 15 July 1968 to 14 July 1969.

Evias RAMON DE LA Sota. Studies of the ferns of northwestern Argentina, in-
cluding taxonomy and evolution of genus Microgramma with Conrad V.
Morton, National Museum of Natural History, from 1 September 1968 to
31 August 1969.

672
APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 673

Program in Physical Sciences

KrisHNA MANDA VENKATA APPARAO. Studies of the emission of gamma rays
by the sun and theoretical research on their production, with D. G. Fazio,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 April 1968 to 1 April 1969.

Program in Museum Studies

Carrot. GREENE, Jr. Study of methods of developing collections and exhibits
in Afro-American cultural history, with Frank A. Taylor, Director of the
United States National Museum, from 15 January 1968 to 14 March 1969.

Predoctoral Visiting Research Associates

Program in Anthropology and Cultural Studies

Morris Rossasi. Studies of relations between China and Central Asia during
the early Ming Dynasty, with Dr. John A. Pope, Freer Gallery of Art, from
1 July 1968 to 30 June 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from
Columbia University.

LorrAINE ELIseE WILLIAMS. Studies of contact between Indians and settlers
in seventeenth-century New England, with Dr. Richard B. Woodbury, Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, from 1 July 1968 to 31 March 1969,
leading to the award of the PhD from New York University.

Program in American Studies

Rosert Haro_p GeETSCHER. Studies of Whistler’s etchings, with Mrs. Adelyn
Breeskin, National Collection of Fine Arts from 1 September 1968 to 31 Au-
gust 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from Case Western Reserve
University.

PeTeER Cort Marzio. Studies of the popularization of the fine arts in America
from 1830 to 1860, with Anne C. Golovin and Peter C. Welsh, National
Museum of History and Technology, from 1 September 1968 to 31 August
1969, leading to the award of the PhD from the University of Chicago.

Harotp K. Sxramstap, Jr. Teaching activities in support of the Program in
American Studies and investigation into the method, theory, and problems
of material culture, with Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, National Museum of
History and Technology, from 1 June 1968 to 31 May 1969, leading to the
award of the PhD from the George Washington University.

Program in History of Science and Technology

Merritt Roe Situ. Studies of the Harper’s Ferry armories and the new
technology in America from 1794 to 1861, with Edwin A. Battison, National
Museum of History and Technology, from 1 December 1967 to 4 June 1969,
leading to the award of the PhD from Pennsylvania State University.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Nancy M. Cramer. Studies of the systematics and biogeography of the poly-
chaete family Spionidae, with Dr. Meredith Jones, National Museum of
Natural History, from 1 July 1968 to 1 July 1969, leading to the award
of the PhD from the George Washington University.
674 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Davin J. THomas. Systematic paleontological studies of Tertiary molluscs from
the Gurajira Peninsula, Colombia, with Thomas R. Waller, National Museum
of Natural History, from 25 September 1968 to 15 September 1969, leading
to the award of the PhD from the State University of New York.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology (Tropical Zones)

Mark H. BernsTEIN. Studies of response for “Quirks” in Cebus monkeys, with
Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from
20 June 1968 to 31 July 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from the
University of Pennsylvania.

Jerrrey B. Granam. Studies of the thermal relations of Panamanian fishes,
with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 Au-
gust 1968 to 31 August 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from Scripps
Oceanographic Institute.

James R. Karr. A study of habitat and avian diversity in neotropics, with
Dr. Neal G. Smith, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 July
1968 to 31 August 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from the Univer-
sity of Illinois.

Cuarces Leck. Studies of the ecology of the avian exploitation of fruit trees,
with Dr. Michael Robinson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from
23 September 1968 to 5 May 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from
Cornell University.

Norris H. Wiuiams. Studies of pollinator specificity in the genus Brassia
(Orchidaceae), with Dr. Robert L. Dressler, Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, from 1 September 1968 to 31 August 1969, leading to the award
of the PhD from the University of Miami.

DonaLp Witson. Observations of the colony of vespetilionid (Myotis negricans)
with Michael Robinson, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from 1 Sep-
tember 1968 to 1 September 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from
the University of New Mexico.

Program in Physical Sciences

GeorceE H. Rieke. Studies of cosmic sources of gamma rays, with Dr. C. G. Fazio,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from 1 September 1968 to 31 May
1969, leading to the award of the PhD from Harvard University.

WILLIAM Patrick Roserts. Studies of the mineralogy of the Patuxent River
Basin, with Dr. Jack W. Pierce, National Museum of Natural History, from
1 September 1968 to 15 August 1969, leading to the award of the PhD from
the George Washington University.

RicHArD Wyatt THOoMSSEN. Studies of composition of femic materials in
southwestern porphyry copper deposits, with Dr. George Switzer, National
Museum of Natural History, from 1 October 1968 to 30 June 1969, leading
to the award of the PhD from the University of Arizona.

Program in Museum Studies

Rocer M. Davis. Study of methods of developing educational programs in
ecology within the National Museum of Natural History, with Nathaniel R.
Dixon, associate director of the Office of Academic Programs, from 30 Sep-
tember 1968 to 30 June 1969.

JANET Louise Stone. Study of methods of treating ethnographic materials under
tropical conditions, with Dr. Robert Organ, Conservation Analytical Labora-
APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 675

tory, from 1 June 1968 to 31 July 1969, leading to the award of the PhD
___ from New York University.

Museum Interns

Program in Museum Studies

C. MerepirH Hertinc, the George Washington University. Study of museum
and gallery methods and programs in the fine arts and portraiture, with
Robert Stewart, National Portrait Gallery, and William Truettner and Barbara
Dunn, National Collection of Fne Arts, from 23 September 1968 to 31 May
1969.

MariANNE Lunoic, University of Pennsylvania and National Museum in Copen-
hagen. Study of methods of design and production, with Mr. John Anglim,
Smithsonian Office of Exhibits.

JupirH Soxzot, the George Washington University. Study of methods of devel-
oping educational programs in the fine arts and traveling exhibits between
the United States and other countries, with Susan Sollins and Lois Bingham,
National Collection of Fine Arts, from 3 February to 31 May 1969.

Mary Tuieme, National Humanities Endowment Museum Intern. Study of
preservation methods applied to anthropological collections and the develop-
ment of an exhibit on African textiles with Dr. Gordon Gibson, National
Museum of Natural History, from 1 July 1968 to 31 May 1969.

Cooperative Fellows

Program in American Studies

SHARON BREDARIOL, Georgetown University. Studies in eighteenth-century Amer-
ican material cultural, with C. Malcolm Watkins, National Museum of History
and Technology, from 16 September 1968 to 15 June 1969.

Tuomas J. Peyton, Georgetown University. Study of Thomas Jefferson’s Indian
policy, with John C. Ewers, National Museum of Natural History, from
12 September 1968 to 12 June 1969.

Programin Anthropology and Cultural Studies

Auicia ANN SULLIVAN, Northeastern University. Studies of John Wesley Powell,
contributing to the preparation of a centennial commemorative exhibit, with
John C. Ewers, National Museum of Natural History, from 9 December 1968 to
14 March 1969.

Summer 1968 Undergraduate Research Participation
Appointments

Names marked with an asterisk indicate students whose research was
supported through grants from the National Science Foundation’s Un-
dergraduate Research Participation Program (grants GY 4240, Social
Sciences, and GY 4549, Biological Sciences) .
676 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Program in Anthropology and Cultural Studies

*JoHNn C. Bear, University of Pennsylvania. Research on the human skeletal
material excavated at Ag-Kupruk Cave, Afghanistan, with Dr. J. Lawrence
Angel, National Museum of Natural History.

*WILLIAM CrAwrorp, Yale University. Study of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican
religions, with Dr. Robert M. Laughlin, National Museum of Natural History.

*RayMonpD J. DEMALLIE, University of Chicago. Descriptive and analytical
catalog of Siouan manuscripts in the Smithsonian Archives of Anthropology,
with Mrs. Margaret Blaker, National Museum of Natural History.

*Lynn Evuen Drxon, Pennsylvania State University, Study of obsidian hydra-
tion dating, with Dr. Clifford Evans, National Museum of Natural History.
*WiLtiAM HeIMANson, San Fernando State College. Edited movie film of
Himba wedding, South-West Africa, with Dr. Gordon Gibson, National

Museum of Natural History.

*PRUDENCE E. MacpEermMop, Wake Forest University. Archeological field re-
search on the middle Missouri culture with Dr. Warren Caldwell, River Basins
Surveys.

*DanieEL G. Mattz, Cornell University. Compilation of roster of experts on
North American Indians, with Dr. Samuel Stanley, National Museum of Nat-
ural History.

*CHARLES W. MarKMAN, University of North Carolina. Archeological field
research on the middle Missouri culture, with Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

*CHarLes M. McKinney, American University. Analysis of archeological
specimens from coastal Ecuador, with Dr. Clifford Evans, National Museum of
Natural History.

Cuartes L. Roxin, Oberlin College. Study of urban commercial folk music since
1945, with John Fesperman, National Museum of History and Technology.

*Rospert H. Savers, University of Illinois. Field study of traditional potteries
of North Carolina and Georgia, with Dr. Samuel Stanley, National Museum
of Natural History, and Ralph Rinzler, Division of Performing Arts.

Jerome A. Voss, Michigan State University. Study of archeological speci-
mens from Lindemeier, Colorado, with Edwin Wilmsen, National Museum of
Natural History.

Program in American Studies

CaroL A. Coxe, Cornell University. Content analysis of American political sym-
bolism in the nineteenth century, with emphasis on material culture, with Dr.
Wilcomb Washburn, National Museum of History and Technology.

Caro. J. Hernstus, Mount Holyoke College. Preparation in all phases of the
1969 exhibit on presidential inaugurations, with Mrs. Margaret Klapthor, Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology.

*Frances A. Hitrcucock, Stanford University. Research involving the Van
Alstyne Collection of American Folk Art, with Dr. Richard Ahlborn, National
Museum of History and Technology.

Peter Korrsxy, Oberlin College. Postal history research on propaganda leaf-
lets of World War II, postal communications in Dahomey and Togoland
around 1900, mail from British forces in Palestine, and postal history of plebis-
cites that followed World War I, with Carl H. Scheele, National Museum of
History and Technology.
APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 677

Program in History of Science and Technology

*Craic BarcER, Union College. The correspondence of Richard Rathbun, with
Samuel T. Suratt, Smithsonian Institution Archives.

*James Freeman, Drew University. Study of logic machines, with Dr. Uta C.
Merzbach, National Museum of History and Technology.

*Louis P. Sarno, Georgetown University. Research for draft of catalog of
aerial navigation instruments, with Dr. Philip Lundeberg, National Museum
of History and Technology.

*Dana M. Wecner, Elmhurst College. Identification and analysis of half models
of federal ironclads, with Dr. Melvin Jackson, National Museum of History
and Technology.

Jerrery ETHELL, Kings College. Analysis and history of the Grumman F6F Hell-
cat, with James Mahoney, National Air and Space Museum.

Rosert D. Lapmwus, Ohio University. History of the sputnik and its repercus-
sions, with Frederick C. Durant III, National Air and Space Museum.

ELLen C. Scuwartz, Brandeis University. Research in techniques of graphics
and printing through the study of Smithsonian collections, with Dr. Elizabeth
Harris, National Museum of History and Technology.

Program in Environmental Biology

*SHERRILL ADAMS, George Washington University. Study of mediated responses
of plants, with Dr. Robert L. Weintraub, Radiation Biology Laboratory.

*Prccy JEAN Arps, Cornell University. Study of the optimum growing conditions
for the production of the best pollen by Tradescantia paludosa, with Dr. Wil-
liam Klein, Radiation Biology Laboratory.

*Mary Atice Feracin, Otterbein College. Study of the ecology of freshwater
streams, with Dr. Francis Williamson, Chesapeake Bay Center for Field Biology.

* MarcareET Howe_E Lt, Mount Holyoke College. Study of photomorphogenesis in
Arabidopsis, action spectrum for floral induction, with Dr. John A. M. Brown,
Radiation Biology Laboratory.

*Day Le Lone, Pennsylvania State University. Studies of algal floristics of Dela-
ware, with Ernani Menez, Oceanographic Sorting Center.

*Marityn MILER, Otterbein College. Study of functions of the primate tail,
with Dr. John Napier, National Museum of Natural History.

*Grorce F. Spracue, Jr., North Carolina State University. Experimentation
with chloroplastic proteins, with Dr. Maurice Margulies, Radiation Biology
Laboratory.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

*Davip E. Esy, Franklin and Marshall College. Study of sedimentation in some
submarine canyons off the east coast of the United States, with Dr. Daniel J.
Stanley, National Museum of Natural History.

*Betty JEAN Gray, Mount Holyoke College. Study of the skeletal morphology
and systematics of two forms of peregrine falcon, with Dr. George Watson,
National Museum of Natural History.

*Larry E. Morse, Michigan State University. Use of computers in preparing
botanical identification keys and identifying specimens, with Dr. Stanwyn G.
Shetler, National Museum of Natural History.

*Joun R. Pyzner, Southwestern State College. Study of starch grains in bambo-
soid grasses, with Dr. Thomas Soderstrom, National Museum of Natural
History.
678 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

*JosEPpH R. THomassoNn, Fort Hays Kansas State College. A comparative study
of the distribution of starch grains of tropical Olyra latifolia, with Dr. Thomas
Soderstrom, National Museum of Natural History.

*JANA VELDERMAN, University of Michigan. Studies of relationships within the
suborder of fishes of the Ammodytoidae and comparison of series of artificial
hybrid catfish, with Dr. Stanley Weitzman and Dr. W. Ralph Taylor, National
Museum of Natural History.

*RosBert E. WeEMs, Randolph Macon Men’s College. Restoration and study
of the remains of turtles representing twelve individuals from the Calvert
Formation (Miocene), with Dr. Nicholas Hotton, National Museum of Natural
History.

*JanicE C. WuiTeE, University of Maryland. Comparative morphology of the
figurator group of Ataenius (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae), with Dr. Oscar
Cartwright, National Museum of Natural History.

*CyntTHIa K. Warner, Clemson University. Studies of anatomy of flowers and
fruits of Araliaceae, and floral anatomy of Oragraceae and Rhizophoaceae, with
Dr. Richard H. Eyde, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology (Tropical Zones)

*HeEATH Mirick, Bennett College. Studies of predatory behavior of one species
of spider on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Michael Robinson, Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute.

*Joun P. Owen, University of California at Davis. Analysis of nitrogen count
in marine animals, with Dr. Peter W. Glynn, Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute.

*WayneE L. SmitH, University of California at San Diego. Investigation of
speciation and isolation mechanisms in sea urchins of the Atlantic and Pacific
oceans along the Isthmus of Panama, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute.

Program in Physical Sciences

*BARBARA BREWSTER, Marietta College. Acquiring laboratory techniques in
various aspects of mineralogy, with Paul Desautels, National Museum of Na-
tural History.

*BaRBARA RapovicH, Duke University. Correlation between worldwide volcanic
activity and earth tides, with Dr. William Melson, National Museum of Natur-
al History.

*Mary T. Warp, St. Joseph’s College. Chemical analysis of meteorites, with Dr.
Roy S. Clarke, Jr., National Museum of Natural History.

Program in Museum Studies

*MarcaretT L. Kern, Dickinson College. Study and analysis of Mayan pigment,
with Mrs. Jacqueline Olin, National Museum of History and Technology.

Summer 1968 Graduate Research Participation
Appointments

Program in Anthropology and Cultural Studies

Forrest W. Meaper, Arizona University. Survey of folklife traditions in com-
munities of the Baltimore-Washington area, with James Morris, Division of
Performing Arts.
APPENDIX 3. ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS 679

Davin GEentTRY STEELE, University of Kansas. Estimation of stature from frag-
mentary long bones, with Dr. T. Dale Stewart, National Museum of Natural
History.

CATHERINE WIMSATT, University of Washington. Skeletal material from the
Shannon site, Montgomery County, Virginia, with Dr. Lucile St. Hoyme,
National Museum of Natural History.

Program in American Studies

Karen M. BasrRALIAN, University of Maryland. Nineteenth-century fashion
plates, with Claudia Kidwell, National Museum of History and Technology.

Pau. Dovuctas, the George Washington University. The Potomac Canal Com-
pany, with Samuel T. Suratt, Smithsonian Archives.

KennetH J. Hacan, Claremont Graduate School. “Response to Imperialism,”’
American naval diplomacy in the semicivilized world, 1877-1889, with Dr.
Philip Lundeberg, National Museum of History and Technology.

Program in History of Science and Technology

CaroLyn Fawcett, Somerville College. International inventory of scientific in-
struments, with Silvio Bedini, National Museum of History and Technology.

Ronatp L. Numsers, University of California. Study of the nebular hypothesis
in American thought, with Samuel T. Suratt, Smithsonian Archives.

GeorcE T. SHARRER, Maryland University. Study of indigo production in South
Carolina, 1776-1783, with Dr. John Schlebecker, National Museum of History
and Technology.

Program in Environmental Biology

Pau. Fine, University of Pennsylvania. Study of the avian fauna of the Chesa-
peake Bay Center for Field Biology, with Dr. Helmut Buechner, National
Museum of Natural History.

Program in Evolutionary Systematic Biology

Tuomas Birrar, University of Miami. Studies of species of the genus Callian-
assa in the collection of the National Museum of History and of the western
Atlantic species of Callianassa (Crustacea: Decapoda), and a survey of thal-
assinidian specimens in the collection of the National Museum of National
History, with Dr. Raymond Manning, National Museum of Natural History.

Rosert Dietz, Cornell University. A revision of the species included in the
genus Horama (Ctenuchidae: Lepidoptera), with Dr. Donald Duckworth,
National Museum of Natural History.

Jeremy B. C. Jacxson, Yale University. Studies of spatial distribution and pop-
ulation ecology of Mollusca of Carib Thalassa community, with Dr. Erle Kauff-
man, National Museum of Natural History.

Davip Kirt Ley, Florida State University. Study of sabellariid wormreefs, with
Dr. Marian Pettibone, National Museum of Natural History.

Mario Picwarpo, Virginia Polytechnic Institute. Study of Pleistocene mam-
malian remains from Puebla, Mexico, with Dr. Clayron Ray, National Mu-
seum of Natural History.

WILLIAM SMiTH-VANiz, University of Miami. Studies of new genera and species
of salarine blennies, with a key and synopsis of the genera (Blenniidae: Blen-
niinae: Salariini), with Dr. Victor Springer, National Museum of Natural
History.
680 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Atv D. YouncBerG, University of California. Studies of the willows of North
America, with Dr. Mason Hale, National Museum of Natural History.

Program in Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology (Tropical Zones)

Mark H. BernsTEIN, University of Pennsylvania. Studies of abnormal behavior
in caged groups of Cebus monkeys, with Dr. Martin Moynihan, Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute.

Rona.p P. Larkin, Rockefeller University. Studies of behavior and ecology of
Neotropical small rodents, with Dr. Martin Moynihan, Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute.

Program in Physical Sciences

Jay M. Pasacuorr, Harvard University. Analysis of data on the spectra of dy-
namical features in the solar chromosphere, with Dr. Robert Noyes, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory.

Program in Museum Studies

MicHAEL Yost, Nova University. Study of user reactions to unscreened subject
requests, with Mr. David Hershey, at the Science Information Exchange.

Art Resources Inventory Project
(summer 1968)

Vircinia T. Boyp, Oberlin College. Preparation of a directory of resources in
the Washington, D.C. area for the study of traditional African art, with
Carroll Greene, United States National Museum.

NATHANIEL Knicut, Howard University. Preparation of a directory of resources
for the study of architecture of the Washington, D.C., area with Carroll
Greene, United States National Museum.

BarBaRA N. Rosen, University of Maryland. Preparation of a summary of art
activity in the Washington, D.C., area in the 1920s and 1930s, exclusive of
governmental activities, with Carroll Greene, United States National Museum.

Ricwarp E. Sarro, Oberlin College. Preparation of a directory of art historical
resources in Oriental art in the Washington, D.C., area, with Carroll Greene,
United States National Museum.

Larry WHITTAKER, Johns Hopkins University. Preparation of a directory of
resources for nineteenth-century American genre painting in the Washington,
D.C., area, with Carroll Greene, United States National Museum.
Appendix 4

STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

30 JUNE 1969

Secretary's Office and Related Activities

The Secretary
Office of the Secretary
Executive Assistant
Assistant to the Secretary
Assistant Secretary
Office of the Assistant Secretary
Special Assistant
Administrative Officer
Director General of Museums
and Director, United States
National Museum
Assistant Secretary (Science)
Assistant Secretary (History and
Art)
Assistant Secretary (Public
Service)
Treasurer
Office of Academic Programs
Director
Director (Division of Elementary
and Secondary Education)
Assistant Director for
Institutional Research
(Division of Graduate Study)
Director (Division of Seminars)
General Counsel
Assistant General Counsel
Office of Personnel and Management
Resources
Director
Personnel Management Specialists

Employee Relations and Training
Officer

366-269 O—70——_44

S. Dillon Ripley

John H. Dobkin
Charles L. Clapp
James Bradley

Robert Engle
Mrs. Dorothy Rosenberg

Frank A. Taylor
Sidney R. Galler

Charles Blitzer

William W. Warner
T. Ames Wheeler

Philip C. Ritterbush

Nathaniel Dixon

Peter H. Wood

Wilton S. Dillon
Peter G. Powers
H. Crane Miller

Leonard B. Pouliot
Vincent J. Doyle
Samuel D. Falbo
Carl E. Grant
Ladd E. Hamilton

Joseph P. Eberly
681
682 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Special Projects, Office of the Secretary
Special Assistant to the Secretary Richard H. Howland
Equal Employment Opportunity

Officer Joseph A. Kennedy

Editor, Joseph Henry Papers Nathan Reingold
Office of Assistant Treasurer

Assistant Treasurer Mrs. Betty J. Morgan
Office of Programming and Budget

Director John F. Jameson
Contracts Office

Contracting Officer Elbridge O. Hurlbut
Administrative Systems Division

Chief Mrs. Ann S. Campbell
Buildings Management Department

Director Andrew F. Michaels
Supply Division

Chief Fred G. Barwick
Photographic Services Division

Chief O. H. Greeson
Travel Services Office

Chief Mrs. Betty V. Strickler
Honorary Research Associates Charles G. Abbot, Secretary Emeritus

Leonard Carmichael, Secretary Emeri-
tus

Paul H. Oehser
Alexander Wetmore, Secretary Emeri-

tus
Honorary Fellow John A. Graf
Science
Assistant Secretary Sidney R. Galler
Assistant (Science Affairs) Mrs. Helen L. Hayes
Assistant (Science Resources) Harry Hyman

National Museum of Natural History

Director Richard S. Cowan
Assistant Director Paul K. Knierim
Special Assistant, Tropical Biology F. Raymond Fosberg

Botanist Marie-Helene Sachet*
Administrative Officers Mrs. Mabel A. Byrd
John J. Prenzel
Special Assistant to the Director Joseph C. Britton

* Appointment effective 29 June 1969.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 683

Anthropology

Chairman
Senior Physical Anthropologist
Senior Archeologist
Senior Ethnologist
Archivist

Latin American Anthropology
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Associate Curator

Old World Anthropology
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curators

North American Anthropology
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Associate Curator

Physical Anthropology
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

River Basin Surveys *

Director
Archeologists

Honorary

Saul H. Riesenberg
T. Dale Stewart
Waldo R. Wedel
John C. Ewers
Mrs. M. Blaker

William H. Crocker *
Clifford Evans, Jr.
Robert M. Laughlin

Gordon D. Gibson
Eugene I. Knez

Gus W. Van Beek
William B. Trousdale

Richard B. Woodbury
William C. Sturtevant
Paul H. Voorhis

J. Lawrence Angel
Lucile E. St. Hoyme

Warren W. Caldwell

George H. Smith

Richard B. Johnston

Lionel A. Brown

John J. Hoffman

Wilfred M. Husted

Richard E. Jensen

Oscar L. Mallory

W. Montague Cobb (Physical Anthro-
pology )

Henry B. Collins (Archeology)

Wilson Duff (Ethnology)

Marcus S. Goldstein (Physical Anthro-
pology) °

Sister Inez Hilger (Ethnology)

C. G. Holland (Archeology)

Neil M. Judd (Archeology)

Ralph K. Lewis (Archeology)

Olga Linares de Sapir (Archeology)

Betty J. Meggers (Archeology)

Philleo Nash (Ethnology)

Victor A. Nunez Regueiro (Arche-
ology)

Matthew W. Stirling (Archeology)

* Replaced by Robert M. Laughlin, effective 19 February 1969.
* River Basin Surveys transferred to National Park Service 28 June 1969.
684

Honorary—Continued

Botany

Chairman
Senior Botanist
Phanerogams
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curators

Associate Curators

Assistant Curator
Ferns
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Grasses
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Cryptogams
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Plant Anatomy
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Associate Curator
Fungi *
Research Associates

Honorary

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Douglas Taylor (Ethnology)

William J. Tobin (Physical Anthro-
pology )

Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)

William S. Willis, Jr. (Ethnology)

Edwin F. Wilmsen (Archeology)

Nathalie F. S. Woodbury (Arche-

ology)
Robert Young (Cinematography)

Mason E. Hale
Lyman B. Smith

Dan H. Nicolson
John J. Wurdack
Velva E. Rudd
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Wallace R. Ernst
Dieter C. Wasshausen

David B. Lellinger
Conrad V. Morton

Thomas R. Soderstrom

Harold E. Robinson
Mason E. Hale, Jr.

Richard H. Eyde
Edward S. Ayensu

Chester R. Benjamin
John A. Stevenson
Francis A. Uecker
John L. Cunningham
Paul Lewis Lentz

Marie L. Farr

Kent H. McKnight

L. R. Batra

Andrew W. Archer (Flowering
Plants)

Paul S. Conger (Diatomaceae)

José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical
South America)

James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)

F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Bi-
ology)

Howard S. Gentry (Economic Plants
of Northwestern Mexico)

* National fungus collections are curated by Department of Agriculture staff.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 685

Honorary—Continued

Entomology

Chairman

Senior Entomologist
Neuropteroids

Supervisor and Curator
Lepidoptera and Diptera

Supervisor and Assistant Curator

Associate Curators

Coleoptera
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator

Hemiptera and Hymenoptera
Supervisor and Assistant Curator
Associate Curator

Myriapoda and Arachnida
Supervisor and Curator

Honorary

Invertebrate Zoology

Chairman
Senior Zoologists

William H. Hatheway (Flora of Cen-
tral America)

Frederick J. Hermann (North Ameri-
can Flora; Carex)

Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology)

Floyd A. McClure (Bamboos)

Judy T. Morgan (Plant Anatomy)

Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)

Julian G. Patifio (Flora of Colombia)

Clyde F. Reed (Ferns)

William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)

C. Earle Smith (Ethnobotany)

Egbert H. Walker (Myrsinaceae, East-
ern Asian Floras)

Karl V. Krombein
J. F. Gates Clarke

Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

William D. Field
W. Donald Duckworth
Donald R. Davis

Paul J. Spangler
Oscar L. Cartwright

Gerald I. Stage
Richard C. Froeschner

Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.

William H. Anderson (Coleoptera)

Mrs. Doris H. Blake (Coleoptera)

Franklin S. Blanton (Diptera)

Frank L. Campbell (Insect Physi-
ology)

K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)

Frank M. Hull (Diptera)

William L. Jellison (Siphonaptera,
Anoplura)

Harold F. Loomis (Myriapoda)

Carl F. W. Muesebeck (Hymenop-
tera)

Thomas E. Snyder (Isoptera)

Robert Traub (Siphonaptera )

Raymond B. Manning
Fenner A. Chase, Jr.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder
686

Crustacea
Supervisor and Curator
Curators

Associate Curator
Echinoderms
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Worms
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curators

Associate Curator
Mollusks
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Curator
Associate Curator
Honorary

Mineral Sciences

Chairman
Curator
Meteorites
Supervisor and Curator
Chemist

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Thomas E. Bowman
J. Laurens Barnard
Louis S. Kornicker
Roger F. Cressey

David L. Pawson ®
Klaus Ruetzler

W. Duane Hope
Meredith L. Jones
Marian H. Pettibone
Mary E. Rice

Clyde F. E. Roper

Joseph Rosewater

Joseph P. E. Morrison

Frederick M. Bayer (Lower Inverte-
brates )

Willard W.
thology)

S. Stillman Berry (Mollusks)

J. Bruce Bredin (Biology)

Isabel C. Canet (Crustacea)

Maybelle H. Chitwood (Worms)

Ailsa M. Clark (Marine Inverte-
brates)

Elisabeth Deichmann (Echinoderms)

Mary Gardiner (Echinoderms)

Roman Kenk (Worms)

Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
(Crustacea)

Waldo L. Schmitt (Marine
Invertebrates)

Frank R. Schwengel (Mollusks)

I. G. Sohn (Crustacea)

Donald F. Squires (Echinoderms)

Gilbert L. Voss (Mollusks)

Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson (Copepod
Crustacea)

Becklund (Helmin-

Brian H. Mason
George S. Switzer

Kurt Fredriksson °
Joseph A. Nelen’

° Replaced by Klaus Ruetzler in January 1969.
* Replaced by Roy S. Clarke, Jr., October 1968

* Appoiritment effective 29 June 1969.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Meteorites—Continued

Associate Curator

Geochemist

Chemist
Mineralogy

Supervisor and Associate Curator
Petrology

Supervisor and Associate Curator
Honorary

Paleobiology

Chairman
Senior Paleobiologists

Invertebrate Paleontology
Supervisor and Curator
Curators

Associate Curator

Staff Specialist (Electron-microscopy)
Vertebrate Paleontology

Supervisor and Curator

Curator
Paleobotany

Supervisor and Associate Curator

Associate Curators

Sedimentology
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curators

Honorary
Invertebrate Paleontology

687

Roy S. Clarke
Robert F. Fudali
Eugene Jarosewich

Paul E. Desautels

William G. Melson

Howard J. Axon (Meteorites)
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites)
John B. Jago (Mineralogy)

Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)

Rosser Reeves (Mineralogy)
Thomas E. Simkin (Petrology)
Harry Winston (Mineralogy)

Porter M. Kier
G. Arthur Cooper
C. Lewis Gazin

Richard Cifelli *
Richard S. Boardman
Alan H. Cheetham
Erle G. Kauffman
Martin A. Buzas
Richard M. Benson
Thomas R. Waller
Kenneth M. Towe

Clayton E. Ray
Nicholas Hotton III

Francis M. Hueber
Leo J. Hickey °®
Walter H. Adey

Daniel J: Stanley
M. Grant Gross *°
Jack W. Pierce

Arthur J. Boucot
Anthony C. Coates

C. Wythe Cooke

J. Thomas Dutro
Robert M. Finks
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Richard E. Grant

* Replaced by Martin A. Buzas 12 May 1969.

° Appointed 29 June 1969.
* Resigned 31 August 1968.
688

Honorary—Continued

Vertebrate Paleontology

Sedimentology

Vertebrate Zoology
Chairman
Senior Zoologist
Fishes
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Curator
Curator
Associate Curator
Reptiles and Amphibians
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Birds
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Mammals
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Honorary

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

John W. Huddle
Ralph W. Imlay
Harry S. Ladd

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman
Sergius H. Mamay
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Axel A. Olsson
Norman F. Sohl
Margaret Ruth Todd
Wendell P. Woodring
Ellis L. Yochelson
Douglas Emlong
Remington Kellogg*
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Gilbert Kelling
Frederic R. Siegel

George W. Watson
Leonard P. Schultz *

Stanley H. Weitzman
Ernest A. Lachner
Victor G. Springer
Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
William R. Taylor

James A. Peters
George R. Zug ”

Richard L. Zusi
Paul Slud

Charles O. Handley
Henry W. Setzer

John W. Aldrich (Birds)
Richard C. Banks (Birds)
James E. Bohlke (Fishes)

Leonard Carmichael (Psychology,

Animal Behavior)
Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)

John F. Eisenberg (Mammals)
Herbert Friedmann (Birds)
Crawford H. Greenewalt (Birds)
Arthur M. Greenhall (Mammals)
Jack P. Hailman (Birds)

*Died 8 May 1969.
™ Retired 31 July 1968.
4 Appointed 3 January 1969.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 689

Honorary—Continued

Philip S. Humphrey (Birds)
David H. Johnson (Mammals)
E. V. Komarek (Mammals)
Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)
Richard H. Manville (Mammals)
J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)
Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)
Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)
Dioscoro S. Rabor (Birds)

S. Dillion Ripley (Birds)
Leonard P. Schultz (Fishes)
Frank J. Schwartz (Fishes)
Alexander Wetmore (Birds)
David B. Wingate (Birds)

Astrophysical Observatory

Director

Assistant Director (Science)
Assistant Director (Management)
Scientific Staff

* Died 27 July 1969.

Fred L. Whipple
Charles A. Lundquist
Carlton W. Tillinghast *
Arthur C. Allison
Eugene H. Avrett
Prabhu Bhatnagar
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Jerome R. Cherniack
Giuseppe Colombo
Matthias F. Comerford
Allan F. Cook

Derek M. Cunnold
Alex Dalgarno

Robert J. Davis

James C. DeFelice
William A. Deutschman
John S. Dickey, Jr.
Dale F. Dickinson
Giovanni G. Fazio
Edward L. Fireman

M. Raymond Flannery
Giuseppe Forti

Fred A. Franklin
Manfred P. Friedman
Edward M. Gaposchkin
Owen Gingerich
Antanas Girnius

Mario D. Grossi

Salah E. Hamid

Gerald S. Hawkins
690 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Scientific Staff—Continued Henry F. Helmken
Paul W. Hodge
Luigi G. Jacchia
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Walter Kohnlein
Yoshihide Kozai
Kurt Lambeck
Myron Lecar
Carlton G. Lehr
Hiram Levy II
A. Edward Lilley
Robert H. McCorkell
Richard E. McCrosky
Brian G. Marsden
Ursula B. Marvin
George H. Megrue
Donald H. Menzel
Lawrence W. Mertz
Henri E. Mitler
Paul A. Mohr
Carl S. Nilsson
Yasushi Nozawa
Robert W. Noyes
Costas Papaliolios
Cecilia H. Payne-Gaposchkin
Michael R. Pearlman
Douglas T. Pitman
Benjamin Powell
Annette Posen
George Rieke
George B. Rybicki
Winfield W. Salisbury
Kenneth M. Sando
Mario R. Schaffner
Ladislav Sehnal
Zdenek Sekanina
Chen-Yuan Shao
I. Shapiro
Ashok Sharma
Jack W. Slowey
Richard B. Southworth
Stephen E. Strom
Wesley A. Traub
Sachiko Tsuruta
George Veis
Richard B. Wattson
Trevor C. Weekes
Charles A. Whitney
John A. Wood
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Scientific Staff—Continued

Consultants

Fellows

Central Bureau for Satellite Geodesy
Central Bureau for Astronomical Tele-

grams

Frances W. Wright

James P. Wright

Christian E. Coulman
John Danzinger

John Denes

Donald Hall

Paul Horowitz

Stephen Knowles

David Nava

Deane M. Peterson
Rudolph Schild

Gordon Snyder

M. V. Krishna Apparao
Gordon W. F. Drake
David R. Hearn

Robert H. G. Reid

Noam Sack

Jan Rolff, Executive Director
Brian G. Marsden, Director

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Director
Deputy Director

Assistant Director, Marine Biology

Administrative Officer
Biologists

Honorary

Martin H. Moynihan
Edward H. Kohn
Tra Rubinoft

Adela Gomez

Robert L. Dressler
Peter W. Glynn
Egbert Leigh

A. Stanley Rand
Michael H. Robinson
Roberta W. Rubinoff
Neal G. Smith
Charles F. Bennett, Jr.
John Eisenberg
Carmen Glynn
Carlos Lehmann
Robert H. MacArthur
Ernst Mayr

Giles W. Mead
Barbara Robinson
Patricio Sanchez

W. John Smith

C. C. Soper

Paulo Vanzolini
Martin Young

691
692 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Director William H. Klein
Assistant Director Walter A. Shropshire, Jr.
Biochemists David L. Correll

Homer T. Hopkins
Maurice M. Margulies
Robert L. Weintraub

Biologist Elisabeth Gantt
Cytogeneticist Te-Hsiu-Ma
Anthropologist Robert Stuckenrath
Bernard Goldberg
Physicist Helga Drumm
Plant Physiologists Victor B. Elstad

Leonard Price

National Zoological Park

Director T. H. Reed
Assistant Director John Perry
Office of the Director
Pathologist Robert M. Sauer
Engineer Frank A. Maloney
Acting Head, Information and Educa-
tion Sybil E. Hamlet
Administrative Officer Joseph J. McGarry
Special Assistant to the Director Warren J. Iliff
Personnel Management Specialist Robert H. Artis
Department of Living Vertebrates
Head of Department Donald D. Bridgwater
Manager, Bird Division Kerry A. Muller
Manager, Reptile Division Jaren G. Horsley
Scientific Research Department
Resident Scientist John F. Eisenberg
Zoologist Larry R. Collins
Animal Health Department
Veterinarian Clinton W. Gray
Operations and Maintenance Depart-
ment
Head of Department James H. McAllister
Associates in Ecology Helmut K. Buechner

S. Dillon Ripley
Lee M. Talbot

Research Associates Jean Delacour
Suzanne Ripley

Collaborators Richard Fiennes
F. M. Garner

Leonard Goss
J. Lear Grimmer
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 693

Collaborators—Continued Carlton Herman
Werner P. Heuschle
Paul Leyhausen
Charles R. Schroeder
Constance P. Warner

Office of Oceanography and Limnology

Head I. Eugene Wallen
Deputy Head William I. Aron
Supervisor, Smithsonian Oceanographic

Sorting Center H. Adair Fehlmann
Director, Mediterranean Marine Sorting

Center Robert P. Higgins

Office of Ecology

Acting Head I. Eugene Wallen
Director, Chesapeake Bay Center
for Field Biology Francis S. L. Williamson

Center for the Study of Man

Acting Director Sol Tax
Program Coordinator Samuel Stanley
Urgent Anthropology Coordinator Priscilla Reining

Center for Short-Lived Phenomena

Director Robert Citron

History and Art

Assistant Secretary Charles Blitzer
Director, Special Projects Ervin S. Duggan

National Museum of History and Technology

Director Robert P. Multauf
Assistant Director Silvio A. Bedini
Administrative Officers Virginia Beets

Robert G. Tillotson
Section of Mathematics
Supervisor and Associate Curator Uta C. Merzbach
694

Applied Arts
Chairman

Graphic Arts and Photography
Supervisor and Curator
Assistant Curator

Numismatics
Supervisor and Curator
Curator

Postal History
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Assistant Curator

Textiles
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Honorary

Cultural History
Chairman

Costume and Furnishings
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Assistant Curator

Ethnic and Western Cultural History
Supervisor and Curator
Curator

Honorary

Musical Instruments
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Associate Curator

Preindustrial History
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Industries
Chairman
Senior Historian

Agriculture and Mining
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Ceramics and Glass
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Manufacturing
Supervisor and Curator

Transportation
Supervisor and Curator
Curator

Honorary

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Carl H. Scheele

Eugene Ostroff
Elizabeth Harris

Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Carl H. Scheele
Reidar Norby

Grace R. Cooper

Rita J. Adrosko

Mrs. Emery May Norweb (Numis-
matics)

R. Henry Norweb (Numismatics)

C. Malcolm Watkins

Rodris C. Roth
Claudia B. Kidwell

Richard E. Ahlborn

C. Malcolm Watkins

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood

Elmer C. Herber

Ivor Noél Hume

Mrs. Anne W. Murray (Curator
Emeritus, Costume)

Mrs. Joan Pearson Watkins

Edward B. Jelks

John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover

C. Malcolm Watkins
Anne C. Golovin

John H. White, Jr.
Howard I. Chapelle

John T. Schlebecker
John N. Hoffman

Paul V. Gardner
J. Jefferson Miller IT

Philip W. Bishop
John H. White, Jr.

Melvin H. Jackson
Hans Syz (Ceramics)
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 695

National and Military History

Chairman
Historic Archeology
Supervisor and Curator
Military History
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator
Naval History
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Political History
Supervisor and Associate Curator
Associate Curator
Assistant Curator
Honorary

Science and Technology

Chairman

Electricity and Nuclear Energy
Supervisor and Curator

Mechanical and Civil Engineering
Supervisor and Curator
Associate Curator

Medical Sciences
Supervisor and Curator
Assistant Curator

Physical Sciences
Supervisor and Curator
Curator
Assistant Curator

Honorary

Edgar M. Howell
Mendel L. Peterson

Edgar M. Howell
Craddock R. Goins, Jr.

Philip K. Lundeberg
Harold D. Langley

Keith E. Melder

Margaret B. Klapthor

Herbert R. Collins

William Rea Furlong (Flag History)
Frederick C. Lane (Naval History)

Bernard S. Finn
Bernard S. Finn

Robert M. Vogel
Edwin A. Battison

Sami K. Hamarneh
Audrey B. Davis

Jon B. Eklund

Walter F. Cannon

Deborah J. Warner

Anthony R. Michaelis (Scientific
Instruments)

Derek J. De Solla Price (Scientific
Instruments)

Freer Gallery of Art

Director

Assistant Director

Associate Curator, Chinese Art

Assistant Curator, Chinese Art

Head Conservator, Technical
Laboratory

Research Consultant, Technical
Laboratory

Research Assistant, Far Eastern
Ceramics

Research Assistant, Herzfeld Archives

Honorary Associates

John A. Pope
Harold P. Stern
Thomas Lawton
Hin-cheung Lovell

W. Thomas Chase
Rutherford J. Gettens

Josephine H. Knapp
Joseph M. Upton
Richard Edwards
Calvin French

Oleg Grabar
696

SMITHSONIAN YEAR

National Collection of Fine Arts

Director

Acting Director

Registrar

Librarian (NCFA—NPG)

Conservator (NCFA—NPG)

Editor

Administrative Officer

Painting and Sculpture
Associate Curator

Coordinator of Special Projects, Ren-

wick Gallery
Prints and Drawings
Curator
Contemporary Art
Curator
Exhibits
Curator
Assistant
International Art Program
Chief
Deputy Chief
Exhibits Officer
Museum Programs
Smithsonian Art Commission

Members Emeritus

™ Resigned 30 May 1969.
*Appointed 30 May 1969.

David W. Scott *
Robert Tyler Davis *
Elizabeth Strassmann
William B. Walker
Charles H. Olin
Georgia M. Rhoades
Harry W. Zichterman

William H. Truettner
Donald R. McClelland
Jacob Kainen

Mrs. Adelyn B. Breeskin

Harry Lowe
Abigail V. Booth

Lois A. Bingham
Margaret P. Cogswell
William M. Dunn

Susan C. Sollins

Charles H. Sawyer, Chairman
Walker Hancock, Vice Chairman
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary
Leonard Baskin

William A. M. Burden

H. Page Cross

David E. Finley

Martin Friedman

Lloyd Goodrich

Walker Hancock

Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr.
August Heckscher
Thomas C. Howe

Mrs. J. Lee Johnson IIT
Samuel C. Johnson
Wilmarth S. Lewis

Henry P. MclIlhenny
Ogden M. Pleissner
Edgar P. Richardson
Charles H. Sawyer

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Leonard Carmichael
Alexander Wetmore

1969
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

National Portrait Gallery

Director

Assistant Director
Historian

Curator

Assistant Curator
Exhibits Curator
Keeper of the Catalogue
Research Assistants

Administrative Officer
Librarian (NPG—NCFA)
Conservator (NPG—NCFA)
Registrar

NPG Commission

Ex officio

Charles Nagel **

Vacant

Vacant

Robert G. Stewart

Monroe Fabian

Riddick Vann

Vacant

Mrs. Genevieve Stephenson

Mrs. Mona Dearborn

Joseph A. Yakaitis

William B. Walker

Charles H. Olin

Jon D. Freshour

John Nicholas Brown, Chairman
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.

Catherine Drinker Bowen

Lewis Deschler

David E. Finley

Wilmarth S. Lewis

Edgar P. Richardson

Andrew Oliver

Jules D. Prown

Chief Justice of the United States
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
Director, National Gallery of Art

Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Director
Assistant Curator
Historian
Registrar

Abram Lerner
Cynthia J. Jaffee
Frances R. Shapiro
Thomas J. Girard

Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design

Director

Administrator

Curator, Drawings and Prints
Curator, Textiles

Assistant Curator, Textiles
Curator, Decorative Arts (Acting)
Assistant Curator, Decorative Arts
Librarian

Registrar

Museum Specialist

Richard P. Wunder

Christian Rohlfing

Mrs. Elaine E. Dee

Alice B. Beer

Milton F. Sonday

Janet D. Thorpe

Mrs. Catherine L. Frangiamore
Edith E. Adams

Mrs. Mary F. Blackwelder

Mary A. Noon

** Retired 30 June 1969. Replaced by Marvin Sadik 1 July 1969.

366-269 O—70——45

697
698

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

National Air and Space Museum

Director

Assistant Director

Acting Assistant Director (Aeronautics)
Aircraft Propulsion
Assistant Director (Astronautics)
Assistant Director (Information)
Advisory Board

Honorary

S. Paul Johnston

Paul E. Garber ”

Louis S. Casey *

Robert B. Meyer, Curator

Frederick C. Durant III

Ernest W. Robischon

S. Dillon Ripley, chairman
(ex-officio)

Major General Milton B. Adams,
USAF

Vice Admiral Thomas F. Connolly,
USN

Brigadier General Hal C. Pattison,
USA

Major General Keith B. McCutcheon,
USMC

Rear Admiral Roderick Y. Edwards,
USCG

Julian Scheer, NASA

Joseph D. Blatt, raa

(Three civilian vacancies)

Frederick C. Crawford

James H. Doolittle

Harry F. Guggenheim

Alfred V. Verville

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

Director

Assistant Director
Administrative Officer
Tecumseh Project
Collections

Historian

Registrar

Advisory Board

Ex officio

*” Retired 28 February 1969.
*8 Appointed 28 February 1969.

John H. Magruder IIT

James S. Hutchins

Miriam H. Uretz

Robert M. Calland

John M. Elliott

James J. Stokesberry

Lorene B. Mayo

John Nicholas Brown, Chairman
The Honorable Earl Warren
Secretary of Army

Secretary of Navy

Secretary of Air Force

Robert C. Baker

James H. Cassell, Jr.

David Lloyd Kreeger

William H. Perkins, Jr.

Secretary of Defense

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

Acting Director

Benjamin H. Read

American Studies Program

Chairman
Associate in American Studies

Wilcomb E. Washburn
Harold K. Skramstad

Joseph Henry Papers

Editor
Assistant Editor
Staff Historian

Nathan Reingold
Stuart Pierson
James M. Hobbins

Special Museum Programs

Director General of Museums
Office of Director General
Assistant to Director General
Program Manager
Office of Exhibits Programs
Chief
Assistant Chief
Special Projects
Administrative Officer
Natural History Laboratory
Chief
Senior Museologist
Assistant Chiefs, Design

Production Supervisor
History and Technology Laboratory
Chief
Chief, Design
Production Supervisor
Exhibits Labels Editor
Conservation-Analytical Laboratory
Chief
Chemist
Registrar
Assistant Registrar

Frank A. Taylor

Peter C. Welsh
Lloyd E. Herman

John E. Anglim
Benjamin W. Lawless
Eugene F. Behlen
James H. Jones

James A. Mahoney
A. Gilbert Wright
William F. Haase
Joseph Shannon
Frank Nelms

Benjamin W. Lawless
Richard S. Virgo
William W. Clark, Jr.
Mrs. Constance Minkin

Robert M. Organ

Mrs. Jacqueline S. Olin
Helena M. Weiss
William P. Haynes
700 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition

Service
Chief Mrs. Dorothy Van Arsdale
Program Assistant Frances P. Smyth
Administrative Assistant Mrs. Eileen Rose
Exhibits Coordinators Anne R. Gossett

Mrs. Jane Kinzler
Holly Teasdale

Public Service and Information Activities

Assistant Secretary William W. Warner
Deputy Assistant Secretary Robert W. Mason

Smithsonian Associates

Program Director Mrs. Lisa M. Suter

Office of Public Affairs

Director Frederic M. Philips
Special Assistant to the Director William C. Grayson
News George J. Berklacy
Special Events Meredith Johnson
Audio-Visual Services Albert J. Robinson
Radio Production Frederick M. Gray
Motion Picture Unit John O’Toole

Office of International Activities

Director David Challinor
Director, Foreign Currency Program Kennedy B. Schmertz
Deputy Director, Foreign Currency

Program Kenneth D. Whitehead
Grants Technical Assistants, Foreign

Currency Program Mrs. Betty J. Wingfield

Judy E. Rodgers

Division of Performing Arts

Director James R. Morris
Deputy Director P. Timothy Jecko
Technical Director Richard P. Lusher
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION 701

Director, Festival of American Folklife
Project Managers

Museum

Director

Sales Manager

Book Shops Manager
Exhibits Specialist

Ralph C. Rinzler
Ruri Sakai
Marian A. Hope

Shops

Carl Fox

Mrs. Virginia Durbeck
Mrs. Florence Lloyd

J. Michael Carrigan

Belmont Conference Center

Director

David B. Chase

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Director

Assistant Director

Research and Design Coordinator
Exhibit Specialist

Artist in Residence

John R. Kinard

Zora B. Martin

Larry Erskine Thomas
James E. Mayo
Georgia Mills Jessup

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Archivist

Acting Archivist
Assistant Archivist
Historian

Samuel T. Suratt *°
Nathan Reingold
Maurice Callahan
Betty L. Plummer

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Director of Libraries
Assistant Director of Libraries

Special Assistant to the Director of
Libraries for Biological Science Pro-

grams
Library of Congress Liaison Librarian

* Resigned 21 April 1969.
* Appointed 21 April 1969.

Russell Shank
Mrs. Mary A. Huffer

Jean C. Smith
Ruth E. Blanchard
702 SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Communications Science Program

Analyst Mrs. Caroline A. Bull *
Public Service Advisor Frank A. Pietropaoli
Assistant to the Director Thomas L. Wilding
Acquisitions Division

Chief Mrs. L. Frances Jones

Assistant Chief Mildred D. Raitt

Serials Librarian Mrs. Edna S. Suber
Catalog Division

Chief Carol H. Raney ”

Acting Chief Mrs. Vija L. Karklins

Acting Assistant Chief Charles H. King

Catalogers Mrs. Angeline D. Ashford

Ruth E. Carlson
Mrs. Martha L. Lang
Margaret A. Sealor
Mrs. Bertha S. Sohn
Reference and Circulation Division
Assistant Chief Jack F. Marquardt
Reference Librarians Mrs. Sue Y. Chen
A. James Spohn
Branch Librarians

Freer Gallery of Art Mrs. Priscilla P. Smith
National Collection of Fine Arts and

National Portrait Gallery - William B. Walker
National Museum of History and

Technology Jack S. Goodwin
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-

tory Elizabeth H. Weeks
Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-

tute Mrs. Alcira Mejia
Department of Anthropology Mary L. Horgan
Department of Botany Mrs. Ruth F. Schallert
Department of Entomology Mrs. Gloria J. Mauney *

Branch Library Reference Staff

Reference Librarians Charles G. Berger (NMHT)
Technical Information Specialists

(Art) Mrs. Aleita A. Hogenson (NCFA/NPG)

Mrs. Shirley S. Harren (NCFA/NPG)

International Exchange Service

Director Jeremiah A. Collins

* Resigned 20 December 1968.
*™ Resigned 2 June 1969.
* Resigned 30 August 1968.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Information Systems Division

Director

Manager, Information Storage and
Retrieval Section

Manager, Management Systems Section

Manager, Scientific Applications Section

Manager, Library Systems and Programs
Maintenance Section

Manager, Computer Operations

Senior Software Systems Analyst

Senior Programming Analysts

Nicholas J. Suszynski

Reginald A. Creighton
Stanley A. Kovy
Dante Piacesi

James J. Crockett
Roy G. Perry
Howard A. Balduc
Richard J. King
Edwin A. Robinson
Raymond Shreve
Leroy M. Carlton, Jr.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Director

Managing Editor
Managing Designer
Promotion Manager
Business Manager
Editors

Designers

Series Production Manager

Anders Richter

Roger Pineau

Stephen Kraft

Mrs. Virginia F. Barber
Mrs. Eileen M. McCarthy
Mrs. Mary Frances Bell
Ernest E. Biebighauser
Louise J. Heskett

Mrs. Joan B. Horn

Mrs. Mary M. Ingraham
John S. Lea

Mrs. Nancy L. Powars
Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.

Thomas C. Witherspoon, Jr.

Crimilda Pontes
Mrs. Elizabeth Sur
Charles L. Shaffer

Science Information Exchange

Director
Deputy Director
Associate Directors

Special Assistant
Executive Officer
Administrative Officer

Monroe E. Freeman
David F. Hersey

Willis R. Foster, Life Sciences

703

Frank J. Kreysa, Physical Sciences
Martin Snyderman, Data Processing

William H. Fitzpatrick
V. P. Verfuerth
Evelyn M. Roll
704

Life Sciences Division
Chief
Deputy Chief
Medical Sciences Branch, Chief
Biological Sciences Branch, Chief
Agriculture and Applied Sciences
Branch, Chief
Behavioral Sciences Branch, Chief
Social Sciences and Community Pro-
grams Branch, Chief

Physical Sciences Division
Chief
Chemistry Branch, Chief
Earth Sciences Branch, Chief
Electronics Branch, Chief
Engineering Branch, Chief
Materials Branch, Chief
Physics and Mathematics Branch, Chief

Data Processing Division
Chief
Deputy Chief
Registry Branch, Chief
Data Edit Branch, Chief
Report Services Branch, Chief
Systems and Programming Branch, Chief
Computer Operations Branch, Chief

SMITHSONIAN YEAR 1969

Willis R. Foster
Charlotte M. Damron
Faith F. Stephan
Edith E. Scott

William T. Carlson
Rhoda Stolper

Helga Roth

Frank J. Kreysa
Samuel Liebman
Joseph Riva
John J. Park
Cloyd Taylor
Edwin Greene
Robert Summers

Martin Snyderman
Bernard L. Hunt
Angelo Piccillo
Mary Rumreich
Olymphia Merritt
Robert A. Kline
Paul Gallucci

National Gallery of Art

Trustees
Chairman

President

Vice President
Secretary-Treasurer
Director

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of
United States

William Rogers, Secretary of State

David M. Kennedy, Secretary of
Treasury

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of Smith-
sonian Institution

Paul Mellon

John Hay Whitney

Lessing J. Rosenwald

Franklin D. Murphy

Stoddard M. Stevens

Paul Mellon

John Hay Whitney

Ernest R. Feidler

John Walker *

* Retired 30 June 1969; replaced by J. Carter Brown.
APPENDIX 4. STAFF OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Administrator
General Counsel
Chief Curator
Deputy Director
Deputy Administrator

Deputy Secretary-Treasurer and General

Counsel

Assistant Chief Curator
Assistant Administrator, Extension and

Publications
Curator of Painting

Curator, Index of American Design and

Decorative Arts
Curator, Education

Assistant to the Director for Music
Assistant to the Director for Educational

Services

Assistant to the Director for Public In-

formation

Assistant to the Administrator for Scien-
tific and Technical Information

Personnel Officer
Assistant Treasurer

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Chairman

Vice Chairman
Vice Chairman
General Counsel
Secretary
Treasurer
General Director

Deputy General Director and Assistant

Secretary
Music Advisor
Artistic Administrator
Assistant Treasurers

Executive Director for Engineering
Deputy Director for Engineering

Honorary
Treasurer Emeritus

* Retired 30 June 1969.
* Retired 30 June 1969.

E. James Adams
Ernest R. Feidler
Perry B. Cott *

J. Carter Brown

Lloyd D. Hayes

Kennedy C. Watkins
William P. Campbell

W. Howard Adams
H. Lester Cooke

Grose Evans
Margaret Bouton
Richard Bales

Raymond S. Stites *
William W. Morrison

Sterling P. Eagleton
Charles B. Walstrom
James W. Woodward

Roger L. Stevens
Robert O. Anderson
Sol M. Linowitz
Ralph E. Becker

K. LeMoyne Billings
Robert C. Baker

William McC. Blair, Jr.

Philip J. Mullin
Julius Rudel

George London
Herbert D. Lawson
Kenneth Birgfeld
Paul J. Bisset

L. Parker Harrell
William F. Powers
Howard W. Durham

Daniel W. Bell

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1970 O - 366-269

705
wes

7 wt Sonets DidimaalbA cot ; @
Cai wibiot 7 maul: Wie 7

cat ace cm Rega Lp ios
walt Rs

“Bo Eyed Cie tothe

4mpati ods

ar

eo

eg h bi:

" Tact

eee a
!
‘TL 1
/
|
a vi
33, r
J Vat:
‘ oF
es
(art eer NORD
io oe
a,
fhe
i!
hate

Sh
chr

tei to

7? P
( '
' a i I \4
had } ote tinh) Wy
10 1h) 4 iy wa es ti "
Fl 5 iva?
RS NA enue nly

€, ; ATE Raa) ee i J it
Phy Bie th " nt el A a ry Ne
ny iy hy iy a | Bn ie) oo aan regs
aie : My

: R,
mn gh yt
van

Hi

+ ™_ | 3
¥ ‘a - ~ * o ~ “

me he a
FAs Se me
omen ery

RS IE ed
BS yy Uemh rien ny qe ve sepeie pec
PO En Rr ie
Sai hae ae RE: Ream ns
T-Meter eT
SPIE Rey ewe

hs tad

PP  ——_
EE |
oN tet tate ee ad
8 emo Fog: 8-9 SETS ;
aah ehh a he ee
FARR REIL Ca as ele
My "

+ bee ae
heh dl dr ee ee

ange
FI es ay
pak nal ih Bed MA oe eS ae
PPE R Tae eye &

¥ on ENT age
Landachedieir re a
NA ARERR Ais AT ete

ION os ng
anaes Lak Ait ded

cetils Riadk Sait dite Se ae
ve Pa RH NR aay np

Abate Paden tn ok oh soci ta
POE NE Soe ge Erte
ET SED fee joye

OE 8g pert mtr sew
PE En rpg AE BED

ee in a a oem Tn OR Ne ll

