aaa

rah,
a

Moh all
vas Raat

. | ns
ee | +

os 425, Ee
ae |
ii
2 £ ‘*
iA — Seller

Sa as 4u i" aoe
Nee IT
——————

~ Smithsonian Year
198

fn 19

DEPOSITORY
Smithsonian Year - 1982
Smithsonian Year + 1982

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 1982

Smithsonian Institution Press + City of Washington * 1983

FRONTISPIECE: With the completion of the Smithsonian’s Quadrangle project
serving our public and Associates alike, a new dimension in America’s com-
prehension of the non-Western world will be opened on the Mall. Exhibitions,
performances, seminars, and discussions will enhance America’s understand-
ing of this panorama of nations harboring two-thirds of the planet’s popula-
tion. Shown are (left to right) a Korean musician, students in a seminar, a
Kutiyattam performer from Kerala, India, young visitors being introduced to
African life and art, and Smithsonian Associates visiting the Treasury Build-
ing in Petra, Jordan.

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047-000-00388-1
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property
and accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in
an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the President,
the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust
in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Ronald Reagan, President of the United States
George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
George P. Shultz, Secretary of State
Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury
Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense
William French Smith, Attorney General
James G. Watt, Secretary of the Interior
John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture
Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce
Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of Labor
Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of Health and Human Services
Terrell H. Bell, Secretary of Education
Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Andrew L. Lewis, Jr., Secretary of Transportation
James B. Edwards, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and Secretary « September 30, 1982

REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor

INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States, ex officio
Henry M. Jackson, senator from Washington

Barry Goldwater, senator from Arizona

Edwin Jacob (Jake) Garn, senator from Utah

Silvio O. Conte, representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, representative from California
Edward P. Boland, representative from Massachusetts
David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Nancy Hanks, citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
David C. Acheson

William A. M. Burden

Carlisle H. Humelsine (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information

vi
page

110
119
121
126
136
150

167

167
173
179
182
187
189
194
199
206
211
212

219
219
228
229
232
240

Smithsonian Year + 1982

CONTENTS

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
FINANCIAL REPORT

SCIENCE

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man
National Museum of Natural History

National Zoological Park

Office of Biological Conservation

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Freer Gallery of Art

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers

National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
National Museum of American History
National Portrait Gallery

Office of American Studies

Office of Folklife Programs

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum Act Programs
Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of International Activities

Vii
MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued

244 Office of Museum Programs

252 Office of the Registrar

253 Smithsonian Institution Archives

255 Smithsonian Institution Libraries

265 Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

271 PUBLIC SERVICE

271 Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

272 Division of Performing Arts

274 International Exchange Service

276 Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

279 Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

282 Office of Telecommunications

286 Smithsonian Institution Press

288 Smithsonian Magazine

289 Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

294. ADMINISTRATION

295 Administrative and Support Activities
298 Financial Management Activities
300 Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities

301 MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

301 Office of Development

302 National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

303 Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
305 Smithsonian National Associate Program

313 Smithsonian Resident Associate Pogram

326 PUBLIC INFORMATION
326 Offfice of Public Affairs

329 READING IS FUNDAMENTAL

334 WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
337. JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

356 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

361 CHRONOLOGY

379 APPENDICES

Vili
Smithsonian Year +» 1982

STATEMENT, GY. THE SECRETARY
This cut-away drawing of the Quadrangle (Independence Avenue view), from
the architectural firm of Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson and Abbott, shows
some of the space to be provided in three levels for exhibitions, theater pro-
ductions, and study.

.
Reet ey

- » aS
Ss

— . et

preter e _ rs eer th amt
a oe ils nt ¢ a : =o
ss

ri cK tet
Ce 3 Lae

Know Thy Neighbor as Thyself

5) DILEON RIPEEY

THIS PARAPHRASE OF THE BIBLE saying, ‘Love Thy Neighbor as Thy-
self,” a true saying, and one to be emulated if in larger affairs it
had not a mocking ring, is one that I often think of in connection
with the Smithsonian. To know is to learn but also to give a little.
If one knows anything it is a scrap of learning. Every scrap should
be shared for all bear upon a central theme. The assemblage of
knowledge is like a pyramid. Its creation is the very abnegation of
self, and in the process we learn to know each other, more sanely,
I believe, than love would ever let us do, clouded with the mists of
sentiment or tears, as that may be.

Speaking at the dedication of the American Museum of Natural
History in New York in 1874, Professor Joseph Henry, first Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian, stated that James Smithson’s memorial,

Ee : ie GE
the Institution, should be a work place, a “college of discoverers,”
a haven for research, ‘discovering new facts, new phenomena and
new principles,” and making this information known to all. Knowl-
edge should be spread abroad by museums based on this research.
This is the finest memorial of all, for “what, in comparison to this,
are local monuments, pyramids of flint, statues of brass or obelisks
of marble!”

These two generations past have been the generations of self, on
which mountains of egocentrism have been erected, eroding over
the years, as always, in the sands of anomie and the washings of
self-pity. I went to Persepolis not long ago and walked over the
desert into the blue silk and damask tents erected to celebrate two
thousand five hundred years of a dynasty that never was. Created
with cunning skill by French decorators for the nonevent, the tents
still stood, the curtains giving way at one’s entrance to the great
banquet pavillion; within, a crescent-shaped dias with a crescent
table, backed by a row of pale blue velvet tall chairs arranged on
one side only, not for conversation but for the admiration of the
courtiers and press. No sound broke the spell except for a faint
soughing of the wind, which made the gilt candelabra sway slightly
in a ghostly reverie. Oh, Ozymandias have you told us nothing?

The accumulation of knowledge must not be a selfish thing, for
knowledge and learning go hand in hand, and to learn is to teach.
James Smithson in his charge to his heirs—his administrators for
the future—said that his Institution should serve for “the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men” (i.e., mankind). One of
my colleagues, Wilcomb Washburn, has recently discovered a letter
of Smithson’s in French, addressed to Baron Georges Cuvier, the
most celebrated French savant of his day, written from Germany
in 1806, twenty years before Smithson’s death, in which he pres-
aged the language of his famous will. A translation might be, “It
seems to me, Sir, that the man of genius who through important
discoveries expands the scope of the human mind is entitled to
something beyond a mere and fruitless admiration [for this we
might read “ego trip’”’]. That he is entitled to expect that all con-
tribute as much as they can to facilitate research so that, if fame is
achieved, they can share in the benefits. And it would indeed be
unjust that national differences as well as resentment and war
should have any bearing in this matter. The works of scientists

4 / Smithsonian Year 1982
being for all nations, they themselves should be looked upon as
citizens of mankind.”

It seems to me that what Smithson is writing is that as scientists
or scholars of history or art at the Smithsonian, we are obligated
to increase and diffuse knowledge, and in the process sweep away
the cobwebs of self-pity, deriving satisfaction not from self-
promotion but rather from the rewarding tasks of increasing and
diffusing knowledge. We must reach what we know and discover,
as best we can, using research as a tool for illumination.

The Smithsonian Institution is embarking on a course which, if
successful, will lead to an expansion on an international scale of
our motto. For perhaps the first time in our history, we are em-
barking in a spirit of social responsibility on a creative effort to
increase understanding and respect for our neighbors.

One of our mandates, the diffusion of knowledge among men
(among mankind) works both ways, within and without. We can,
for example, tell Americans about their history, but how can we
extend that to tell Americans about the history of the rest of the
world, especially about those parts and nations of which we are
still so woefully ignorant. Our entire awareness of others has been
concentrated until recently on the so-called Western world: Europe
—extending east to Russia, south to the Mediterranean—and parts
of Latin American, our traditional neighbors. Until World War II,
Asia was known to relatively few Americans. Few Americans pene-
trated beyond Japan and China. The vast worlds of more southern
Asia (except for the Philippines), tropical Asia, the southwest
Pacific areas (except for Australia), and Africa and the Middle East
were essentially little-known and beyond most people’s means to
visit or experience.

Now this Institution has an opportunity to combine objects, col-
lections such as those in the Freer Gallery of Art, the National
Museum of African Art, collections in our kindred departments of
Anthropology and History and Art, into our Quadrangle, a new
Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures, to be built
south of the original Smithsonian Castle. This Center will delineate
to Americans as well as to the world the necessity to ‘know your
neighbor,’ to respect our fellow inhabitants in this shrinking world,
and in the process generate an increased measure of self-respect in
ourselves and in our neighbors as well. Traditions and cultures

Statement by the Secretary / 5
alien to the massive onslaughts of mechanistic technology are frag-
ile indeed. They are being eroded every day just as the forests of
the tropics disappear. Cultures drift away like the dust that follows
the draft of a lifting jet plane on a far-away runway. Cultures and
traditions represent the only stability, the only defense against the
mindlessness of self, and the only model for the cultivation of self-
respect.

In the world of this vast region, home to almost two-thirds of
the human population, there are now ninety-two nations, where
perhaps a dozen reigned before World War II. We in America,
still unused to the totality of this change, remember only dimly
some of the new names and find little occasion to think of the im-
plications involved, except perhaps to be bothered by reading of
the debates in the General Assembly of the United Nations, or to
hear of some man-made or natural catastrophe on the other side of
the globe. Our Center will help to correct this lack of understand-
ing on our side as well as theirs. We will have a chance to fore-
gather here to discourse, to exhibit their traditions and cultures in
a meaningful way, and to demonstrate the long history of inven-
tion, intellectual achievement, and civilization, of which those of us
on both sides must remind ourselves before it is too late. So we

This elevation drawing by Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson and Abbott, archi-
tects, shows the Quadrangle’s pavilions and landscaping, north side.

6 / Smithsonian Year 1982
have embarked upon the creation of this Center in an effort to “put
out more flags,” to shine the light of understanding between us.

In this effort, approved by the Regents of the Institution, we are
pledged to raise $75 million for construction, half by the Smith-
sonian itself and its dedicated friends, and half by the federal gov-
ernment. Over the past few years many others have shared this
vision and have helped us bring it closer to fruition. To signify the
government’s commitment to the project, the United States Con-
gress in its 1983 budget has approved legislation authorizing con-
struction of the Quadrangle and has appropriated the federal share
of the financing in the amount of $36.5 million to add to almost
$1 million appropriated the year before.

The Smithsonian’s private financing has received a munificent
boost in the generosity of Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, a psychiatrist
and medical publisher who resides in New York City. He has
pledged not only 1,000 works of Asian art, valued well in excess
of $50 million, but also $4 million towards construction of the Far
Eastern gallery within the Quadrangle, which will house his collec-
tion as well as those of others and be named in his honor. In mak-
ing these gifts, Dr. Sackler reflected the synthesis as well as the
essence of the Quadrangle in saying that ”. . . in the years to come,

Statement by the Secretary / 7
DEERE TL

Washington will continue to grow into a world cultural capital,
augmenting its status as a world political center.”

Support for our Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian
Cultures continues to come in from abroad as well as from other
friends of the Institution in many parts of the country. We will
celebrate and commemorate their gifts in appropriate ways within
the new structure and in the various programs that will flow from
it; especially in outreach and public education.

Throughout the past year the existing programs of the Institu-
tion, as well as the supporting functions that are crucial to their
success in reaching the broad audiences that we serve, have been
marked by a continuing high level of public interest and achieve-
ment. Steady progress has been made towards completing in 1983
the initial physical inventory of the National Collections entrusted
to our care. Not only will we then be able to refine more intelli-
gently our previous estimates of holding some 75 million items, but
we will also have more substantial information about the location
and condition of all these objects, thus enabling us to manage and
conserve them for generations yet to come.

Another significant element in the care and conservation of col-
lections is the Museum Support Center, the facility in nearby Suit-
land, Maryland, currently under construction. We expect to take
possession of the building within budget and on schedule in this
winter of 1983. To the partnership, Metcalf/KCF and to the chief
architect of the project, Coke Florance, we offer our appreciation
for so thoughtfully resolving the problems of space for collections
storage and research, along with conservation training, in a massive
edifice that, nonetheless, provides a comfortable working environ-
ment in harmony with its natural surroundings.

In the area of collections acquisition, gifts and purchases have
enabled us to extend modestly the evidence of our cultural heritage
and of the physical world inhabited by us and by those who have
gone before us. The National Museum of African Art has acquired
two early and important Benin bronzes, while the National Portrait
Gallery, in association with the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foun-
dation at Charlottesville, Virginia, has purchased Gilbert Stuart’s
“Edgehill” portrait of Thomas Jefferson painted in 1805. Following
the pattern established in the joint purchase of the Stuart portraits
of George and Martha Washington, the portrait, named for the

8 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Smithsonian Associates search for wildlife at Corbett National Park, India.
plantation of Jefferson’s grandson where it hung for many years,
will be exhibited for alternating three-year periods at the Portrait
Gallery and at Monticello.

The lives of two other presidents were the focus of major win-
ter exhibitions and related activities. To commemorate the one-
hundredth anniversary of the birth of Franklin Roosevelt on Janu-
ary 30, 1882, a number of events took place in several Smithsonian
museums. Early January saw the opening of the exhibition Roose-
velt’s America: New Deal Art from the National Museum of Amer-
ican Art. Shortly thereafter a small exhibition, FDR: The Early
Years, chronicling his early life and entrance into the political
arena, opened at the National Portrait Gallery. Our friend, the dis-
tinguished journalist Joseph Alsop, a cousin of the late president,
presented a lecture, “FDR: The Great Change,” in conjunction
with the exhibition. At the end of January the National Museum of
American History presented Franklin Delano Roosevelt: The Inti-
mate Presidency, which included the White House desk and micro-
phones from which he delivered his famous “fireside chats,” his
1938 Ford with special hand controls, and a wide range of photo-
graphs of FDR and of the nation during his presidency, giving an
especial quality of verisimilitude to the event.

On February 22 a gala birthday party at the National Museum
of American History, followed by fireworks on the Mall, marked
the two-hundredth-fiftieth anniversary of Washington’s birth and
the opening of a major exhibition, George Washington: A Figure
Upon the Stage. The exhibit surveys the many ways in which
Americans of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries have idolized
and indeed utilized Washington and the aura of his name. Also,
perhaps this exhibition helps to humanize “G.W.”, showing sides
of his character and his ambitions, usually clouded in the atmo-
sphere of the almost imperial tradition. Smithsonian historian
Margaret Klapthor, curator of the exhibition, points out that “the
image and character of Washington have taken various forms,”
with each era favoring an appearance related to its own values. The
National Portrait Gallery mounted a related exhibition of prints
depicting George Washington and showing the variety of ways in
which the Founding Father was perceived by his contemporaries.

Irish songs and fancy footwork marked the March 17 opening
of Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, which examines the

10 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Gilbert Stuart’s “Edgehill” portrait of Thomas Jefferson, painted in 1805, is now
jointly owned by the National Portrait Gallery and the Thomas Jefferson Memo-
rial Foundation, Incorporated, Charlottesville, Virginia. The painting will be
exhibited for alternating three-year periods at the nrc and at Monticello.
Richard Fiske (left), NMNH director, participates in an Eskimo dance at a Contribut-
ing Membership reception following a review of the major exhibition inua: spirit world
of the bering sea eskimo. Below. Paul E. Garber, Nasm historian emeritus, shows

seventh and eighth graders how to build a kite from scratch as part of the “D.C. Day”
festivities held at the museum.

universal phenomenon of celebration and demostrates how differ-
ent people mark the important events and cycles in their societies.
The exhibition includes approximately 600 objects—95 percent of
which have never before been exhibited—from more than 60 cul-
tures and the collections of 9 Smithsonian museums. A related
exhibition was presented later in the year at the National Museum
of African Art: Life . . . Afterlife: African Funerary Sculpture,
which examines the cycle of birth, death, rebirth, and afterlife
experienced by many African cultures. Other notable exhibitions
included two companion shows at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden—Raphael Soyer: 65 Years of Printmaking and
Soyer Since 1960—honoring the very substantial output of this
talented artist and contributor to the museum’s collections. The
Hirshhorn was also host to the De Stijl: 1917-1931, Visions of
Utopia exhibition, illuminating the art, architecture, and design of
the influential Dutch movement that was characterized by elemen-
tary, geometric forms and pure, primary colors. The exhibition was
one of several international events marking the two-hundredth
anniversary of the establishment of formal diplomatic relations
between the United States and The Netherlands, the longest peace-
ful relationship the United States has had with any foreign power.

Further reflecting significant international influences in art and
design, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened in September a retro-
spective view of the history of Scandinavian design during the last
100 years, which included furniture, glass, ceramics, metal work,
and textiles as part of a national celebration of “Scandinavia
Today.”

A selection from the Meserve Collection of the original glass
plate negatives of Mathew Brady’s portrait photographs were ex-
hibited for the first time in May at the National Portrait Gallery in
a specially designed room, evocative of the mid-nineteenth century.
This unigue collection of immense historical importance also in-
cludes the only print ever made from the last photograph of Presi-
dent Lincoln. Perhaps the most haunting likeness of Lincoln, it was
taken on April 10, 1865, in a studio four blocks south of the
Portrait Gallery building just four days before his assassination.

During the past year our colleagues in the physical and natural
sciences also have made lively and important contributions in
exhibitions as well as in research. Of the former, perhaps the most

Statement by the Secretary / 13
extraordinary was inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo,
which opened in June in the Evans Gallery of the National Museum
of Natural History. Featuring for the first time nearly 500 objects
collected for the Smithsonian more than 100 years ago by the
naturalist and surveyor Edward Nelson, the exhibition recreates
the world of the Bering Sea Eskimo and traces the roots of Eskimo
cultural and artistic traditions. Many objects in the exhibition were
associated with elaborate myths and decorated with dual animal
and human images, reflecting the belief of the Eskimos that every-
thing had an inua, a human-like essence or spirit that was revealed
to people in dreams, visions, or when encountering animals. Also at
the National Museum of Natural History, the ever-popular Dino-
saur Hall was reopened after a hiatus of several years during which
it has been renovated and the paleontological exhibits enlarged and
current theories of evolution presented.

Dr. Terry Erwin, a curator in the museum’s Department of Ento-
mology, continued his studies of the tropical rain forest canopy and
of the insect life abiding there. This research reveals that the num-
ber of insect species worldwide may be substantially larger than
previously suspected, and that tropical deforestation, therefore, will
inevitably destroy far larger numbers of species than had been
anticipated or supposed.

The world’s tropical rain forests are home to half of the earth’s
plant and animal species, and thus are areas of immense priority to
numbers of Smithsonian scientists. During a symposium on the
ecology and management of the tropical rain forest, which was held
at the University of Leeds in England last spring, Dr. Ira Rubinoff,
director of our Tropical Research Institute in Panama, proposed the
establishment of a system of Tropical Moist Forest Reserves in the
temperate zones, financed by the developed nations in order to save
this crucial international resource.

Dr. David Roubik, an entomologist at the Institute and an expert
on the African honeybee let loose on an unsuspecting New World
in Brazil in 1957, has been working closely with Panamanian au-
thorities on ways of adapting to these notoriously aggressive bees,
which arrived in the Republic from the south late last winter. He is
sharing his information with Central American governments as
well, for this is a matter of concern as the species spreads north-
wards.

14 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Another study on the effects of forest habitat destruction was
conducted by Dr. James Lynch of the Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies, whose work was an investigation of the
size and stability of bird populations in Maryland. Dr. Lynch has
begun work with other Smithsonian scientists on a similar study in
the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico, part of the winter migration
route for a fifth of our North American bird species.

At the National Zoological Park’s Conservation and Research
Center in Front Royal, Virginia, studies on the behavioral ecology
and population dynamics of wildlife from around the world are
underway. This work is being used as a means of training scientists
from India and Europe in the use of sophisticated techniques for
studying endangered animals in their own countries and elsewhere
in the world.

The reptile and amphibian house of the Zoo’s Rock Creek loca-
tion has been renovated and reopened to the public. The refur-
bished structure proves to be much more effective than the former
house for studying these exotic animals and encouraging breeding
and survival rates in captivity. For the second consecutive year the
Zoo received the highest award from the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums for captive propagation programs.

The National Air and Space Museum commemorated twenty-five
years of space exploration with an exhibition and a conference of
that name, both of which seek to place accomplishments of the
space age in a social, cultural, and political context. The Museum’s
Garber Facility, for the restoration and preservation of aircraft,
celebrated its fifth anniversary with a week-long series of events
for the general public.

The observatory atop Mount Hopkins in Arizona was renamed
for our colleague Fred Lawrence Whipple, and dedicated in his
honor last May. Fred Whipple was the first director of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory when it moved to Cambridge,
and was a primary developer of the concept of the MMT. The
newly renovated gamma ray reflector—the largest in the world—
has resumed operation at the Whipple Observatory and will enable
astronomers to probe high energy events in the far reaches of the
universe.

In an effort to understand other aspects of universality and
fundamental processes, the Smithsonian sponsored an international

Statement by the Secretary / 15
symposium on “How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey.” A
diverse group of scholars met to debate what may be one of the
most critical questions of our time: has Homo sapiens, having come
this far in his several million years, learned anything at all that
can help him survive in the present global village and adapt to the
future? The papers from the symposium—the keynote speaker of
which was the late René Dubos—will be published by the Smith-
sonian Institution Press in the winter of 1983.

During the summer, the Festival of American Folklife returned
to its original plot on the National Mall among the Smithsonian’s
museum buildings. The larger and more accessible site accents the
strong, complementary relationships between museum collections
and the presenters of living traditions. This sixteenth annual festi-
val featured the rich and diverse folk traditions of Korea during
the anniversary of a century of diplomatic relations between our
two countries, as well as the Diamond Jubilee of the State of Okla-
homa. It reflected the traditions that Oklahomans nourish and
support, particularly those associated with two major activities—
horses and oil—and brought a functioning rig and a quarter-mile
race track to the Mall. The festival was also the setting for the
awards ceremony for the first annual National Heritage Fellow-
ships, honors given by the National Endowment for the Arts to
traditional musicians and craftsmen who have made outstanding
contributions to the cultural life of the nation.

As in previous years, we should not let this report slip by with-
out mentioning certain comings and goings of Smithsonian staff.
We were terribly saddened this year by the death of John Estes,
the experienced director of the International Exchange Service. By
the end of the fiscal year we learned that another dear friend and
companion, our Assistant Secretary for Public Service, Julian T.
Euell, who had served in that capacity for nearly a decade, would
be accepting the directorship of the Oakland Museum. Still other
departures included Noel Hinners, the director of the National Air
and Space Museum, who became director of the Goddard Space
Center; Robert Angle, director of our National Associates program,
who assumed membership responsibilities for the National Trust
for Historic Preservation; and both David Estabrook, director of
Elementary and Secondary Education, and Richard Griesel, our

16 / Smithsonian Year 1982
;
&
ir

eee bees eers

tte ae ie

paper tac ei wink ee me " e cp mle
me ence ys oR et mene

it taba

Quarter horses from Oklahoma race down the National Mall at the Sixteenth Annual
Festival of American Folklife held in the summer 1982.

business manager, who have left for the vineyards of private indus-
try. We have been fortunate to be able to promote Jacqueline
Austin to the helm of the National Associates, Ann Bay to the
head of Elementary and Secondary Education, and Joe Chmelik to
business manager.

At the same time we should note two nearly simultaneous
arrivals at the old Patent Office Building. Alan Fern, formerly of
the Library of Congress, has been named director of the National
Portrait Gallery, and Charles Eldredge, the former director of the
Spencer Museum of Art in Lawrence, Kansas, has assumed the
directorship of the National Museum of American Art. I am confi-
dent these two innovative and sensitive scholars will lead their
programs in imaginative ways and in the spirit of partnership.

If the pursuit of knowledge is the aim of this Institution, then
we can look forward to an enlarging era in the programs planned
for the future of our new Center described in the opening of this
statement. Americans long to be friends with all the world. We are
frustrated by those who fail to understand that we hope that our
civilization, our history of democracy and freedom is a real one,
in spite of the ups and downs of our progress. If James Smithson
had a vision—that somewhere across the ocean from the Europe of
stratified hierarchies and iron-bound convention of the eighteenth
century, this new world could achieve such an ideal—we could
hardly deny that that vision was proleptic. It is in the fulfillment
of that ambition of our precursor that we must proceed.

There is a time in the world for the realization of these ambi-
tions. The eagle on the Great Seal may have arrows or thunder-
bolts clutched in one set of claws, but there is an olive branch in
the other. Justice and equality demand that America be strong and
competent in the role of peace-keeper, but peace itself demands
understanding, friendship, and mutual self-respect, hand in hand
with certainty. Respect above all for cultures and traditions across
the face of that great arc of the world stretching from Atlantic to
Pacific, from Africa to East Asia, should insure that we can “know
our neighbors as ourselves,” and in this knowing, learn to respect
and live with new friends for the future. For indeed there is no
other choice.

18 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The Board of Regents

Tue Boarp oF Recents held three formal meetings during the last
year. Additional meetings of the Regents’ Executive Committee,
the Audit and Review Committee, the Personnel Committee, and
the Investment Policy Committee were held throughout the year
and reported at the Regents’ meetings.

The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Janu-
ary 25, 1982, in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Castle and
was called to order by the Chancellor. The Executive Committee
reported that it met on January 5, 1982, to discuss the Regents’
agenda and took special note of the Audit and Review Committee’s
close attention to Smithsonian business, the Secretary’s and staff’s
strengthened measures regarding museum protection, and plans to
cope with ever-tightening budget stringencies. The Audit and Re-
view Committee reported on two of its meetings, one held jointly
with the Personnel Committee on October 14, 1981, and the other
held on December 2, 1981. The committee proposed a resolution to
indemnify Smithsonian Regents, officers, and employees for liabili-
ties and expenses incurred as a result of litigation arising from
service for the Institution, and the resolution was incorporated by
reference into a new Bylaw of the Board of Regents, Section 2.09,
entitled INDEMNIFICATION. The Audit and Review Committee also
reviewed possible insurance to cover the indemnification and,
accordingly, the Regents directed the Treasurer to secure appro-
priate ‘Directors and Officers” insurance.

The Audit and Review Committee decided that the thorough
auditing conducted annually on the Smithsonian’s trust funds
should be extended to an annual audit of the federally appropriated
funds by the Institution’s independent auditors, Coopers and
Lybrand. In view of the fundamental importance of this matter the
Regents expressly endorsed the committee’s action. Other commit-
tee reviews included:

Coopers and Lybrand’s audit of fiscal year 1981 trust funds;
Smithsonian procedures for reporting financial interests; draft

Statement by the Secretary / 19
standards of conduct; museum security; Smithsonian procedures
for construction and repair services; and computer services.

The Personnel Committee of the Regents reported that it had
reviewed the financial-interests statements of the Secretary’s top
assistants and that it found no conflict of interest whatsoever.

The Treasurer informed the Regents that a self-assessment
review has recently been conducted at the Institution to identify
lower priority programs that might be reduced or eliminated, and
alternative modes of operation that might create savings of dollars
or workyears. After extensive discussion, the Regents agreed that
in view of the existing security and financial constraints the Insti-
tution should eliminate summer evening hours on a trial basis,
subject, if necessary, to further review by the Audit and Review
Committee.

It was noted that final congressional action resulted in fiscal year
1982 federal appropriations totaling $142,534,000, some 9 percent
below the amount requested. That appropriation included $960,000
for Quadrangle planning—the first federal appropriation for this
project. The Treasurer also reported that the Office of Management
and Budget (oms) allowance for all appropriations for fiscal year
1983 was $192,610,000, reflecting increases for Museum Support
Center equipment, critical security and maintenance, and inflation
in pay, utilities, and rent. In addition, oms allowed the Institution’s
full request ($36.5 million) for Quadrangle construction, but did
not allow the Institution’s request for an additional 99 positions to
open and operate the Museum Support Center and 48 other posi-
tions to strengthen security.

The Investment Policy Committee reported that they met on
November 17, 1981, to review the performance of the Institution’s
three investment managers and to discuss strategies for the future.
It was noted that the managers continue to out-perform market
averages and that the annualized return from each of the managers
for the last three and one-half years was about 16 percent per year.

The Secretary outlined the Five-Year Prospectus, FY 1983-1987
and stressed his commitment to include projections beyond the
five-year period where appropriate. Priorities of the Institution
were the equipment for the Museum Support Center, the comple-
tion of the Quadrangle, the enhancement of collections manage-
ment activities, security, and automation. The Regents approved

20 / Smithsonian Year 1982
the Prospectus as submitted, in anticipation that annual revisions
will similarly be presented for approval.

The Secretary briefed the Regents on the status of the Quadran-
gle project, introducing Mr. George Brakeley of Brakeley, John
Price Jones, Inc., the fund-raising consultants. The total income
from unrestricted trust funds, gifts, pledges, and interest amounted
to $14,017,600 as of November 30, 1981. The Regents discussed
the strategies for raising the balance of the $37,500,000 from
domestic and foreign foundations, corporations, individuals, and
foreign governments. During the fall the Quadrangle design was
approved by both the National Capital Planning Commission and
the Commission on Fine Arts.

The Museum Support Center was reported to be 45 percent
complete and about two months ahead of the January 1983 com-
pletion date. In a report on the status of the collections inventory,
it was noted that the target date for completion of the baseline
inventories remains June 1983, after which the inventories will be
a continuing process and priority.

The Secretary presented a report on the equal opportunity pro-
gram, noting only marginal improvement in increasing the repre-
sentation of women and minorities, particularly in the higher
grades. Recognizing that commendable efforts have already been
made and without being critical, the Regents urged the administra-
tion to redouble its efforts and explore all possible strategies.
Subsequent to the meeting the Audit and Review Committee
agreed to review the subject in the spring.

In other actions, the Board of Regents effected an amendment to
the bylaws of the National Portrait Gallery Commission, reap-
pointed Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake, Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger, and
Mrs. Margaret McKee to the National Museum of American Art
Commission, and paid tribute to the late Dr. Robert Elliot Silber-
- glied, an entomologist at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, who died in a plane crash on January 13, 1982.

The Chancellor announced that Mr. Webb had resigned as chair-
man of the Executive Committee. Accepting that resignation with
great reluctance, the Chancellor assured the Regents that Mr. Webb
would remain on the Executive Committee for the duration of his
term. With the consent of the Regents, the Chancellor appointed
Mr. Humelsine as chairman, effective January 25, 1982.

Statement by the Secretary / 21

The traditional Regents’ Dinner was held on Sunday evening,
January 24, 1982, in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery of the National
Museum of Natural History/Museum of Man, where the exhibi-
tion Deep Ocean Photography provided a dramatic setting. The
Secretary addressed the guests about his and Mrs. Ripley’s faun-
istic and floristic survey of the Namdapha Region in Arunachal
Pradesh, India.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was called to order
by the Chancellor on May 3, 1982, in the Regents’ Room. The
Executive Committee reported that it met on April 14 to consider
the proposed agenda for the Regents’ meeting. The committee
noted that the decision to restrict summer evening hours was wide-
ly announced and received little criticism. At the suggestion of the
committee, the Regents voted to confer on James E. Webb the title
of Regent Emeritus upon the expiration of his term on June 21 and
to elect David C. Acheson to membership on the committee effec-
tive June 22, 1982. After considering a large number of suggested
nominees, and the recommendation of the Executive Committee,
the Regents voted to request that the Congressional Regents intro-
duce and support legislation to appoint Nancy Hanks as a citizen
Regent of the Smithsonian, for the statutory term of six years.

It was noted that, in response to a poll conducted through the
mails in April, the Regents voted to establish the James E. Webb
Fellowships for the promotion of excellence in the management of
cultural and scientific not-for-profit institutions. The Regents ob-
served that this was a particularly appropriate honor for Mr. Webb
and that this program in public administration will be of great
benefit to the Institution.

The Audit and Review Committee reported that they met on
March 23, 1982. At that meeting the independent auditors, Coopers
and Lybrand, highlighted their December 31, 1981, Report to Man-
agement and introduced their consolidated audit plan for fiscal year
1982. Mr. Acheson reported that on March 13 the committee
visited the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York City. Mr. Hughes
had informed the Committee about a current, as yet incomplete,
internal audit of the gem collection in the National Museum of
Natural History/Museum of Man.

The Audit and Review Committee noted that the indemnifica-
tion resolution and bylaw adopted by the Regents on January 25,

22 / Smithsonian Year 1982
1982, had, through inadvertence, not included coverage for Regents
Emeritus and members of Regents’ committees and advisory bod-
ies. To effect this coverage—and to clarify the intent of the resolu-
tion that Smithsonian employees and officers will be indemnified
for liabilitity arising out of service on boards of other organiza-
tions when that service is part of official Smithsonian duties—the
Regents voted to amend the resolution and bylaws, Section 2.09.

The Treasurer informed the Regents that the Institution was
allowed to submit to Congress a supplemental appropriation re-
quest of $2.3 million to cover one-half of fiscal year 1982 pay-raise
costs. This amount, together with cost-reduction actions taken as a
result of the self-assessment review, will permit the Institution to
continue operations with a minimum of disruption to essential ac-
tivities. Revised projections for Unrestricted General Trust Funds
still anticipated a break-even budget, with increased net gains ex-
pected from the Smithsonian magazine being offset by lower re-
turns in other auxiliary activities and increased administrative
expenses.

The performance of the Institution’s investment managers was
reviewed by the Investment Policy Committee at its meeting on
April 28, 1982. Mr. Hohenlohe noted that total Smithsonian en-
dowments continued to outperform the standard market indices.
The Board of Regents approved the total return income payout for
fiscal year 1983 as recommended.

By invitation six members of the National Board of the Smith-
sonian Associates joined the meeting of the Board of Regents for
the discussion of the Quadrangle. The Secretary highlighted the
report circulated in advance, noting progress through the tentative
design phase. Accordingly, the architect’s drawings, specifications,
and construction estimate were submitted to the General Services
Administration. A second estimate was also obtained by the Insti-
tution. The estimates suggested that some cost savings will be re-
quired to meet the $75 million budget, but these savings will not
force any major alterations to the project. The Secretary added that
the Smithsonian will not appeal to Congress for any amount
greater than the $36.5 million requested for construction. He also
noted progress in the congressional approval of the construction
authorization.

Mr. Ripley outlined the foreign gifts and pledges to date and

Statement by the Secretary / 23
noted prospects for additional foreign donations. It was noted that
all gifts and pledges ($13,910,800), added to Smithsonian unre-
stricted fund transfer ($12,357,100), total $26,267,900—more than
two-thirds of the $37.5 million goal.

The Secretary underscored the importance of the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates in the domestic fund-raising cam-
paign, noting that the extraordinary generosity and dedication of
several members has been critical to launching a sequential strategy
for soliciting leadership-level gifts, to be followed by an expanded
search for more moderate gifts. A series of special regional meet-
ings will be arranged for the Secretary in this connection. A
broader appeal to the entire membership of the National Associates
may ensue.

One of America’s leading collectors of Near and Far Eastern art,
Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, made a firm proposal for the donation of
works of oriental art valued at $50 million and also $4 million in
cash toward the construction costs of the Quadrangle, with the
condition that the new gallery of Near and Far Eastern art will be
named for him. After discussion, the Regents authorized the Secre-
tary to negotiate terms of the agreement, subject to further review
by the Board.

Mr. Ripley informed the Regents that the Museum Support Cen-
ter was 65 percent complete on April 22, 1982, and that procedures
are being developed to facilitate a complex, multi-stage move to the
center. The Secretary reported on the status of the Institution-wide
collections inventory and the progress in formulating up-to-date
collections management policies.

It was noted that the Secretary received the rank of Commander
in the Order of Orange-Nassau just prior to the visit of the Queen
of The Netherlands, in recognition of the work culminating in the
Queen’s opening of the De Stijl exhibition at the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden, as well as, more generally, the Smith-
sonian’s work over the years. The Regents offered their approval
and congratulations.

The traditional Regents’ Dinner was held in honor of Mr. Webb
the evening of May 2, in the “Commons” of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Building. The guests gathered in the Victorian Garden,
where a model of the Quadrangle was on view. The Chancellor
presented a citation to Mr. Webb dedicating the Webb Fellow-

24 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Mei

director of the Hirsh-

~

=
WY
is)
Q
Wa
fo)
bb
a
&
Vv
ou.
°
‘s
~
ee
fo)
i?)
fe
—
ae}
Vv
as}
Vv
ie
7o
o

in progress. Below. Her

a 1982,

25

of January

meeting
Garden,

1931, Visions of Utopia, April 19, 1982, at the Hirshhorn.

,

Parsee’, weet.

2,6, ey
~
=

2
P
Se

Majesty, Queen Beatrix of The Netherlands and Abram Lerner

Shown above is the Regents
horn Museum and Sculpture

Mf

ships in his honor: “”. . . the Webb Fellowships will nurture man-
agement abilities of Smithsonian employees and visiting scholars
for years to come—and will therefore continue to symbolize our
profound gratitude for this sensitive and dear colleague.” The Sec-
retary offered a toast to Dr. Fred L. Whipple, in whose name the
astronomical observatory at Mt. Hopkins was to be dedicated on
May 7, 1982. There followed a showing of the film In Open Air,
procured through the generosity of the Allbritton Foundation in
connection with the exhibition of the American Impressionists’
paintings.

The Chancellor called to order the autumn meeting of the Board
of Regents on Monday, September 20, 1982, in the Regents’ Room.
The Executive Committee reported on their August 25 meeting,
where the Committee discussed contingency plans, should a pay
supplemental appropriation not be forthcoming, and called for a
staff report on the projected deficit of the Division of Performing
Arts to be distributed to the Audit and Review Committee. The
Treasurer reported that the Institution’s banking and cash-manage-
ment systems are being simplified, streamlined, and modernized.
The Committee then discussed in detail the status of the Quad-
rangle project and agreed to recommend proceedings as proposed
(see below).

The Audit and Review Committee reported on its meeting of
May 21, 1982, noting that Coopers and Lybrand had found no
weaknesses in accounting and controls in their audit of fiscal year
1981 federal appropriations. Mr. Jameson presented a report on
the status of equal opportunity and affirmative action, emphasizing
the persisting problems of underrepresentation in professional and
administrative positions. The Committee received a report on the
organization of book publishing at the Smithsonian.

The Treasurer informed the Regents that the Institution received
a federal supplemental appropriation of $2.7 million, some $400,-
000 above the Institution’s request of $2.3 million for fiscal year
1982; that Unrestricted General Trust Funds were projected to pro-
vide a small surplus of $47,000, compared to an original breakeven
budget; and that substantial gains by the magazine, the National
Associates, and the Smithsonian Institution Press largely offset
higher administrative and program expenses and a substantial
deficit in the Division of Performing Arts.

26 / Smithsonian Year 1982

The Treasurer added that House and Senate mark-ups of the
Institution’s fiscal year 1983 appropriation request were not antici-
pated until late in September, and it would appear the Institution
would again be required to operate under a continuing resolution
for a portion of the new fiscal year. Net income from Unrestricted
General Trust Funds is expected to total $12,237,000 in fiscal year
1983, an increase of $720,000, due primarily to improved perfor-
mance in certain of the auxiliary activities and holding program
growth and administrative costs to a minimum. The Regents ap-
proved this budget, reauthorizing the Collections Acquisition,
Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs for a sec-
ond five-year period at an annual level of $2.2 million, an increase
of $200,000 above the previous funding level. This increase will
allow some expansion for research and education outreach projects
and will expand the Collections Acquisition Program to include the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. The Regents reviewed and approved for
submission to the Office of Management and Budget a request for
federal appropriations totaling $178,653,000 for fiscal year 1984.
The Secretary added that, with the approval of the Chairman of
the Executive Committee, the Institution signed a contract for the
sale of the Belmont Conference Center and 82 surrounding acres
to the American Chemical Society.

The Regents’ Investment Policy Committee reported that the
market value of the Smithsonian Endowment Funds, paralleling
substantial gains in the stock market, increased from $77.4 million
at the end of June to just under $85 million as of the beginning of
September. Over the last four years and two months, there has
been an annual compounded rate of return of 13.3 percent, some
two percentage points ahead of the major market indices and well
ahead of the annual inflation rate of approximately 10 percent.

The Secretary reported on the completion of the intermediate
working plans for the Quadrangle, noting that final plans are ex-
pected to be completed by November 15. A request for bids will be
issued in early January. To save about three months and approxi-
mately $1.5 million in escalation costs, separate design and bid
packages are being prepared for solicitation—as soon as receipt of
a construction appropriation is assured—for constructing a perim-
eter fence, removing existing landscape materials, and relocating
utility lines. On September 14 the Commission on Fine Arts gave

Statement by the Secretary / 27
general approval to the building plans but asked for further study
of landscaping details. The National Capital Planning Commission
will review the project in October.

The Secretary added that, in accordance with the Regents’ earlier
approval, he signed an agreement with Dr. Sackler providing for a
pledge of $4 million toward construction of the Quadrangle; a
donation of nearly 1,000 works of Oriental art valued at well over
$50 million and selected by the director of the Freer Gallery; a
provision that the director of the Freer be also the director of the
western portion of the Quadrangle interconnecting with the Freer,
such portion to be known as the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery; and
that the director be assisted by an assistant director whose prin-
cipal duty would be day-to-day management of the gallery; a
mutual commitment to continue a program of scholarly publica-
tion based on the collection, conducted at the donor’s expense; and
an understanding that the donor’s commitments are contingent
upon the Smithsonian obtaining $36.5 million in federal funds for
construction costs by July 1983.

Mr. Ripley stated that as of July 31, 1982, a total of $27.4 mil-
lion had been raised or committed toward the fund-raising goal of
$37.5 million. The sequential fund-raising technique recommended
by Brakeley, John Price Jones, Inc., is being utilized, concentrating
first on commitments from prospects with substantial gift potential
and those with close associations with the Smithsonian. Members
of the National Board of Smithsonian Associates have given or
pledged $1.4 million, and that total is expected to reach $2 million.
Members of that board have also assumed active roles in fund-
raising among corporations, foundations, and other individuals,
and have been helping to organize regional functions at which the
Secretary will present the concepts and plans for the Quadrangle
to local leadership. A broad general appeal will be directed to
Smithsonian Associates through Smithsonian magazine in 1983.
Solicitation of foreign gifts continues in the Middle East and South-
east Asia and among businesses with interests in African nations.
Mr. Brakeley stated that the campaign is going very well and he
is confident that the required funds will be raised on schedule.

The Quadrangle authorizing legislation, signed June 24, 1982,
stipulated that no funds appropriated for construction shall be ob-
ligated or expended until the Regents have available from non-

28 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Fred Whipple (center), former director, sAo, was honored May 7, 1982, with the
naming of the Smithsonian research facility on Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, “The Fred
Lawrence Whipple Observatory.” Assistant Secretary for Science David Challinor

(right) and George B. Field, current director of sao, presided over the unveiling of a
commemorative plaque. Below are shown the new alligator and crocodile exhibition
areas of the National Zoo’s recently renovated reptile and amphibian house.

A A A ALLA L PLEA:

federal sources a sum which, when combined with the appropriated
funds, is sufficient for the construction. Assuming approval of this
appropriation (the House included it in the continuing resolution
for fiscal year 1983), the Board of Regents needed to certify the
availability of the nonfederal sources before any construction ap-
priation could be obligated. Given the success of efforts to date,
the strength of future prospects, and the existence of trust funds in
the event insufficient funds are raised, the Regents voted to express
gratitude to the Congress and the President for the authorization
of the Quadrangle project and the anticipated implementing appro-
priation; to affirm full confidence in the ability of the Institution
to secure from nonfederal sources remaining funds to total $37.5
million towards the Quadrangle project; to pledge that unrestricted
trust funds of the Institution will be directed to the project to the
extent necessary to guarantee its commitment of $37.5 million of
nonfederal funds; and to certify therefore that, with an appropria-
tion as requested, total project funds of $75 million are available,
and construction may commence. Subsequent to the meeting, the
Regents’ resolution was communicated to the chairmen of the
Smithsonian’s authorizing and appropriations committees in the
Congress.

The Secretary highlighted a report on the construction of the
Museum Support Center, then more than 90 percent complete,
ahead of schedule, and within budget. Favorable bids were received
for supplying the storage equipment for “’wet” collections, while
specifications continue to be developed for other kinds of storage
equipment (to be bid in January 1983).

In recognition of Mr. Warren Robbins’s service to the Smith-
sonian and to the nation in founding the National Museum of
African Art and overseeing its development from a small private
venture to its present status, the Regents voted to award him the
Henry Medal. The Regents also voted to appoint to the Commis-
sion of the National Museum of African Art, effective January 1,
1983, Frank Moss, Frances Humphrey Howard, Roy Sieber, David
Driskell, and Robert Nooter for a term of three years; Walter
Washington, Richard Long, John Loughran, Susan Samuels, and
Robert Thompson for a term of two years; and Franklin Williams,
Lee Bronson, John Duncan, Michael Sonnenreich, and Sylvia Boone
for a term of one year.

30 / Smithsonian Year 1982
It was noted that in response to the Acting Secretary’s letter of
June 15, the Regents had unanimously voted to concur in the pro-
posed agreement for the purchase of Gilbert Stuart’s “Edgehill”
portrait of Thomas Jefferson. The Secretary added that the acquisi-
tion has proceeded as outlined, and this unique portrait is now
shared by the National Portrait Gallery and Monticello at a cost of
$500,000 to each. Display of the portrait will alternate between
the two every three years.

The Secretary also reported that Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secre-
tary for Public Service since 1973, will be leaving to become direc-
tor of the Oakland Museum, October 1, and the Secretary added
he will be reorganizing some aspects of the Public Service func-
tions at that time.

The traditional dinner was held on Sunday evening, Septem-
ber 19, at the National Zoo in the Reptile House, following cock-
tails in the Ape House. After dinner the Secretary greeted the
Regents and guests and introduced the new Regent, Miss Hanks.
He also paid tribute to the departing Assistant Secretary for Public
Service, Julian T. Euell. He went on to honor the generous sup-
porters of the Quadrangle, particularly Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, and
spoke briefly about his aspirations for this significant addition to
the Smithsonian’s museums.

Statement by the Secretary / 31
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS
Fiscal Years 1970, 1975, and 1980-1982

250

FUNDS PROVIDED

225

200 -

175

150

125

100

75

50

250
FUNDS APPLIED

225

200

|

175

100

75

50

1970 1975

1980

1981

(In $1,000,000’s)

Auxiliary
and
Bureau
Activities

Nonappropriated
Expenses

Trust Funds
(Gross Revenues)

Unrestricted

Restricted
Federal Grants
and Contracts

Federal
Appropriations

To Plant and Endowment

Administration and Facilities Services

Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

Special Programs
Museum Programs
Public Service

History and Art

Science
Smithsonian Institution + 1982

PINANCIAL KEPORT

CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER

Summary: In fiscal year 1982, the overall financial resources pro-
vided to the Smithsonian permitted maintenance of its extensive
programs in exhibits and research, in public education and out-
reach. During this time of financial uncertainty, the continued
strong support from Congress, from donors, from granting agen-
cies, and from revenue-generating auxiliary activities made possible
the progress and important accomplishments noted elsewhere in
this report. The bar chart on the facing page summarizes the funds
provided to the Smithsonian from a wide variety of sources, as well
as the application of these moneys for an equally diverse range of
programs. Evident from this chart is the growth of the operating
budget in 1982 over prior years; as in the most recent years, how-
ever, this growth related less to program expansion than to the
ever higher costs of salaries, supplies, utilities, and collection pur-
chases. While some enhancements were possible, notably for the
new Museum Support Center and for the collection inventory pro-
cess, the year was characterized by fiscal restraint, self-assessment,
and cost-reduction efforts. Due to partial hiring freezes and budget
constraints, the full-time staff of the Smithsonian was kept to a
level below that of last year.

While not unaffected by the government budget restrictions of
this fiscal year, the Institution was nevertheless allowed a federal
appropriation sufficient to sustain ongoing operations. After de-
tailed and understanding review by the Congress, total federal ap-
propriations of some $145 million were passed, including $131 mil-
lion for operations; it is this appropriation which provides the In-
stitution’s base resources for research, education, and exhibition

33
programs, for study and care of the national collections, and for
administrative and support services. Of signal importance to the
Institution was a planning appropriation of $1 million in support
of the Quadrangle, the center more fully described by the Secre-
tary in his Statement; this commitment of federal funds to a proj-
ect whose costs will be met from matched federal and nonfederal
funds was most welcome. (Subsequently, on October 2, 1982, the
remaining funds of $36.5 million were voted and signed by the
President for fiscal year 1983.) Also important to the Institution in
fulfilling its public duties was the annual appropriation for the nec-
essary, but less inspiring, task of repairing and maintaining the
large and diverse physical plant. Significant funding was also re-
ceived from federal agencies in the form of grants and contracts,
primarily for scientific research.

In addition to the core support provided by the federal appro-
priations, the Institution is also dependent on nonappropriated
trust funds to enrich its programs and expand their reach. Strong
public acceptance of the Institution’s services continued during the
year, with tangible financial return from the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates programs and other auxiliary activities, as well as generous
gifts and grants from individuals, foundations, and corporations.
While net revenues from nonappropriated sources, after deduction
of the operating expenses and sales costs of auxiliary activities,
were lower than in fiscal year 1981, ongoing program commitments
were met, and, as budgeted, transfers were made of $2 million to
unrestricted endowment and $1 million toward Quadrangle con-
struction reserve. Together with the transfers of prior years as
well as favorable investment return, the unrestricted endowment
of the Institution now totals some $37 million; continued addition
to this fund remains a high priority of the Institution.

Significant progress was made during the year in securing finan-
cial support for the Quadrangle. As outlined more fully below,
gifts and commitments to this project from outside sources as well
as the Institution’s own resources now total almost three-quarters
of the nonfederal funds of $37.5 million needed for construction.
Fund-raising efforts for this major project are actively underway.

34 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Taste 1. Financial Summary
(In $1,000’s)

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) ....... $144,064 $141,957

FY 1980 FY 1981 FY 1982
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ........... $107,764 $122,478 $131,170
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts ...............-55- 12,947 14,172 tS 207,
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Ponmvestricted, PUNPOSES 4. - soo cis oe cee ee nie sc clelasclse 5,339 6,378 6,821
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross .... 75,150 88,381 97,350
Messunelated\ Expenses) S20 i2u ain so. oes ehosisvoreiee (65,933) (75,924) (88,596)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ........ 9,217 12,457 8,754
Investment, Gift. and Other Income: .< .c.6.-0 2% oc = 3,825 4,887 4,808
Total Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue .. 13,042 17,344 13,562
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ......... 84,314 99,646 108,979
INGE Sine ae ee 18,381 23,722. 20,383
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ............... 205,025 236,296 253,366
aE Se ee $139,092 $160,372 $164,770
FUNDS APPLIED:
IC Eee asia te cbehailc iaia/a aw kilo: Suave tale fens stl oieneralene wis $ 57,907 $ 62,703 $ 64,837
Mess SAO Overhead Recovery sslessels owes ccisine oh eee (2,196) (2,470) (2,487)
RISER Ss, ANA? 25 Sao oo oom adedop san ao I] Ong eon ODO oCOe 26,224 25,614 26,762
AT CMORTVACC Ree = Gis coc asst eters ress taxe ace iene ners eitgereom ere 3,129 3,421 3,782
IN ARIS ES ILTTIWM LE OPT AIIIS a ess ae civic Misch crstototei (ote = (o'cl'evs: 0s) ays foytaycl ofall 8,974 8,084 8,539
Spree MOO TAINS ul Mein) ose = hea oh cies volons\elebexs choise fala oral stohersne = 3,204 7,284 9,533
Associates and Business Management ...............-5- 345 312 543
Neamimistration——rederal**) 56, a0) 2 <ciosiae eis oie cate ol elon 8,048 8,782 9,719
—Nonappropriated Trust Funds ..................--- 4,937 5,740 5,733
Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery .............. (4,379) (5,014) (5,338)
ACES MOEEVICES Orie 6 2 Paes Palos cals bade ee eo Soke 30,630 36,501 39,327
Total -@perating Funds Applied ~.< 2.06.5. sccceecc ees 136,823 150,957 160,950
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Wnrestructed: Funds—To Plant ..s¢)5.05 steeis cw eww wes 1,342 2,550 1,064
Sle) Bqveroimolsest Sogoyoobonoen eso 2,031 2,550 2,259
Restricted Funds—To Endowments ..............-++- 757) 108 318
Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out ...... $140,953 $156,165 $164,591***
CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED
TRUST FUND BALANCES:
Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts)... $ (225) $ 1,276 $ (45)
Unrestricted—General Purpose ...............0eeeeeeee 36 42 5
Special Parpose ss. 5 sees edie oa cite oes (1,672) 2,704 404
Wome 35 See.6 SoS Oe DLO ORe sor cE HERI & See es aero $ (1,861) $ 4,022 $ 364
-YEAR-END BALANCES—
NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
RESENICLEd POTPOSE o2. caec aes acece hoses sacesaeeeee es $ 4675 $ 5,951 $ 5,906
Unrestricted—General Purpose ...............02e eee eee 5,001 5,043 5,048
== DECial ElTPOSCy An. wh Saiiern chyosiisice mace ous 9,895 12,599 13,003
Riel ee accent coe ose oa pe cchnas eee fone tacos impo erie hails sop eleaat $ 19,571 $ 23,593 $ 23,957
OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS
SpecialyEoreien Currency Program! ©. 22) cie 2s cies « $ 4,200 $ 3,650 $ 4,320
CUTER EEL ETC So GPRS See Mn ne Eee eee ores 32,100 15,829 9,744
$145,234

*Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: FY 1980—

$1,211,000; FY 1981—$2,696,000; FY 1982—$2,197,000.

**Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1980—$267,000; FY 1981—$64,000; FY 1982—

$124,000.
***Includes $185,000 available for FDR Centennial carried forward from FY 1981.
Operating Funds—Sources and Application

Growth in the overall operating budget of the Institution contin-
ued, but at a slightly slower pace than experienced in previous
years. Total gross operating funds, as shown in Table 1, increased
by over $17 million, or 7 percent, from $236,296,000 in fiscal year
1981 to $253,366,000 in fiscal year 1982. These funds were derived
from three major sources: 52 percent from federal appropriations,
43 percent from nonappropriated sources, and 5 percent from fed-
eral agency grants and contracts.

After deducting expenses of the nonappropriated auxiliary and
bureau activities, net operating income grew by only $4.4 million,
approximately 3 percent, and was derived 80 percent from federal
appropriations, 12 percent from nonappropriated sources, and 8
percent from federal agency grants and contracts. Application of
these funds by all Smithsonian bureaux is outlined in Table 2, with
further supporting detail in succeeding tables.

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

The federal appropriation for the core operating programs of the
Institution totaled $131,170,000 in fiscal year 1982. The increase
of $8.7 million, or 7 percent, over fiscal year 1981 was approxi-
mately equivalent to increased costs resulting from inflation in
such areas as pay, utilities, rent, and other objects of expense. The
appropriation included specific increases for these inflationary costs
as well as for such high-priority programs as the inventory of col-
lections and equipping of the Museum Support Center. These were,
however, partially offset by an across-the-board reduction to all
Smithsonian programs, part of a government-wide cutback aimed
at reducing the nation’s overall budget deficit. In order to prevent
major disruption to ongoing programs and public activities, a series
of financial actions were taken. Additional control on hiring, travel,
and all nonessential purchases and contracts was instituted. Based
on a comprehensive management review of all Smithsonian pro-
grams, certain activities were curtailed or deferred, including elim-
ination of spring and summer evening visiting hours in all mu-
seums except the National Air and Space Museum and the Na-
tional Zoological Park. Following regulations set forth by congres-
sional committees, funds were reprogrammed among bureaux to

36 / Smithsonian Year 1982
meet priority needs. These actions enabled the Institution to com-
plete the year with a minimum of disruption.

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Grants and contracts from federal agencies totaled $13,217,000,
approximately 7 percent less than received in the previous year.
This support not only contributed substantially to research and
educational projects being conducted by Smithsonian personnel,
but also benefited the granting agencies by providing access to
specific expertise and resources maintained at the Institution. As
illustrated in Table 3, the majority of these funds, over $9 million,
were provided by the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion to continue work at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory in satellite tracking, maser design and construction, and stud-
ies of the upper atmosphere and stellar magnetic fields. Support
from the Defense Department, the National Science Foundation,
and other government agencies provided an additional $4 million—
primarily to science activities—for a broad spectrum of projects,
including dating Antarctic ice sheets, enhancement of a volcano
data file, a tumor registry program, coral-reef research, sorting and
study of polar marine specimens, a medical entomology project,
and the Smithsonian’s annual Festival of American Folklife.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

In fiscal year 1982, nonappropriated trust fund revenues to the
Institution from gifts and grants, endowment fund and current in-
vestments, and revenue-producing activities totaled $108,979,000,
an increase of $9,333,000, or 9 percent, over fiscal year 1981. After
deduction of expenses incurred by the bureau and auxiliary activi-
ties, however, net income declined by $3,339,000 to a total of
$20,383,000. As displayed in Table 2, these revenues provided
support for programs of virtually every bureau of the Institution.

Restricted fund income to the Institution totaled $6,821,000 for
the year, of which $3,154,000 was derived from gifts and grants;
$2,886,000 from restricted purpose endowment investment income
and interest paid on fund balances of restricted purpose funds; and
$781,000 from other sources, including primarily fund-raising ac-
tivities of the Archives of American Art and Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum and the sales desk at the Freer Gallery of Art. Available only

Financial Report / 37
TaBLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds
Year Ended September 30, 1982

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Funds

FUND BALANCES 10/1/81 .

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations ......
Investment Income! 503)...

Gibtsuee metro chai cal ners
Oth ere eee ee hoeserene

FUNDS APPLIED
Science:

Assistant Secretary ..........
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History ...

Astrophysical Observatory .

Less Overhead Recovery ...
Tropical Research Inst. ......
Radiation Biology Lab. ......
Natl. Air & Space Museum ...
Chesapeake Bay Center ......
Natl. Zoological Park ........
Center for Study of Man ....

MotaluSciencel seeecn eer

History and Art:

Assistant Secretary ..........
Natl. Mus. Am. History .....
Natl. Mus. American Art ....
Natl. Portrait Gallery .......
Hirshhorn Museum .........
Freer ‘Gallery of Ant) 5.5..20 <0.
Archives of American Art ...
Cooper-Hewitt Museum .....
Natl. Mus. of African Art ...

Total History and Art .

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux-  Spe- Grants

Fed- non- iliary _cial and
eral federal Gen-  activ- pur-  Gen- _ con-
funds funds eral ities pose eral tracts
GOA 8528 $23;593NS 504305 — $12,599 $ 5,546 $ 405
ales la lyAg) _— —_— —_ —_ _— _
he 16 526i 292 a 719 2,886 =
—_— LS 217 —_ —_ —_— — 13,217
_ 5,234 18 1757 305 3,154 _
— 95,593 — 92,668 2,925 _ —_
_ 1,626 83 — 762 781 —
T3170) 1227196 3,022 94,425 4,711 6,824) 13207,
$131,355 $145,789 $ 8,065 $94,425 $17,310 $12,367 $13,622
$ 333 $ 412 $ 90 $ — $ 5$ 129$ 188
16,555 3,640 59 —_ 502 L,8105 15269
5,694 13,896 Ayes Wf —_— 657 iA alePoyeul
— (2,487) (2,487) = = = —
2,923 305 78 _— 146 81 —_—
1,961 199 —_ _— 87 27 85
6,386 Pap) 8 — 1,993 64 108
911 599 58 _ ibs) 72 350
9271. 429 18 —_ ofEf CY 297
618 68 al _ —_— 67 _
44,652 19,234 342 — 3,586 2,458 12,848
1213) 1S 96 — 20 —_ (1)
8,261 719 97 —_ 244 378 —_
3,850 526 36 — 284 142 64
2,799 800 725) — 549 228 _—
2,563 223, 12 — AAS) 98 _
835 1,594 9 — 203 1,382 —_
626 626 3 —_ 18 605 —
Woo 1,543 365 —_ 787 337 54
760 206 76 _— 21 109 —
20,960 6,352 ZT, —_— 2,239 3,279 1G /
Tas ie 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued
Year Ended September 30, 1982

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux-  Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary cial and
eral federal Gen- activ- pur-  Gen-  con-
Funds funds funds eral ities pose eral tracts
SI a Ee eS SSC 1
Public Service:
Assistant Secretary .......... 218 1 1 -- -—= _— _
Reception Center ........... 45 463 459 — 4 —
Telecommunications ......... 62 654 278 a 157. 219 —
Anacostia Museum ......... 671 44 24 — Ie 3 —
Intl. Exchange Service ....... Z15 — — — — —_— —
Performing Arts ............ 449 8,359 — 8,265 75 19 —
Satnsomian Press .........- 886 6,640 — 6,640 — — —
Total Public Service ... 2,546 16,161 762 14,905 Pte) 241 —_
Museum Programs:
Assistant Secretary .......... 748 iA 17 — 62 23 19
SENSEI 366} Scie croc IRR 132 — — —_ —_ —_ =
Conserv. Analytical Lab. ..... 822 — a — —_ “= —_—
DR ANICSERID ee tee cc Se a ess 3,212 246 229 — i 16 —
. TS 2 1,407 (1) a — (1) a =
Traveling Exhib. Service ..... 279 1,565 — 1,167 48 238 112
Lye ghd A er 453 42 42 — — — —_—
National Museum Act ....... 735 — — _ — — —_
Total Museum Programs 7,788 1,973 288 1,167 110 QU: 131
Special Programs:
Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. .. 619 908 513 — 39 32 324
Intl. Environ. Science Pgm. ... 526 — oa — —_ —_ —
Academic & Educational Pgm. 531 992 167 — 693 a7 15
Collections Mgt./Inventory ... 733 — _ — — — _—
Major Exhibition Program ... 718 = —- — — — —
Museum Support Center ..... 4,510 1 — _— 1 — _
Total Special Programs. 7,637 1,901 680 = 4 | A733 | sitAOgn w1339
Associate Programs ......... — 49,226 499 48,668 24 35 —
Business Management ....... — 21,579 =— 217579 — a —
BeeOMnistration 2... ee. ee 9,595 5,828 S513 94 91 130 —=
Less Overhead Recovery ... — (5,338) (5,338) _- — —_— _
Facilities Services ........... 38,053 e275 eS = 55 2 _—
Transfers Out/(In):
MRCASULY 20.2... sess sistateterets 1 2Ae* — —_ — —_ — —
Coll. Acq., Schol. St., Outreach _— — 2,000 — (2,000) — —
Net Auxiliary Activities ..... — — (7,632) 7,632 — — _—
Other Designated Purposes ... — —_ 947 380 (1,086) (241) —
LB Ee eee ee ee _ 1,064 1,000 — 64 == —
a ae — Pop aV ii Py oVall — 238 318 —
Total Transfers ....... 124 3,641 (1,664) 8,012 (2,784) 77 —
Total Funds Applied .. $131,355 $121,832 $ 3,017 $94,425 $ 4,307 $ 6,648 $13,435
FUND BALANCES 9/30/82 .. $ — $ 23,957 $ 5,048 $ — $13,003 $ 5,719 $ 187

*Funds available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.
**Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
Tas.e 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(In $1,000’s)

Federal Agencies FY 1980 FY 1981 FY 1982
Department of “Commerce or): < Sieieje crouse vioheven eve toe § 89) $ | 2110) Si elie:
Departments Of Defense ie ease cl see is ie citer 1,078 703 1,001
Department) ofMEnereys Mopac le ieee 340 407 448
Department of Health and Human Services ... 280 283 325
Department) of interior ya. sc oie cis nesielelercas 197 244 268
National Aeronautics and Space
Adminis tration yrs bso 6 eresials ars ache co onelion sors 9,832 10,663 9,303
National?SciencesEoundation®* 34.4. sos ose 651 784 1,079
Other res ae as ete re teuinss eeimtioh cree aera 415 574 837
Motal ihaicsistacats ate eyavee tas oor oten ees uch ols espera $12,882 $13,868 $13,435

*Includes $554 (FY 1980), $813 (FY 1981) and $264 (FY 1982) in subcontracts from
other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA.

**Includes $112 (FY 1980), $208 (FY 1981) and $230 (FY 1982) in NSF subcontracts
from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

for specified purposes, restricted funds provided substantial sup-
port for a wide variety of research, exhibitions, publications, and
educational activities, and served as the major funding source for
the Freer Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Marine Station at
Link Port (formerly the Fort Pierce Bureau). A particularly signifi-
cant contribution was received by the Office of Museum Programs
in fiscal year 1982 in the form of a three-year grant of $1.1 million
from the Kellogg Foundation. This grant will be used to fund a
series of fellowships, colloquia, workshops, and videotapes de-
signed to strengthen the education role of America’s museums.
Revenues to Unrestricted Special Purpose funds during the year
totaled $4.7 million. Bureau activities, such as the National Air
and Space Museum Theater and the membership programs of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, generated revenues of $2,925,000, while
gifts, interest earned on the investment of bureau fund balances,
zoo parking revenues, and other miscellaneous income accounted
for an additional $1,786,000. Also included in this fund category
are allocations for the Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies,
and Educational Outreach programs, for pre- and postdoctoral fel-
lowship awards, and for revenue-sharing to bureaux housing cen-

40 / Smithsonian Year 1982
TaBLe 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds*
Fiscal Years 1980-1982
(In $1,000’s)

Trans-
Total fers
Invest- rev- Deduc- in
Item ment Gifts Misc. enue tions (out)
FY 1980—Total ......... $2,349 $2,257 $ 733 $5,339 $4,856 $ (773)
1981 “Total... ......- $2,591 $2,978 $ 809 $6,378 $5,295 $ (111)
FY 1982:
National Museum of
Natural History ...... $ 973 $ 337 $ 4 $1,314 $1,810 $ (9)
Astrophysical
Observatory .......... 57 51 10 118 171 8
Tropical Research
Linc She 5. See ee 24 49 — 73 81 —
National Air and
Space Museum ....... 61 24 — 85 64 —-
Chesapeake Bay Center . 3 _- —- 3 72 —
Wither’ Science . «2... 06. 230 197 — 427 260 (95)
National Museum of
American History ..... a7. 330 —_ 407 378 —
National Museum of
American Art ...:.... 69 Sy 7 127 142 —
National Portrait Gallery. 30 124 # 155 228 —-
Hirshhorn Museum ..... 67 355 — 422 98 —
Freer Gallery of Art .... 972 50 465 U507 1/382 —
Archives of American Art 28 314 90 432 605 —
Cooper-Hewitt Museum . 66 180 128 374 337 —
Traveling Exhibition
BIOHVIGE Lees soe rk ane os 24 235 — 259 238 —
Office of Museum
MOCTAMS 0s. -.56 65s. 19 331 — 350 12 —
ill QHUIGe 6 SpA oar 186 526 56 768 693 19
Total FY 1982 .... $2,886 $3,154 $ 781 $6,821 $6,571 $ (77)

*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.

Net Fund

in- bal-
crease ance

(de- end of

crease) year

$ (290) $4,574

$ (505) $ 876

(45) (25)
(8) 57
21 111
(69) 13
729) 1610
29 487
(15) 326
(73) 160
324 604
125 935
(173) 98
37° “0350
21 175
338 346
94 596

$ 173 $5,719

Financial Report / 41
Item

FY 1980

FY 1981

FY 1982:
National Museum
of Natural
History
Astrophysical
Observatory
Tropical Research
Institute
National Air and
Space Museum
Chesapeake Bay
Center
National Zoo-
logical Park ..
Other Science ..
National Museum
of American
History
National Museum
of American
Art
National
Portrait Gallery
Hirshhorn
Museum

see eee

eevee

Museum
National Museum
of African Art
Liability Reserves
Unallocated Coll.

Acq., Schol.
Studies, and
Outreach ....
Fellowships ....
Museum Support
Center Equip..
All Other

Total FY 1982

TaBLe 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Years 1980-1982

(In $1,000’s)

Revenue Deductions

Gifts Bu- Net Fund

Bu- and Pro- reau in- bal-

reau other Total Trans- gram activ- crease ance

Invest- activ-  rev- rev-  fersin ex- ity ex- (de- end of

ment ities enue enue (out) pense pense crease) year
$430 $2,049 $ 771 $3,250 $4,252 $7,361 $1,813 $(1,672) $ 9,895
$589 $3,333 $1,105 $5,027 $4,766 $4,844 $2,245 $ 2,704 $12,599
$42 §$ AQ Sie32) 1S) 78S 475) 1 ber5Ole aS iv GS Gal Gh eis ¥/
6 118 73 197, 523 514 143 63 597

= = 3 3 134 141 5 (9) 81
336 2,003 31 2,370 (179) 633 1,360 198 3,036
2 3D ala 48 80 92 27 9 34
186 _ 206 392 8 TY) —_ SZ 1,618
39 — 3 42 137 92 _ 87 233
23 13 80 116 132 235 9 4 277
14 6 97 117 140 279 5 (27) 170

7 9 30 46 cul 547 2 8 70

18 _ 44 62 39 113 —_— (12) 17,
_— 590 78 668 5 273 514 (114) (81)
— 13 3 16 146 1 20 141 143
— os —— = _ = = = . 3,330
= _ — =e (197) = = (197) 73
—_ _— — — 822 668 —_— 154 627
— = = = = al os (1) 749
46 134 376 556 8 741 97 (274) 1,522
$719 $2,925 $1,067 $4,711 $2,784 $4,908 $2,183 $ 404 $13,003

trally managed shop and concession activities. As specified by the
Bylaws of the Regents, transfers were made to endowment of
otherwise unrestricted bequests received during the year.

Unrestricted General Purpose fund revenue is derived primarily
from investment income and net revenues of the auxiliary activi-
ties. After deduction of auxiliary activity expenses, net general
unrestricted funds provided some $11 million for general Institu-
tional purposes, a decrease of approximately $3.5 million, or 24
percent, from the previous year (see Table 6).

Several factors have contributed to this reduction in income,
including lower postal subsidies to nonprofit organizations, lower
museum visitation, limiting of summer evening hours to the Na-
tional Zoological Park and the National Air and Space Museum,
and higher expenses, particularly as related to the recording pro-
gram of the Division of Performing Arts. Unanticipated costs of
promotion and record production combined with an unfortunately
high rate of bad debts and inventory adjustments resulted in a net
loss to this activity of more than $2.5 million. Of net revenues
generated by the auxiliary activities, some $8.1 million was from
the Associates programs. The Smithsonian magazine was respon-
sible for the majority of this income, continuing its success of pre-
vious years. Sizable surpluses totaling over $1.5 million were also
generated by the Museum Shops, the Mail Order Division, and the
Smithsonian Institution Press, which in fiscal year 1982 was re-
organized to include the publishing activities of the Smithsonian
Exposition Books. Income generated by concessions, parking, and
food services provided an additional $1.5 million, which was some-
what below last year’s results, due primarily to lower visitation
and the costs of converting two concessionaire-managed food fa-
cilities (at the National Air and Space Museum and the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden) to Smithsonian-run operations.

Notwithstanding the decline in unrestricted general purpose rev-
enues, continued support was provided a wide range of administra-
tive and programmatic activities, including major operating sup-
port for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Office of Telecommuni-
cations, Office of Folklife Programs, and the Visitor Information
and Reception Center. Special allotments were also made for fund-
raising efforts related to the Quadrangle construction, for the coop-
erative education and other programs initiated in fiscal year 1981

Financial Report / 43
Taste 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1980-1982
(In $1,000’s)

Item FY 1980 FY 1981 FY 1982

FUNDS PROVIDED
General Income:

Investmentse eins coher ae lesterelole chee aie ete enaahe are $ 2,470 $ 3,123 $ 2,921
Giftisi: CAs rea Wis reise ed tg leit pm cecpatoh an wees Leneueite voters: se 14 tS 18
Miscellaneous Sees. acre cet aealers sissies a 140 55 83
TotaliG@eneraluincomess- ono 2,624 3,193 3,022
Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):
INSSOCIALES YL ac Cr Ero IC Oey RO ENGI aie ohebeharers 6,113 8,691 8,126
Business Management
——MuseumleShopsiue: apace ci-ncrtamarere «scree er 1,022 631 856
—Concessions, Parking and Food Services .. 1,938 1,978 1,513
S-Ofhien ete ok Fy, Re ee Be aa: (191) (251) 9 G28)
RerfonmingiArtsiys eres sitions -carettetomtuiers (75) (186) (2,544)
Smithsonian eresstace eee enone ore 557 767 670
iiraveline Exhibitions fo... 1-cen sce eo cee (268) (226) (298)
Photot Services 2s olay te es oe ee (115) (35) ata
Total Auxiliary Activities ............. 8,981 11,369 8,012
Total Funds Provided (Net) ............ 11,605 14,562 11,034
EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS
Administrative and Program Expense ......... LOSS) 2A ee OS
Less Administrative Recovery ................ 6,575 7,484 7,825
Net sExpense! sreryxt) goo. lek seer 3,960 4,657 4,680
Less Transfers:
To Special Purpose for Program Purposes ... 4,307 4,816 3,328
To Blanti bundSiasdoscurecia sock eee bene 1,281 2,526 1,000
MOVENGOWmentebundsimenentaceeecr ree e. 2,021 2,521 2,021
NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE ...... 36 42 5
ENDING ZEUND> BAIANGES 5.2m cinde ae $ 5,001 $ 5,043 $ 5,048

*Includes Smithsonian Exposition Books which was combined with the
Smithsonian Institution Press in FY 1982.

to strengthen affirmative-action efforts, for equipment and publica-
tion costs, as well as for events related to the Franklin Delano
Roosevelt Centennial and the bicentennial celebration of the Battle
of Yorktown.

Transfers to special purpose funds, which totaled $3,328,000,
provided support, as mentioned earlier, for a variety of acquisition,

44 / Smithsonian Year 1982
TaBLe 7. Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1980-1982
(In $1,000’s)

Sales
and Less Net
other cost Gross reve-
rev- of rev- Ex- nue ==
Activity enue Gifts sales enue _penses__ (loss)
Eel O SOs 6 circle o Sac Riese eces $72,203 $ 898 $41,569 $31,532 $22,551 $ 8,981
BVO GT! io tep chute, sohovsporcrs: < $83,719 $1,329 $45,866 $39,182 $27,813 $11,369
FY 1982:
INGSOGCIATESH sinscen ose ein shoes $55,037 $1,757 $38,293 $18,501 $10,375 $ 8,126
Business Management:
—Museum Shops* .... 18,330 — 11,449 6,881 6,025 856
—Concessions/Parking/
Food Services .... 4,933 — 1,076 3,857 2,344 1,513
= ee 363 - —_ 363 685 (322)
Performing Arts ........ Sy pail — 2,618 3,103 5,647 (2,544)
Smithsonian Press*** ... 7,310 — 2,321 4,989 4,319 670
Traveling Exhibitions ... 869 — 398 471 769 (298)
Photo Services
(Administration) ..... 105 — sta 94 83 14
Total FY 1982 ... $92,668 $1,757 $56,166 $38,259 $30,247 $ 8,012

*Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order.
**Includes Business Management Office and Belmont.

***Includes Smithsonian Exposition Books, which was combined with the
Smithsonian Institution Press in FY 1982.

****Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaux of
$381,000 (FY 1980); $390,000 (FY 1981); and $380,000 (FY 1982).

education, research, and outreach projects. These allocations al-
lowed the purchase of significant works including a major collec-
tion of West African textiles, a portrait of Thomas Jefferson
painted by Gilbert Stuart, and two seventeenth-century Chinese
scroll paintings by Tao-chi. The funds permitted extension of the
Institution’s outreach through special lectures and concerts, radio
features on Smithsonian activities, and programs for the elderly
and institutionalized, and also furthered research in such diverse
areas as the ecological impact of the Africanized honeybees in Cen-
tral America, the behavioral ecology of reef sharks, and the devel-
opment of an oral history on the origins of modern astronomy and

Financial Report / 45
astrophysics. An additional amount of $1 million was transferred
to plant funds for Quadrangle development, and $2,021,000 to un-
restricted endowment principal to ensure income for future needs.

Special Foreign Currency Program

Foreign currencies accumulated from sales of surplus agricultural
commodities under Public Law 83-480, determined by the Treasury
Department to be in excess of the normal needs of the United
States, are made available to the Smithsonian through the Special
Foreign Currency Program. An appropriation of excess foreign cur-
rencies equivalent to $4,320,000 was received under this program
in fiscal year 1982. Some $3.4 million was used to continue a pro-
gram of grants to United States institutions for field research
and advanced professional training in the countries of Burma,
India, and Pakistan. Fields of study focused on areas of traditional
Smithsonian competence, including archaeology and related disci-
plines, systematic and environmental biology, astrophysics and
earth sciences, and museum programs. The balance of funds ap-
propriated—$960,000—was provided for the international effort to
preserve the monumental site of Moenjodaro in Pakistan. This ap-
propriation represented the first increment of a total of $4 million
equivalent in nonconvertible Pakistani currency expected to be

TaBLe 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1982—Obligations
(In $1,000’s)

System-  Astro-

aticand physics Mu- Grant

environ- and seum  admin-

Archae- mental earth pro- istra-
Country ology biology sciences grams tion Total
Barna eg ese Aiea $ 15 ¢$ 2, =e — eS) ]aaaeee
Incdialeee scr 2,772 70 64 236 66 3,208
Palastanm Gace seer 968 374 — _ — 1,342
Motalaeecn scr. $3,755 $ 446 $ 64 $ 236 $ 66 $4,567

46 / Smithsonian Year 1982
sought by the Institution as the United States’ contribution toward
the project. Obligations during the fiscal year by research discipline
and country are provided in Table 8.

Construction

Funding provided for construction and renovation projects at the
Institution totaled $12,962,000 in fiscal year 1982, as shown in
Table 9. Of this amount, $9,744,000 was from federal appropria-
tions, and $3,218,000 was from nonappropriated trust funds.

An appropriation of $7,680,000 was provided for major repairs,
renovation, and building improvements to Smithsonian facilities,
with a further $1,104,000 designated specifically for buildings and
exhibits of the National Zoological Park. Projects supported by
these appropriations included maintenance of building exteriors,
particularly of the Arts and Industries Building and the Renwick
Gallery; renovations to protect the safety, security, and health of
the public, staff, and collections; elimination of architectural bar-
riers to assure accessibility for disabled persons; energy conserva-
tion efforts; and programmatic modifications to outlying research
and animal preservation facilities.

An additional $960,000 was provided for Quadrangle develop-
ment planning, marking the first federal appropriation for this
project for which planning has been underway since 1978 with
support from unrestricted trust funds. The Quadrangle represents
a special partnership of federal and nonfederal funding; of the
anticipated total construction cost of $75 million, one-half will be
provided from federal appropriations and one-half from nonappro-
priated sources. As of the end of the fiscal year, gifts for the
Quadrangle, transfers from unrestricted trust funds, and earned
interest totaled some $9,656,000; together with additional com-
mitments from outside sources, anticipated revenues from the sale
of real estate, and planned unrestricted trust fund transfers in the
future, over $27.6 million of the $37.5 million has been raised. In
recognition of the success of fund-raising efforts and of the Insti-
tution’s commitment to the project, a construction appropriation of
$36.5 million was passed in October 1982, and construction will
commence early in 1983.

Financial Report / 47
TABLE 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1980-1982

(In $1,000’s)

Sources FY 1980 FY 1981 FY 1982

FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:

National)Zoological Park 5.02) ec eect es $ 6,250
Restoration & Renovation of Buildings ...... 5,250
Museum) SupportiGenter 50) -fs see elena 20,600*
Quadrangle. jessie as (Chae. aches —

Total Federal Appropriations ........... 32,100

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Specialy Exhibits, Gallery yy pres elt teers —

Gooper-Hewittl Wiaseume oye ee iia erate ia 104
American Art & Portrait Gallery Bldg. .... —
Quadrangle fs sais reese alley ae erento 1,051

Smithsonian Institution Bldg. South Entrance —
Bequest of RealEstate! iin iicccnn sss cesar —
Horticulttire)Greenhouse).3).- +21... 4-5 —

Motalwlmn coments ehyesnctoorerctehor on saereaetereree 1,155

Transfers from Current Funds:
Chesapeake, Bay ‘Genter oh saciners oe ete sae 39
Propical Research Institute .j02.)< 0) <<. 10. os —_—
Museum'SupportGenten an sne-- eee —

National Museum of African Art .......... 22.
Quadrangles ys espe.) Mee dene tease 1,040
East Gardeno cae cee serine ere erecta evens 241

Total! Mransfers! Soke nute orcas cine ererencesayen ee 1,342

otalweundsmieroOvidedeer nearer acres $34,597

$ 3,290
7,939
5,000

15,829

300
26
750
24
1,340
110

2,550
$20,987

24
1,040

1,064
$12,962

*Obligation authority of $19 million deferred until FY 1981 on instructions from

Office of Management and Budget.

Other nonappropriated fund receipts included a gift for renova-
tion of the south entrance to the Smithsonian Institution Building,
a settlement for damages to the American Art and Portrait Gallery
building that were done during Metro subway construction, a
bequest of real estate which was subsequently transferred to the
endowment funds, and interest paid on unexpended fund balances.
Funds also were transferred for mortgage payments on property

occupied by the National Museum of African Art.

48 / Smithsonian Year 1982
TasLe 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1982

Book value Market value

ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Bash angdveGwivalentes g) 05. 5. < Seis eis oss fel Gin $ 8,919,165 $ 8,919,165
BONS). Sa Sete nix Seber ees ols obits oa cde peti eee 13,341,192 14,451,431
RMonvectiblewbONdS eee dea eee one 814,000 900,000
SUS A wiht he AI Aiea en te anh Sir er tie ee de 59,806,844 64,587,546
HotalePooledEandsien Biyccmisisiciceten oth eke 82,881,201 88,858,142
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
INotesuReceivable sit nce soe ne css hoses 100,020 100,020
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity .......... 1,000,000 1,000,000
Bee ee Coe ere ct ene tutes 39,769 39,700
REOMMONESLOGKS) 4. 05s cones. sess \a.d yeasleusinta Miao swe 1,999 8,100
[LENTING bo A geiko Mneucghielichuen ie, AM ahaa au a ot AOS eg 225,000 225,000
Total Nonpooled Funds) «i066 6<.60.< 60.000 1,366,788 1,372,820

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .... $84,247,989 $90,230,962

FUND BALANCES

Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ......... $ 3,023,414 $ 3,781,557
Quasi Endowment ....... 32,742,990 33,378,487

Potal Unrestricted. Parpose: .\...,.. 220.) 35,766,404 37,160,044
Restricted Purpose: True Endowment .......... 36,319,845 40,129,316
Quasi Endowment ......... 12,161,740 12,941,602

Total Restricted Purpose ................ 48,481,585 53,070,918

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .... $84,247,989 $90,230,962

Endowment and Similar Funds

The market value of Smithsonian Endowment Funds was
$90,231,000 on September 30, 1982, as compared to $79,025,000
on September 30, 1981. The majority of these funds—$88,858,000
—is invested in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment fund under
outside investment management; $1 million is on permanent de-
posit with the United States Treasury; and the remaining $373,000
is held in miscellaneous securities and donated real estate. Approxi-
mately 59 percent of the endowments, as shown in Table 10, are

Financial Report / 49
TasLe 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
(In $1,000’s)

Fund 9/30/78 9/30/79 9/30/80 9/30/81 9/30/82
Wnrestricted! sae ance cee $18,114 $22,614 $28,384 $30,399 $35,974
ETO er ie at cea ste toes eo 16,807 18,303 20,771 20,472 22,596
Other Restricted ....... 22,109 24,639 28,175 27,101 30,288

otal’ wae: $57,030 $65,556 $77,330 $77,972 $88,858

restricted, with income available only for purposes specified by the
donor. The remaining 41 percent—or $37,160,000—are unre-
stricted, with income available for general Institutional purposes;
certain of these unrestricted funds, however, such as the Lindbergh
Chair of Aerospace History, have been designated internally for
specific purposes, as noted in Table 13, which lists all Smithsonian
endowments.

Investment management of the Pooled Consolidated Endowment
fund is conducted by three professional advisory firms under the
oversight of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer,
and subject to guidelines established by the Board of Regents. As
of the end of fiscal year 1982, the firms (with their respective por-
tions of the fund) were Fiduciary Trust Company of New York
(50 percent), Batterymarch Financial Management Corp. (31 per-
cent), and Torray Clark & Company (19 percent). The total rate of
return for the fund during fiscal year 1982, as calculated by an
outside investment measurement service, was +15.7 percent (in-
cluding interest and dividend income as well as market value ap-
preciation), as compared to +12.1 percent for the Dow Jones In-
dustrial Average and +9.9 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
average (both calculated on the same basis). Table 11 displays the
market values of the major components of the fund for prior years,
and the activity during the past year is shown on Table 12.

The Smithsonian utilizes the Total Return Income policy, which
defines total investment return as yield (interest and dividends) plus
appreciation, including both realized and unrealized capital gains.
A portion of this return is made available for expenditure each

50 / Smithsonian Year 1982
TaBLe 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
for Fiscal Year 1982
(In $1,000’s)

Inter-
Gifts est Market

Market and and Income value Market

value trans-  divi- paid  Sub- appre- value

Fund 9/30/81 fers dends* out total ciation 9/30/82
Unrestricted ...... $30,399 $ 2,172 $ 2,083 $ 1,158 $33,496 $ 2,478 $35,974
IBRECR a ae Bos obe ee 20,472 — 1,394 907 20,959 1,637 22,596
Other Restricted .. 27,101 355 1,862 1,210 28,108 2,180 30,288
Totaly, ee «coe $77,972 $ 2,527 $ 5,339 $ 3,275 $82,563 $ 6,295 $88,858

*Income earned, less managers’ fees of $367,138.

year, and the remainder is retained as principal. This total return
income payout is determined in advance each year by the Board
of Regents based on studies of anticipated interest and dividend
yields, the Institution’s programmatic needs, inflationary factors,
and the five-year running average of market values, adjusted for
capital additions or withdrawals. The income payout rate for fiscal
year 1982 to restricted purpose endowments in the Pooled Consoli-
dated Endowment fund constituted an 8 percent increase over the
prior year, while the payout to unrestricted endowments was re-
duced from the earlier level, permitting a proportionately greater
reinvestment for unrestricted endowments. After the income payout
of $3,275,000 during the year, a total of $2,064,000 of excess inter-
est and dividend yield was reinvested into endowment principal.

A full listing of all endowment funds is shown on Table 13. De-
tail of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment
fund as of September 30, 1982, may be obtained upon request
from the Treasurer of the Institution.

Financial Report / 51
Taste 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1982

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
Funds value value income balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
INSTSSY 1Abtavelt | Gon boddposoodd HES cable cicero BN abc ciets $ 97,414 ¢$ 125,194 $ 4,583 $ i
Higbee, Harry, Memorial ........ nodoadanoonay 27,592 35,435 1,192 —o—
Hodgkins bunds) je eaiteter-ferare avetavateteleietalsteteVolfetehay stats 194,654 87,394 9,900 —0—
Morrow, Dwight W. .........+++ Hwa deosoon aoAC 163,348 333,971 7,334 —0—
Mussinian men hre cimerterr tact ietetetsteteterstearerverevstetererhate 53,367 63,744 2,145 —0—
Olmsted EelempmpAte tasters eisetretatelelleieiertelsverelele 1,736 2,224 75 =o —
Poore, Lucy 1. and \George W.* Grrjccieieiee +. 371,458 491,324 17,234 —o—
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ........... Ccierels 604,525 804,886 27,081 —o—
SEinioeh, (Geers I~ bodoonnnsoboccaKoobononb oc 2,980 3,599 150 —o—
Sie, iFM Soeouasoonoamvosnugcuco00s Sepals 541,380 541,380 32,483 —0—
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,
Research (Designated)* ...........cseeeeeeee . 964,960 1,292,406 51,899 79,394
Subtotal ..... paoododdnoooadususuaooooD ods 3,023,414 3,781,557 154,076 79,394
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Eorrest.) Robertivlee: ,yasitetsiasltracictechocetsleisislelotsiars 5 2,685,284 2,425,593 81,611 —o—
Generalmendowmentemeretsrrcrreicileieleieictetelcielctaverertcrats 27,264,305 28,172,242 885,490 —o—
Goddard pp RObDerte rape crtectetelstleieteretsteteitele elonetohels 21,246 19,210 647 —0—
IpGlesl, Whe Gee soocadondnc dodooagnaodocosuG0DGE 500 500 30 —o—
Jakydis (GEMS: 185 caonoaoconcesono coud efetetetereve lets 1,274 1,437 49 —o0—
Henny, (Caroline ye eicrereieteiieiell JooodaudsobodonaoN 3,159 3,545 119 —o—
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. ................- 127,408 141,805 4,771 —o—
ELeysiu Mati em Gamicverieretsiesetercrerotetetereisteleleratsteteratelatetret= 256,292 236,023 7,941 —o—
Elintony (Garnier Susana cieciiclsieleiclsiieterelehe atekelevale 66,298 68,960 2,320 —o0—
Rambertaebatlam Camere rerettericteteclercisitlioierrarcistersite 118,616 126,670 4,262 —o0—
Medinusya Gracemlerrerrerteterreaiteciererciclereietrtateitctene= 2,533 2,348 79 —o—
Rheess Walliam™ JOnessi te crevepercieinersercteiajele eietererss cake 1,822 1,964 82 —o—
Safford, Clara Louise ........... porate) evetoha lel o¥otcveretts 116,070 110,245 3,709 —o—
Smithsonian Bequest Fund” ..............++.0+- 514,021 521,367 7,914 —o0—
Maggart,, IGamSomiievreereiteleret = clelolete(eforelalel= lefelsielalefels 1,030 1,343 45 —o0—
Abbott, William L. (Designated) SOCIO COOOCo 307,133 341,253 13,693 —0—
Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) ............. 2,573 2,852 114 3,760
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History
(Designated) ee aecerie cleric otdioacsooud 1,234,468 1,181,912 47,423 55,574
Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) ........... 8,249 9,049 988 5,727
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) .......... 10,709 10,169 408 1,323
Subtotal cite teeeeieeiae miatateteiatelsielsterer= 32,742,990 33,378,487 1,C61,695 66,384
Total Unrestricted Purpose ............-.+-.- $35,766,404 $37,160,044 $1,215,771 $ 145,778
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Arthur; James jerececic orion poc000 a dhoOooosaG $ 83,720 $ 111,774 $ 4,485 $ 3,793
Baird, Spencer eullertomycsyeci-ilsete cleo lvelerile eiiel 76,335 99,914 4,009 13,626
Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial .................. 60,030 80,098 3,214 21,620
Batchelor, Emma E. ..... SobodusoccbogouneacucKC 83,150 82,853 3,324 42,573
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial .............. 100,892 111,930 4,491 25,312
Brown, Roland@iW caccssccmime ec dagooasee ao 67,465 76,818 3,082 14,868
Canfield; ‘Eredericle sAt sane crc cree enice neletesezeetaateys 82,706 123,150 4,941 —o0—
Casey, Thomas Lincoln .......... Pert eiaisehsters 32,305 35,885 1,440 2,478
Ghamberlainy perances lea. er-revclelelstsvelieretateraseia 5 58,940 78,646 3,156 14,399
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology ..............++. 34,482 35,485 ps2 2,103
Division of Mammals Curators Fund .......... 4,520 4,813 192 3,536
Drake Eoundation® aaccceccicmteewcice ceecls aiesereiore 416,067 429,245 17,120 58,375
Dykes, Gharles; Bequest ren. -temitelieieleisiel- seetaters 110,937 123,186 4,943 30,213
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ..............++. 22,748 30,345 1,218 14,622
Freer, \Charlesilesy tcpicicttectesersincisteenletetclersiateretsss 20,408,648 22,596,477 906,749 666,002
Grimm moerg eluINipiacisterrtelelcleleretertoiicrerelialare dooo0d 78,053 70,620 2,834 3,803
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ............. 299,577 288,405 ib yz 27,777
lsEnrwihicyay EINES aduocgsoocacouesqoaoouceacde 3,357 3,710 199 666
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ........ 819 994 40 311
Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund ............... 17,728 18,132 728 —o—
Fle witt)) Sarah (Cooper erie clei claelelejisirelsielsl el 0606 104,884 107,029 4,294 —0—
Hillyer, Virgil vecyo05 oterererscajarsiaiore acelnvoveve ye aVajetetescret 16,939 18,818 755 7,626
Hitchcock, Albert Sic )y.--1-1 obosoocosodDoedDo rake 3,314 4,478 180 561
TaBLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1982—continued

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
Funds value value income balance
IGG PINS BW EUNG Sis oie celiac: oes .0 sie a elas wien a) Sie SA 100,000 100,000 6,000 21,371
Birdlicka Ales) and | Marie: 2a... ccsiicie cece’ clcls cle 122,202 139,154 5,583 12,674
PERO RES pe ERULCG Me he. 2 cfofereie/aiaie ofn/e)«/eanjaiala at s!eL<laiarel ocala 40,072 53,520 2,147 21,986
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography 8,427,739 9,398,209 377,095 97,103
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ................- 62,125 57,964 2,326 6,813
SPAREN A MIN GELAE ere ics ectatele efe\u sales s c:0:cvoisyarcialitveleveraverets 6,861 7,316 294 1,991
TIC EE. REGIE RS Crates aBostoc Stae cS OOCO RCo 11,502 11,545 804 5,311
In Sea iai ll LY Era Ss, Wseelean Gea dogecuoone AOnontnod 41,062 54,834 2,200 14,763
Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ............... 523 533 21 —0—
RAE LAU EMOGWITICNE . sic/cle'c oie c's ole eluicieteie.o aye icieisel asia 237,330 246,269 9,881 (175)
Mitchell) William An 6 fic cjccinsires se siete almr ater 32,287 33,689 1,352 2,013
Natural History and Conservation ............. 48,754 49,969 1,874 —o—
Nelsons baward)) Willianv i. c. 0. «oc eis ocicinieysic= 49,105 62,097 2,492 —o—
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ................05+ 15,531 20,800 835 18,737
Reid, Addison T.* ..... Sableeiclaaverieleeienelatite sxc < 56,831 61,890 2,702 —o—
innate lintel "eng dcas canaonouoduTd sop onanoccdn 252,498 335,443 13,459 (549)
Rollins, Miriam and William .................. 480,772 570,868 22,634 25,224
Shryock Endowment for Docents ..........-++. : 1,637 1,605 64 158
SIGS AGGCOELE WS ac clos ciaecicle sieves s8iodada Eietel 35,513 34,914 197 288
Brea euess bund 2c stoi 4 As as se Acie sieee oe saat 3,299,159 3,413,619 135,344 (2,329)
SMP ET PEE ATIC ic co'e aici laiciaeielase/aicleie eta aveave SgboodnC 37,806 50,056 2,008 29,502
Stemeseiaroldsl., Memorials ais'~s\<.ci<cinie eicelotaioiercle 345,307 359,038 14,361 22,365
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library ....... 12,403 13,676 549 952
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research.. 309,242 357,074 14,127 24,023
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications. . 120,197 155,794 6,251 14,024
Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research .. 3,787 4,003 80 597
Zerbee, Frances Brinckle ........... Basa se aes O65 1,984 2,632 106 3,477
Subtotal’ ...--; miata etaleintale el arctarelete asia wioterete/sisicte 36,319,845 40,129,316 1,609,073 1,274,583
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Armstrong, Edwin James ................. biacecle 7,306 7,438 279 15
An Panier Fleuri. <.:.:.:<;0.:0100 roy aleontietteceyevereia raVeinveiers 51,126 46,317 1,858 —o—
Bacon, Virginia Purdy ........ Bi leictalatelotieteleetotetate 229,001 232,468 9,328 28,791
Becker George Fi iciccc sees sees aiatelavele ajaleisiaioletiove 394,028 402,359 16,144 (3,289)
IESAMIEIS UP AUIUE:, ccs ecteie ee s's sciec's SA coicanicndic 25,714 28,717 1,125 —o—
(GEniGre GIT fyi ite Se Ber Oe An OOO TAC oe 3,061 3,272 131 1,580
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroliney snc mel 10,526 12,230 491 557
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. ....... 22,908 25,437 1,021 6,059
Hranterdon, EndOWMeNnt 2/0. s.0.0/0\0:s10,0150,0100's 00 69:9 7,499,981 8,187,287 332,990 220,018
International Council for Bird Preservation .... 211,131 209,528 6,666 7,062
Johnson, E. KR. Fenimore. ~:..... 222. -00c00000 ae 19,938 18,834 756 10,989
Loeb, UTES "695 sonoo0 ace OsOCOdC S steleisiciic »ietals ate 225,533 252,278 10,122 19,169
Eong, Annette E. and Edith GC. .......020....00. 1,144 1,558 63 153
Myer, Catherine Walden ........ a SenCH Bs cle siajthe 52,065 57,819 2,320 8,123
INeyes, Prank B-o. sj. oe ais<0/0 60 alelekaistolerretessts eraysteye 2,529 2,914 117 1,625
Noyes: Pauline Riggs (Oy. cra2h ccc cserec eds aa 24,073 21,825 876 1,915
Pell; ‘Cornelia. Livingston. .... =: <s/....0.0..0 je; siete 19,145 21,345 856 820
Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs. Dewitt ‘Clinton®’ Ln, 738,020 711,790 29,168 10,522
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ................. “ 27,456 30,583 15227; 20,753
Reebling Solar Research ¥. 5.0.) oc c.c 2c) cis ocive eis 62,652 65,755 2,638 9,382
Ruef, Bertha M. ........ AOC IOOC ODOCO TID AUG DOS 77,744 73,395 2,945 11,988
RyclnelEZ ALCOMATE! (Ps ja nsctaa)siciac¥e heaelnicle eieeyeieeiae 19,979 22,123 888 12,242
Seidell, Atherton ........... Bale pntolele /afaetale se o/s \aio[ole 1,564,818 1,589,646 63,783 204,516
Smithsonian Agency Account ............seeees 513,685 519,192 19,928 —0—
Sisong, Julia D, .....: wiptutaalelwcaimtats (oul o[ausinte Stel nisi ates oe 25,806 28,739 1,153 3,089
Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial ..... ooaAcue 332,371 368,753 14,796 —0—
Subtotal ..... A ipteladvigiale tetas niet etataleiata ate soar 12,161,740 12,941,602 521,669 576,079
Total Restricted Purpose ..... ahasonpodaceéc $48,481,585 $53,070,918 $ 2,130,742 $ 1,850,662
TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS ........ ashes

$84,247,989

$90,230,962

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
**Total Return Income payout; does not include $238,436 of interest income for investment of unex-

pended income balances.

$ 3,346,513** $ 1,996,440
Related Organizations

The Science Information Exchange, Inc., which has served as a
national source for information on research in progress since its
founding in 1949, ceased operation on October 31, 1981; a certifi-
cate of dissolution was granted in June 1982. Under a contract with
the Department of Commerce, the Institution has continued dur-
ing the past year to provide the Exchange with administrative and
fiscal services necessary to closing out the operation, transferring
the assets to the Department of Commerce, and paying the out-
standing net liabilities. All operations are expected to be closed
out by June 1983.

Reading is Fundamental, Inc., associated with the Institution
since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedi-
cated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary
support is derived from private contributions and a federal con-
tract with the Department of Education to operate the federal
Inexpensive Book Distribution Program.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the
National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts were established by Congress within the Institu-
tion but are administered by separate boards of trustees. Inde-
pendent financial reports are prepared by each of these organiza-
tions. Office space and fiscal and other administrative and support
activities are provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars on a reimbursement basis.

The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) is an independent, non-
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological
Park. It operates, under contract, a number of beneficial conces-
sions for the National Zoo; Fonz provided concession and rental
fees to the Zoo amounting to approximately $268,000 during cal-
endar year 1981 (FoNz’s fiscal year). In addition, Fonz contributed
other important financial and volunteer support to Zoo programs.
Financial affairs of this organization are described separately else-
where in Smithsonian Year 1982.

54 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Accounting and Auditing

The nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution are audited an-
nually by an independent public accounting firm. In order to pro-
vide a comprehensive audit of all Smithsonian funds, this inde-
pendent verification has been extended in fiscal year 1982 to cover
appropriated funds as well, and the report of Coopers & Lybrand
is contained in the following pages. Additional reviews are con-
ducted annually on a number of Smithsonian activities by the in-
ternal audit staff. Additionally, the Defense Contract Audit Agency
conducts an annual audit of grants and contracts received from
federal agencies, as well as their allocated administrative costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents met during the
year pursuant to their responsibility, under the bylaws of the Insti-
tution, for reviewing the Smithsonian’s accounting systems and
internal financial controls; for facilitating communication between
the Board of Regents and auditors from the internal audit staff,
the independent accounting firm, and the General Accounting
Office; and for reviewing operations of the Institution for compli-
ance with approved programs and policies.

Financial Report / 55
COOPERS & LYBRAND

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the statement of financial condition of the
Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1982 and the related
statement of financial activity for the year then ended. Our exam-
ination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards and with generally accepted governmental auditing stan-
dards and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting rec-
ords and such other auditing procedures as we considered neces-
sary in the circumstances. We previously examined and separately
reported upon the statements of the trust funds and the statements
of the federal appropriations of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year ended September 30, 1981, combined totals of which are in-
cluded in the accompanying financial statements for comparative
purposes only.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1982, referred to above, present fairly the financial
position of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1982,
and the results of operations and changes in fund balances for the
year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding
year.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

1800 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036
December 14, 1982

56 / Smithsonian Year 1982
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Statement of Financial Condition

September 30, 1982
with comparative totals for September 30, 1981
(thousands of dollars)

Totals,
Trust Federal all Totals,
funds funds funds 1981

ASSETS:

Cash on hand and in banks (Note 3)..... $ 2,632 $ 46 $ 2,678 $ 900
Fund balance with U.S. Treasury (Note 4) 407 38,080 38,487 32,473
Investments (Notes 5 and 6) ............ 109,551 — 109,551 103,234
Mecervables (Note 7). 20. 0s00c0se0e ees 21,751 Si 21802, 20/321
Advance payments (Note 8) ............ 631 6,441 7,072 22,460
Merchandise inventory (Note 1) ......... 9,902 — 9,902 7,462

Materials and supplies inventory (Note 1) 1,518 1,135 2,653 2,224
Amount to be provided for accrued

AVE EL IEE Rear CIR icees eeccucocucneatiecr — 6,163 6,163 5,847
Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) .. 8,771 — 8,771 6,329
Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 9) . 18,430 179,617 198,047 177,633

$173,593 $231,533 $405,126 $378,883

LIABILITIES:

Accounts payable and accrued expenses,
including interfund payable of $9,427

Pee, ee PS oe a AE $ 17,944 $ 7,795 $ 25,739 $ 21,137
Deposits held in custody for other
organizations: (Note 2)! <.....den. on. 2,265 35 2,300 1,993
Accrued annual leave (Note 1) .......... 831 6,163 6,994 6,627
Deferred revenue (Note 1) ............. 20,061 — 20,061 16,713
Metta Hr mattes’ sss c.cc/> seb oc ccc bs 41,101 13,993 55,094 46,470
PPeELIVERED ORDERS i255: <c000.0ue.8 — 30,929 30,929 39,458
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Current:
Unrestricted general purpose .......... 5,048 —_ 5,048 5,043
SEM ETIMASE nici aucctorete.? a amacerovagl'ax) 6 13,003 — 13,003 12,599
RES EnICEe dirs os cise ants cred eee 5,906 — 5,906 5,951
Endowment and similar funds (Note 6) .. 84,248 — 84,248 75,458
Plant/ fands “(Note 9)! Poi. 32. 8s ee es 24,287 — 24,287 21,312
Hotaletrust fund’ balanees) =. ....-- > - 132,492 — 132,492 120,363
iperatits: funds <5 6 are\nide on’ did REI — 202 202 379
Censtruction finds... . 6 <ics e052 chideel be — 5,657 5,657 9,007
Mapitdl NES 2. acco 6 ocak ort — 180,752 180,752 163,206
Total federal fund balances ........ = 166,611 | 186,oll 172/592
otaleale sind balances! panes cee une 132,492 186,611 319,103 292,955
Total liabilities, undelivered

orders and fund balances ........ $173,593 $231,533 $405,126 $378,883

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

Financial Report / 57
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statement of Financial Activity

Year ended September 30, 1982

with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1981
(thousands of dollars)

TRUST FUNDS

Endow-
Total ment and
trust Current similar Plant

funds funds funds funds

Revenue and other additions:

AP PTOPELAHONS) Ai tye.c sisi is is cial e Se -siee wala. S ok $ — $ — $ — $¢ =
Auxiliary activities Tevenue (.), 2. ---- 2-414: 95,593 95,593 — —
Eederalverants and contracts) «sees. asec eae 3 27, 13,217 = —
Investment income (net of $367,000 for
management and custodian fees) .......... 9,635 8,586 — 1,049
Net gainvon sale’ of Securities: 92-5. mene aoc 3,884 4 3,880 _
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants ....... 6,205 5,234 44 927
Additionsiitor plants (INoten9)larcacees cee ore cee 1,871 — — 1,871
Rentals, fees, commissions and other ........ 2372. 2,194 a 178 |
Total revenue and other additions ....... 132,777. 124,828 3,924 4,025 |
Expenditures and other deductions: |
Research and educational expenditures ....... 23,521 23,521 — —
Administrative expenditures ...............-. 8,810 8,810 — —s
Facilities services expenditures .............. 2s) P25 — —_—
Auxiliary activities expenditures ............. 85,153 85,153 — a
Expenditures for acquisition of plant |
(Note Qe era nancies aja Wh avenues: Geneon ere) sah etre da ladanteh eye 1,865 — — 1,865"
Property use and retirements (Note 9) ....... — —_ —_ =
Retirementiot indebtednessmnse eerie 6 — — 6.
Intenestronwindebtedness wae anaaeace eee eee 18 — — 18)

Endowment reimbursement (Note 6) ......... —_ — — _

Ee
Total expenditures and other deductions . 120,648 118,759 = 1,889}

Excess of revenue and other additions
over (under) expenditures
and other deductions (Note 11) ........ 12,129 6,069 3,924 2,136)

Transfers to government agencies ............. === = = = |

Transfers among funds—additions (deductions) :

Mandatory principal and interest on notes .... — (24) — 24)
Nonmandatory for designated purposes, net

(ISI xeon 172 ol te eR enon ach TU ee eS =) 4 (G66) 4,866 815)

Toetalgtnanstersamoneefunds =i... 2+ 4. - — (5,705) 4,866 839

Net increase (decrease) for the year ..... 12,129 364 8,790 2,975

RetimedatomO.oumineastiny me aneiirleyol react clei ic —_ _— — F

Fund balances at beginning of year ........... 120,363 23,593 75,458 21,312)

qe eae
Fund balances) ablend Gb syed cine itera ol-lelecicl= $132,492 $ 23,957 $84,248 $24,287

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

FEDERAL FUNDS

Total Operat- Construc-

federal
funds

$145,234 $135,490 $ 9,744

31,025
122

176,381 135,612 9,744

14,144
(125)

ing tion Capital Totals, Totals,
funds funds funds _ all funds 1981

$ — $145,234 $141,957

— — — 95,593 87,052

— — —_ 13,217 14,172

_— —_ —_ 9,635 8,156

— — — 3,884 8,053

_— —_— —_ 6,205 6,477

—_ — 31,025 32,896 24,921

122 — — 2,494 2,649
31,025 309,158 293,437

87,940 —_— — 111,461 104,449
9,661 _— — 18,471 17,116
38,063 _— _— 39,338 36,510
_ — —_ 85,153 72,709

— 13,094 _ 14,959 8,513

—_— _— 13,479 13,479 15,097

—_— — — 6 6

— _ — 18 18
— — = — 976
13,479 282,885 255,394

(52) (3,350) 17,546 26,273 38,043
= = — See (5355)
(52) (3,350) 17,546 26,273 32,688
(125) = = (125) (64)
379 9,007 163,206 292,955 260,331

172,592

——— eee

ess ee

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of significant accounting policies

Basis of Presentation. These financial statements do not include the accounts
of the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Perform-
ing Arts or the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, which
were established by Congress within the Smithsonian Institution (Institution)
but are administered under separate boards of trustees. (See Note 2.)

The accounts of the federal funds have been prepared on the obligation basis
of accounting, which basis is in accordance with accounting principles pre-
scribed by the Comptroller General of the United States as set forth in the
Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies. The obliga-
tion basis of accounting differs in some respects from generally accepted
accounting principles. Under this basis of accounting, commitments, such as
purchase orders and contracts, are recognized as expenditures, and the related
obligations are reported on the balance sheet even though goods and services
have not been received. Such commitments aggregate $30,929,000 at Sep-
tember 30, 1982.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
private sources, from federal grants and contracts and from certain business
activities related to the operations of the Institution. The federal funds reflect
the receipt and expenditures of funds obtained from Congressional appro-
priations.

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the
Institution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund account-
ing. This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classi-
fied for funds control, accounting and reporting purposes into funds estab-
lished according to their appropriation, nature and purposes. Separate ac-
counts are maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying finan-
cial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have been combined
into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded
and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are reported in
self-balancing fund groups as follows:

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted resources, represent the
portion of expendable funds that is available for support of Institution
operations. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific purposes are
segregated from other current funds.

60 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to
restrictions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the princi-
pal be invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endow-
ment and similar funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of princi-
pal but only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment
funds. Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion
of such funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds rep-
resent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the
governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the
income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisi-
tions and funds expended for plant.

Federal operating funds represent the portion of expendable funds that is
available for support of Institution operations. Separate subfund groups
are maintained for each appropriation—Salaries and Expenses appropria-
tions, Special Foreign Currency appropriations, and Barro Colorado
Island Trust Fund.

The balance of this fund represents amounts available for support of
specific Institution operations including the Special Foreign Currency
Program, Franklin Delano Roosevelt Appropriations, and Barro Colorado
Island Trust Fund.

Federal construction funds represent the portion of expendable funds
that is available for building and facility construction, restoration, reno-
vation and repair. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each ap-
propriation—Construction and Improvements, National Zoological Park,
Restoration and Renovation of Buildings and Museum Support Center.

Federal capital funds represent the amount of the investment of the
United States Government in the net assets of the Institution acquired
with federal funds and nonexpendable property transfers from Govern-
ment agencies.

Investments. All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other
disposition of investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related
assets are recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar
manner, except for income derived from investments of endowment and simi-
lar funds, which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if
unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds.

Merchandise inventory. Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or retail cost
method (for those inventories held for resale).

Materials and supplies inventory. Inventories of materials and supplies are
carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method.

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription,

Financial Report / 61
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine are charged against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens. The Institution acquires its collec-
tions, which include works of art, library books, photographic archives, ob-
jects and specimens, through purchase or by donation of the items them-
selves. In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, no value
is assigned to the collections on the statement of financial condition. Pur-
chases for the collections are expensed currently.

Property and equipment. Capital improvements and equipment purchased
with trust funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized at
cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives of three to ten years. All other capital improvements and equipment
purchased with trust funds are expensed currently.

Real estate (land and buildings) purchased with trust funds is recorded at
cost, to the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended there-
for, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in
the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at
nominal values. Depreciation on buildings purchased with trust funds is
not recorded.

Buildings and other structures, additions to buildings and fixed equipment
purchased with federal funds are recorded at cost and depreciated on a
straight-line basis over a period of 30 years.

Certain lands occupied by the Smithsonian Institution’s buildings were ap-
propriated and reserved by the Congress for that purpose and are not re-
flected in the accompanying financial statements. Property and nonexpendable
equipment acquired through transfer from Government agencies are capi-
talized at the transfer price or at estimated amounts taking into consideration
their usefulness, condition and market value. Nonexpendable equipment pur-
chased with federal funds is recorded at cost depreciated on a straight-line
basis over a period of 10 years.

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the
Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received in the
trust funds.

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state-
ments since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.

Annual leave unfunded. The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual
leave in accordance with federal law and regulations. However, only the
cost of leave taken as salaries is funded and recorded as an expense. The
cost of unused annual leave at year-end is reflected in the accompanying
financial statements as an asset and accrued liability in the federal funds.

62 / Smithsonian Year 1982
2. Related activities

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several sepa-
rately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution
serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these
organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institu-
tion facilities occupied, etc. totaled approximately $323,000 for the year
ended September 30, 1982. The following summarizes the approximate ex-
penditures of these organizations for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1982 as reflected in their individual financial statements and which are not
included in the accompanying financial statements of the Institution:

($000s)

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ................+-.0%> $1,900

Beading isyEundamental,: Pies #5 (210126 IS ete SRS Se Ocoee iste ae $7,500

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars—trust funds ... $3,000
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars—

Federally approphiahiOns sls dca ae sea leila ealena ote tare ioteinie $1,897

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ceased operations as of
October 31, 1981. The U.S. Department of Commerce provided a grant to
close down operations and to perfect an orderly liquidation, which is con-
tinuing with final close-out projected in fiscal year 1983.

3. Cash on hand—federal funds

This represents deposits in transit and the amount of imprest fund cash
advanced by the U.S. Treasury to imprest fund cashiers for small purchasing
purposes.

4. Fund balance with U.S. Treasury

The account represents fund balances on the books of the U.S. Treasury
available for disbursement.

5. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair market value at date

of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1982, investments are
composed of the following:

Carrying Market

value value

($000s)  ($000s)

Current funds:

Meriiticates Or MEPOSibi no) cbs mxienidn ea alerdawe eae ac $ 11,977 $ 11,977
SPeINEECIAl PAPEEL ap sisi = 2) ore a arenas ah oun cere aieys nian sie 1,974 1,974
U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations .. 12,330 12505
SGNIMONESLOCK char seis te teiareren cr deta ter tau tee clei acetar ee 145 138
CELERECONSED CI ES oss lald cis gie'c ctotetctal si slolps catalase’ © 56 48

26,482 26,652

Financial Report / 63
Endowment and similar funds:

Moneyamarket accom joao crysis censyene holes skirt cter 8,066 8,066
Koankto WES WineaSunyis me eerarerromtcnstel toltehctenslstrsios 1,000 1,000
U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations .. 10,711 11,641
Eorporate / bomdsiije-j.enteet- ches gapetencis ae ed ee lee 3,484 3,750
Gommionuystockaak 205: autniiensaancyabeuswen nl wrabare maior weuareyedee 59,256 64,130
Preferredustocks iin cincacieaeeny ah ieee Cees oe eens 552 465

83,069 89,052

$109,551 $115,704

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at
market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $148.04,
290,802 units were owned by endowment, and 309,427 units were owned by
quasi-endowment at September 30, 1982.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments:

Market
($000s) value
Net per
Market Cost change _ unit
End tofivyear Wes. neni an Gee $88,858 $82,881 $5,977 $148.04
Beginning ,ofpyeatner sae cie sce eae $77,972 $7441 3 561 loaal
Increase in unrealized net gain
FOP TENE “WEAR ce acne once Saledce cc arelms eae cere mine cies 2,416
Realized’ net? gain ‘for, the year l/s) cy. ora eters ecstasy piers 3,880

Total realized and unrealized
net gain for theryearn . sd .5)h aden Gke maken soe 78 Seles owas $6,296 $ 13.92

6. Endowment and similar funds

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1982 are summarized as
follows:

($000s)
Endowment funds, income available for:
Restricted; purposes ts 42500 ati ti ee arae cee irene etniogs $36,320
Unrestricted purposes: tsnnco ce tees seca waco aioe cerns ecient 3,023
39,343
Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for:
Restrictedtpurposesitir an a. amie netsc cate <uaie atts che tare Ren mci rece ore peer 12,162
Unrestricted ‘purposes aired Seale ins erent ee eee 32,743
44,905

jlotalvendowment andesimilarstundsse eee ee $84,248

64 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach,
the total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized
gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to
the difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and the
amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from
the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such
factors as, but not limited to: (1) 41/2°/o of the five-year average of the mar-
ket value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period),
(2) current dividends and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and
scientists and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price
Index; however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment
fund is less than 110°/o of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of
donation), the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends
received. The total return factor for 1982 was $5.94 per unit to the Restricted
and Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $5.00 per unit to the Unre-
stricted General Purpose Endowment Funds; new units were purchased for
the Unrestricted Endowment Funds with the $.94, the difference in the total
return factor. The total return applied for 1982 was $2,230,000 to the Re-
stricted and Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $1,046,000 to the
Unrestricted General Purpose Endowment Funds.

Endowment reimbursement represents payment of income, which had accu-
mulated in principal of the endowment funds, in accordance with a settle-
ment related to a lawsuit.

7. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1982 included the following:

Trust funds ($000s)
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of allowance
for doubtful accounts of $962,000 in!’ 1982) 3... ....5..56+25-25-- $ 9,148
Interfund receivables due from current funds:
EPadowmentrand ‘similar fundse mae eee oie eer rere 812
are PELE Seles eer e  a e Ie ee ae ers rer ee 8,615
iarerestrancedividendsireceivablem eens eee erro ae cieeiees 2,181
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts ..............- 892
ENGL ee cre Se Rte, Ge MeL et are ae ie cle ers Sls SEI e's 103
21 75
Federal funds
BMACET ECS TANGMCHALPES strc ete = store & fe he aie wielo Biavel shevete we lealei al srettabe 51
Bot alone Gt Sh ere eissh cata chekveacdcReue, ee oncy=! ap aie eens east) cxcenor sees $21,802

8. Advance payments

Advance payments represent advances made to Government agencies, educa-
tional institutions, firms and individuals for services to be rendered or prop-
erty or materials to be furnished.

Financial Report / 65
As of September 30, 1982, the Institution has advances outstanding to the
U.S. Government of approximately $4,084,000, principally for construction
services to be received in the future. The Institution at that date also had
advances outstanding to educational institutions amounting to approximately
$2,150,000, principally under the Special Foreign Currency Program.

9. Property and equipment

At September 30, 1982, property and equipment which has been capitalized
(see Note 1) is comprised of the following:

Current funds ($000s) —
Capital Mimprovementsiey Weis & eters ctelerane ate eteye Meter sieds $ 1,949
Equipment amc cece ee niorrarieraciierer tre terererere teen 2,146
Leasehold!) improvements) esc. . seye tocreieis eterna tener 247
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization ...... 2,026
2,316
Endowment and similar funds
Land “and buildings! ue: C22 ee aac te eters ote orelseh stares 225
Plant funds
Landvand buildingsiy. «uy... 28aSs see RR alent «kes 15,889
Total“trastsfunds Ae tages creme ee clemeseere code taen heres aime $ 18,430
Capital funds
Property), isyiatake i escheat ithe Mice eats icici te ree tee neve eee Es 236,621
Equipment. sasanehiminies Be mies omeciorrerrmeariecieetio ae 26,991
esswaccumulated depreciationiuac acme seer a eee 83,995
179,617
$198,047

Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the cur-
rent funds for 1982 was $495,000. Depreciation expense reflected in expendi-
tures of the capital funds of 1982 was $9,619,000.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1982 includes $8,568,000 of
unexpended plant funds.

10. Pension plan

The Institution has separate retirement plans for trust and federal employees.
Under the trust fund’s plan, both the Institution and employees contribute
stipulated percentages of salary which are used to purchase individual annui-
ties, the rights to which are immediately vested with the employees. The cost
of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1982 was $2,771,000. It is the
policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued currently. There are no
unfunded prior service costs under the plan.

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by the Civil Service
Retirement Program. Under this program, the Institution withholds from the
gross pay of each federal employee and remits to the Civil Service Retire-
ment and Disability Fund (Fund) the amounts specified by such program.

66 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The Institution contributes 7°/o of basic annual salary to the Fund. The cost
of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1982 was approximately
$5,200,000.

11. Excess of expenditures and other deductions

The net excess of expenditures and other deductions over revenue and other
additions disclosed for federal operating and construction funds in the State-
ment of Activity for the year ended September 30, 1982 arise because certain
multiyear appropriations, having been recorded as income in prior years and
carried forward as fund balance, were expended during the year.

12. Nonmandatory transfers for designated purposes

The following transfers among trust funds were made for the year ended
September 30, 1982 in thousands of dollars:

Endow-
Current funds ment and

Unre- Re- similar Plant
stricted stricted funds funds

Portion of investment yield

appropriated (Note 5) ...........+> $ (925) $(1,139) $2,064 $ —

Purchase of property and equipment
PGE Mbant fund! 25. hex ionwic ese 3st e (83) — — 83
Future plant acquisitions ............ (917) — — 917
Income added to endowment principal — (118) 118 —_—
Appropriated as quasi-endowment ... (2,259) (200) 2,684 (225)
Other designated purposes .......... (281) 241 40
Trertalt sis, 2s yee setts $(4,465) $(1,216) $4,866 $ 815

13. Income taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal
Revenue Service has issued a Technical Advice Memorandum to the Institu-
tion indicating that income derived from sales of certain items in the Museum
Shops may constitute unrelated business taxable income. The application of
this memorandum is under discussion with the Internal Revenue Service.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such dual status but
intends to do so in the near future.

Management believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement
of these matters would not have a material effect upon the financial position
of the Institution.

Financial Report / 67
From the NMNH’s exhibition inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo is this cere-
monial dance mask “Horned Puffin Eating Walrus,” collected by Edward W. Nelson.
Smithsonian Year » 1982

SCIENCE

DAVID CHALLINOR,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

Effective management of renewable resources is dependent on
knowledge of the factors that influence the abundance and distri-
bution of biological populations. A major question to be answered
for management purposes is the extent to which variations in these
populations result from the activities of man or from fluctuations
in natural phenemona (e.g. seasonal and longer-term weather con-
ditions). Long-term environmental research at the Chesapeake Bay
Center for Environmental Studies (cBces) is focused on these ques-
tions in both terrestrial and aquatic habitats.

Educational research at the center is focused on a better under-
standing of the extent and effectiveness of educational processes
that occur outside the formal school setting. Of particular interest
are learning in museum-like settings and the role the family may
play in increasing public understanding of science.

AIRSHED AND WATERSHED STUDIES

On-going cBces watershed research focused on the effects of in-
creased acidity on ecosystem processes and the role of buffer-zone
forests in modifying runoff from agricultural fields. The former
study, conducted by David Correll and Deborah Ford, has docu-
mented a long-term increase in rainfall acidity, with an accom-
panying increase in hydrogen ion inputs. The data indicate that

69
hydrogen ions may be displacing significant amounts of essential
plant nutrients (magnesium, calcium, potassium) from the soil.

The second project, conducted by Correll and William Peterjohn,
showed that riparian forest vegetation is important in removing
nutrients and sediments from surface and subsurface water. Sur-
face runoff from a 10 ha experimental cornfield was reduced by
approximately 4.1 tonnes of particulate matter, 11 kg of particulate
organic nitrogen, .83 kg of ammonia nitrogen, 2.7 kg of nitrate
nitrogen, and 3 kg of total particulate phosphorus per ha of ri-
parian forest. In addition, 45 kg per ha per year of nitrate was
removed from subsurface water that flowed from the cornfield
through the riparian forest. This study demonstrated how nutrient
and sediment removal by the solar-powered natural riparian forests
can be coupled with intensely managed agro-ecosystems to control
diffuse source pollution.

ESTUARINE RESEARCH

As part of the watershed/estuarine research program, a study was
conducted by Thomas Jordan, David Correll, and Dennis Whigham
to determine the roles of high and low elevation estuarine marshes
in nutrient-exchange processes within the estuary. The study
showed that both types of marshes imported particulate carbon
and nitrogen and exported dissolved nitrogen and carbon. Particu-
late phosphorus was imported, and dissolved phosphorus was
exported only by the low elevation Typha (cattail marsh).

Data from the tidal exchange studies were then combined with
data from the csces watershed study to determine the relative role
of the marshes—compared to tidal mudflats—in over-all nutrient
flux within the estuarine basin. The marshes were shown to have
only a minor effect on total mass balance of carbon, nitrogen, and
phosphorus when compared to the mudflats. The primary role of
marshes seems to be transformation of particulate nutrients into
dissolved nutrients.

In companion studies, Park Rublee, Susan Merkel, and Maria
Faust studied the role of microorganisms in tidal nutrient transport
from the Rhode River marshes. Fluxes of bacteria, phytoplankton,
and several dissolved organic compounds were traced in the high
and low elevation marshes. Flux calculations suggested a small,
net import of both bacterial and algal biomass into the marshes.

70 / Smithsonian Year 1982
In agreement with the nutrient flux studies, this project showed
that the primary role of microorganisms in marshes appears to be
nutrient recycling rather than transport.

Rublee, Merkel, and Faust also found that bacterial biomass did
not account for a large portion of the total organic-matter transport
from the marshes. Their study demonstrated that marsh sediments
were not an important source of bacterial biomass in ebbing tidal
waters. By measuring numbers of bacterial cells in sediments, in-
terstitial water, and overlying water, the researchers were able to
show that while cells are most numerous in sediments (10° cells
per cc), 99 percent of the bacteria were tightly bound to the
sediments.

Additional studies of microbial populations in the estuary were
conducted by Rublee, Merkel, Faust, and Joe Miklas. They found
that phytoplankton accounted for 80 percent of the total microbial
biomass, and that bacterial production—estimated to be between
1.2 and 50.2 X 10° cells per day per liter—requires a significant
carbon input, most likely from phytoplankton. These findings are
consistent with the results of earlier work at caces, which detailed
the importance of phytoplankton-bacteria interactions in the
estuary.

Research on litter dynamics of Rhode River forested and her-
baceous marshes was conducted by Dennis Whigham and Jay
O’Neill. The rates of litter generation varied from about 50 to 500 g
of carbon per m? per year. Rates for two forested wetlands were
200 gC m~? yr? and for two upland forests were 242 9 gC m~?
yr_*. The amounts of carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus were
much higher, however, in the litter zone of the intertidal marshes,
thus demonstrating that the turnover of nutrients from litter is
slower (approximately 4 years) in those habitats. These data pro-
vide additional vertification of other studies suggesting that inter-
tidal marshes of the Rhode River are primarily sites for nutrient
transformation.

Although salinity regulates the biological zonation within estu-
aries, it is difficult to predict community responses to altered
salinities resulting from floods, droughts, or water use by humans.
In a “before-during-after” sequence of experiments, Anson Hines
and Kathryn Comtois have measured the response of bottom-
dwelling invertebrate communities of the Rhode River estuary to

Science / 71
a drought in 1981, which caused a major increase in salinities and
shifted the salinity regime of Chesapeake Bay “upstream” by
60-80 miles. The community response to the elevated salinity was
a major increase in abundance of most species and no significant
change in several others. Only one species of amphipod crustacean
declined sharply. Surprisingly, no infaunal species from the lower
portions of the Chesapeake Bay invaded the Rhode River communi-
ties, even though elevated salinities persisted for more than a
year. Continued studies by Hines and Comtois on predation by
blue crabs and bottom-feeding fish (spot and hog chokers) indi-
cated that predatory impacts are greatest in the top 5 cm of sedi-
ment in late summer, when estimated turnover rates of bottom
invertebrate populations are high. Experiments with predator ex-
clusion cages placed on the bottom during summer showed signifi-
cantly higher densities of sedentary infaunal species and higher
survivorship of clams within caged, compared to uncaged, areas.
In other experiments, they found that high densities of adult clams
can reduce larval recruitment of bottom invertebrates.

Investigation of population dynamics of fish in the Muddy
Creek/Rhode River estuarine system were continued by Hines and
Miklas. The over-all goal of this project has been to analyze and
interpret the causes of annual variations in reproductive success
and year-class strength of fish that use the system as a spawning
or nursery area.

Extensive shoreline seining surveys, otter trawl collections and
trapping have provided the initial description of spatial, seasonal,
and annual variations in the population, size and age, structure,
growth rates, and distributon of the more than twenty common
speces of fish in the Rhode River. A temporary weir was operated
for the past several years on Muddy Creek to trap and tag semi-
anadromous species (white and yellow perch, shad, carp, pumpkin-
seed, and pickerel, among others) in order to provide accurate
censuses of the spring spawning runs. Yellow perch and pickerel
were essentially absent from the system in 1982, and spot, an-
chovies, and pumpkinseed sunfish also declined. Young striped
bass and bluefish showed major increases, while populations of
several species of minnows appeared to remain relatively constant.
White perch remained at relatively low, but stable, levels. Con-
struction of a much larger and permanent fish weir was completed

72. / Smithsonian Year 1982
in 1982. The weir will be used to continue the longer-term studies
on annual variations in fish populations. The next phase of the
project will be to conduct correlation analysis between fish popu-
lations and parameters of weather and water quality.

UPLAND ECOLOGY

A wide variety of plant and animal research projects were con-
tinued by James Lynch and Dennis Whigham. Lynch continued
his research on the community ecology of ants and expanded it to
include additional study sites in Florida and Mexico. At cBcEs,
he and Edward Balinsky focused on the influence of ants on plant
survivorship during secondary plant succession and_ studied
the role of ants as dispersers of plant propagules. Most of the
common forest herbs that flower and fruit in the spring produce
specialized seeds that are dispersed by several species of ants. The
ants carry these seeds to their nest sites where they feed on fleshy
outgrowths on the seeds. Future work will consider whether ant
nests are the best sites for seed germination and seedling survival.
Working with Patricia Mehlhop, a Smithsonian Post-Doctoral
Fellow, Lynch has expanded his earlier work on ant community
structure and behavioral ecology to include studies of specialized
aggressive and foraging behavior by different worker subcastes of
several ant species.

Lynch continued his long-term studies of the ecology and
evolutionary biology of plethodontid salamanders in temperate
and tropical areas of the New World. This research, which has
been conducted in collaboration with colleagues at the University
of California, Berkeley, and the University of Chicago, is currently
focusing on the degree of ecological and genetic differentiation
associated with speciation events in Middle America salamanders
of the genera Bolitoglossa, Chiropterotriton, and Pseudoeurycea.

Recent results of this research indicate an unexpectedly ancient
origin for many living salamander species, despite the fact that
these amphibians tend to show only slight morphological differ-
ences. For example, electrophoretic data suggest that a newly
described Guatemalan species (Bolitoglossa meliana) diverged from
the other members of its species group some 10-15 million years
ago.

Science / 73
Lynch and Whigham’s work on the effects of forest fragmen-
tation on Maryland bird communities was expanded to include
studies of habitat relationships of neotropical migrants on their
wintering ground in the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico. Along with
Eugene Morton of the National Zoo, they studied habitat relation-
ships of the hooded warbler (Wilsonia citrina), Kentucky warbler
(Oporonis formosus), and approximately twenty other migratory
warblers, vireos, and flycatchers. Results to date indicate that each
migrant species responds to a unique combination of habitat factors
on its wintering grounds. For example, the density of hooded
warblers is primarily a function of the amount of tree-canopy
cover and the density of shrubs in the forest understory. The
researchers were also able to demonstrate statistically significant
differences in bird frequency between humid and dry forests. This
was particularly obvious for the hooded warbler, which was
encountered in over 90 percent of the survey points in the humid
evergreen forest, with an average density of 1.2 birds per survey
point. In drier forests, the density of hooded warblers was only
about .4 birds per survey point. The white-eyed vireo was the
only migrant that was present at substantially higher densities in
areas of dry forest.

James Lynch and Edward Balinsky continued to monitor small
mammals at cpces and began intensive monitoring of mammal
populations at three additional sites that are being used to study
the impacts of mammals on propagules of important tree species.
These studies now are being conducted in a recently cleared field,
a 35-year-old successional forest, and in two old-aged hardwood
forests. At each site, a 50 m X 20 m deer exclosure has been
constructed, and small mammal populations are monitored both
inside and outside the exclosures. Peromyscus leucopus (white-
footed mouse) is the dominant small mammal at all sites.

Whigham, Lynch, and Balinsky, by using exclosures that also
exclude mice, have been able to demonstrate that Peromyscus is
the primary predator of seeds of common oaks and _hickories.
Rodent predation is less important on small-seeded trees (e.g.,
black cherry, Prunus serotina; dogwood, Cornus florida) and is
especially low on the wind-dispersed seeds of tulip popular (Lirio-
dendron tulipifera) and sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua). Long-
term studies of seedling survivorship in the same tree species are

74 / Smithsonian Year 1982
being conducted at all sites both inside and outside the mammal
exclosures.

Seed density manipulation studies showed that seeds of nut-
bearing trees are removed most rapidly at high densities, but that
almost all seeds are ultimately eaten by rodents and deer. Forest
trees produced numerous seeds in 1981, the first mast year in the
last seven, and Whigham and Lynch were able to test the hypoth-
esis that more seeds escape predation in years of heavy fruit pro-
duction. Compared to years with lower seed production, seeds were
removed more slowly in the fall of 1981, but almost all seeds had
nevertheless been removed by the spring. Seedlings of most tree
species surveyed were only found in areas from which predators
were excluded. Beech (Fagus grandifolia) was an exception, and
numerous seedlings of this species were present throughout the
forest in the spring of 1981. Cohorts of beech seedlings have been
marked in permanent plots and their growth and mortality is
being monitored.

Dennis Whigham has continued his long-term studies of forest
herb populations, and has completed a study of nutrient and
biomass allocation patterns in the cranefly orchid (Tipularia
discolor). He demonstrated that for 13 micro- and macro-nutrients,
Tipularia assimilates more nutrients from the soil than were trans-
located from storage structures during periods of rapid growth of
leaves and reproduction structures. These results constitute addi-
tional evidence that woodland herbs may play an important role
in nutrient cycling in forests. Results also suggest that large
nutrient storage structures, which are common to most forest
herbs, may be important mainly as adaptations to enable the
plants to survive heavy predation.

EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH

Over the past few years, the education staff has been investigating
the effects of school field trips on learning among elementary-
school children. In a recent collaborative effort with the National
Zoological Park, specific types of pre-trip teaching materials were
developed, and the learning resulting from a single-visit field trip
to the Zoo was assessed. Although there was significant variation
among the experimental conditions, all classes who visited the Zoo
showed a great deal of learning from a very structured tour of the

Science / 75
aquatic mammal area. For educators, a natural question arose: For
learning, how important was it that the students actually went to
the Zoo? Might they not have performed better if they had
received the same information in the classroom, free from the
distractions of a field trip?

A study conducted by John Falk and John Balling, with the
assistance of Ellen Goldstein, attempted to answer these questions.
Essentially, the same “tour” of the aquatic mammal area of the
Zoo was given to classrooms of fourth-grade children, similar to
those in the original study, using a slide/lecture presentation
format. Pre- and post-tests were used to assess learning. The
results showed that the students who received the “tour” in the
classroom learned significantly less than the children who visited
the Zoo. These findings are further confirmation of the pedagogical
efficacy of field trips.

In another museum-related study, John Falk spent two months
in India investigating field-trip learning at the National Museum
of Natural History in New Delhi. In a series of previous studies,
Falk and his colleagues at the center have shown that the learner’s
perception of the museum setting dramatically affects learning.

In particular, the relative novelty of the setting can impinge
upon learning so much as to totally deflect the best efforts of both
exhibit designers and museum instructors. In his India study, Falk
tried to investigate three issues:

1. determine whether novel field-trip phenomena are a general
human experience or primarily an American/Western experience;

2. test the relative importance of “exhibit quality” versus
“novelty effects” on learner behavior; and

3. determine whether “novelty effects’ can be ameliorated in
the relatively short time available for the field trip.

The experiment involved 320 Delhi fourth- and fifth-form
school children participating in a school field trip to the museum.
Upon arrival at the museum, classes were divided in half and taken
on museum tours that began at different locations. Therefore, the
students in each group stopped in front of the target exhibitions
and received a prearranged lecture/discussion at different times
relative to the beginning of the tour. If exhibition quality was the
most salient factor affecting behavior and learning, no differences
should exist between the behavior of children in front of an

76 / Smithsonian Year 1982
exhibition, regardless of when during the tour they encounter it.
If factors such as novelty and fatigue played an important role,
behaviors should significantly differ as a function of time. The
‘dependent measure was an “on-task,” “off-task,” nonverbal
behavior, observational instrument developed by Falk in work at
the center and the British Museum (Natural History) in London.

Preliminary data analysis showed that behaviors, which were
highly correlated with cognitive learning, were significantly differ-
ent in front of the same exhibition, depending upon whether it was
viewed early or late in the tour. Consistent with previous research,
children spent more time attending to the exhibit and the lecturing
docent at the end of the tour, after having time to acclimate to
their setting. Early into their visit, more than half the time, chil-
dren were attending to everything but the intended lesson.

A major new initiative undertaken by the Education Program
in 1982, is a National Science Foundation—funded research project
to investigate the role of the family in the promotion and main-
tenance of scientific literacy in America. In collaboration with
educators at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, John Balling
and Deborah Hilke are conducting a series of studies designed to
examine parent-child interactions with regard to science-related
topics. As part of the first investigation, an attempt is being made
to determine what aspects of family interactions children and
adults view as important to the success of their exchanges. A
relatively novel application of a well-known psychological measure-
ment technique termed the “Q-sort,” which has been used
extensively in personality assessment, is being employed to gather
data on attitudes toward family interactions.

Preliminary analyses of the data on children have shown that
dimensions such as the amount of personal freedom and imagina-
tion permitted, the amount of responsibility required, and the
degree to which the adults and children work cooperatively or
independently underlie their judgments. It is hoped that after both
more adult and child data are acquired, points of intergenerational
conflict and agreement regarding family interactions can be identi-
fied. Such information should help developers of materials design
more successful family activities.

In a postdoctoral research study, Judy Diamond and Alan Bond
investigated family learning from an ethological perspective. In

Science / 77
particular, they investigated mechanisms of cultural transmission,
which were described in terms of the behavioral interactions
between fathers and their children as they fished from a pier on
Maryland’s Eastern Shore. Verbal and nonverbal behaviors were
analyzed, and the patterns of association in the behavioral reper-
toire were described in detail. A wide variety of transmission
techniques were revealed, ranging from behavioral clusters sug-
gestive of modeling or simple showing, to complex combinations of
behaviors involved in teaching. Based upon their study, Diamond
and Bond suggest that the behaviors used to transmit information
vary systematically with both the specific content of the trans-
mitted information and the social role of the actor or person doing
the transmitting. Diamond and Bond conclude that, while certain
information transmission behaviors—such as showing or naming—
have similar functions in adults and children, others—such as
giving praise and telling—have different functional associations,
depending on age. These contrasting sequences of development
may reflect a fundamental distinction in the ontogeny of complex
behavior patterns.

Another longstanding research interest at the cpces has been
environmental influences on human behavior and the ways in
which human preferences for various landscapes are formed. John
Balling and John Falk have been exploring the effects that man’s
evolutionary history may have on these preferences. Underlying
much of their work is the hypothesis that human evolution, in
large part, took place along or near river courses in the East
African savanna. Preferences for natural settings with scattered
trees, short grass, and some type of water body may, therefore,
reflect an innate preference for the environment in which much
of our biological (and psychological) apparatus evolved.

Previous research by Balling and Falk have shown strong prefer-
ences by Americans for savannalike settings. In order to validate
these findings in light of evolutionary, rather than cultural, influ-
ences, cross-cultural data were required. Last year, Falk collected
data from two populations of Nigerians living in the rain forest
of West Africa. This year, he collected comparable data from
urban and rural Indians. These subjects possess very different
cultural and environmental experiences than the North American
populations previously sampled. Preliminary analysis of the data

78 / Smithsonian Year 1982
showed an overwhelming preference by Indians for savanna over
all other biomes sampled. Earlier analysis revealed the same pattern
for Nigerians. These cross-cultural findings lend strong support
to Falk and Balling’s evolutionary basis for landscape preference
theory.

EDUCATION MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT

Two major educational materials development projects were carried
out during the year, one for families and one for early adolescents.
The Smithsonian Family Learning Project (srr) is a series of
family-activity packets for hands-on exploration of home science
topics such as: home energy, houseplant and lawn ecology, food
science, and pets. The srip staff of John Falk, Laurie Greenberg,
Jamie Harms, and Vicki Dedrickson was involved with intensive
testing and revision for eventual publication and widespread
dissemination of the materials. Both workshops and monthly
mailings to over 1,200 families in 43 states provided evaluative
information for revision of both text and graphics. Press coverage
through the Smithsonian News Service, the Christian Science
Monitor, the NBC “Today Show,” and a variety of syndicated
radio shows has given the srip exposure to families and profes-
sionals across the U.S. The project staff is currently working with
Smithsonian Exposition Books to publish the activity packets.
Growing out of increasing national concern for the declining
scientific competence and literacy of American youth, the National
Science Foundation awarded the center a grant to develop science
materials for early adolescents in out-of-school contexts. The
project, entitled Science Activities for Informal Learning (sarz), is
directed by John Falk and co-coordinated by Barbara Steinberg
and Gary Heath. Cathy Brady is a materials developer on the
project, and John Balling serves as a consultant. In sat’s first year
as a pilot project, its staff has developed several dozen science-
related activities to be done in a potential cross-age teaching
situation, namely that of babysitting, in which the adolescent can
assume some aspects of an adult role. Interest in the project and
its materials has been expressed by a wide variety of informal and
formal educators and groups such as the Girl Scouts, Red Cross,
school and community service programs such as Head Start, and

Science / 79
museums and science centers within the Smithsonian and elsewhere
around the country.

The National Air and Space Museum

The National Air and Space Museum (nasm) has continued to
fulfill the expectations of its public by expanding its integrated
series of programs in research, exhibitions, collections manage-
ment, education, and public service. Building upon a base that has
satisfied more than 55,000,000 visitors, the museum opened a
series of new exhibits, produced a number of significant publica-
tions, and laid the foundation for a research effort of even greater
potential than its current one.

It is characteristic of Nasm that plans for research, exhibits and
collections management are closely tied together so that efforts in
one area can benefit another. This emphasis in cutting across
boundaries is especially important in the fields of education and
public service; the museum feels that the diffusion of knowledge is
equally important to the increase of knowledge. As a result of this
coordinated effort, the components of the museum work together
like a finely tuned watch in a imaginative, innovative cost effective
operation.

Three major research efforts began in fiscal year 1982. The
Aeronautics Department began work in earnest on a four-volume
history of aviation, intended to be the definitive work in the field.
In a parallel endeavor, the Department of Space Science and Ex-
ploration established the framework for the compilation of a
history of the Space Telescope. As part of a nationwide system
for the storing and research of planetary mission data, agreements
have been made with the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration (NASA) to establish Nasm’s Center for Earth and Planetary
Studies as one of eight Regional Planetary Image Facilities located
in the United States. The center, cosponsored by nasa and the
Smithsonian Institution, will provide access to planetary images
and other data for investigators from nearby colleges and universi-
ties, as well as continue its archival role for data acquired by lunar
and planetary missions.

80 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Rockets reach for the stars in this unusual view
of the National Air and Space Museum.
Both the Aeronautics and Space Science and Exploration depart-
ments continued their research in a number of other major areas,
but with particular concentration on the study, care, and docu-
mentation of the artifacts in the collection. An important oral
history project is under way to record and transcribe interviews
with prominent participants in the last thirty years of space as-
tronomy. Visiting scholars will continue to be invited to deliver
seminars on the history of space science and exploration; T. Keith
Glennan (nasa’s first administrator) and John Naugle (former
chief scientist for NASA) were among those involved in the program
this year.

An investigation by the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
(cers) of the distribution and orientation of Martian structures
indicates that the formation of the structures was primarily due
to the weight of the Tharsis volcanic province on the crust of the
planet; additional sources of compression are needed to account
for the planet-wide occurrence of such landforms. Comparisons
of martian and Egyptian desert features were completed during
the year and are being published by nasa. Analysis of lunar
orbital geochemical data has proven useful for mapping the extent
of volcanic units on the surface and subsurface, where impact
craters have exposed older geologic units. Some areas of the Moon
that were thought to be ancient anorthositic crust now appear
to represent the earliest volcanic deposits, some of which may be
present in the Apollo 16 suite of lunar samples.

In November 1981, soil and sand samples taken in the Western
Desert of Egypt along the flight track of the Space Shuttle
Columbia were used to calibrate the Shuttle Multispectral Infrared
Radiometer results. Over twenty-five published works resulted
from research by the cers staff this fiscal year. Joint research in the
Sinai with the Suez Canal University was initiated with studies of
enhanced Landsat images of the northern Sinai peninsula. The
center is now operating under the direction of Dr. Ted Maxwell.
In July, cers’s research director, Dr. Farouk El-Baz, left the center
to join private industry.

Naso research was also reflected in the expanded series of pub-
lications which have been well received by the public and well
reviewed by the critics. Museum personnel have created an exten-
sive publishing program, which includes everything from popular

82 / Smithsonian Year 1982
books to scholarly works. These publications are listed in Ap-
pendix 6.

The three nasm—produced publications entered in the 1982 Blue
Pencil Awards (sponsored by the National Association of Govern-
ment Communicators) each won awards: first place in the category
of books for the Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum
catalogue; second place in popular publications exceeding sixteen
pages went to the exhibition booklet, Jet Aviation: Threshold to a
New Era; and third place in the category of brochures for the NAsM
Langley Theater brochure.

The creation of exhibitions requires a similar degree of research
that a book does, and often an exhibition will result in the cor-
rollary publication of a book. The major exhibition for the year,
25 Years of Space Exploration, opened on July 1, 1982. Using film,
photographs, space artifacts, and memorabilia, the exhibition
recalls those tumultuous years that saw not only tremendous
achievements in space, but remarkable and sometimes shattering
social and cultural changes. The theme of twenty-five years of
space exploration will be reinforced with lectures planned for the
anniversary of the Sputnik launch in October and the U.S. launch
of Explorer 1 the following January. A joint symposium on the
subject will be held in October 1982, in association with the
National Academy of Sciences, which also opened a space art
exhibit, using pieces from NasmM’s collection.

In addition to 25 Years of Space Exploration eight other major
exhibitions were opened.

Black Wings: The American Black in Aviation opened in Sep-
tember 1982, depicting the previously untold story of American
black aviators from Eugene Bullard’s service in France in World
War I, to the black astronauts assigned to the space program. A
model of the World War II P-51 Mustang and the fighter used by
the Tuskegee airmen are also exhibited. The exhibition highlights
much new information and many photographs not previously
displayed.

Other exhibitions during the year included: a show of twenty-
eight works of art documenting various aspects of the Space
Shuttle program; Aerial Aircraft Carriers, the history of aerial
carriers (mother-ships) and the vehicles they carry; Jacqueline
Cochrane—World Record Holder, focused on the outstanding

Science / 83
forty-year career of this aviation pioneer; The Flying Roosevelts,
a photo exhibition documenting the many uses of the airplane by
Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt, in keeping with the Smithsonian
Institution’s commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of
the birth of Franklin Delano Roosevelt; Solar Challenger, the air-
craft that made aviation history by flying across the English
Channel, powered only by energy generated from sunlight; USS
Enterprise, an eleven-foot model of the aircraft carrier, including
its eighty-three model airwing, built by and donated to the
museum by Stephen Henninger; and a display of fifty aircraft
models all in one case.

Nasm’s third imax film, Flyers, opened in the Langley Theater
on August 6. The film, sponsored by Conoco, Inc., is a new
departure in the genre, being an action drama featuring the exploits
of a fictional World War II Navy pilot, who continues his love of
flying by restoring aircraft and doing stunt work for films. Flying
sequences show many different types of aircraft ranging from soar-
ing sailplanes to modern jets. The other two max films, To Fly
and Living Planet, continue to draw large audiences, and the
theater operates at near capacity at all times. The ten-millionth
visitor to the Langley Theater was welcomed on July 20, 1982.

A new presentation opened in the Albert Einstein Spacearium
in September. Entitled Probe, the planetarium show is an odyssey
that transports visitors to the surface of Venus, through Jupiter’s
system of satellites, and past the ringed world of Saturn, explain-
ing how the spacecrafts’ journeys were made, and detailing some
of the lessons learned by these spectacular voyages. The previous
attraction New Eyes on the Universe drew almost one million
visitors during its two-year run.

Besides the intensive work that results in major exhibitions and
publications, the museum has a constant goal of making it easy
and interesting for the public to use its facilities for other than a
standard museum visit. Nasm’s public service efforts during the
year included a wide variety of offerings. Among the best received
of these were:

The fifth anniversary of the Paul E. Garber Facility was
celebrated in April with a festive five-day open house for the
public. Staff from all offices of Nasm and docents were on hand
to welcome, assist, and answer questions of the more than 8,500

84 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Area visitors tour the NAsm’s Paul E. Garber Facility, which celebrated its fifth anni-
versary in April with a 5-day open house.
enthusiastic visitors who toured the facility. The opportunity to
climb into airplane cockpits for photograph sessions, to watch
and question the restoration staff while they worked, and to freely
tour three buildings on their own were some of the visitor high-
lights of the celebration.

“D.C. Day,” was held in February; five hundred junior-high-
school students from the District of Columbia spent a day at NASM.
Activities included an opening talk by Space Shuttle astronaut
Frederick Gregory, demonstrations by Nnasm staff members on
building kites, model rockets and airplanes, photo-taking opportu-
nities in the galleries, and a display of Space Shuttle art, with
paintings done by the students themselves.

The sixth annual Frisbee Festival was held in September. This
popular event drew 15,000 people to the Mall to watch demonstra-
tions by Frisbee champions—both human and canine—and_ to
attend workshops offered at several levels of proficiency.

A new, free daytime international concert series, held in coopera-
tion with area embassies, was inaugurated during the spring and
summer, with performing groups from around the globe, and
evening concerts were also presented by the Navy’s Commodores.

The ever-popular free aviation and space-fiction films presented
on fall and winter evenings were shown in the Langley Theater.
Nine aviation lectures were also held in the theater, and 81 live
lectures were presented in the Albert Einstein Spacearium.

The museum’s Briefing Room was used for live lecture demon-
strations for school groups and also for three mini-lecture series,
presented during the year by NAsm curators, on topics of aero-
nautics, astronomy, and current events in space science.

The museum continued to support the National and Resident
Associate programs through staff lectures and use of the building
for over 126 activities this past year. Increased use of nasM facili-
ties for special events and events by outside organizations num-
bered 58, with sponsorship of lectures and special events by
outside organizations increasing.

In April, three dozen science writers from the Washington, D.C.,
area spent a day behind the scenes at the Garber Facility and at
the museum’s Center for Earth and Planetary Studies. The program
was sponsored by the local chapter of the National Association of
Science Writers, and was coordinated by nasm’s Office of Public

86 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Affairs and Museum Services and the Smithsonian Institution’s
Office of Public Affairs. The writers also toured the National
Museum of Natural History.

Nasm served over 100,000 visitors through 4,100 tours and
theater and spacearium reservations. In addition to the regularly
featured tours, three new tours have been added: a group “tour
of the month,” emphasizing a particular theme or anniversary, a
highlight tour designed for the mentally retarded and learning
disabled, and a summer family tour for parents and children.

The nasm educational staff presented classroom lectures to
Washington, D.C.’s, Dunbar High School students on topics such
as early flight, aerospace heroes, rocketry, and the Space Shuttle;
these lectures were then followed by visits to related exhibition
galleries in the museum.

On a larger scale, through the training of regional resource
persons, 800 sessions were presented nationwide to 24,000 people
in 28 states. Presentations on the principles of flight were made
to students, local teachers, senior citizen groups, and the general
public at local libraries, schools, nursing homes, and banks.

This year’s intern program for graduate and undergraduate
students included opportunities for twenty-two students—the
museum’s most successful intern program to date.

The collections management program of the museum was en-
hanced with the establishment of a new documentation storage
center at the Garber Facility, which will be maintained under strict
controls for humidity and temperature. The center will support
the museum’s archival and reference services by providing addi-
tional storage for the museum’s extensive document and photo-
graph collections. Over one-half-million photographs from the
Wright Field collection were sorted and boxed and will be moved
into the new storage center along with archival material stored at
- the North Capitol Street building and in other areas at the Garber
Facility.

Nasm’s videodisc image storage and retrieval project, initiated
by the Atherton Seidell program, has proven to be an outstanding
success and is the subject of great interest by not only museums
and universities but also by commercial firms. A keyword indexing
system is also being developed to support this disc.

Computerization of the registrar’s manual records and report-

Science / 87
ing systems—including computer-generated accession memoranda,
donor listings, and gallery listings—was completed. Information
will continue to be added as it is received.

The nasm inventory project is nearing completion. All space
artifacts have been inventoried, and the remainder of the aero-
nautical inventory is being reconciled. The total Nasm inventory
project will be completed by January 1983.

The Space Science and Exploration Department implemented its
five-year collections plan by acquiring new, scientific artifacts of
the space program both in the area of space astronomy and manned
space flight. An archival and preservation task force was estab-
lished to carry out and monitor the acquisition of documents re-
lated to the artifact collection and their preservation. A major goal
of rationalizing loans of space artifacts to other museums was
reached with the establishment of a departmental loan committee
to review computer-inventoried loans.

Three aircraft restorations were completed in fiscal year 1982:
Ecker Flying Boat, Benoist Type XII, and deHavilland DH-4. Work
continues on several other important aircraft. An intensive preser-
vation program at the Garber Facility has been initiated to method-
ically clean and preserve the entire collection of aircraft. Twenty
aircraft were preserved this year.

The aeronautics collection was augmented by the addition of
a Lockheed U-2, Martin B-57, Monocoupe, and Farman Sport. The
B-57 is the first of Nasm’s aircraft to be stored at Dulles Interna-
tional Airport.

Noel W. Hinners resigned his position as director on June 8,
1982, to become the director of the Goddard Space Flight Center.
Walter Boyne was appointed acting director, and a search com-
mittee to fill the position of director was established by Dr. David
Challinor.

National Museum of Man,
Center for the Study of Man

NATIONAL HUMAN STUDIES FILM CENTER

Dr. E. Richard Sorenson, director of the National Human Studies
Film Center, and Tibetan research assistant Ragpa Dorjee filmed in

88 / Smithsonian Year 1982
1982 at Gyudmed Tantric Monastery of the Gohe Samaje—one of
the most advanced and disciplined centers of learning in the
Tibetan system—recording ceremonial events that only highly
initiated and educated monks have hitherto been allowed to see.
At Dzonkar Choede, one of the most ancient monasteries of Tibet,
now transplanted to South India, Sorenson and Dorjee also re-
ceived permission to film the annual Mahayasksha Cham cere-
mony. With the work in those two South India monasteries, the
researchers obtained for the first time in history, research film
footage of the training and development of traditional Tibetan
monks. Such monks played crucial roles in Tibetan history.

The Research Report Film “Jyapu: Industrious Productivity as
Life Style,” prepared under the direction of Dr. Sorenson with the
participation of the scholars of the Royal Nepal Academy to com-
memorate the Academy’s Silver Anniversary, was shown at the
Smithsonian Institution in May and at the celebrations in Nepal in
June. The film was praised by the Chancellor of the Royal Nepal
Academy. Since then, it has been shown to numerous groups, in-
cluding academics and students in several countries as well as the
United States.

Significant fiscal and logistical support was provided by the
Royal Government of Bhutan so that Dr. Sorenson could survey
Bhutan for sites where traditional Bhutanese culture could be
filmed. Several promising sites were identified.

In Micronesia, Dr. Sorenson’s research project, “The Artistic
Lifestyle of the Western Caroline Islands,” continued on the most
traditional atoll left in the Pacific. A detailed photographic and
community census, prepared by Project Coordinator Mathias
Maradol, is being used as part of the preliminary annotation of the
research film record.

HUMAN STUDIES FILM ARCHIVES

On October 1, 1981, the National Human Studies Film Center was
restructured to emphasize film preservation in a new component:
the Human Studies Film Archives. The purpose of the archives
is to locate, acquire, preserve, and document film and video mate-
rials of non-Western and Western cultures for research.

Pamela Wintle, formerly of the Film Center, is responsible for
the day-to-day management of the archives. Assisting her in

Science / 89
From the files of the new Human Studies Film Archives comes this photograph of
Berber Nomad girls, Sahara Desert, Algeria, 1930. (Photographer, George L. Waite)
developing archival policy is Dr. Herman Viola, Director of the
National Anthropological Archives, and an advisory group of
professionals reflecting various dsciplines.

The first six months of fiscal year 1982 were used to effect the
restructure, to conduct an inventory of the holdings, to move the
archives and the cold-storage film vault into the National Museum
of Natural History, and to establish office systems. Subsequently,
priority has been given to designing archival procedures and
establishing the technology for acquistion, preservation, control,
and research use of the current collection and future acquisitions.
A new, enlarged, cold-storage film vault was designed, and con-
struction will begin in January 1983.

National Museum of Natural History

EXHIBITIONS

At the National Museum of Natural History (NmMNnu), the paleo-
biology halls in December 1981 returned to the public eye one of
the Smithsonian’s most popular attractions—the dinosaurs.

Rearranged for better viewing, interpreted by new textual in-
formation, and integrated with displays of other reptiles, plants,
and animals that lived in the same age, the huge beasts are once
more delighting and awing visitors.

The nmnu has added to the company of its dozen older mounted
dinosaurs some spectacular new attractions, one of which is
antrodemus, a fierce flesh-eater with powerful gaping jaws, posed
in full stride in pursuit of another dinosaur. Soaring overhead is
a life-sized model of the reptile Quetzalcoatlus northropi. Its
forty-foot wingspan makes it the largest flying animal on record—
twice as large as any bird that ever lived.

The old dinosaur exhibition was shut down for an extended
period during the early stages of the reorganization of the muse-
ums’s paleobiology halls into the large, all-encompassing exhibi-
tion Fossils: The History of Life. Eight highlights in the complex
are now open, with seven others in various stages of planning
and construction.

All of the evolutionary events in the fossil complex are indexed

Science / 91
oy
a
Sc
Pad
o
isi
2)
oO
wn
fo}
&
me)
ao}
o
G
BS
rQ
tol
=]
NH
a)
=
a)
eo)
Z
=
ZZ,
Co)
fe,
~
H
a)
=<
o)
wn
Lael
oO
°
wn
H
5
w
wn
io)
. =
o
oo}
Q
Las]
SS
lo)
Oo
wo
°
&
o)
N
st)
1
co)
4
&
G
FR

tion. Below. Vacuuming the backbone of the diplodocus was part of the preparation

for opening the new Dinosaur Hall.

and illustrated on a spectacular new twenty-seven-foot-high
“Time Column” at the entrance of the Dinosaur Hall.

The public can view the dinosaurs and the Time Column from
a new west balcony that is connected to the hall’s existing east
balcony by a cantilevered ramp. On the west balcony—which can
be entered from the second-floor rotunda balcony—are five huge
monolithic slabs of fossil resources, illustrating how over eons of
geological time plant and animal remains have been concentrated
into valuable mineral wealth.

The outstanding event of the museum’s 1982 special exhibition
season was the opening on June 18 of inua: spirit world of the
bering sea eskimo in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery. This large
exhibition drew upon one of the museum’s hidden treasures—the
unparalleled collection of Eskimo ethnological material acquired
100 years ago by Edward W. Nelson. On explorations along the
Bering Sea Coast by dog sled, kayak, and on foot, Nelson collected
some 10,000 ethnological artifacts, ranging from wooden cere-
monial masks to clothing, household implements, and carved ivory
hunting equipment. Rich in technology, art, and religious sym-
bolism, the comprehensiveness of the collection and its careful
documentation make it the finest Eskimo collection in the world.

The idea of mounting a big exhibition of Nelson material was
suggested in 1979 by Ann Stevens, the late wife of Senator Ted
Stevens (Republican—Alaska) after she was shown the collection
in the museum’s attic, where it had been carefully preserved for
more than 100 years. Struck by the collection’s beauty and impor-
tance, and the fact that very little of it had ever been placed on
exhibit, the Stevenses urged museum anthropologist, William Fitz-
hugh to organize a traveling exhibition so that the works could
be shared by other Americans. Fitzhugh and anthropologist Susan
_ Kaplan took the collection down from the attic and gave it the
first comprehensive study of this century, writing a 300-page
scholarly catalog to accompany the exhibition (with nmnu Archae-
ologist Emeritus Henry B. Collins contributing an essay on
Nelson).

After the exhibition closes at the museum on January 3, 1983,
a smaller version will be circulated to locations in Alaska and else-
where in the United States and Canada by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Traveling Exhibition Service (sires). It is the first traveling

Science / 93
exhibition ever assembled from NMNH’s ethnological collections.

The Evans Gallery hosted five other superb exhibitions during
fiscal year 1982: China’s Inner Frontier, photographs of the 1923
Wulsin Expedition to Northwest China (October 8—-November 5,
1981); Hopi Kachina: Spirit of Life, a tribute to the unique culture
of Arizona’s Hopi Indians (November 13, 1981—January 3, 1982);
Deep Ocean Photographs, featuring mural-sized U.S. Navy photo-
graphs of a two-mile-high volcanic seamount beneath the Atlantic
Ocean (January 22—April 18, 1982); A New Look at the Work of
Edward Curtis, a sites exhibition, organized by Christopher
Lyman, which raised critical questions about the Curtis photo-
graphs of American Indians (March 4—-April 15, 1982); and
Brazilian Feather Art (May 11—May 31, 1982).

The museum’s Rotunda Balcony Gallery featured Revelations of
Nature, nature photographs by Frank Greenwell (October 6—De-
cember 6, 1981); Botanical Prints, by Henry Evans (December 9,
1981-February 7, 1982); Artist and Botanist: A Collaboration,
orchid watercolors by Dr. Regina O. Hughes (February 13-
April 11, 1982); The Tarahumara, sculptures and drawings of the
Tarahumara people of Mexico by George Carlson (April 17-
June 13, 1982) and Sigrid James Bruch: Recent Work, oil paintings
of birds and other zoological subjects (June 19—August 15, 1982).

An exhibition of Contemporary North American Indian Art,
sixty-five paintings and sculptures by more than forty leading
North American Indian artists, was shown in the second-floor
special exhibit gallery (March 13—September 12, 1982); Grass
Work of Labrador, a collection of basketry and other craft works,
was on view in the Learning Center Gallery (August 30-
October 30, 1982); and Deep Sea Dives to Biological Frontiers, a
permanent exhibition about communities of unique, deep-sea
organisms living a mile and a half beneath the Pacific Ocean,
opened in the museum’s first-floor Sea Life Hall (February 18,
1982).

ANTHROPOLOGY

Paleopathology, the study of disease and trauma in the people of
the ancient and historical past has enjoyed an increased interest
in recent years—as attested to by many recent articles in the
anthropologic and medical literature. The NmNnu’s large skeleton

94 / Smithsonian Year 1982
collections, which have literally hundreds of examples of skeletal
disease and abnormalities, make it one of the world centers of
paleopathology research. In December 1981, museum physical
anthropologist Donald J. Ortner, in collaboration with Walter G. J.
Putschar, a leading authority on skeletal pathology, published a
monumental 479-page reference work on skeletal paleopathology
titled “Identification of Pathological Conditions in Human Skeletal
Remains” (Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology No. 28).
This book grew out of a paleopathology lecture series presented
annually at the museum by the authors between 1971 and 1974.
The authors have recorded many examples of paleopathology from
the museum’s reference collections and have traveled to museums
of anatomy and pathology throughout the world to examine, cata-
logue, and photograph modern specimens of bone disease and
archaeological remnants. The book has received an enthusiastic
response from the anthropological and medical communities.

North American ethnologist William L. Merrill in 1981 and
1982 continued his research on the Raramuri (Tarahumara) world
view and religion. Little known to most Americans, the 50,000
Raramuris live in many small hamlets scattered over the rugged
sierra and canyon country in southwestern Chihuahau, Mexico,
200 miles southwest of the U.S. border. During 1982 Dr. Merrill
examined museum collections of Raramuri materials at the South-
west Museum, the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural His-
tory, the Museum of Cultural History at the University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles, the Laboratory of Anthropology at the Mu-
seum of New Mexico, and the Maxwell Museum. These materials
provided insights into regional variations and changes through
time in Raramuri material culture.

The computer is being used to file and manipulate this data and
other detailed and complexly interconnected information on the
kinship and social organization among the Raramuri—aspects that
have intrigued Dr. Merrill since his original fieldwork in the
Raramuri country in the 1970s.

Dr. Merrill was also active in the last year in encouraging
American Indian involvement in museums. He coordinated the
loan of Zuni ceramics from the Smithsonian collections for a
traveling exhibition currently being organized by the Zunis. He
also visited the new Acoma museum in New Mexico and selected

Science / 95
appropriate Acoma pieces from the Smithsonian collections to
lend to it.

The Smithsonian, under John Wesley Powell in the late nine-
teenth century, pioneered in studies of North American native
languages. Today it continues its work in this area. The research
has an urgent aspect to it because many of the 200 languages
spoken by North American Indians, Aleuts, and Eskimos are
dying out. The museum’s linguist, Dr. Ives Goddard, in addition
to his linguistic editing of the Handbook of North American
Indians, has been conducting linguistic field work on the Munsee
language on the Moraviantown Indian Reserve, Ontario. This
eastern Algonquian language is believed to be the one spoken by
the native residents of Manhattan Island at the time the Dutch
arrived. Today Munsee is only spoken in two small, surviving
Delaware Indian communities in Oklahoma and Ontario. Since
Dr. Goddard began documenting the vocabulary, pronunciation,
and grammatical structure of the language in Ontario in the 1960s,
the number of speakers has dwindled from forty-two to twenty.

Dr. Goddard also spent a considerable amount of time in fiscal
year 1982 working on the editing and translation of a complete
corpus of native Massachusett writings. Massachusett, the native
language of East Massachusetts, was one of the first native lan-
guages committed to writing in the New World—a project accom-
plished by John Eliot, a missionary. This system, based on English
letters, was used for the first bible printed in America (the first
edition of which was published on a press at the Indian College
in Harvard Yard in 1663) and was subsequently used by Indians
to write many documents. Goddard plans to publish these Massa-
chusett writings in collaboration with Dr. Kathleen J. Bragdon.

BOTANY

On coral reefs, dense populations of herbivorous fish and other
browsing animals feed constantly on seaweeds. To protect them-
selves from this voracious grazing, the algae have evolved a
variety of survival techniques, including the manufacture of potent
and toxic chemical defenses—nature’s equivalent of chemical
warfare.

Marine biologists over the past decade have become increas-
ingly interested in these algal chemical compounds and are study-

96 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ing them for their potential as new drugs, pharmaceuticals, pesti-
cides, and other useful industrial products.

In a collaborative study of “Chemical Defense in Tropical
Marine Algae,” at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, published in 1982,
museum marine botanist James N. Norris and William Fenical, a
chemist at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, reported on the
potency of a variety of unique or unusual natural compounds they
isolated from the green, brown, and red algae on the Caribbean
reef.

When the extracted compounds—which included halogenated
and nonhalogenated terpenoids—were tested in controlled labora-
tory conditions on reef damsel fishes, in most cases they were
either lethal or caused physiological stress. Not surprisingly, field
observations indicate that algae producing these compounds are
not eaten by herbivorous fish and invertebrate reef animals.

The same compounds were tested in the laboratory to see if
they had antibiotic properties. Here again, they often proved effec-
tive. Norris and Fenical report that sometimes a compound did not
harm fish but was toxic to bacteria, suggesting that its role might
be as a defense against free-floating microbial pathogens in the
reef environment.

The nmnu’s botanists sometimes are unable to name a plant in
the field because it lacks the structures (usually flowers or fruits)
that are used for classification. One way to overcome this difficulty
is to collect the living plant (if it is not too large) for cultivation
in the museum’s east courtyard greenhouse, where it can be
observed on a long-term, daily basis. In addition to learning the
plant’s name—and some new species are discovered in this man-
ner—the botanist can learn much about the plant’s reproductive
biology, which can lead to a fuller understanding of its relation-
_ ships and evolution.

Dr. Robert Faden, a specialist on the family Commelinaceae
(dayflowers, spiderworts, and wandering Jews), is finding the
greenhouse invaluable for his research. In recent months, several
Commelinaceae, which are cultivated in the greenhouse, have
flowered for the first time. These include the Bromeliad-like
Cochliostema odoratissimum (originally from Ecuador), whose
large, fragrant, orchid-like flowers suggest a complex pollination
system that is still unknown. Dr. Faden is currently studying the

Science / 97
reproductive biology of several Commelinaceae, including Palisota
hirsuta and Commelina erecta. The former, grown from seeds and
cuttings collected by Dr. Faden in Ghana, has been found to have
an elaborate breeding system—with both hermaphroditic and male
flowers, each with two kinds of pollen—that operates to maximize
cross-pollination. Commelina erecta was first studied by Dr. Faden
in the Big Thicket country of eastern Texas in 1981. Analysis of
the field data and further experiments on the reproductive biology
of plants from Texas are now continuing at the museum.

Other botanical research highlights in the past year included
publication of museum botanist Stanwyn G. Shetler’s book Varia-
tion and Evolution of the Nearctic Harebells. Culminating many
years of work on the perplexing biological variation among the
plants allied to the common harebell or bluebell-of-Scotland,
Shetler’s treatise not only reports his own findings for the New
World but also presented a synthesis of the many other studies
of Eurasian harebells.

ENTOMOLOGY

In an article in the Coleoptera Bulletin, museum entomologist
Terry L. Erwin in 1982 proposed a new and startling answer to a
question that scientists have been guessing at for more than a
century: How many insect species are there in the forests of the
tropics?

Based on his research on the tropical forest canopy of Panama,
and subsequent work at Manaus, Brazil, and at the Tambopata
Nature Reserve in southeastern Peru, Erwin concludes that the
current estimates of arthropod species numbers are far too low.
His findings show that there could be as many as 30 million
species extant globally, not 1.5 million as is usually estimated.

Dr. Erwin points out that it is important to know, when setting
aside tracts of tropical forest for conservation, that small biotopes
are unique to thousands of insect species—many of which could
be beneficial to mankind. Conversely, it is important to know that
with the rapid destruction of tropical forests, many more insect
species are becoming extinct than previously thought.

Erwin’s pioneering field work on the natural history and diver-
sity of the insect fauna of the tropical forest canopy—a virtually
unstudied and unknown habitat 30-55 meters above the forest

98 / Smithsonian Year 1982
floor—is now focusing on Peru, where more than half the arthro-
pod species he is collecting are new to science. Many may have
potential usefulness in forestry, agriculture, and medicine.

Other entomological research highlights during 1981 and 1982
included Dr. Don Davis’s three-month expedition to the southern
deserts and forests of Chile to collect Lepidoptera. Approximately
20,000 moths were collected along with more than 20,000 other
insects. A preliminary survey of the microlepidoptera indicate that
between eighty and ninety percent of the species collected are new.
Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr., published ‘Studies of Neotropical Caddis-
flies XXXIII: New Species from Austral South America (Trichop-
tera)” (Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 377), in which
110 new species and one new genus of caddisflies are described
and illustrated—the largest single group of new caddisfly species
ever described in a single paper.

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, a
600-page volume published in June 1982, was the first in a series
of major publications for an on-going museum project that is the
most exhaustive and comprehensive long-term study of a Carib-
bean coral reef and its surroundings ever taken.

Museum invertebrate zoologist Klaus Ruetzler, coordinator of
the multi-year, interdisciplinary study, was co-author of the book
with museum geologist Ian MacIntyre. The publication contains
thirty-four scholarly accounts of the scientific findings to date.

The book begins with a summary of past work on the Belizean
reefs and cays—an area that had never received any concentrated
scientific attention until two decades ago, even though Charles
Darwin had included the Belizean reefs in his classic 1842 work
on the classification of principal reef types.

Heavily illustrated with color and black-and-white photographs
and illustrations, the book includes in-depth descriptions of the
barrier reef complex and its climate and environment. There are
discussions of distinctive communities, including an unusual sub-
marine cave, and several sections on the flora and fauna inhabiting
the cays, reefs, and surrounding waters.

The latest phase of the study project began in 1982 as Ruetzler
and museum colleagues Gordon Hendler, James Norris, Brian

Science / 99
Kensley, and Kristian Fauchald launched the Smithsonian Western
Atlantic Mangrove Program (swamp), a study of the ecosystem of
shallow-water mangrove islands a few miles away from the cay.
These mud islands, submerged at high tide, are covered with man-
grove trees, the roots of which accumulate and anchor soil, serve
as a nursery for many forms of marine life, and act as a buffer
to protect the reef’s cays from erosion.

Among the many other significant invertebrate-zoology research
achievements during the year were: the discovery of a new pro-
priceptor (position-sensing) organ in the nervous system of nema-
tode worms by Duane Hope and S. L. Gardiner; the publication
of a 549-page volume on the natural history of ‘““The Crayfishes
of Georgia,” by Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., a comprehensive study
based upon some forty-three years of personal field work in a
state that has the richest recorded crayfish fauna of any in the
Americas; the discovery of a new order of crustaceans by Thomas
Bowman; a study of the population genetics of sea urchins by
David Pawson; and the publication of the Audubon Society Field
Guide to North American Seashells, written by Harald A. Rehder.

Museum invertebrate zoologist Robert P. Higgins, in the fall of
1981, conducted two weeks of field work as a guest of the Insti-
tute of Oceanology at Quingdao, a Chinese city on the northern
coast of the Yellow Sea. He is the world’s only authority on the
tiny kinorhynch, a creature belonging to a little-known, but eco-
logically important, marine phylum that lives in ocean sediments
throughout the world. Making day trips in a research vessel pro-
vided by the institute, Higgins was able to collect four or five pre-
viously unknown species. He also lectured on his research in
meiobenthology, the study of very small marine organisms, a
field the Chinese want to develop.

MINERAL SCIENCES

Researchers were intensely occupied throughout the year with the
collection and study of Antarctic meteorites. A large body of new
material was discovered with the help of geophysicist Robert F.
Fudali, who took part in the National Science Foundation Antarctic
Search for Meteorites (ANSMET) expedition in November, Decem-
ber, and January of 1981-1982.

Fudali, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory colleague Ursula

100 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Marvin, and five scientists from the University of Pittsburgh and
other institutions, spent six weeks encamped in the Allan Hills
region, northwest of McMurdo Sound. There they used snow-
mobiles to carry out a systematic “clean-up” search of two ice-
field areas that had yielded a considerable amount of meteorite
material in previous years. About 375 meteorites and meteorite
fragments were recovered—a record for an Allan Hills expedition.
Fudali located a forty-two-pound iron meteorite, the largest find.
The material included another iron, six achondrites, four carbona-
ceous chondrites, and several enigmatics. Most of the remainder
are ordinary chondrites.

As part of a joint NSF-NASA—SI program, all Antarctic meteorites
are being shipped to the nmnu for characterization and descrip-
tion. A major effort, headed by Roy S. Clarke, Jr., is going into
the study of Antarctic metal-rich meteorites. Brian Mason is han-
dling the basic classification and description of all meteorites col-
lected by nsF expeditions as well as those collected by expeditions
organized by the National Institute of Polar Research of Japan,
in Tokyo, where he spent May and June 1982 as an invited
scientist.

Dr. Kurt Fredriksson attended the Seventh Symposium on
Antarctic Meteorites in Tokyo and delivered a paper on chondrule
analysis. During the year, he completed and published his work
on the ultrafine matrix in chondrites (the most primitive and
abundant class of stony meteorites). This matrix may represent the
earliest condensate from the solar nebula. As an extension of this
work Dr. Fredriksson worked at the ion-microprobe analyzing
facility of the Max Planck Institute in Mainz, Federal Republic of
Germany, looking for magnesium isotope anomalies in certain
unusual aggregates that possibly also represent the earliest con-
densates of the solar system. During this study, the preparation
of samples, using highly sophisticated techniques, was accom-
plished through the volunteer work of two geology graduates
from Carleton College and Purdue, working closely with Dr.
Fredriksson.

PALEOBIOLOGY

Museum paleontologist Richard Grant, in 1981 undertook the first
major collecting field trip to be made by a Smithsonian scientist

Science / 101
on the Chinese mainland during the modern era. His five-week
rock and fossil collecting trip, covering a broad swath of the huge
country, was arranged under an agreement between the Smith-
sonian and the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Dr. Grant and
Professor Jin Yu-gan of the Nanjing Institute of Geology and
Paleontology are cooperating on a study of the 240-million-year-
old brachiopods of the Permian Age that are found in South China.

Grant traveled in China with three Chinese geologists and a
Chinese technician, collecting at sites on the Yuangtze River,
Guiyang in Guizhou Province, Laibin and Heshan in Quangzi
Province, and Nanning near the Vietnamese border.

More than 700 pounds of silicified Permian material was col-
lected and shipped to the museum where it is now undergoing
acid processing. Professor Jin Yu-gan made a reciprocal visit to
the NMNH from January to September 1982 and, while here,
traveled to Permian brachiopod sites in the Glass Mountains of
Texas and the Great Basin.

Museum paleobiologist Richard H. Benson continued to work
on two long-range projects during the year. The first of these—
the study of sudden events in deep-sea history—depends upon the
processing of deep-sea-drilling project cores for ostracodes. Empha-
sis is focused on tracing the evolution of the South Atlantic
Ocean, especially with respect to its Cenozoic history. Since Creta-
ceous events provide the geologic setting for the Cenozoic, Benson
is attempting to demonstrate the Cretaceous depths of the Rio
Grande Rise and the Walvis Ridge. Dr. Jeon Peypouquet, Univer-
sity of Bordeaux, France, collaborates with Dr. Benson in this
research.

The second project, begun four years ago, is a study of ostra-
code skeletal allometry with special attention to both ontogenetic
and phylogenetic change. Benson is currently studying the ostra-
code genus Poseidonamicus; a companion study is a comparison
among primate skulls.

Curator Thomas R. Waller’s systematic revision of the living
scallops of the world’s oceans is a program of broad scope that
will continue for many years. The project involves use of the
scanning electron microscope to observe the microstructure of
scallop shells of many growth stages and from many environ-

102 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ments, including specimens from bathyal and abyssal depths
dredged by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and Texas
A&M University. The evolutionary origins of groups of scallops
are being traced by study of fossils dating back 230 million years
to the dawn of the Mesozoic Era.

Molluscan research in related areas is concentrating on some
nonscallops, with two other projects begun this year; one is an
investigation of periostracal mineralization in the Lithophaginae,
a subfamily of the Mytilidae, or mussels. Some preliminary results
of this work were given in July at a symposium on shell micro-
structure during the annual meeting of the American Malacologi-
cal Union in New Orleans. Waller’s talk was entitled ‘“Mineraliza-
tion in the Periostracum of Lithophaga nigra (Mollusca: Bivalvia)
and its Taxonomic Implications.”

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

It has long been generally believed that Hawaii was an unspoiled
paradise when the English explore Captain James Cook and other
Europeans first saw it in the late eighteenth century, and that only
after their arrival on the scene did the alarmingly rapid disappear-
ance of the islands’ unique animals and plants begin. But a study
by museum paleobiologists Storrs L. Olson and Helen F. James
now establishes solid evidence that by the time of European
arrival the Hawaiian Archipelago had already been drastically
altered and despoiled by prehistoric Polynesians.

Olson and James reported in the August 13, 1982, Science mag-
agazine that an analysis of tens of thousands of bird fossils, found
in recent years on five of the main Hawaiian Islands, shows that
at least thirty-nine species of native birds vanished in the rela-
tively short period between A.D. 400-600 (when the Polynesians
colonized the islands) and Cook’s arrival in 1778.

Gone forever was about half of the islands’ incredibly diversi-
fied and rich assemblage of unique native land birds: seven species
of geese (many of them flightless), two species of flightless ibises,
a sea eagle, a small hawk, seven flightless rails, three species of
owls, two large crows, one honeyeater, and at least fifteen finches.

The distribution of many of the surviving species also was
altered. In many cases, populations that were once found through-

Science / 103
out the islands remained only on individual islands. Some species
were extremely rare by the time the Europeans arrived and shortly
thereafter became extinct.

The Polynesian residents in Hawaii hunted birds for food and
decorative feathers. However, it would have been impossible for
them, with the limited technology available, to have hunted to
extinction many of the populations of small forest birds. Ulti-
mately, in the opinion of Olson and James, the cause of most of
the prehistoric extinctions of Hawaiian birds was the burning of
lowland forest habitats. Taro, sweet potatoes, and a variety of
other food plants imported by the Polynesians were planted and
raised in lowland areas that were cleared for cultivation by fire.

Museum scientists Victor Springer and George Zug headed an
expedition to the Fiji Islands in mid-April to early June 1982.
Traveling by ship and plane more than 2,000 miles in and around
Fiji's 180 islands, they assembled an extensive collection of the
region’s fishes, amphibians and reptiles, including many new
genera and species. The expedition was organized as a result of
Springer’s interest in the unusual distributions and relationships
of Indo-Pacific near-shore fishes, which he attributes to the
region’s geotectonic history.

In 1982 Springer published “Pacific Plate Biogeography, with
Special Reference to Shorefishes,” (Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology No. 367). This major study is concerned primarily with
central and western portions of the Pacific Ocean (The Pacific
Plate, which underlies most of the Pacific Ocean, occurs as far
east as the northern Pacific Coast of the Western Hemisphere).

Springer says that in his study he has attempted to mesh the
relatively little that is known about the distributions and relation-
ships of the shorefish fauna of the Pacific Plate with the little that
is known about the geotectonics of the plate. Up to now, scientists
have not made such a connection. In Springer’s view, the tectonic
influences on dispersal, invoked to explain the distributions of
localized terrestrial and freshwater organisms, are equally impor-
tant in explaining the distributions of localized, shallow-dwelling
marine organisms. The volume discusses what is known about the
distributions of 179 shorefish family groups, as well as selected
terrestrial and marine taxa of other organisms. It reviews the com-
plex geotectonic history of the plate and adjacent plate margins

104 / Smithsonian Year 1982
and advances scenarios to explain why the Pacific marine biota—
shorefishes in particular—behave distributionally as they do.

SMITHSONIAN MARINE STATION AT LINK PORT

Under the administrative auspices of the NMNH since March 1981,
the Smithsonian’s marine facility at Fort Pierce, Florida, has ac-
quired a new name during the 1981-82 year. What was formerly
known as the Fort Pierce Bureau, is now officially designated the
Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port. Along with the new
name, a new and expanded program of research has been initiated,
consisting of a multi-bureau cooperative research effort. Contribut-
ing to this research are Smithsonian scientists from the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies (csces), the Radiation Biol-
ogy Laboratory (rBL), and the NMNH, as well as resident scientists,
postdoctoral fellows, and a number of national and international
visiting investigators. For the museum curator or land-bound in-
vestigator, the marine station provides the opportunity to test
hypothesis in the field, where long-term study sites can be estab-
lished and marine organisms kept in culture.

Studies cover a broad range of topics ranging from an investi-
gation of the spectral quality of light in the Indian River Lagoon
to investigations of the ecology, systematics, and life histories of
macroalgae, foraminifera, and a wide variety of invertebrates.

Among this work is Dr. Richard Houbrick’s investigation of the
developmental aspects of a cerithiid snail that inhabits the high
intertidal mangrove flats of the Indian River, and Dr. Joseph Rose-
water’s studies of the histories of littorinid gastropods and the
functional morphology of an unusual sand-burrowing bivalve.
Cinematographic work by Smithsonian biological films producer
Kjell Sandved is helping Rosewater understand how the bivalve
ejects sand as it burrows; Drs. Raymond Manning and C. W.
Hart are studying unknown species of sand-dwelling crustaceans,
which will form the basis for a future quantitative sampling pro-
gram to determine breeding cycles and seasonal variations in
abundances of these species.

A comparative study of the underwater light field in the Indian
River with that of Rhode River, Maryland, was initiated by a
collaborative team headed by Dr. Jack Pierce, nmnu, Dr. David
Correll, csces, and Dr. William Klein, rst. With the help of scien-

Science / 105
On an exploratory trip to the Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port, Florida,

Dr. Raymond Manning of the NMNH uses a sampler to collect stomatopods and cal-
lianassids in the Indian River.
tists at the Harbor Branch Foundation, the Smithsonian team has
measured the intensity and spectral quality of underwater light
and the water-quality parameters that may affect the transmittance
of light through the water column, including levels of chlorophyll,
dissolved organics, and particulate loads. Results to date indicate
higher intensities of light in the Indian River than Rhode River
and a change in the spectral quality, with a shift to greater pene-
tration of the blue-green wave lengths and a higher attenuation
of the orange bands. The study will be continued at different sea-
sons and at times of differing concentrations of tannic and humic
acids in the water.

OFFICE OF EDUCATION

One of the popular services the office provides to museum visitors
are weekly presentations of films related to natural history and
anthropology and lectures and slide shows by the museum’s cura-
torial staff and invited guests. In December 1981, a Dinosaur Film
Festival celebrated the reopening of the Dinosaur Hall. Extra show-
ings were scheduled to accommodate the large number of visitors
who wanted to see the films. In conjunction with the exhibition
inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo, special Friday lectures
and films were presented to enrich visitors’ understanding of the
Bering Sea Eskimo environment and culture. Films about Eskimo
life were shown on a daily basis in the Gallery Theater. The
Eskimo lectures and films were supported with funds from the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

The highly successful Gifted Students in Science Program was
continued for a second year, with support from outreach funds.
Twenty-three students were selected from ninety-one Washington
area applicants to work on research projects with curators or other
museum personnel. The Collaborative (with the National Zoo and
the National Museum of African Art) Outreach Program to the
elderly, disabled, and institutionalized served 7,355 persons be-
tween October 1981 and May 1982. Efforts to find private funding
to continue this program, as well as funds for a national program
with the National Council on the Aging, are underway.

The Office of Education provided school and adult tours of
exhibitions from October through May 15, with the assistance of
about 200 docents, who were also trained to provide tours of the

Science / 107
inua exhibition in the Evans Gallery. About one hundred docents
also contributed to the successful operation of the museum’s Dis-
covery Room and Naturalist Center. Families and school groups
visited the Discovery Room at the rate of almost 10,000 each
month—full capacity. The Naturalist Center increased its usage
by almost forty percent during the spring months, with a remark-
able 150 persons attending a Sunday “Draw-In” on August 1.

Laura McKie, education specialist in Anthropology, was selected
by the African Studies Program of Indiana University to partici-
pate in a six weeks’ travel and study seminar in Niger, Nigeria,
and Senegal. Her experience will be used to enrich the training of
the docents for the Hall of African Cultures.

HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS

Subarctic, a basic reference work on about thirty-five Indian tribes
of Canada and Alaska, was published in 1982. It is the fourth
volume to appear in the twenty-volume Handbook series on the
prehistory, history, ethnology, and linguistics of the Native North
Americans. Editing and typesetting have been completed on the
second part of Southwest (volume 10), scheduled for publication
in 1983, which covers all non-Puebloan peoples. The first part of
Southwest (volume 9), on the Pueblos, was published in 1980.
Research and editing on Arctic are underway. California and
Northeast, issued in 1978, are both in their third printing. The
Handbook is under the general editorship of NmNu’s Dr. William C.
Sturtevant.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

During the 1981-82 year, 2,253,634 specimens of algae, fishes,
and invertebrates were sorted at the Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center (sosc), and 374,093 specimens were shipped.to 102
taxonomists throughout the world. Recent acquisitions include
fishes from Halmahera, collected by Dr. Paul Taylor, and marine
algae from the northern Philippines, collected by Dr. Ernani G.
Menez. Dr. Gordon Hendler participated on a National Science
Foundation expedition along the Antarctic Peninsula and returned
with a valuable general collection of benthic invertebrates. Samples
of this collection are being prepared with specialized techniques

108 / Smithsonian Year 1982
such as the freeze-drying of bryozoans for the extraction of poten-
tial anti-cancer compounds. Ms. Betty Landrum developed a com-
puterized data system at sosc that is compatible with the system
used for the nMNH fish collection, thus eliminating considerably
duplication of effort. Dr. Frank Ferrari completed a study concern-
ing the introduction of oithonid copepods from coastal waters of
China into the San Francisco Bay and delta system.

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

The museum’s Office of the Registrar has been actively engaged
in the establishment of new registration systems in the departments
of Botany and Vertebrate Zoology. The new systems are designed
with a view towards an automated registration system. The office
continues to monitor the registration system for the department of
Anthropology, Mineral Sciences, Paleobiology, Invertebrate Zool-
ogy, and Entomology. Registration was very active during the year.
The office recorded approximately 1,490 accession transactions,
1,071 incoming collections, 3,453 outgoing shipments, and 1,200
numbers assigned in blocks to Botany and Vertebrate Zoology to
be used for incoming and outgoing shipments.

The office participated in the Museum Registration Methods
Workshop and the Northeast Museum Conference Registrars Com-
mittee Deaccessioning Workshop—the latter chaired by Margaret
Santiago, with approximately seventy-five registrars and other
museum professionals participating. The registrar continues to
review registration systems in other science museums. The most
recent visits were to the British Museum (Natural History), the
Sedgewick Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum, and the
Museum Documentation Centre in England.

INVENTORY

The museum’s comprehensive collection inventory was nearly
seventy-eight percent complete at the end of fiscal year 1982.
Item-by-item inventories are being compiled for valuable speci-
mens, types, and many specimens going to the new Museum
Support Center; the remainder of the museum’s collection of over
60 million specimens is being inventoried in batches. Inventories
finished or near completion include the anthropology collections,

Science / 109
type specimens of plants, invertebrate and vertebrate animals and
fossil organisms, valuable mollusks, gems, minerals and rocks,
certain important groups of insects, invertebrates, mammals and
birds, large stratigraphic suites of fossils, the egg and nest collec-
tion, fish, reptiles and other vertebrates stored in large tanks, and
the collection of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center.

BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS

Design work based on last year’s ventilating and air-conditioning
systems of the NMNH was begun. These designs, when implemented
in future years, will bring significant improvement to the environ-
ment so vital to the conservation of our collections and to the
comfort of our visitors and staff.

Continued progress was made in improving the building’s fire-
protection systems. The installation of complete fire detection and
suppression systems was begun in the nonpublic areas of the main
museum building.

National Zoological Park

In fiscal year 1982 the National Zoological Park (Nzp) continued
its commitment to education, science, recreation, and conservation
through animal exhibitions, symposia, research with the collec-
tions, publications, and continuing research and breeding of en-
dangered species. These programs were accomplished through the
combined efforts of the Office of Animal Programs, the Office of
Support Services, and the Office of the Director.

CONSTRUCTION

In December 1981 the renovated Reptile and Amphibian House
and Small Mammal House were completed, and preparations for
opening began. The construction contract for Monkey Island was
awarded, and excavation started in December 1981, with the
project to be completed in October 1982. The Aquatic Vertebrate
Facility design was completed in February 1982 and is now on

110 / Smithsonian Year 1982
hold until construction funds can be programmed. Plans for im-
provements along Olmsted Walk began with the award of an
exhibit design contract in the latter part of 1982, and a design
contract was awarded in August 1982 for renovation of the Monkey
and Elephant houses. Construction should start at the end of 1982.

At the Conservation and Research Center (crc), the small-
mammal-facility construction contract was awarded in November
1981, and work was completed in September 1982. Work on the
hoofed-stock facility was finished in December 1981, and after
completion of yardwork and the outside fencing, the facility opened
on July 1, 1982. This building has been named the Rivinus Barn
in honor of Mr. Edward F. Rivinus, former director of the Smith-
sonian Institution Press, who alerted the nzp staff to the availability
of the property.

The Master Development Plan for the Conservation and Re-
search Center was completed March 1982, and copies were dis-
tributed. The schematic design for the veterinary hospital was
completed, and a design contract will be awarded later in 1982.

The Office of Support Services continued the routine annual
maintenance and repair of the animal quarters and related areas.
In some instances, some of the animals had to be off exhibit for
a few days due to the repairs.

January 13-17, 1982, the Zoo was closed to the public due to a
very heavy snow storm. The first priority was to clean the walks
to get food to the animals, and then the public access areas were
cleared.

ANIMAL COLLECTION AND EXHIBITS

During fiscal year 1982 the following endangered mammal species
were born: golden lion tamarins, maned wolves, Eld’s deer, Persian
onagers, and clouded leopards. Other major births were grey seals,
a spectacled bear, a sloth bear, California sea lions, a bongo, a
ruffed lemur, Bengal tigers, and a red-bellied tamarin.

Animals received during fiscal year 1982, which are new to the
present collection, were: burrowing rats from Brazil, four pairs
of Aleutian Canada geese, a guanaco from the Bronx Zoo, red-
crested cardinals, red and white crakes, an Eastern flying squirrel,
a Jarrow’s spiny lizard, a giant toad, a Tokay gecko, a tree shrew,
a Senegal bushbaby, a giant coot, and a Johnstone’s crocodile. A

Science / 111
Among major Zoo births this past year were a
California sea lion, upper left, and a spectacled
bear cub, upper right. Below right, Keeper
Leader Michael Davenport introduces one of the
new gharials to its pool. Below left, is Tomoka,
the male gorilla—the fourth Zoo-born gorilla—
who reached the grand age of 21 years on Sep-
tember 9, 1982.

major acquisition to the herpetology collection was the gift of six
gharials from the King of Nepal to the United States. The gharials
arrived on June 30, 1982; unfortunately, two were dead on arrival.

April 16, 1982, marked the tenth anniversary of the arrival in
Washington of giant pandas, Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing. Ten
years of friendship with the People’s Republic of China was recog-
nized at the nzp with the unveiling of a plaque expressing friend-
ship and goodwill. On March 17, 1982, Ling-Ling, the giant panda,
had come into estrus and, since the ensuing breeding encounters
were not successful, she was artificially inseminated over a three-
day period, beginning March 19. The Panda House was closed to
the public on July 13 to give Ling-Ling seclusion in the event she
was pregnant, but on August 26 it was determined that she was
not. The behavior watch continued anyway until August 30, and
the Panda House was reopened on September 8.

Other notable occasions during the year include: the May 20
receipt of white-naped cranes and Derbyan parakeets as gifts from
the Peking Zoo; the twenty-first birthday, September 9, of Tomoka,
the Zoo’s male gorilla (and also the fourth zoo-born gorilla); the
annual December trip of the nine reindeer to the Ellipse for the
Pageant of Peace. This year the trip was longer, since the reindeer
are now located at the Conservation and Research Center, Front
Royal, Virginia; the computerization record, begun April 1982,
for all bird eggs laid at Rock Creek; and two major openings: the
Reptile and Amphibian House, on December 18, 1981, and the
Herplab, located in that facility, on September 21, 1982.

RESEARCH

The very active research staff and associates continued their varied
projects. Katherine Ralls continued her cooperative research with
the Fish and Wildlife Service on the threatened California sea
otter prior to undertaking translocation of this species. Kenneth
Green, principal investigator of the Image Analysis and Graphic
Facility for Ecological Studies (maces) who is funded by nim for
a three-year period, kept on with a study that will enable primate
field workers to utilize remote-sensing data from LANpsAT satellites.
W. P. J. Dittus and Anne Baker—Dittus continued their long-term
research on primates of Sri Lanka with National Science Founda-
tion support. Eugene Morton continued his studies of Kentucky

Science / 113
warblers at the Conservation and Research Center and also his
research on neotropical bird migration and the habitat of hooded
warblers in Yucatan, Mexico. John Frazier, under contract with the
Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service,
proceeded with studies to establish reliable age techniques in sea
turtles. His work also includes studies on sea turtles in Peru,
Ecuador, Panama, Mexico, and Cayman. During the summer of
1982 Dr. Frazier conducted a survey of sea turtles and their habi-
tats and birds in the Egyptian Red Sea. He is also collaborating
with Egyptian colleagues to begin sea turtle field studies there, and
Dr. Frazier has also initiated a study of the breeding of loggerhead
turtles in Greece.

The research begun in 1980, under the coordination of John
Seidensticker, on the behavioral ecology of the native wildlife at
the Conservation and Research Center and adjoining Shenandoah
National Park near Front Royal, Virginia, continues very actively.
An analysis of the vegetation of the area is also underway. This
program serves to train overseas and local biologists in ecology,
conservation, and management field techniques.

Dale L. Marcellini completed a study on lizard population
ecology; data were collected on two species of Puerto Rican Anolis.
In August 1982, Daryl Boness and Olav Oftedal began a long-term
study of California sea lions on San Nicolas Island, California.
This is a multidiscipline project participated in by nzp, Marineland,
British Columbia Provincial Museum, and University of California,
Berkeley. Mel Sunquist began a study of small carnivores and om-
nivores at Hato Masagural in Venezuela, and John Eisenberg,
R. Rudran, and Richard Thorington continued their long-term
investigations of red-howler monkeys in llanos of Venezuela.
R. Rudran kept on with his study of the effects of deforestation on
the vertebrates of the Sinharajah in Sri Lanka.

In March 1982, Devra Kleiman spent seven weeks in the
People’s Republic of China—at the Ying Xiong Gou captive-
panda facility in the Wolong Nature Reserve—observing giant
pandas during the breeding season. She also spent some time at
the Chengdu Zoo training Chinese counterparts in the collection
and analysis of behavior data, and she held discussions on the
Smithsonian giant-panda field study with Chinese scientists and
officials in Peking. Later in the summer, Dr. Kleiman went to

114 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Above. April 16, 1982, marked the 10th anniversary of the arrival of giant
pandas Hsing-Hsing and Ling-Ling at the nzp. Below. Ten years of friendship
with the Peoples Republic of China was recognized with the unveiling of a
plaque. Participants in the ceremony were (from left) Ambassador Chai

Zemin, an interpreter, Ambassador John Holdridge, and Dr. T. H. Reed,
director of the nzp.

Brazil to discuss with officials the protocol and possibility of a
program for reintroduction of the golden lion tamarin into the
Poco d’Anta Biological Reserve.

The inbreeding studies continue with a program in modern
genetic principles being offered to nzp collection managers, and a
24-hour hand-rearing facility at Rock Creek has been established
with trained volunteers participating.

A symposium on “The Biology and Management of the Cer-
vidae’’—which included participants from all over the world—
convened at the Conservation and Research Center in August
1982. The papers will be published in the nzp symposia series to
be edited by Christen M. Wemmer, curator-in-charge of the Con-
servation Center.

The nzp was well represented at the Third International Therio-
logical Congress held in Helsinki, August 12-20, 1982. John
Eisenberg, Olav Oftedal, Edwin Gould, and James Dietz were in
attendance, presenting papers and participating on panels in specific
sessions.

The departments of Animal Health and Pathology continued
their aggressive program of preventive, medical, and surgical care
of the collection. The research of these departments includes the
study of pharmacokinetics of antibiotics in zoological species. The
antibiotic studies have been expanded to evaluate the results of
aerosol therapy (nebulization) on blood and tissue levels in birds
and mammals. An in-depth study on the best parvovirus vaccine
is also being conducted, concurrent with a study to evaluate the
best vaccination procedure for developing immunity to canine dis-
temper. The present killed-distemper vaccine is not providing ade-
quate protection, and the use of a modified live vaccine could cause
a vaccination-induced disease in exotic carnivores. Studies on the
repair of avian fractures proceeded apace, including the use of
bone grafts, tissue glue, and plastic inserts to return the bone to
its normal function.

The Department of Pathology continues its on-going research
and vigilance against infectious diseases that may threaten the
collection. This is accomplished through a complete autopsy, a
systematic dissection of the carcass, with tissues being taken for
culture, and a complete microscopic examination of all organs.
Reproductive physiological research continues in semen collection

116 / Smithsonian Year 1982
and preservation, with artificial insemination being performed on
various species, such as elephants, rhino, giraffe, clouded leopard,
giant panda, and Dorcas gazelle, among others. The concern is the
general lack of success in zoo animals to become pregnant when
artificially inseminated. Dr. Bush and associates made a second
trip to South Africa for further studies and to collect tissues and
semen in cooperation with South African colleagues.

The medical records of NzP are now computerized, and nzp is
the first zoo to do so. On the computer are a multitude of records:
medical and surgical, anesthesia, X-ray, preventive medical, para-
site, and pathology.

PUBLIC INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The Office of Public Information and Education has continued its
programs of contact with the public. The office, with the Friends
of the National Zoo (Fonz), has established a wildlife studies
certificate, which is awarded when an individual has completed
six courses in the approved curriculum (conservation, animal
behavior, veterinary studies, and certain electives). This fiscal
year, the first annual nzp public symposium “Animal Extinctions:
What Everyone Should Know” was held. Internationally known
speakers were on the program, and the symposium was well
received by the public.

In order to promote better coordination among the nzp and FONZ
offices with presentations to the public, the Information Services
Panel was established this year. The panel has been very success-
ful in assuring consistency in the quality of programs offered to
the public.

The office continued its programs with the D.C. Program: A
Closer Look, the Highschool Teacher’s Workshop, and Zoo

‘Observation Training; and is proceeding with its successful work
with the Zoolab, Birdlab, and now Herplab educational units,
which are very popular with the public.

ADMINISTRATION

The Smithsonian Institution Office of Audits, from December 1981
to March 1982, conducted a review of the nzp’s management and
administration. The audit resulted in the realignment of the

Science / 117
supply and warehousing function and has brought directly into
the management and administrative operations the functions of
the Office of Management Services to better serve the nzp depart-
ments and offices. The Supply and Warehousing Unit was trans-
ferred from Support Services to the Office of Management
Services and was retitled Receiving/Warehousing Unit.

On August 21, 1982, Dr. John F. Eisenberg resigned as assistant
director for Animal Programs to become Ordway Professor of
Ecosystem Conservation at the University of Florida, Gainesville.
Effective June 16, 1982, Dr. Dale L. Marcellini was appointed
acting assistant director for Animal Programs until a permanent
assistant director is appointed. Dr. Donald L. Janssen, associate
director, Department of Animal Health, resigned to take a position
at the San Diego Zoo.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) continued their assistance
to the National Zoological Park in education, science, recreation,
and services to the public.

This year the Smithsonian Institution renewed the contract
with Fonz for operation of the parking lots at the Zoo.

A principal part of Fonz’s contributions to the Nzp is the core
of well-trained, educated guides, who provide their time on a vol-
unteer basis during the week and on weekends. Many of these
volunteers spend many hours at the Zoo working in all areas. The
bus program, which is so popular with D.C. elementary school
classes, is still being provided, and ronz has contributed funding to
programs in science, financing research projects, field trips, and
intern and postdoctoral programs.

Financial information for calendar year 1981 is provided in
detail below. In addition, a percentage of the restaurant and park-
ing concessions is available directly to the Smithsonian for the
benefit of the National Zoo and is reported as income in the
Financial Report of the Smithsonian Institution.

118 / Smithsonian Year 1982
FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

Financial Report for the Period
January 1-December 31, 1981

[In $1,000’s]
Net increase/
Net (decrease) to
revenue Expense fund balance
FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/81 ....... $ 926
SERVICES
BEER GETSNII ci. u's ois) as wv ee soles oes $ 391 $ 324 67
BPP ATIONS foo crcteat = fey cba wb 8s 89 145 (26)
RES ra carta a's daa ale ac aes 95 434 (339)
MGOtOerviGeS csc k ee. eee ees 2,837 2,384 ° 453
MOtalSmPaice fo ices oe cic ine $3,412 $3,257 $ 155
FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/81 .... $1,081 *

1 Excludes services worth an estimated $141,215 contributed by volunteers to FONZ.
2 Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services.

8 Includes $268,368 paid during this period to the Smithsonian Institution under contractual
arrangement.

*Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and scien-
tific work at the National Zoological Park.

The Office of Biological Conservation

The Office of Biological Conservation (osc) is responsible for for-
mulating many of the Institution’s responses to requests for infor-
mation concerning the conservation of the world’s environment.
Working with government and nongovernment organizations in
the United States and abroad, the osc has continued to assemble
data regarding the status of endangered species and ecosystems
throughout the world, and has been engaged in activities designed
to improve public awareness and understanding of conservation
issues.

The SI-Threatened Plants Committee (1ucn) Latin America
Project has completed the compilation of candidate lists of endemic
and possibly threatened species for Middle America (Mexico and
Central America). The 6,000 scientific plant names with assigned
status categories have been entered into the Wang computer at the
committee’s headquarters at Kew, the Royal Botanic Gardens,

Science / 119
Giant tortoises now survive only in the Galapagos and on Aldabra. This one,
Geochelone elephantopus, is among species benefiting from oBc support.
(Photographer Craig McFarland.)

England. The final publication, which will include the lists and an
introduction concerning the needs for conservation efforts in
Middle America, is expected to be published in 1983.

Similar work on the flora of South America has continued. Con-
tributors from each country have been requested to submit lists
that will then be evaluated to determine if the candidate species
are threatened on a world scale.

Threatened species of economic importance or that are crop
relatives or represent monotypic genera—as well as those that are
of aesthetic interest or horticultural value—will be featured as
Red Data Sheets in the next volume of the IUCN Red Data Book,
expected to be published in 1983.

The director served as cochairman of the “Ecosystem Mainte-
nance Panel” at the U.S. Strategy Conference on Biological Di-
versity held November 16-18, 1981, in Washington, D.C. The
panel addressed the need for careful management of natural, pro-
tected and man-modified ecosystems. Proceedings of the conference
were published by the State Department in April 1982.

The coordinator attended a Regional Workshop on Conserva-
tion of Tropical Plant Resources in Southeast Asia, held in New
Delhi, India, March 8-12, 1982. Serving as a member of the work-
shop Scientific Program Committee, he delivered, on behalf of the

120 / Smithsonian Year 1982
director, two papers: “Smithsonian Institution Endangered Flora
Information-Processing: Experiences and Goals” and “The World’s
Diminishing Plant Resources,’ which will be published in the
forthcoming conference proceedings.

Work has continued on the contract to provide illustrations of
ten plant species (three carnivorous Sarracenias, seven Mexican
cacti) frequently found in international trade. The illustrations will
be included in the United States Identification Manual, which will
be used by customs inspectors enforcing the Convention on Inter-
national Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(cITES)

The director and coordinator have completed three chapters for
a book about worldwide conservation problems: “Wetlands,”
“Plants for Man,” and “Savannas, Prairies, Arid and Semi-Arid
Zones.”

Working with the government of Jamaica, West Indies, the osc
is in the process of developing a comprehensive ‘Situation Report”
on the island’s environmental issues, including the potential for
managing renewable resources, conservation problems, and recom-
mendations for future programs. The report will be used to develop
a national conservation program.

The director submitted a paper to the international conference
on Current Topics in Plant Taxonomy, held at the University of
Reading, United Kingdom, July 7-9, 1982. “Taxonomic Problems
Relating to Endangered Plant Species” will appear in the published
proceedings of the conference.

A color-illustrated book, Endangered Plants of the United States,
is in the editorial stage, and illustrations are being selected. It is
hoped that this text will stimulate concern among students and
the general public.

The osc continued its role in supporting the Charles Darwin
Foundation for the Galapagos Isles, and the Seychelles Islands
Foundation.

Office of Fellowships and Grants

The Office of Fellowships and Grants (orc) continues to serve as
an Institutional link with scholarly organizations throughout the

Science / 121
world. It brings scientists and scholars to all parts of the Smith-
sonian to utilize the unique resources available, as well as to inter-
act with professional staff. The office also encourages research
by universities, museums, and research organizations in the fields
of art, history, and science. At present, two major activities are
managed and developed by the office: Academic Programs and the
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program.

Academic Programs at the Smithsonian support and assist visit-
ing students and scholars, providing opportunities for research to
be conducted at Smithsonian facilities, in conjunction with staff
members. Residential appointments are offered at the undergradu-
ate, graduate, and professional levels.

The Smithsonian also enhances the quality of its research and
extends the reach of its scholarly efforts through the Smithsonian
Foreign Currency Program (srcp). The srcp offers grants to the
Smithsonian and other U.S. scholarly institutions for research in a
limited number of foreign countries where “excess currencies” are
available. It is particularly effective in strengthening the “increase
and diffusion of knowledge” on an international scale.

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS

Academic programs at the Smithsonian are an important comple-
ment to those offered at universities. The national collections and
the curators who study them are unparalleled resources that are
not available anywhere else and are essential to scholarly research.
In general, university education is based primarily on the study of
books or artifact reproductions. At the Smithsonian, historical and
anthropological objects, original works of art, natural history
specimens, living plants, animals, and entire ecosystems are avail-
able for study. The educational experience, which combines uni-
versity training with field research, is one that is significantly
enhanced, and the breadth of field opportunities at the Smithsonian
is unmatched.

The orc administered a variety of academic appointments in
fiscal year 1982. The program of Research Training Fellowships
was begun in 1965. This year fifty-five pre- and postdoctoral
fellowships were awarded. These appointees pursue independent
research projects under the guidance of staff advisors for periods
of six months to one year in residence at one of the Institution’s

122 / Smithsonian Year 1982
bureaus or field sites. Topics of study for Smithsonian fellows in-
cluded: the role of plant litter in nutrient cycling; ancient Chinese
ritual jades and weapons; quantum physics and the composition
of the stars; functions of juvenile/adult color dimorphism in coral
reef fishes; intercultural interaction on the Southern Plains; and
classical medicine and social development in early America.

In addition to the general program funded through the Office
of Fellowships and Grants, competitions for pre- and postdoctoral
fellowships may also be held for specific awards. At the suggestion
of First Lady Nancy Reagan, the First Ladies Fellowship was estab-
lished for the study of costume in America at the National Museum
of American History. The International Environmental Sciences
Program supported a fellowship for the study of the social behavior
of iguanas in the llanos of Venezuela.

In addition, twenty graduate student fellowships were offered
for ten-week periods during 1982. The participants are usually
junior graduate students beginning to explore avenues that develop
into dissertation research. This year some of these fellows studied:
learning among a group of captive orangutans; the indigenous
roots of New York Dada; design elements of Near Eastern textiles
and clothing; Caribbean sponges; and tool marks on the hull of the
Philadelphia.

A number of senior fellowships continued to be offered at the
Institution. The distinguished botantist G. Ledyard Stebbins, emeri-
tus professor at the University of California at Davis, came to the
National Museum of Natural History as a Regents Fellow this
winter. In addition to continuing his research on the population
biology and systematics of the genus Antennaria, Dr. Stebbins
gave a number of talks and seminars to both lay and professional
audiences. Sir David Bates from the Queens University of Belfast
began a stay of six months at the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory (sao) as a Regents Fellow, working with members of
the divisions of atomic and molecular physics, optical and infrared
astronomy, and radio and geoastronomy. Also appointed a Regents
Fellow was Dr. Gerald Wasserberg, California Institute of Tech-
nology, who came to the National Air and Space Museum in Sep-
tember. He is working on popular publications on the significance
of the space program and its scientific and political evolution since
the early 1960s and on a chronology of the origin of the solar
system.

Science / 123
The nas reappointed R. E. G. Davies to the Lindbergh Chair
to continue his studies on the history of air transport. In addition,
John M. Logsdon was appointed to the first Chair in Space History.
Dr. Logsdon is director of the graduate program in Science, Tech-
nology and Public Policy at The George Washington University
and while at nasm will complete a study of U.S. space policy from
1969 to 1972.

To honor Regent Emeritus James E. Webb, the Institution an-
nounced the establishment of a number of fellowships in his name,
designed to promote excellence in the management of cultural and
scientific not-for-profit organizations. The first awards were offered
in late fall of 1982 to persons from outside the Institution to come
to the Smithsonian, and for Smithsonian staff to spend training
periods away from the Institution.

During fiscal year 1982 bureaus continued to offer support for
visiting scientists and scholars in cooperation with the orc. These
awards make possible visits to the Smithsonian by persons who
do not fall within the framework of the research training program,
principally scholars at mid-career. The office also continued ad-
ministration and partial support of the short-term visitor program.
Forty-four persons spent from one week to a month at the Institu-
tion conducting research, studying collections, and collaborating
and conferring with professional staff.

The expanded role of internships in the academic community is
paralleled by increased support for interns within the Institution.
The NAsM supported sixteen interns through the orc this year,
almost double the number in 1981. The Cooper-Hewitt Museum
again appointed three students under the Sidney and Celia Siegal
Fellowship fund. Internships in environmental studies at the
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies and in primate
conservation training at the National Zoological Park also con-
tinued. The Smith College-Smithsonian Program in American
Studies is now in its third year; six students will participate in a
seminar course and conduct research projects under the direction
of staff members.

Progress on the organization of internship activities at the
Institution continued. Institution policies regarding internships
were published, and an internship council—consisting of intern-
ship coordinators representing all bureaus and offices—was formed.
Placement of interns will be through these coordinators, but the

124 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ore will continue to administer all stipend awards for internships.

For the second year the orc, in cooperation with the Office of
Equal Opportunity, has offered academic opportunities aimed at
improving minority participation in Smithsonian programs. Start-
ing with internships in 1981, the program expanded to include
fellowships for faculty of historically black colleges and minority
faculty members of other colleges. Awards were made to twenty
interns who were placed at a variety of bureaus and offices on the
Mall and also at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the
Radiation Biology Laboratory, and the sao. Some of the appoint-
ments have already developed into more permanent relationships.
Orc also awarded seven fellowships to faculty persons to conduct
research on subjects ranging from plant taxonomy to Eastern
Cherokee sacred formulas and a social history of black New
Yorkers during slavery and freedom. Also as a part of the minority
education effort, two Smithsonian archivists went to Albany State
College, Georgia, to offer a two-day workshop on developing an
archival system.

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (srcp) awards grants
to support the research interests of American institutions, includ-
ing the Smithsonian, in those countries in which the United States
holds blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of surplus
agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The program is
active in countries in which the U.S. Treasury Department declares
United States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of
normal federal requirements, including, in 1982, Burma, Guinea,
India, and Pakistan. Research projects are moving toward conclu-
sion under program support in the former excess-currency coun-
tries of Egypt, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.

The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1982 appropriation of
$4.320 million in “excess” currencies to support projects in anthro-
pology and archaeology, systematic and environmental biology,
astrophysics and earth sciences, and museum professional fields.
From its inception in fiscal year 1966, through fiscal year 1982,
the srcp has awarded about $49 million in foreign-currency grants
to 225 institutions in 40 states and the District of Columbia.

This year, projects ranged through many disciplines, including
archaeological investigation of Oriyo mound in Gujarat, India;

Science / 125
geological investigations of the Egyptian desert; paleoanthropo-
logical studies of Later Miocene hominids in Pakistan; archaeo-
logical mapping of the Theban Necropolis; examination of ceramic
production and distribution in Rajasthan, India; linguistic study of
the nomenclature of ancient economic plants in South India; oral
histories of Tibetan refugees; micropaleontologic studies of Ceno-
zoic marine sedimentary sequences; and ecological studies of
parasitic drosophilids.

The Smithsonian conveyed to the United Nations Educational,
Scientific, and Cultural Organization (uNEsco) in 1982 the first of
four projected contributions to the international effort to restore
and preserve the Indus civilization city of Moenjodaro in Pakistan.
The 4,500-year-old city, which flourished from about 3000 B.c. to
1500 B.c., with its sophisticated planning, sanitation, and social
organization, anticipated developments that were to blossom sev-
eral thousand years later. Floods of the Indus River and highly
saline ground waters have caused serious destruction of the exca-
vated remains. The preservation project, long in the planning stage,
has begun with a scheme for ground-water control.

Through the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program and other
relationships, the Institution has a long-term interest in American
research centers abroad. In spring 1981, Dr. Alice Ilchman was
retained by the Smithsonian to study the Institution’s role in secur-
ing the future of such centers and developing their activities
further. As part of the response to Dr. Ilchman’s recommendations,
the orc has been assisting these centers to form a cooperative
organization for advancement of the interests shared by all. During
fiscal year 1982, the new organization, The Council of American
Overseas Research Centers, was established, its membership con-
solidated, and bylaws adopted. An effort was begun to investigate
possible sources of continuous funding for the centers.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

One of the aims of science is to describe in molecular detail the
way in which processes occur. In biology, a reductionist approach
is to take the cellular systems apart and then to characterize the
components that are present. From such information about the

126 / Smithsonian Year 1982
sub-units, it is assumed that an understanding can be constructed
of the way the parts interact.

Another approach is to study biological systems as a whole by
describing their behavior, either as individuals or as populations,
in response to environmental stimuli. From these data, it can be
deduced what sort of components or sub-units must be present.

The research of the Radiation Biology Laboratory (rst) utilizes
both approaches to understand how plant growth and development
are influenced by the environment. The disciplines of biochemistry,
plant physiology, physics, biophysics, genetics, and engineering
are used in an interdisciplinary manner. In addition, it is necessary
to measure accurately and precisely environmental variables. The
RBL has continued such measurements and emphasizes measure-
ments of sunlight and its utilization for photosynthesis and photo-
morphogenesis. Specifically, the research of the laboratory concen-
trates on four areas: measurement of environmental processes and
energy flow in biological systems, such as photosynthesis, water
relations, and carbon metabolism; regulatory processes of plants,
such as membrane synthesis and pigment synthesis; measurement
of the amount, duration, and color quality of sunlight present in
the environment; and age determination of biological artifacts
based upon their radiocarbon content. Administratively, the re-
search is grouped into three units encompassing individual proj-
ects: Regulatory Biology, Environmental Biology, and Carbon
Dating.

REGULATORY BIOLOGY

All plants that are capable of becoming green when grown under
natural conditions have, in addition to green chlorophyll, a pigment
that is sensitive to the light environment. This pigment (phyto-
chrome) is the photoreceptor for many important light responses
in plants. It is a large, photochromic protein that can be inter-
converted by light between biologically active and inactive forms.
Although these forms can be detected optically both in plant cells
and in extracted solutions, the molecular differences between the
two forms remain unknown, as does the mechanism of action of
the molecule.

Recently, in the rst new methods have been developed for puri-
fying and characterizing the biologically active and inactive forms.

Science / 127
This development has required major effort in refining plant protein
purification procedures and the use of some innovative techniques.
Large quantities of phytochrome can now be purified, free of con-
tamination by other proteins. One immediate result has been the
recognition that partial breakdown of phytochrome must have
occurred in the phytochrome described in all previously published
work. Precautions can now be taken to eliminate this problem
routinely, and sensitive procedures have been developed for moni-
toring extracts for the presence of contaminating, degraded forms.

Among the findings with undegraded materials is the fact that
the process of reversion of the active phytochrome in the dark to
inactive phytochrome is profoundly affected by limited breakdown.
This fact probably explains past observations that phytochrome
extracted from monocotyledonous plants showed dark reversion,
while no dark reversion could be detected in intact living plants.
When care is taken to eliminate breakdown in phytochrome ex-
tracts from monocotyledonous tissue, reversion is essentially
absent.

When a solution of undegraded phytochrome obtained from rye
seedlings is placed under red light, eighty-four percent of the
molecules are converted to the biologically active form. The absorp-
tion characteristics of the partially degraded molecule are changed
by the presence of salts in the solution. As the concentration of
salts is increased, solutions of the biologically active form absorb
more strongly.

Other colored pigments (yellow, orange, and red carotenoids)
are also present in plants, and their synthesis is regulated by blue
light. The precursor of these pigments, phytoene, is a forty-carbon
colorless compound, which is synthesized from a five-carbon com-
pound, isopentenyl pyrophosphate (rp), by a series of enzymatic
reactions. In cell-free enzyme extracts from the fungus Neurospora
crassa, the conversion of pp to phytoene has been found to require
both soluble and membrane-bound enzymes. The enzyme that con-
verts the twenty-carbon intermediate geranylgeranyl pyrophos-
phate (ccrr) to phytoene is membrane-bound and regulated by
blue light. The conversion of 1PPp to GGpp requires two soluble en-
zymes, an isomerase and a prenyltransferase. Partial purification
of one of these enzymes (prenyltransferase) has been achieved,
and the enzyme activity that can be extracted is increased by blue

128 / Smithsonian Year 1982
light applied to intact cells prior to extraction. Thus, it is concluded
that blue light exerts at least one of its effects in the living cell at
this locus in the biosynthetic pathway for carotenogenesis.

In the fungus Phycomyces, the levels of the carotenoid beta-
carotene are regulated by blue light. Previous data from the RBL
indicated that the photoreceptor regulating the synthesis of beta-
carotene is beta-carotene itself. Low levels of beta-carotene are
synthesized in the dark, and blue light increases the rate of syn-
thesis. It is postulated that this mechanism protects the cells from
damage caused by exposure to high-intensity light, since caro-
tenoids are good quenchers of singlet oxygen, which is produced
by the intense light.

Preliminary data were obtained on the growth rates of fungal
cells for three strains of Phycomyces, wild type (wrt), an albino
strain incapable of synthesizing beta-carotene (C-5), and a strain
which produces abnormally large amounts of beta-carotene (B-401).
When these three strains were grown at 15° C under intense blue
light (50 W m7%), the albino cells ceased growth quickly. How-
ever, the growth of the B-401 strain also was inhibited by blue
light, as compared to dark-green controls, while the wild-type
grew at the same rate as in darkness. Apparently the wild-type
strain has something in addition to carotenoids that protects it
from the intense blue light, and this characteristic is diminished in
the B-401 strain. It is postulated that, even though the additional
beta-carotene can quench damaging singlet oxygen if present, ex-
cessive amounts may produce blue-light-induced photodynamic
damage directly.

When algae are grown under light-limiting conditions, they
utilize accessory pigments contained in specialized structures called
phycobilisomes that absorb light and transfer the absorbed energy
to reaction centers for photosynthesis. These phycobilisomes play
a major role in absorbing light in blue-green algae. Phycobilisomes,
isolated from the blue-green alga Nostoc by the method developed
in the rBL, were found to consist of colored phycobiliproteins
(eighty-five percent) and uncolored polypeptides (fifteen percent).

These phycobilisomes can be dissociated to their component
parts, and these parts purified and identified. In addition, for the
first time, conditions have been determined whereby functional
phycobilisomes could be reassociated from these components in

Science / 129
the test tube. Using these conditions, it was possible to show that
the absence of one, small, colorless polypeptide prevented such
in-vitro reassociation. From this fact, as well as corroborating evi-
dence from other studies, it is suggested that this colorless poly-
peptide has a crucial role in the specific attachment of two phyco-
biliproteins—namely, phycocyanin with allophycocyanin. These
two previously identified phycobiliproteins constitute the core of
native phycobilisomes.

Green plants contain chloroplasts in which are located the
pigments for photosynthesis. A large portion of the chloroplast is
composed of membranous sacs (thylakoids), in which the electron
transport reactions of photosynthesis take place. Some of the poly-
peptides of these thylakoids are made in the chloroplast on chloro-
plast ribosomes, and some are made in the cytoplasm on cytoplasm
ribosomes. Thylakoids of the alga Chlamydomonas, and thyla-
koids of other plants have ribosomes bound to them. Previous
work suggested that the thylakoid-bound chloroplast ribosomes
might be specifically involved in synthesizing polypeptides that are
added to the thylakoids.

Thylakoids can be isolated from Chlamydomonas, but intact
chloroplasts cannot. Thus, it is not possible to determine the rela-
tive amounts of messenger RNA (m-RNA) in thylakoids and stroma.
Therefore, highly purified intact chloroplasts were obtained from
immature first-true leaves of spinach. The chloroplasts contained
thirty percent of their ribosomes bound to thylakoids. The thy-
lakoid-bound ribosomes had properties similar to the thylakoid-
bound ribosomes of Chlamydomonas and pea.

Polyribosomes were released from the membranes by controlled
digestion with trypsin. Ribosomal sub-units were released with
high salt and puromycin, and release was totally dependent on
the presence of both together. A chloroplast synthesized polypep-
tide, the large sub-unit of ribulose-bis-phosphate carboxylase, was
isolated, and an antibody was prepared against it. The carboxylase
is a protein localized in the stroma. Messenger rna for it should
not be present on thylakoids if thylakoid-bound ribosomes syn-
thesize thylakoid proteins exclusively.

Total RNA was prepared from chloroplasts, washed thylakoids,
and stroma. The rna was translated in the wheat-germ-protein
synthesis system, and the presence of radioactive polypeptides was

130 / Smithsonian Year 1982
tested with specific antibody, using the indirect immunoprecipita-
tion technique. Significant quantities of labelled, large sub-unit of
ribulose-bis-phosphate carboxylase were formed using thylakoid
RNA as message, as well as stroma RNA. These results indicate the
presence of m-rna for large sub-unit of ribulose-bis-phosphate
carboxylase on thylakoids as well as in the stroma. Thus, thylakoid-
bound polyribosomes may not be exclusively involved in the
synthesis of thylakoid polypeptides as originally hypothesized.

The light stimulus for inducing flowering in plants is received
in leaves, and something in the leaves is altered. This alteration
results in a change in materials moving from the leaves through
the phloem sap to the terminal bud where flowering occurs. Despite
many years of concentrated effort, isolation of the postulated
hormonal materials that control flowering has not been successful.
One plant that is very sensitive to light stimuli, Perilla, a member
of the mint family, was tested. Phloem sap from vegetative and
flowering material was extracted and fractionated into neutral
ethyl acetate, acidic ethyl acetate, neutral butanol, and acidic
butanol fractions. These fractions were examined by high pressure
liquid chromatography (Hptc), and a number of significant differ-
ences between vegetative and flowering extracts were identified.
Most of the differences are quantitative, but a few may be qualita-
tive. The reproducibility and chemical nature of these differences
are being determined.

Similarly, samples of duckweed—vegetative and flowering—have
been examined collaboratively with Professors Takimoto and
Takahashi of Japan. Sensitive assays for benzoic acid and abscisic
acid found no differences. In addition, bioassay failed to detect
significant levels of gibberellins. Cytokinins were found. No corre-
lation of the levels of these plant hormones with flowering has yet
been detected.

The reproductive behavior of many plants is also affected by the
duration and spectral quality of sunlight. This response, known as
photoperiodism, is based on the ability of the plant to measure the
relative length of the day. In order to do so, the plant, utilizing a
suitable photoreceptor molecule, must be able to detect the dif-
ference between light and darkness.

Laboratory studies in the rBt have shown previously that flower-
ing in barley, which is promoted by increasing daylengths, can be

Science / 131
enhanced by the addition of long wavelength, far-red light to
the daily photoperiod. It is also known that this far-red light
causes structural changes in the chloroplast that result in increased
efficiency for photosynthesis. Extensive experiments were contin-
ued to test the hypothesis that enhanced flowering was caused by
more efficient photosynthesis. Plants were grown in the presence
of an herbicide that produces plants that are completely devoid of
chlorophyll and, thus, lack any photosynthesis. The promotion of
flowering by far-red light was, however, found to be unaffected.
Therefore, chlorophyll is not the photoreceptor molecule that
regulates the photoperiodic enhancement of flowering.

It was found, further, that flowering was not only enhanced by
far-red light in the absence of chlorophyll, but was in fact better
than that in the green controls. Preliminary indications are that
the far-red light stimulates the uptake or utilization of glucose, the
sugar that must be supplied externally in the growth medium to
the plant to replace photosynthesis. Thus, some photoreceptor
other than chlorophyll seems to be involved with carbohydrate
metabolism that may be in the causal chain of events leading to
the promotion of plant reproduction.

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

The photosynthetic activity of a plant depends on several vari-
ables, such as the irradiance and spectral quality of the incident
radiation, the temperature of the plant, the concentration of carbon
dioxide in the surrounding air, the availability of water to the
roots, and the level of nutrients in the root medium. In green-
houses, light from electric lamps is often added as a supplement.
However, the relative effectiveness of these lamps in producing
photosynthetically active radiation is temperature-dependent. Their
efficiency for emitting light decreases as the temperature is
reduced toward the minimum temperatures—about 10° C (50° F)—
below which horticultural crops cannot be sustained. Similarily,
the photosynthetic efficiency of the plant decreases, principally
because of the decreasing rate of chemical reactions at these
reduced temperatures. For a cool-temperature crop, such as lettuce,
it was found that the plant mass could be heated directly with in-
frared radiation to achieve higher photosynthetic efficiencies with-
out expending the large amounts of oil or electrical energy that

132 / Smithsonian Year 1982
would be necessary to heat the ambient air in the greenhouse or
growth chamber. However, the use of a far-red radiation source
enhances the photochemical processes of photosynthetic activity
above that obtained with only “white” lamps. The combination
of plant irradiation with infra-red energy and the use of far-red
lamps to enhance photosynthesis provides an alternative to the
high cost of heating the ambient air.

This far-red enhancement effect also works with plants that
require higher temperature for growth. However, these plants must
be maintained at a higher ambient temperature since the far-red
lamps do not emit sufficient radiation to increase the plant to a
high enough temperature to enhance photosynthesis.

The most common environmental perturbation leading to reduc-
tions in primary production in higher plants is water stress. Many
of the factors that control plant growth, such as turgor pressure,
are directly affected by changes in plant water balance. Photo-
synthesis is particularly sensitive. As the plant dessicates, turgor
pressure declines, and the stomatal openings in the leaves close,
reducing the supply of carbon dioxide from the ambient air to the
chlorophyll-containing tissues within the leaf lamina. Further des-
sication leads to inhibition of not only light harvesting, but also
the production of reducing power and carbon reduction.

The physical measurement of water stress by plant physiologists
is a determination of the chemical activity of water in the plant
relative to the chemical activity of pure water. This measurement
is called “water potential” and reflects the fact that reduction of
the chemical activity of water in the plant reduces its capacity to
react in chemical reactions and to diffuse. Under favorable growth
conditions for crop plants, water potential is normally high, but
when dessication occurs, water potential declines by a readily
measurable amount. The level of water potential required to pro-
duce an effect upon photosynthesis varies considerably between
species. Plants adapted to the very dry saline habitats are able to
accomplish photosynthesis at much lower water potentials than
are less hardy species.

Wild species are well adapted to water stress and differ from
more sensitive crop species. An understanding of these wild plants
may someday help to improve drought resistance in important
crop plants. Such a plant that has adapted to a very broad range

Science / 133
of water potentials is Spartina alterniflora, or common cordgrass,
an abundant and highly productive species found along the
Atlantic coastline. Although this plant is tolerant of very low
water potentials, it grows best in mild, unstressed environments.
It manifests many of the effects of water stress typical of those
plants that are not tolerant of water stress. For example, it has a
reduction of leaf area with increased water stress.

Clues to the mechanism by which this adaptation is accom-
plished are found in the analysis of pressure-volume data. As
relative water content is reduced below about seventy percent,
the dependence of the inverse of plant water potential upon rela-
tive water content, becomes linear. Extrapolation of this linear
relationship to 100 percent relative water content permitted esti-
mation of osmotic potential and turgor pressure in the normal,
physiological range of relative water content, which is typically
seventy-five to ninety percent. Data obtained in this region could
also be used to calculate the modulus of elasticity; i.e., the change
in turgor pressure per unit of change in relative water content.
At high relative water contents, the osmotic potentials of plants
adapted to severe stress were always lower than osmotic poten-
tials in plants adapted to moderate stress. Plants adapted to
severe stress were also more rigid—the modulus of elasticity was
greater—than plants adapted to moderate stress.

These results show that the ability to maintain turgor pressure
includes adaptation of the physical, as well as the biochemical,
properties of plant tissues. The physiological meaning of the
increased modulus of elasticity is that larger changes in turgor
pressure are produced by the same change in relative water con-
tent. The ecological benefit is that plants having a high modulus
of elasticity are better able to exploit habitats in which water is
limited. The capacity for reduction of osmotic potential as stress
increases is evidence of osmotic regulation in this species.

Measurements of the light penetrating the water in the Rhode
River estuary of the Chesapeake Bay showed a marked increase
in the transmissivity of the water when ice had formed. This
increase is a complex phenomenon that is not readily explained.
It could be due to various factors, such as a decrease in plankton,
less run off from the land—which can carry a great deal of silt
and other matter into the estuary—or the failure of other mechan-

134 / Smithsonian Year 1982
isms that normally prevent light from easily penetrating to any
extent. These failures could be due in part to frozen conditions on
the land and upper reaches of the river.

Seed germination and morphological responses in plants have
been attributed to the relative amounts of energy in red (660 nm)
and far-red (720 nm, 730 nm) light absorbed by the phytochrome
pigment. New data, taken in Rockville, Maryland, using an inter-
ference-filter scanning radiometer developed by the rst shows
very little change in the 660 nm/730 nm ratio of irradiances, but
large changes in the 660 nm/720 mm ratio do occur. These data
are representative of both global (horizontal surface) and direct
beam (normal incidence) irradiances. Occasionally the 660 nm/
730 nm ratio will show a large change at very low irradiances
(0.01 Wm~? nm~*), but these changes seem to be the exception
rather than the rule. Since the wavelength band widths are only
5 nm, these changes are generally predictable. The 720 nm filter
measures energy at the peak of the water absorption band, which
extends from approximately 715 nm to 730 nm. The 730 nm filter
measures at a point little affected by the change in atmospheric
water. Since these ratios seem to depend on atmospheric water, it
would be expected that the 660 nm/720 nm ratio would show even
larger changes in the normal incidence measurements near or on
the horizon.

CARBON DATING

The laboratory provides analytical service for the research interests
of the Institution’s staff by providing radiocarbon chronologies
for samples of geological and archaeological interest. During the
past year more than 300 such service samples were dated. Addi-
tionally, a major portion of laboratory research continues to focus
upon paleoclimates, the early occupations of the Americas, and
investigation of the relationships between changing environment
and changing cultures.

Collagen extracted from a portion of rib bone of a mammoth
skeleton found just east of Washington, D.C., dated to 21,000 or
20,000 years ago, while plant matter from the underlying deposit
dated to about 26,000 years, a period spanning the onset of the
last major continental ice advance. Analyses of fossil pollen grains
from the deposit are being undertaken to provide some clue to the

Science / 135
presence of this grazing mammal in an area presumed to be scrub
boreal forest.

Collagen from bones in a cave deposit in West Virginia have
spanned a range of 23,000 to 20,000 years ago for remains of a
tropical bat now found only south of Georgia. The apparent tem-
perate character of the area is of considerable interest for inter-
pretation of data from Meadowcroft Rockshelter not far to the
north, where earliest human occupations have been successfully
dated to 21,000 years ago, and it is especially interesting since
that site lies only seventy kilometers south of the continental ice
border. Floral and faunal remains from the rockshelter indicate
boreal forest at that time and prompt major reconsideration not
only of man’s adaptability to cold ice-front regimes, but also of
assumptions regarding geographic-transgressive vegetation regimes
as one moves away from the front of a continental ice mass.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

The past year might be called “Year of the Director” at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao). The former director
had an observatory named in his honor; the current director chaired
a committee that produced a landmark scientific report; and the
next director of the observatory was selected and appointed.

On the occasion of his seventy-fifth birthday, Fred L. Whipple,
former director of sao, was honored by the Smithsonian Board of
Regents’ decision to rename sao’s field site at Mt. Hopkins, Ari-
zona, the “Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory.” Since 1968,
this facility, located some thirty-five miles south of Tucson, has
served as SAo’s major observatory for ground-based astronomy,
including studies of planetary, stellar, and extragalactic objects.
Mt. Hopkins is also the site of the Multiple Mirror Telescope,
operated jointly with the University of Arizona.

The formal change in name was marked with ceremonies on the
summit of Mt. Hopkins, May 7, 1982. As Assistant Secretary
David Challinor noted, it was appropriate to name the facility
“after the man who conceived it, planned it, and, during its fledg-

136 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ling days, nurtured it so the site might become the multi-faceted
research center it is today.”

While former director Whipple was being feted by his colleagues
and friends, the current director, George B. Field, was receiving
national praise for his efforts on behalf of the astronomical com-
munity as chairman of the Astronomy Survey Committee. Com-
missioned by the National Academy of Sciences and funded by the
National Science Foundation and the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the committee undertook the formidable
task of reaching a consensus within the large and diverse commu-
nity of scholars and researchers on national priorities for the next
decade. The report of that committee, Astronomy and Astrophysics
for the 1980's, published in the spring of 1982, established a set
of research goals and ranked recommendations for major new
instrumentation and facilities to fulfill them. Among the projects
urged by the committee were: an Advanced X-ray Astrophysics
Facility (axaF) to provide a permanent national X-ray observatory
in space; a Very-Long-Baseline (vB) array of radio telescopes de-
signed to produce images with an angular resolution of 0.3 milliarc-
seconds; a New Technology Telescope (Nntr) of the 15-m class, to
provide a tenfold increase in light-gathering capacity at optical
wavelengths and a hundredfold increase at infrared wavelengths;
and a Large Deployable Reflector in space for spectroscopic and
imaging observations in the far-infrared and submillimeter wave-
lengths, complementing and extending the capabilities of the
largest ground-based telescope.

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, in partnership with
the Harvard College Observatory (Hco) as members of the Center
for Astrophysics (cFA), is uniquely placed to respond to the recom-
mendations of the committee, having specialists and research
groups active in all areas of modern astrophysics. The person who
will be responsible for exploiting sao’s potential for leadership will
be Irwin I. Shapiro. A professor of physics and geophysics at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Shapiro was named senior
scientist at sao on July 1, 1982, with his appointment as director
to be effective January 1, 1983. (At that time, Shapiro will also
become director of Hco and the cra. George Field will return to
research and teaching duties as senior scientist at sao and professor
of astronomy at Harvard.)

Science / 137
As director of the cra, Shapiro will be responsible for leading a
research staff of more than 140 scientists engaged in a broad pro-
gram of astronomy and astrophysics. Data-gathering facilities in-
clude, besides the Whipple Observatory, an international network
of field stations to observe artificial satellites, an optical astronomy
facility in Massachusetts, a radio astronomy facility in Texas, and
satellite-borne and rocket-borne telescopes for X-ray and infrared
observations. Research results are published in established journals
as well as in the Center Preprint Series, the Smithsonian Special
Report series, and other technical and nontechnical publications
distributed to scientific and educational institutions around the
world.

Smithsonian scientists are encouraged to teach in the Harvard
University Department of Astronomy and other departments, as
well as at other universities and colleges. Both a Visiting Scientist
Program and a Postdoctoral Fellowship Program are sponsored by
sao at the cra. An extensive public education and information
program is coordinated by the sao Public Affairs Office.

The Center’s research programs are funded by various combina-
tions of sources. SAo’s programs are supported by federal appro-
priations and trust funds from the Smithsonian Institution and by
contracts and grants from both the private sector and government
agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, the Office of Naval Research, the Department of Energy, the
National Science Foundation, and the Air Force Geophysics Lab-
oratory. The Langley-Abbot Program, funded by the Institution,
provides fundamental support in the area of solar physics and
related research. Harvard members are supported by university
funds and by outside contracts and grants.

The Center’s research activities are organized in seven divisions
under the leadership of associate directors, who are charged with
coordinating the investigations and planning the resources required
to carry out programs. The research accomplishments in each of
these divisions during the past year follow.

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS

Burgeoning developments in astronomy continued to create new
and exciting demands for precise and comprehensive atomic and
molecular data and for extensive understanding of physical and

138 / Smithsonian Year 1982
chemical processes. The goals of Atomic and Molecular Physics
Division members are to provide these data and the basic under-
standing of the processes. Research was carried out in theoretical
and experimental physics and chemistry relating directly to the
interpretation of astronomical observations and entering into
theories of astronomical phenomena. These research topics are
interwoven by the vital interaction between theorists and experi-
mentalists, which continues to be a strength of the division.

Recent measurements of the cross-section for charge transfer in
the collision of C** ions with atomic hydrogen seemed to suggest
a possible discrepancy between the low energy (<250 eV) and the
high energy data (>2 keV). Accurate theoretical calculations were
performed for the charge transfer process, and the results for the
cross-section showed that two channels contribute with very dif-
ferent energy dependence in such a way that the total cross-section
is in harmony with both sets of experimental data.

Most plasma diagnostic techniques require accurate electron-
impact excitation cross-sections for multiply charged ions and
many need transition probabilities for transitions involving meta-
stable levels. Measurements of these atomic parameters were em-
phasized in the laboratory. The Ion-Beam Facility was used to make
the first measurement of the electron-impact excitation of the
ground term of C+, 2s 2p ?P°, to the 2s2p? 7D term. The 41335 A
spectral line produced by this excitation is observed in the sun
and other astronomical sources and is an important, electron tem-
perature and density diagnostic when used with other lines of Cr.

A facility was developed for measurement of radiative transition
probabilities for intersystem transitions in light ions of astrophys-
ical interest. The ions are created and excited by the electron bom-
bardment of gases, stored in an ion trap, and the photons from
radiative decay are detected. The magnitudes of the A-values for
typical spin-forbidden transitions are between 10? and 10% sec™?.
Because of its use in solar transition-zone diagnostics and as a
test of theoretical atomic calculations, the Si III (1892 A) line was
measured first, and an A-value of 1.63 X 10% was determined.

The opacity of the earth’s atmosphere in the wavelength region
1750-2050 A is controlled by the absorption cross-sections of the
rotationally discrete Schumann-Runge bands of Os. The cross-
section of the Schumann-Runge bands (12, 0) through (1, 0) were

Science / 139
measured with a 6.65-m photoelectric scanning spectrometer of
high enough resolution (0.0013 A) for the cross-sections to be
independent of the instrumentation—a result never previously
achieved. Definitive band oscillator strengths have been determined
directly from the measured cross-sections and were used to obtain
predissociation line widths of the bands by fitting computed cross-
sections to those measured.

HIGH ENERGY ASTROPHYSICS

High Energy Astrophysics Division members devoted considerable
time during the past year to the reduction and analysis of scientific
data from the two High Energy Astronomy Observatory satellites
(HEAO 1 and 2). Research programs covered a wide range of astro-
nomical topics, including stellar coronae, supernova remnants,
globular clusters, binary X-ray systems, normal galaxies, narrow
emission-line galaxies, radio galaxies, BL Lac objects, Seyfert gal-
axies, quasars, clusters of galaxies, and surveys and identifications
of galactic and extragalactic X-ray sources. Substantial observing
time with a number of ground-based optical and radio telescopes
was obtained and utilized as a part of these scientific programs.

Analysis of data from the Scanning Modulation Collimator ex-
periment on board HEAo-1 continued, with the objective of identi-
fying bright X-ray sources with optical objects. A major milestone
was the completion of the data-reduction phase by creating merged
directories of all mission data for each of 1,200 possible X-ray
sources. So far, about 240 sources are indicated; of these 50 may
be contaminated by stronger sources. Other X-ray sources were
also identified, including a new transient-like source, H0O323+02—
with what (sometimes) appears to be a normal G-star with a
large infrared excess—and three probable Be-star X-ray systems.
At least two of the latter, 4U0728—25 and 3A2206+543, are
interesting in that a low-luminosity, quasi-steady, X-ray component
may be observed. Study of 2A1704—241, the first normal M-giant
emitting system, was completed.

Basic data processing, support of the Guest Observer Program,
and varied scientific programs are the focus of the division’s HEAO-2
(Einstein Observatory) research. Completion of a first-pass analysis
of all Einstein data led to revision of the aspect solution and the
High Resolution Imaging (ur1) processing software, and resulted

140 / Smithsonian Year 1982
in an improvement in source-position accuracy to about 3.3 sec
at 90 percent confidence, as compared with the earlier estimated
error of 10 sec.

In support of the Einstein Guest Observer Program, division data
aides and scientists provided both data and programming assistance
to visiting researchers, who, last year, numbered more than 90.

Among the results of the Einstein investigations were the fol-
lowing: discovery of a new class of X-ray-emitting galaxies—
“dull” galaxies, otherwise optically undistinguished; development
of a classification scheme for galaxies based on X-ray emission,
optical morphology, and radio properties; statistical studies of
complete samples of quasi-stellar objects (Qsos); evidence for
evolution of gso X-ray luminosity; correlation of X-ray and optical
properties of gsos; determination of cluster X-ray luminosity func-
tion; extension of cluster classification schemes; the discovery of
an X-ray pulsar in the supernova remnant MsH 15-5(2); and mass
estimates of supernova progenitor stars.

Studies of solar and stellar coronal plasmas continued to focus
on understanding the physics of coronal formation. Substantial
progress was achieved in two areas: the first involved observational
tests of coronal heating, using Skylab and related solar data, and
the second, Einstein data analysis and interpretation of stellar
X-ray emission, with particular attention to magnetic-field-related
processes. Significant advances were also made in studies of plasma
and magnetohydrodynamic processes.

OPTICAL AND INFRARED ASTRONOMY

Research in optical and infrared astronomy concentrated on extra-
galactic and galactic astronomy, with special emphasis on studies
of clusters of galaxies, active galactic nuclei, redshift surveys, star
clusters, and the formation and evolution of stars. In support of
research throughout the Center, the division operated the Fred
Lawrence Whipple Observatory on Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, the site
of the Multiple Mirror Telescope (MMT), a joint project with the
University of Arizona.

This year, major improvements were made in the performance
of the mmt, which now meets or exceeds all the original design
specifications. Automatic alignment and tracking are now accom-
plished at the final combined focal plane. The mount works excep-

Science / 141
tionally well, with absolute pointing better than one arc second
and very smooth tracking. The median image size was measured
to be better than one arc second Fwum, which confirmed the earlier
reports of excellent seeing. The telescopes at the Whipple Observa-
tory also reached new heights of productivity in support of dozens
of research programs, and division efforts to develop and refine
the instruments, detectors, and software systems continued. Of
particular note was the establishment of a new Image Processing
Facility in Cambridge.

In extragalactic astronomy, noteworthy work on several clusters
of galaxies studied in detail showed that, in general, the structure
and kinematics are more complicated than previous dynamical
studies have admitted. However, select cases of binary clusters
were shown to yield significant information about their dynamical
evolution. The mrt played an essential role in this research.

Various aspects of active galaxies were investigated. International
Ultraviolet Explorer observations were used to study galaxies that
have undergone recent bursts of star formation. The mmr Infrared
Photometer and Circular Variable Filter were utilized to observe
asos where optical lines of interest have been redshifted into the
infrared. Examples of interacting galaxies and their relationship to
Qsos were examined, and, by use of the mmr, a survey of faint
Qsos was carried out.

The first stage of the cra Redshift Survey was completed, and
work began on two major extensions. In collaboration with the
Observatorio Nacional, a copy of the Z-machine was built and
put into operation in Brazil, which will allow the extension of the
Redshift Survey to the Southern Hemisphere.

The kinematics of the globular clusters in M31 were surveyed
with the mnt; and a slight rotation in the cluster system as a whole
was found. Several aspects of open clusters were also studied: faint
photometry of the lower main sequence in the Hyades and Pleiades
showed that the cluster ages derived from the turn-on-point dis-
agree with those from the turn-off-point by a large factor. Newly
developed techniques for measuring accurate radial velocities of
faint stars were used for a variety of projects, including a new
convergent point solution for the Hyades and direct measurements
of the kinematics of open clusters. Binaries were found to be a
frequent phenomenon.

142 / Smithsonian Year 1982
During 1982, major improvements were made in the performance of sao’s
Multiple Mirror Telescope at the Whipple Observatory, Mt. Hopkins,
Arizona.

This image of an edge-on spiral galaxy shows several independent struc-
tures: a bright nucleus, the thin inner disk of stars, and a larger envel-
oping halo of material. Current theory suggests that spiral galaxies may be
stabilized by such massive haloes of dark material “invisible” to normal
instrumentation.

Infrared observations from the ground, the nasa Kuiper Air-
borne Observatory, and from high-altitude balloons were used for
imaging and spectroscopy of astronomical objects, such as regicns
of star formation and the galactic center, and high-resolution
spectroscopy of the earth’s atmosphere.

Division scientists also operated a balloon-borne telescope that
produced a high-resolution, far-infrared map of a large area
(1° X 4°) of the galactic center. Finally, work on a major project,
the Helium-Cooled Infrared Telescope on Spacelab 2 continued;
the experiment is scheduled to fly aboard the Space Shuttle in 1984.

PLANETARY SCIENCES

Members of the Planetary Sciences Division carry out all three of
the traditional forms of scientific activity: they study the planets
by observational, theoretical, and laboratory techniques.

This past year, the observational program centered on the Oak
Ridge Observatory (formerly Agassiz Station) in Harvard, Massa-
chusetts. With its 61-inch reflector, this facility is ideally suited to
provide the astrometric observations needed to calculate the orbital
elements of small bodies—comets and asteroids, for example—in
the solar system, which require the determination of positions on
a number of different nights. The Oak Ridge program of regular
observation of newly discovered, unusual, and faint minor planets
and comets is operated closely with the International Astronomical
Union’s Minor Planet Center and Central Telegram Bureau (di-
rected by a division member). These resources seek to verify obser-
vations, compute orbital elements, and disseminate, on a timely
basis, information to astronomers worldwide.

Observational studies were also carried out by division scientists
who participated as members of the imaging team on the Voyager
mission. The group found the ring system of Saturn to be vastly
more complex than had been imagined.

Theoretical studies of planetary bodies and comets included an
investigation of the effect of decay on the motions and cohesive-
ness of comet nuclei and the examination of the dynamics of
postulated double comets. Recent improvements in the accuracy of
models of the primitive solar nebula have contributed to under-
standing of the origin of refractory inclusions and chondrules in
meteorites. Efforts to relate the long-term dynamical behavior of

144 / Smithsonian Year 1982
orbiting objects (such as the material in Saturn’s rings) to mass
distributions continued.

The laboratory approach to solar system science is employed
by application of the techniques of mineralogy and petrology to
studies of the detailed properties of meteorites and lunar samples.
Meteorites contain a cryptic record of events and processes asso-
ciated with the origin of the solar system, and even presolar
system history. Lunar samples contain an equally cryptic record
of the earliest internal evolution of a small planet. Research
centered on the origin of refractory inclusions in carbonaceous
chondrites: the major question being explored is whether these
materials represent high-temperature condensates from nebular
gas or residues of distilled interstellar dust.

Particular attention was also given to the history of the lunar
highlands crust. A division member leads a consortium in studying
the properties of constituents of highlands breccia 67015; early
findings suggested an unexpectedly complex geology at the Apollo
16 site.

Measurements of *’Ar produced in potassium as a function of
depth at the Homestake Mine were carried out. These measure-
ments will provide a value for the cosmic-ray background of the
chlorine solar neutrino detector, and a decay-mode independent
half-life for proton decay. Findings should contribute to an under-
standing of the highly complex interior of the sun.

RADIO AND GEOASTRONOMY

The Radio and Geoastronomy Division conducted studies in radio
astronomy, aeronomy, and geophysics, as well as research and
development programs in maser technology. Division members
operated a satellite laser tracking network and a radio astronomy
facility near Fort Davis, Texas, where a Very Long Baseline Inter-
ferometry (vLBI) station is also located. During the year, the Fort
Davis installation was renamed the George R. Agassiz Station.
Visi research focused on several areas. Using long-period map-
ping of proper motions of interstellar maser sources, statistical
parallaxes were measured for a number of sources. The accuracy
of the techniques has been advanced to about 10 microarcseconds.
The first millimeter-wavelength visi observations of extragalactic
sources were performed. Data on NGc 1275 at 3.3-millimeter wave-

Science / 145
length revealed a very compact component, 0.1 milliarcsecond in
size, which probably produces the observed X-ray emission by
inverse Compton scattering.

In other programs, the Very Large Array (vLA) or viB1 method
was used to study M87, compact H II regions, OH maser sources,
BL Lac objects, and hydrogen in planetary nebulae. The group
also operated a fringe verification procedure during viB1 observa-
tional programs.

Division members also carried out a project to measure ozone
in the stratosphere and lower mesosphere by using a ground-based
millimeter-wave technique.

Studies of the earth’s thermosphere based on data from satellite-
borne mass spectrometers continued. Data from the Esro 4 and
S3-1 satellites were augmented by those from the Atmosphere
Explorer-C satellite, which provided needed information for greater
heights. The major emphasis was on the geomagnetic variation
and its relation to the heat sources and the dynamics of the
disturbed thermosphere. An important result was the identification
of the effects of winds and waves generated by the heat input
and the successful modeling of the time lag and the persistence of
disturbance.

Work on problems of orbital dynamics included a study of the
effects of atmospheric drag in relation to strategies for the con-
struction of a large space platform and related investigation of
the secular effects associated with the critical inclination and
harmonic resonance.

Sao’s hydrogen maser group continued their maser research
and experiments using ultra-stable clocks. Three vic-11 series
masers were built; one was delivered to the Tokyo Astronomical
Observatory and two others were constructed for the Nasa Jet
Propulsion Laboratory. Two additional masers are under construc-
tion for the U.S. Naval Observatory. Experimental work is under
way with cryogenically cooled masers to investigate hydrogen
collision effects on wall surfaces coated with freezing gases of
various types and to demonstrate stability data at the 10~*® level
for time intervals between one minute and one hour.

The simulation of Doppler detection of pulsed low-frequency
gravitational waves using clocks and a multi-link Doppler sys-
tem in a deep-space probe was completed. With today’s precise

146 / Smithsonian Year 1982
timing and space-tracking technology, it is possible to detect
pulses at the 10~** level in the Doppler signatures. These gravita-
tional pulses are thought to originate in the collapse of super-
massive black holes of about 107 solar masses, which are believed
to exist at the core of some galaxies. This is the first feasible
system developed that could detect such waves.

The division continued operation of a satellite laser-tracking
network, which provided routine laser-tracking coverage for geo-
physical research conducted at sao and other research organi-
zations in the U.S. and abroad. In addition to tracking, five-day
mean pole positions were provided to the scientific community on
a routine basis. During the year, the laser-tracking stations were
closed in Natal, Brazil, Orroral Valley, Australia, and Mt. Hop-
kins, Arizona. Arrangements were made to relocate the laser from
Natal to Matera, Italy, under a joint program with the Consiglio
Nazionale delle Richerche. The network also completed the upgrad-
ing of the Arequipa, Peru, laser to improve range accuracy from
10 cm to 3-5 cm.

SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS

Research programs in solar and stellar physics focused on various
problems concerned with stellar activity and mass loss and the
behavior of hot plasmas in the universe. The pursuit of the “solar-
stellar connection” in both observational and theoretical areas
provided an important theme. Division scientists recognize that
phenomena long known to occur on the sun are present, often in
extreme form, in stars as well; and study of the physics of the
sun provides an on-going framework to test against other objects
in the universe.

Experimental programs in the division included development of
speckle imaging techniques, which can be applied both to the solar
fine structure and to extended stellar atmospheres. The rocket
coronagraph program, to measure the solar atmosphere in the
acceleration region of the solar wind, provided a unique spectro-
scopic tool for use in probing the plasma characteristics and
energy requirements of the solar wind. A version of this instru-
ment is now planned for development on a Shuttle mission in
1985. Complementary theoretical studies under the Langley—Abbot
Program of the Smithsonian Institution assessed the physical

Science / 147
implications of such observations for both solar and stellar winds
and mass loss.

Research in stellar activity was carried out by using a variety of
observational and theoretical techniques. The collaborative program
between Smithsonian and Mt. Wilson observatories to monitor
the long-term variability of the flux in the Ca II emission lines
yielded rich insight into the presence and character of stellar
activity cycles. Complementary measures of line profiles, spectro-
scopic rotation rates, and magnetic fields in stellar atmospheres—
all fundamental parameters of activity—are also under way at the
Whipple Observatory. Measurements of high-temperature plasmas
in stars were obtained by using the HEAo-2 (Einstein Observatory)
and the International Ultraviolet Explorer satellites. On-going
theoretical calculations of radiative processes in optically thick
chromospheric emission lines and other features in static and
expanding solar and stellar atmospheres enabled the requirements
to be defined for the energy balance in cool atmospheres.

The wealth of new quantitative spectroscopic measures has
demanded, and will continue to require, thorough understanding
of atomic, ionic, and molecular behavior. Studies of plasma pro-
cesses at high temperature and, in particular, the spectroscopic
response of hot gases to conditions of nonequilibrium contributed
valuable insights to all spectroscopic—optical, ultraviolet, or
X-ray—measurements. In addition, models of nonradiative shocks
and their observable consequences can be predicted to infer
characteristics of the shock itself. Application of such studies can
be found not only in solar or stellar atmospheres, but also in
the observation of gaseous interstellar remnants left from super-
nova explosions or Herbig—Haro objects. Achievement of a basic
understanding of such processes and their diagnostics directs and
enhances the pursuit of nonequilibrium phenomena in many other
objects.

These interdisciplinary studies generated considerable interest
among astrophysicists, as evidenced by the highly successful
Second Cambridge Workshop on “Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and
the Sun.” This was held in October 1981 at the Center for Astro-
physics, and was supported in part by the Langley—Abbot Program
of the Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Astrophysical Obser-
vatory, and Harvard College Observatory. The proceedings were

148 / Smithsonian Year 1982
published in SAO Special Report No. 392, which documents both
invited and contributed papers.

Studies in the history of astronomy, carried out by a division
member, provided a broad perspective on the development of
ideas, thoughts, and style during the early centuries of astronom-
ical research.

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS

Valuable progress was made this year in the understanding of
magnetic fields, interstellar clouds, accretion flows and mass
outflows, spiral structure, galaxy formation, radiation processes,
X-ray sources, the clustering of galaxies, convection theory, and
extragalactic radio jets. Research was carried out on a diverse
range of astrophysical phenomena, with theoretical studies often
applied to the support and interpretation of observational data.
The basic studies in stellar and galactic dynamics, stellar and
galactic structures, gravitational theory, radiative transfer, kinetic
theory, hydrodynamics, scattering theory, and cosmology also
continued.

Members of the division contributed significantly to the educa-
tional programs of the observatories and collaborated frequently
with scientists in other institutions as well as with members of
other divisions. Specific research programs addressed the follow-
ing: physics of gamma-ray bursts; supersymmetry theories of the
elementary particles and their applications; various problems in
relativistic cosmology; thermal effects in quasar accretion flows
due to irradiation by the quasar continuum; theoretical study of
magnetic helicity conservation; and investigations of radiative
processes and radiative transfer theory, including the Comptoniza-
tion of X-rays and the escape-probability method for spectral
lines.

In a study of the dynamics of globular clusters, statistical corre-
lations were found between internal dynamical properties of
clusters and their distances from the galactic center. Attempts to
reconcile the observed properties with theoretical models of dy-
namical evolution are under way.

A numerical simulation demonstrated that the accretion of
lunar-sized planetesimals is a plausible mechanism for the forma-
tion of the earth. It was shown that “secondary infall’’ was not a

Science / 149
viable mechanism for forming the shallow-density-profile galactic
halos.

A systematic study of a number of clusters of galaxies has
begun. So far, the focus has been on clumpy systems, which are,
in a sense, dynamically young. N-body models indicated that
these systems, if bound, will eventually have a smooth, centrally
condensed galaxy distribution.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

The tropics have always interested biologists, largely because
diversity of tropical life is so immense, and the different kinds of
tropical organisms make their living in such varied and occasionally
bizarre ways, and because the plants and animals that have sur-
vived in this diverse world are so precisely adapted to their ways
of life. Here the ecologist can study the mechanisms maintaining
the balance of nature in the most complex of natural communities,
while the morphologist and behaviorist find ample opportunity for
the comparisons that are as essential now to understanding biology
as they were in Darwin’s time, or Aristotle’s. Understanding
tropical biology, however, has taken on a new urgency: why are
natural communities in the tropics so lush, while small farms here
can be devoured by pests after only a few harvests, and large-scale
farming often leads to land with the color, texture, and fertility of
a brick? How can the diversity of life recover from the growing
human onslaught? These questions cannot be answered fully by
research explicitly directed to the purpose. Unforeseeable discov-
eries—by curious naturalists interested in plants and animals for
their own sake—will offer essential leads to practical problems of
crucial importance.

To this end, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI)
maintains a full-time resident staff of trained scientists, many of
whom are engaged in long-term studies of tropical organisms. STRI
is equipped with modern facilities, an excellent up-to-date library
(for which a new building is in progress), and a full supporting
staff. Among its facilities is a field station in the 4,200-hectare

150 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Seen from the air, Barro Colorado Island, Panama, may seem to be a sleepy little
place, but it actually teems with activity. A full-time residential staff of scientists are
engaged in long-term studies of tropical organisms. (Photograph is copyrighted by
N. Smythe.) Below. The Caribbean reef squid Sepioteuthis sepioidea is the subject of
a new book by stri scientists M. H. Moynihan and Arcadio Rodaniche. (Photographer,
A. Rodaniche)

Barro Colorado Nature Monument. This is an easily accessible
reserve of tropical forest, where a “growing house” for plant
experiments—complete with a plant physiology laboratory—was
completed in November 1981. There are also marine stations,
where one can study the contrasting communities on the two sides
of an isthmus which split the oceans only three million years ago.

Stri offers short-term and 12-month fellowships to citizens of
all countries and maintains a vigorous program of training for
young scientists from tropical countries, capitalizing on their life-
time residence in, and first-hand knowledge of tropical regions. In
the current fiscal year, EXXON grants supported thirty such stu-
dents from Panama, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, and Peru.
Moreover, student assistants from tropical countries have collab-
orated in a great variety of staff projects, ranging from the pollina-
tion biology of tropical flowers, to the breeding of pelicans. For
many of these students, str1 represents an introduction to an active
research community and an acquaintance with fellow research
scientists—both provide crucial career impetus. In addition, a
student on Barro Colorado can build on sixty years of previous
research; the marine stations have also amassed an impressive
amount of background information.

For centuries scientific knowledge of tropical nature was largely
based on fragmentary studies conducted by travelers and expatri-
ates, many of them amateurs. Even today, the majority of scien-
tists ranked as experts in tropical biology can spend only a few
weeks of the year actually working in the tropics. Piecemeal,
sporadic study inevitably fails to comprehend the long cycles and
rare events that are so often the essence of tropical adaptations.
Str1 provides opportunities for long-term research, which few
institutions can match.

Stephen Hubbell, who has just joined the stri staff on an inter-
mittent appointment, and Robin Foster, a stri research associate,
have just finished mapping half a square kilometer of forest on the
“plateau” of Barro Colorado Island (scr). This project has required
fifteen man-years of work so far, involving students from the U.S.,
Panama, and Mexico.

Since each kind of tree has its own pests and diseases, it has
long been thought that trees of a single kind, which are crowded
too closely together (or more especially, their seeds and seedlings),

152 / Smithsonian Year 1982
are particularly liable to become extinct. Since disease is supposedly
most rampant in the tropics, and insect pests most voracious there,
the diversity of tropical trees has been attributed largely to such
“penalties of abundance.” Hubbell and Foster hope to infer what
factors maintain tropical tree diversity from the patterns of dis-
tribution of individual species (the extent to which a species occurs
in “clumps,” and the degree to which it is confined to particular
topography or soil) and the manners in which trees of different
species are commingled. The plot will be resurveyed at intervals
to assess growth, mortality, and recruitment of the different species.

Over the years many students on sci have studied features of
reproduction in trees, especially how seed dispersal affects repro-
duction success. Is there a penalty for overabundance? What form
does it take? Mapped plots make such studies much easier.

David Hamill, a graduate student from the University of Iowa,
has mapped the distribution of Ocotea skutchii seedlings and sap-
lings around various mature trees of this species on Hubbell’s
mapped plot and is monitoring their survival and growth. A
fungus, unique to the species, causes lesions on all the saplings,
girdling the stems of many and killing those which cannot sprout
from below the wound. Seedlings far away from the parent plant
have twice as good a chance of living three years as those living
closer to it; this differential survival is not enough to even out the
distribution of these trees.

Victoria Sork, of Washington University, finds that Gustavia
superba, a subcanopy tree, is much rarer in the old forest of Hub-
bell’s mapped plot and has many fewer young per adult than in
Gerald Lang’s plot of young forest on BcI—or in even younger
forests on the nearby mainland. Sork is monitoring seed production,
prospects of germination, and seedling survival in these three plots
to see if these factors explain the differences. She is also comparing
the demography of these plants on sci, which abounds in fruit-
and seed-eating mammals, and on the mainland, where such an-
imals are much rarer, to see what difference the animals make.

Carol Augspurger, of the University of Illinois, is mapping seed
and seedling “shadows” for wind-dispersed trees of several differ-
ent species. Fungi, perhaps related to the Irish potato blight, attack
seedlings of many of these species—especially seedlings that are
densely crowded in the shade. In some species, only seedlings in

Science / 153
“light gaps,” opened by large fallen trees, can survive. Augspurger
is trying to learn more about how these diseases are communicated
and to determine the length of time that infectious spores last in
the soil.

Henry Howe, of the University of Iowa, for the fourth year, is
continuing his study of reproduction in Virola (wild nutmeg),
monitoring the fruit and flower production of selected trees, the
species eating and dispersing the fruit, and the proportion of fruit
dispersed. He and his student, Eugene Schupp, are setting out
fruit at different distances from parent trees and find that the pros-
pects of fruit placed far from the parent are much more promising.

Eugene Schupp is also beginning a study of flowering, fruiting,
the consumption of flowers or green fruit by natural enemies, fruit
dispersal, and seedling germination and survival in an understory
shrub, Faramea occidentale, which flowers much more heavily
every second year. His study will last three years.

These studies are backed by a long-term monitoring program
sponsored by the Environmental Sciences Program (Esp) of the
Smithsonian Institution, which—along with the accumulated re-
sults of individual research—provides a large and profound fund
of background information. This increases the value of shorter-
term studies manyfold and provides data on climatic and biotic
patterns, which are of fundamental value in themselves.

Dr. Donald Windsor, staff coordinator of environmental moni-
toring on sci, has become an expert in data-processing and the
assessment of the dynamics of the forest community. He reports
that environmental monitoring in str1 study areas (e.g., Gamboa
and Gatun) dates from the French era of Panama Canal construc-
tion, with the earliest records in 1859. At the present time, con-
tinuous records of rainfall, soil moisture, and sediment and runoff
volume in the Lutz ravine of scr enable scientists to estimate rates
of erosion and water retention in a known area of forest, for com-
parison with that of nearby cleared plots in the Panama Canal
Area.

Measurements of windspeed, temperature, and of light intensity
and spectral quality at different levels in the forest are obtained
from instruments mounted on “The Tower,” a 138-foot structure,
which pierces the canopy near the Lutz ravine. The instruments
provide data for estimating the input of solar energy to the forest,

154 / Smithsonian Year 1982
the quality of light available for different photosynthetic pathways,
and the rate of water loss by evaporation from the forest as a
whole. Knowledge of the “hydrologic budget” is supplemented by
information on dissolved nutrients passing out of the watershed
through the Lutz-ravine weir.

Douglas Rocha, whose meticulous attention to the reading and
maintenance of monitoring equipment assures the accuracy of this
information, also collaborates with the Smithsonian’s Radiation
Biology Laboratory and the Skin and Cancer Hospital of Phila-
delphia in providing specialized data on tropical light conditions
that affect human health.

Bonifacio de Leon is in his eighth year of following the phenolo-
gies of Bcr trees—their annual patterns of leaf, flower, and fruit
production—which are basic to understanding the movements and
reproductive cycles of numerous forest animals.

Seed dispersers need to eat. The factors governing the timing
and amount of fruit produced by different kinds of trees is decisive
to the livelihood of a whole host of forest animals.

Dipteryx trees normally fruit at the end of the late rainy-season
fruit famine, but, like many other trees that flower in response to
the onset of the rainy season, they often fruit poorly, if at all,
after a wet dry season. William Glanz, of the University of Maine,
finds that squirrels start mating much later in the year and pro-
duce far fewer young when Dipteryx fruit is in short supply. He
has also been censusing mammals, and finds that the numbers of
squirrels and agoutis have fallen sharply the last two years, perhaps
because of the fruit shortages caused by the wet dry season of
1980 and 1981.

Pacas are fruit-eaters of the forest floor, comparable to the
mouse deer of the Old World tropics, and perhaps the favorite
neotropical game animal. Mickey Marcus, a str short-term fellow
from the University of Maine, has begun a radio-tracking study
of pacas to see how their behavior and feeding habits change
during the onset of the autumnal fruit shortage. He has also begun
a live-trapping survey, comparable to that completed by the Esp
three years ago, to estimate the density of pacas and other fru-
givorous mammals in the Lutz catchment.

Priyadarshini Davidar completed a study of the dispersal of
mistletoe fruit by birds, asking why some kinds of mistletoe were

Science / 155
fj
A
.

a

4 me

(Drawing copyrighted

tailed squirrels

The largest tree in this drawing from sci is Dipteryx panamensis, the fruit of which

plays a crucial role in the life cycles of red-

by Marshall Hasbrouck)
4s

dispersed by one or two “specialists,” while others had far more
general appeal.

Allen Herre collaborated in a study on the factors affecting pol-
lination success in fig trees: are more isolated trees, or those trees
fruiting at certain times of year, likely to have fewer seeds ferti-
lized?

Charles Handley is continuing his studies of fig-eating bat
populations and their responses to changes in fig production. He
is also mapping the fig trees on various parts of BcI to assess the
amount of food available. Figs are important to bats because, un-
like most fruits, they are available all year long. This may be
related to their pollination system.

Other animals respond to seasonal changes in the supply of
different kinds of food. Young iguanas, for instance, hatch from
their eggs at the onset of the rainy season when flowers and new
leaves are most abundant. Stanley Rand and his collaborators have
been marking the adult females which congregate each February
at various nesting sites around scr to lay their eggs, radio-tracking
a few to learn how far they travel after nesting. Brian Bock is
monitoring how many young emerge and where they go. Iguanas
are a favored game animal in Panama, and Rand now understands
enough of their demography to advise the joint STRI/Government
of Panama project concerned with increasing the number of iguanas
available for cropping. Kathy Troyer continued her work on when
and how young iguanas acquire the “gut flora” they need to digest
mature leaves and has also compared the ways young and adult
iguanas try to control their body temperatures.

Henk Wolda now has eight years of data on fluctuations of leaf-
hoppers and some other insects caught at light traps on Barro
Colorado Island. Such insects tend to be most abundant at the
beginning of the rainy season, when new leaves are most preva-
lent, but the populations of the different insect species change
irregularly from year to year, fluctuating quite as much over the
long-term in the tropics as in the temperate zone. Wolda is also
studying an endomychid beetle, Stenotarsus rotundus. During the
last four years, 30,000 or more of these beetles have aggregated
to diapause for ten months of the year on a single palm tree, dis-
persing to feed for the first two months of the rainy season. As
these beetles eat fungi—which are presumably most abundant late

Science / 157
in the rainy season—their seasonal rhythm is an extraordinary
mystery.

Seasonal rhythms in leaf-eating insects cause seasonal rhythms
in the breeding of the birds that eat them. Judy Gradwohl and
Russell Greenberg of the National Zoo are continuing their studies
of how year-to-year variations in survival and reproduction of
understory antwrens is affected by change in the supply of insects
the antwrens eat.

At the beginning of the rainy season, the animals that break
down the leaf litter awake to feed and reproduce, as do the insects
that eat them, and as do the small lizards that eat the predatory
arthropods. Robin Andrews, of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University, and Stanley Rand are continuing to census the
small lizard Anolis limifrons on selected plcts for the tenth con-
secutive year.

Long-term research also plays a major role in stri’s marine
program. On the reef flat at Galeta, srri’s Caribbean marine lab-
oratory, John Cubit, Michael Vassar, Judith Connor, and others
are continuing a monitoring program for the esp. They are follow-
ing rainfall, solar radiation, wind speed and direction, tidal level
and salinity, sea-urchin populations, and the proportions of the
various zones of the reef covered by each principal kind of alga.
Caribbean tides are slight and erratic. About twice a year—some-
times more often—calm weather, low tides, and lack of cloud-cover
exposes the reef flat to a merciless sun, devastating the reef-flat
community. Fifty square meters of the reef have been continuously
irrigated by seawater for the past sixteen months to compare its
community with those of neighboring sectors subject to exposures.

As part of John Cubit and James Norris’s studies of algal com-
munities at Galeta, Judith Connor has followed the seasonal
rhythms of algal reproduction on the reef flat. The rhythm of two
species at the top of the reef flat and two subtidal species peak
during the dry season; other species at the seaward edge of the
flat reproduce all year long.

As part of John Cubit and Walter Adey’s study of algal produc-
tion, Peter Griffith estimates photosynthesis and respiration by
monitoring the depth and speed of water moving across the reef
flat, and the amount of oxygen it acquires (if by day) or loses (if
by night) during its crossing. This is the first time reef production

158 / Smithsonian Year 1982
has been monitored on a twenty-four-hour basis. Griffith finds that
respiration rate varies through the night; this contradicts the
assumption under which marine productivity is usually calculated.

Stephen Garrity, a stR1 predoctoral fellow, is comparing the
effects on rocky shore snails of the strong tidal cycle on the Pacific
side—where even the lowest tides rarely cause mass mortality—
with those of the unpredictable lows on the Caribbean side—which
can be as devastating on rocky shores as on reef flats. More gen-
erally, he is following how snails respond to the risks of life on
tropical shores.

In 1976, a great earthquake in the Darien threw whole hillsides
into the sea, creating half a mile and more of new rocky shore in
places, and vast expanses of bare earth. Nancy Garwood has been
monitoring the revegetation of the land, while John Cubit, Sally
Levings, and Stephen Garrity have been monitoring the recovery
on the coast. Ten months after the quake, the rocks were green
with leafy algae; in another year, littorinids, thin-shelled limpets,
and herds of isopods had devoured those algae. Later, patches of
crustose algae and—nearer high tide—velvety. patches of algal
turf began to spread, and heavier-shelled herbivorous snails waxed
more prevalent. Only in 1982 did populations of predatory snails
really attain substantial levels, but they are still low.

Olga Linares has continued her studies of the Diola people of
Senegal, who live in an area that used to average over 1,500 mm
of rain a year. The famous Sahelian drought has had great effects
further south: last year, the Diola lands received 700 mm, and
annual rainfall has never exceeded 1,500 mm during the past ten
years. The northern Diola are now growing millet and sorghum
instead of rice, and are also raising peanuts as a cash crop. The
drought has caused a shift to a male-dominated agriculture, which
requires plows and fertilizer because larger areas have to be cullti-
vated, leaving land fallow for far shorter periods.

Ross Robertson has begun a study of what happens to reef fish
populations around the Great Barrier Reef when crown-of-thorns
starfish devastate the corals on their reef. This study will entail
yearly visits to Australia. And Robertson has found that it is
possible to study the daily feeding rhythms of sharks by watching
them from a helium balloon. This study will complement his
research on the daily rhythms of feeding and reproduction in reef

Science / 159
fish of the San Blas Islands, where he wishes to know why differ-
ent kinds of fish time their activities as they do. On the San Blas,
he has also been examining the lunar periodicity of damselfish
spawning and recruitment, and seasonal and year-to-year variation
in settlement at various reefs of other kinds of fish.

Most of the pelicans of tropical America breed within thirty
miles of the Pacific mouth of the Panama Canal. Gene Montgom-
ery has found that their breeding is intimately tied to dry-season
upwelling in the Bay of Panama, which brings the schools of fish
they eat near the water surface. This year the upwelling failed,
and the pelicans produced very few young.

Long-term research sometimes provides the opportunity for
spectacular natural experiments. David Roubik, who had been
studying the ecology of bees on Barro Colorado Island and at many
mainland sites for the past three years, was prepared for the day
when Africanized bees invaded from South America. In July 1982,
the killer bees finally reached Barro Colorado Island, and Roubik
initiated a whole array of studies to assess the impact of these
invaders on local bee communities, and on the fruit set of bee-
pollinated plants, such as the tree Luehea seemanii.

Roubik and Leslie Johnson, of the University of Iowa, have been
studying how stingless bees compete for food. The bees are rather
like ants: if two species encounter each other over food, the more
aggressive wins, but less aggressive species find much food over-
looked by their competitors. James Ackerman, a former stri pre-
doctoral fellow, and Roubik monitored seasonal and year-to-year
changes in the abundance of orchid bees (euglossine) at various
sites by attracting them with scents. Robert Schmalzel, Wilson
Devia, and Enrique Moreno have been preparing a “pollen flora”
of Barro Colorado Island, so that one may identify the flowers a
bee has visited from the pollen it is carrying. Allison Snow, Lucinda
McDade, and others have studied the relation between pollinator
visits and the amount of fruit set.

Studies of the variety and precision of adaptation also play a
vital role in str1 research. Martin Moynihan has completed a de-
tailed study, which has just appeared as a book of communication
in the Caribbean reef squid Sepioteuthis. Most animals have be-
tween ten and forty behavioral “displays.” This squid has many
more, mostly color changes, which are used in intricate combina-

160 / Smithsonian Year 1982
tions. Moynihan analyzed the function and the “linguistics” of
these displays and, since then, he has done briefer comparative
studies of squid at Palau and elsewhere in the tropics to test the
generality of his conclusions.

Leonard Freed, a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellow, is comparing
southern housewrens with their northern counterparts, whose
ecology he studied earlier. The housewrens of Panama are bigger
and have a long breeding season. Few of the wrens in Panama
breed in a given year, but those that do seem not to be limited by
the availability of food. They nest in holes, as do wasps, which
may take up enough of the suitable nest-holes to limit the wren
population. Dr. Bao-Lai Zheng, from Kunming, China, has just
begun a two-year study of nesting habits and parental care in
trogons and motmots, which nest in burrows in the ground or in
great termite nests.

Mark Denny has been studying how a coral’s shape, the prop-
erties of the calcium carbonate in its skeleton, and its position
relative to other corals, enable it to resist destruction by the surf.
Urchins and parrotfish can also “erode” corals, as can animals that
bore into them. Harilaos Lessios is asking how these enemies con-
trol coral distribution, and what defenses corals have against them,
by way of shape, regenerative capacity of coral tissue (an effective
shield against many borers), and capacity to grow faster than their
enemies erode them. Peter Glynn has found that shrimps and crabs
that live inside the branching coral Pocillopora defend it against
crown-of-thorns starfish, which would otherwise devour it com-
pletely. Even in the absence of such enemies, the crustacean sym-
bionts seem essential to the health of their corals. Glynn and
Gerard Wellington have finished a book on the reefs of the
Galapagos.

Hermit crabs need snail shells as armor against predators, and
their numbers are sometimes limited by the availability of such
shells. This has led Thomas Spight, a Smithsonian postdoctoral
fellow, to study the factors governing the availability of snail
shells to hermit crabs, which has led him to study the variation in
the abundance, diversity, and species composition of intertidal
snails from place to place on the cobbly shores near the Pacific
mouth of the Panama Canal.

Neal Smith has just obtained the first evidence that migrating

Science / 161
hawks deliberately fly inside clouds. Hawks at the base of a cloud
receive a constant lift, like sailplanes, which can travel forty miles
along such a “cloud street’”’ without changing altitude. This habit
can save essential energy during migration, which is a strenuous
business.

George Bartholomew, of the University of California at Los
Angeles, and M. C. Barnhardt, his student, returned to Barro
Colorado to study insect physiology. On earlier trips, Bartholomew
studied large insects that had to warm up quite substantially before
flying. This time, he studied a large cicada that can fly away
immediately when disturbed, although it warms up substantially
while flying. He also showed that, when the cicada is flying, its
abdomen has to be actively ventilated to supply enough oxygen
for its metabolism; simple diffusion does not supply enough.

William Eberhard has continued his research on measuring the
prey available to orb-weaving spiders. Catherine Craig, a Smith-
sonian predoctoral fellow, has been comparing the types of webs
best suited to catching insects that fly in very irregular, jagged
paths, with those suited to catching insects that fly more directly
from one place to another.

The newly emerging leaves of many understory plants in the
mature forest of Barro Colorado are pink or white, while canopy
leaves are green from the beginning. Phyllis Coley and Thomas
Kursar, Smithsonian postdoctoral fellows, suspect that where there
is little light, it is undesirable to install much “machinery” in a
leaf until it is tough enough to deter herbivores. They are com-
paring changes in toughness, energy content, respiration rate,
chlorophyll content, photosynthetic capacity, and chance of being
eaten, in young leaves that have been green from the beginning
with those which start out pink or white.

How rapidly does a leaf increase photosynthesis in response to
a passing sunfleck? If light level changes more permanently, how
do old leaves adjust? How does the structure of new leaves reflect
the changed conditions? What are the characteristics of the plants
that invade? To find out, Alan Smith and his associates are using
the Hubbell plot, where both plants and openings in the canopy
are mapped, to learn whether different understory herbs are asso-
ciated with different light levels. They are also chopping down
trees on a mainland site to see how herbs adjust—in both the

162 / Smithsonian Year 1982
short and the long term—to the increased light load, and they are
simulating understory and “gap” light regimes in the growing
house to see how different species respond.

Most plants acquire carbon dioxide by opening the stomates in
their leaves during the daytime; water evaporates (transpires) from
the stomates, pulling up more nutrients-containing water from the
base of the tree, and carbon dioxide enters the leaves through the
open stomates. Desert plants, and epiphytic plants, which lack a
reliable source of water, open their stomates at night when they
can take in carbon dioxide without losing so much water. They
store the carbon dioxide as acid for daytime photosynthesis. Plants
with such “crassulacean acid metabolism” photosynthesize much
more slowly in full sunlight than most plants. Since it has been
thought that the process was more wasteful of light in general, it
was a stunning surprise when William Pfitsch, a short-term fellow
from the University of Washington, and Alan Smith discovered
that the “ground pineapple’ Aechmea magdalenae, which grows
in deep shade, photosynthesizes by crassulacean acid metabolism
even when plenty of water is available, just as does its epiphytic
congener in the forest canopy. Moreover, ground pineapples seem
to fix as much or more carbon per unit dry weight of leaf as
ordinary understory plants.

If their leaves do not transpire water, trees presumably must
expand energy to bring nutrients up to their leaves. Egbert Leigh
is trying to learn, from the forms of its trees, the extent to which
“elfin forest” on fogbound, windy mountaintops—where the
weather can prevent transpiration for weeks at a time—are stunted
by shortage of mineral nutrients. In October 1981, Leigh visited
the Nilgiri Hills in south India to compare the shapes, branching
patterns, and leaf arrangements of trees in a forest that is usually
below the cloudbelt with trees of fogbound forests in Malaysia
and Costa Rica.

A surprising amount of stri research has focused on sexual
selection and related topics. Sexual selection is interesting because
the manners in which males compete for mates can harm the
species. In her study of reproduction and demography of electric
fish in the streams near Gamboa, Mary Hagedorn finds that the
males signal the females electrically, and these signals also seem
to attract the catfish which eat them. Michael Ryan has investi-

Science / 163
gated what characteristics of a male frog’s call most attracts
females, and he and Merlin Tuttle have found that these attractive
characteristics also attract predatory bats. In March 1981, Ryan
and Tuttle assisted the British Broadcasting Corporation in making
a movie of the depredations of bats on frogs.

Robert Warner, of the University of California at Santa Barbara,
and his students have continued their studies of sexual selection
in the blue-headed wrasse, a coral reef fish. Most of these fish are
born female but become male, assuming bright colors, when they
are big enough to compete effectively for mates. The males hold
mating territories side-by-side at one end of the reef, and females
go there to choose their mates. Warner is trying to learn how the
females decide which male to choose.

Before his death in January 1982, Robert Silberglied had shown
that the bright colors and displays of male butterflies—like the
striking signs of male songbirds—serve primarily as warning
signals to rival males, rather than to charm females into mating.

Leslie Johnson has been studying sexual selection in brentid
weevils, where mature males of the species show a fivefold varia-
tion in length. Is absolute size, or size relative to immediate neigh-
bors, more important to a male beetle’s behavior and sexual
success?

Michael Robinson is studying courtship and mating patterns in
preying mantises and in predatory fish, both freshwater and
marine. He wants to learn how each species mates without one
partner being stimulated to eat the other. This is a sequel to his
study of courtship among spiders.

Mary Jane West-Eberhard has revived Darwin’s ideas on the
important role of sexual selection in the origin of species and finds
that those groups whose social system or mating pattern enhances
the effect of sexual selection speciate more rapidly. At the moment,
conservationists are rightly worried about maintaining the existing
diversity of plants and animals, but it will also become essential
to know how new diversity might most easily be generated. It is
strange to consider that characters normally considered harmful to
the species may play an essential role in generating diversity.

When the Isthmus of Panama sundered the oceans three million
years ago, it provided a superb opportunity for studying the origin
of species. The isthmus divided several urchin populations in two;

164 / Smithsonian Year 1982
judging from electrophoresis, Harilaos Lessios believes that the
resulting halves of some populations diverged only very slightly.
He is now checking to see whether the two halves of an ancestral
species now spawn at different times. If so, they have evolved
barriers to interbreeding and have become separate species “quite
by accident.” Some Caribbean urchins, of species whose larvae
must feed in the ocean, have larger eggs than their Pacific counter-
parts. Lessios is seeking to learn whether the lower productivity
of Caribbean waters means larvae need a better head start there.

On November 21, 1981, str1 signed an agreement with the Insti-
tuto de Investigacion Agropecuaria de Panama (1p1apP), the Minis-
terio de Desarrollo Agropecuario (mina), the Direccion Nacional de
Recursos Naturales Renovables (rENARE), and the Centro Agrono-
mico Tropical de Investigacion y Ensenanza, Costa Rica (caTIE) to
promote research in the watershed of the Panama Canal. Str1
scientists will attempt to apply their knowledge obtained from
years of fundamental research to the development of a pilot project
of alternative agricultural techniques, compatible with the mainte-
nance of forest cover.

In a meeting held June 14, 1982, which was attended by Adela
Gomez and David Roubik, stri closed its Cali field station after
more than ten years. Under the terms of a new agreement with the
Instituto Vallecauno de Investigaciones Cientificas (INCIVA), STRI
will have reserved laboratory and dormitory facilities in the re-
cently renovated Museum of Natural Sciences. Stri-sponsored
investigators and students wishing to conduct studies in the Cauca
Valley of Colombia will be able to continue to do so under this
new agreement.

In June, renovation of a building in the Naos Island Marine
laboratory complex was completed for use by the University of
Panama. The official inauguration of the joint STRI/University of
Panama (Instituto de Ciencias del Mar y Limnologia) Marine
Laboratory at Naos Island took place on June 24. In attendance
were high officials of the Panama government, the University of
Panama, and stri. Opening remarks were given by Dr. Ceferino
Sanchez, Rector of the University of Panama.

Science / 165
AMS.

~

*

Rag ng ao A

—1707), a prince of the

Ming imperial family, was acquired by the Freer Gallery of Art through

(1641
the Smithsonian’s Collections Acquisition Program.

This Chinese landscape painting by Tao-chi
Smithsonian Year - 1982

Hist ORY ANDART

CHARLES BLITZER,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art

Of the many forms of historical records, a well-written diary
is among the most sought-after by researchers. Unfortunately,
diaries of superior quality are all too rare, and when one with
significant subject matter and enlightening observations on per-
sons and events does turn up, it is an occasion for celebration.
This year the Archives of American Art (AAA) acquired four, all
of substantial merit, and one a truly distinguished example of
the genre.

The most extensive diary was kept by the nineteenth- and early
twentieth-century painter and printmaker James D. Smillie. It
consists of forty-five small, leather-bound volumes whose entries
describe Smillie’s daily life in an unbroken sequence from 1865
to 1909. Since each page represents a single day, the substantive
material is necessarily spare, but the accumulation of detail, the
sheer span of time covered, and the innumerable references to
New York’s artists, art activities, and art organizations make this
journal an invaluable source of information. It is especially useful
for determining or confirming dates and the makeup of the various
circles and factions in which Smillie moved. There are also some
unflattering comments on contemporary notable figures: ‘“Decem-
ber 1, 1882—Went to Wallach’s and saw Mrs. Langtry in Honey-
moon by Tobin—a tolerably well written play with intolerably
stupid plot. Mrs. L. is not a particularly good looking woman—had

167
ie a1

pA 0;
yt

Vi z
Pipe (bs Fi
WY 4

Mi fae LL Sica \\

rh Uy
A
vy

Wa

Vp

Yi
ve
Ae

Of the four diaries acquired by the aaa during the past year, the most extensive was
kept by James D. Smillie, a painter and printmaker in the 19th and early 20th cen-
turies. This is a self-portrait dated 1900. (Photographer, Joseph Klima, Jr.)
not a good form, is not graceful, does not dress well, and is a
very commonplace actress.”

We usually think of diaries, at least those available for research,
as documents of the more-or-less distant past, but the latest addi-
tion to Charles Seliger’s continuing record of our time brings his
account up to 1981. A New York painter since the early postwar
years, Seliger gives full treatment to his own work and methods,
as well as informative notes on the artists, dealers, and collectors
with whom he is associated. He is a more introspective and more
expansive diarist than Smillie and, writing with the conscious
knowledge that his journal will be consulted by scholars, he offers
occasional recollections of the past and has developed a talent for
setting a scene and filling in the details of conversations and
impressions. As an uninhibited record of the trials, defeats, and
triumphs of an artist in our time, Seliger’s diary is an important
contribution to our awareness of the New York art world over the
past quarter century.

Mrs. Walter Gropius’s diary is rather farther afield. It covers the
mid-1920s when the Bauhaus was already well established as an
international influence in architecture and design under Gropius’s
leadership. The writer is intelligent and cultivated and has a sharp
eye for character. She also has a stong consciousness of the
Bauhaus’s significance, and her descriptions of its difficulties and
achievements are filled with useful insights on its administration
and on some of the major artists associated with it, especially
Feininger, Klee, Kandinsky, Moholy-Nagy, and Albers. The ver-
sion received by the aaa is a typescript translation with accom-
panying notes made many years later.

The diary kept by A. Hyatt Mayor during a three-year sojourn
in England and on the Continent also covers the mid-1920s. Later
a distinguished art historian and authority on prints, Mayor was
then a young, impressionable Rhodes Scholar, whose high spirits,
intellectual curiosity, good connections, and talent for vivid writing
make his diary—more technically a long series of letters written
in journal form to his grandmother—a model of its kind. The
Oxford setting and the personalities encountered there bear a
remarkable resemblance to those of Brideshead Revisited, and
some of his subsequently famous acquaintances—Harold Acton,
W. H. Auden, Kenneth Clark, and Peter Quennell—are dissected

History and Art / 169
with merciless accuracy. He calls on the legendary Lady Ottoline
Morrell and in two brilliantly written passages analyzes the for-
midable charm she exerted on so many personages of the time.
His descriptions of two lengthy visits to I Tatti offer a fully
rounded portrait of Bernard Berenson as a fascinating, overwhelm-
ing, and ultimately wearisome presence.

“He is more than learned, he is wise,” Mayor writes in 1925.
But a year later he offers a more seasoned judgment: “B. B. is
really and truly a wonderful old man but only when he disremem-
bers just what a wonderful old man he is. Mrs. B. B. forever holds
an enlarging mirror before him, as do all the stupid rich people
he has too easily bamboozled to get money.”

One of the chief virtues of the diary as a historical source is
its direct immediacy, a quality shared by personal, professional,
and business letters. Correspondence usually forms a major part
of any collection of records, and although some of it is routine or
perfunctory, much of it is of great value to the scholar. Especially
noteworthy series of letters acquired this year are Clement Green-
berg’s to the Washington painter Gene Davis, Marcel Duchamp’s
to his brother-in-law Jean Crotti, Rockwell Kent’s to Harry Gott-
lieb, and those of Charles Burchfield, Stuart Davis, and Charles
Sheeler to the art collector Edward Wales Root.

The working notes and manuscripts of critics and art historians
are another welcome addition to the aaa. Rich background mate-
rial on American art during the entire postwar period was acquired
this year with the papers of the writers Dore Ashton, John Gruen,
Lucy Lippard, and Irving Sandler. These collections also include a
substantial number of taped interviews with contemporary artists.
Fairfield Porter, best known as a painter, was a perceptive critic
as well, and the final installment of his records reflect that aspect
of his career.

The records of art organizations and institutions are necessary
for institutional histories, and they often throw light on other
subjects as well. Several important groups of such records were
microfilmed by the aaa this year, including the official correspon-
dence of the office of the director of the Cincinnati Art Museum
from 1882 to 1929; seventy-seven scrapbooks covering the activi-
ties of the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, Connecticut, from

170 / Smithsonian Year 1982
the 1890s through the 1960s; the correspondence files of the Hay-
stack Mountain School of Crafts; a portion of the archives of the
San Francisco Art Association; papers relating to the history of
the McNay Art Institute in San Antonio; and a compilation of
material on the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Michigan. An
unusually contemporary collection of correspondence, statements,
questionnaires, and papers represents the records of the Wright
State University Visiting Artists Program at Dayton, Ohio, from
1978 to 1982.

In the field of oral history, the Archives of American Art con-
tinued several projects that had been funded in the previous year.
In New York, under a Mark Rothko Foundation grant to pursue
a taping project on Mark Rothko and his times, a number of indi-
viduals who knew Rothko well were interviewed at length, among
them Katherine Kuh, Mrs. Milton Avery, and James Brooks.

Several important grants provided support for a broad inter-
viewing program on contemporary artists in California, including
Billy Al Bengston, Joyce Treiman, Marguerite Wildenhain, and
Helen Lundenburg. The subjects were selected with the help of
the Northern and Southern California Archives Advisory Com-
mittees. Through the efforts of the Detroit office, a grant of thirty-
six thousand dollars was awarded to the aaa by the Warner Com-
munications Corporation to undertake a national video and oral
history program. This fund will be administered over a period of
two years and will focus on individuals critical to contemporary
American art.

The Boston office concentrated this year on notable crafts. Faith
Andrews on Shaker furniture, Tage Frid, a furniture designer, and
the influential silversmith Arthur J. Pulos gave extended interviews
on their respective fields. Leslie Cheek, retired director of the
Virginia Museum, and Marcella Comes, an important figure in the
Washington art community, were taped by the Washington Center.

Only through the use of, and demand for, its holdings can the
AAA determine its success in providing support for scholarly
research. In fiscal year 1982, the bureau’s five regional research
facilities were used 2,900 times by visiting scholars, who consulted
8,600 rolls of microfilm, examined thousands of original manu-
scripts, and read 400 oral-history transcripts. The Archives’ inter-

History and Art / 171
library loan service handled 450 requests for 1,250 rolls of micro-
film. Copies of 480 photographs from the Archives’ collections
were provided to researchers for lectures and publications.

Having received strong encouragement from previous involve-
ment in the organization of symposia, the aaa collaborated this
year with the National Academy of Design and the American
Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art on a two-day confer-
ence on “Still Life Painting in America.” In addition to papers
given by several authorities in the field, a panel of noted con-
temporary still life painters held a lively discussion on the subject.
In Washington, D.C., the aaa conducted a symposium entitled
“Hidden Virtues Revealed: Some Enquiries into Patterns of Recog-
nition,” which addressed itself to such recently active fields of
inquiry as folk art, nineteenth-century painting in the South, and
documentary photography.

The Archives lent a variety of documents from its holdings to
museum exhibitions: the Institute for Architecture and Urban
Studies in New York borrowed a group of sketches from the col-
lection of Raymond Matheson Hood; Smith College exhibited an
Edwin Ramanzo Elmer sketchbook; the Morris Museum of Arts
and Sciences in Morristown, New Jersey, borrowed sketches and
a manuscript autobiography of Worthington Whittredge; and the
Essex Institute in Salem, Massachusetts used several William
Morris Hunt letters. The Washington Center mounted small exhi-
bitions at its own quarters of art-exhibition-award medals and
selected documents on Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney and on John
Reed and Louise Bryant.

The aaa continued the quarterly publication of its Journal, this
year featuring articles on Adelheid Lange Roosevelt, Alfred H.
Barr, Jr., Albert Bierstadt, and Ilya Bolotowsky, and reporting on
the collecting activities of the regional centers.

A substantial quantity of books, articles, and exhibition cata-
logues published in 1982 were based on research at the Archives
of American Art. A few of the more notable ones were on the
Hudson River School painter Worthington Whittredge, Ellen Day
Hale, Childe Hassam, William Morris Hunt, J. Francis Murphy,
Konrad Cramer, Alfred Jacob Miller, Winslow Homer, Mary
Cassatt, Alma Thomas, and the silversmith Arthur J. Stone.

172 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Celebrating its fifth year as the National Museum of Design,
Cooper-Hewitt (c-H) continued to offer an ever-growing public a
diversified range of design-related exhibitions.

The major fall exhibition, Writing and Reading, addressed
aspects of the design evolution of the written word, surveying
printing, writing, and the book arts, and included an enormous
variety of objects: papyrus documents, stone inscriptions, stamps,
cylinders, pens, quills, writing sticks, felt-tip markers, typewriters,
a word-processor, wax tablets, skins, desks, examples of callig-
raphy, illuminated manuscripts, bindings, and end papers. The
New York Times art critic, Hilton Kramer, commented, “. . . I
know of few exhibitions that leave the visitor with such a vivid
and revivifying sense of the esthetic component in the life of
civilization. . . .”

Documenting a remarkable achievement in urban design, The
Suburb examined the evolution of this familiar phenomenon from
its sixteenth-century prototypes to the twentieth-century concept
of a “city village.” The exhibition allowed visitors to view the
work and ideas of major architects, H. H. Richardson, Frank Lloyd
Wright, and M. H. Baillie Scott, as well as relatively unknown
architects such as Grosvenor Atterbury, Ernest Flagg, and Electus
Litchfield.

Focused on what is one of the most public of all forms of
graphic art, Magazine Covers: Art for the People surveyed the
graphic, artistic, and social sensibilities of the past century by
presenting a variety of original covers that documented works by
artists, illustrators, and photographers from the mid-nineteenth
century to the present.

Filling the museum with 230 puppets and marionettes, which
spanned 800 years and included everything from pre-Columbian
antiquities to the Muppets, Puppet: Art and Entertainment, a
traveling exhibition sponsored by Exxon Corporation, delighted
over 60,000 visitors during the holiday season. Complementing the
traveling show was a special, smaller exhibition, In Small Stages:
Puppets from the Cooper-Hewitt Collection, which included both

History and Art / 173
Filling the c-H with 230 puppets and marionettes, which spanned 800 years,
Puppets: Art and Entertainment was an exhibition that delighted over 60,000
visitors during the holiday season.
antique and contemporary puppets and marionettes, some of which
were on display for the first time.

As part of a continuing program to document and exhibit the
vast Cooper-Hewitt collections, the following exhibitions were
presented: English Majolica; Button-Button; The American Land-
scape; The Column: Structure and Ornament; Fashion Prints: 125
Years of Style; and Lace. Never before has the museum’s superb
lace collection been viewed so comprehensively; Lace provided the
public with a survey of more than five centuries of Western Euro-
pean lace history.

Americans in Glass, organized by the Leigh Yawkey Woodson
Art Museum, presented contemporary work by seventy-five artists,
suggesting some of the new directions in art glass in the coming
decade.

Hawai'i: The Royal Isles, organized by the Bishop Museum of
Honolulu, opened at the museum in March. This popular show
examined the traditions native to Hawaiian culture as it evolved
over five hundred years without outside influences, and followed
the development that took place after the introduction of Western
culture. Among the ceremonial objects included were feather capes
worn by Hawaiian kings, hand-carved bowls, images, calabashes,
tapa cloths, and shell and ivory ornaments.

Two architectural shows, Architectural Fantasy and Reality:
Drawings from the Architectural Competitions of the Academia
di San Luca in Rome and City Dwellings and Country Houses:
Robert Adam and His Style, were held concurrently during the
winter months. The former was composed of seventy ideal and
exuberant drawings for projects for Rome and included such
artists as Filippo Juvarra, Bernardo Antonio Vittone, Carlo Fon-
tana, and Carlo Marchionni. Robert Adam and His Style was
the first major American exhibition of the work of architect-
designer Adam and his circle. Selected from public and private
collections in Scotland, England, and the United States, this impor-
tant exhibition surveyed Adam’s extraordinary accomplishment
through a selection of more than one hundred drawings, furniture,
silver, ceramics, and decorative objects.

Two summer exhibitions of fiber arts included The Jacquard
Loom: Recent Experiments and Basketry: Tradition in New Form.
The Jacquard Loom, organized by the Rhode Island School of

History and Art / 175
Design, provided an enlightening review of divergent trends in
contemporary weaving as well as insight into textile structure,
design, and production. Basketry included forty examples of work
by ten American artists offering an array of highly individual
pieces, the latest work being done in this medium.

A series of video-taped interviews by Barbaralee Diamonstein,
“Interior Design: The New Freedom,” were shown at the c-H
during the installation of Scandinavian Modern: 1880-1980.
Twelve designers and architects—including Massimo Vignelli,
Angelo Donghia, and Ward Bennett—discussed their approaches
to the problems of contemporary interior design.

Scandinavian Modern: 1880-1980 provided a landmark retro-
spective of design from Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and
Sweden. Over 330 examples of ceramics, glass, metalwork, furni-
ture, and textiles were selected from private and public collections
in Scandinavia and the United States, documenting the continuity
and changes that distinguish the Scandinavian tradition in design
and the decorative arts.

In 1982, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice (SITES) continued to circulate nationwide both Urban Open
Spaces and The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art, and this
year included an exhibition of Matchsafes from the Cooper-Hewitt
Collection. Subways was circulated by the Cooper-Hewitt.

PUBLICATIONS

The on-going Cooper-Hewitt collection handbook series was en-
larged by six volumes: Nineteenth Century American Landscape
Drawings; Buttons; Columns; Fashion Prints; Lace; and Archi-
tectural Drawings. Three more volumes have been commissioned
for the Smithsonian Illustrated Library of Antiques prepared by
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Rizzoli published Cities in tabloid
format, and Harry N. Abrams, Inc., published Scandinavian Mod-
ern 1880-1980 in conjunction with the exhibition.

The English publication Architectural Design printed a special
magazine edition on “Suburbs” to coinside with the Cooper-
Hewitt exhibition, and four articles which originally appeared in
The Connoisseur were reprinted as a catalogue to accompany City
Dwellings and Country Houses: Robert Adam and His Style.

An Alphabet Book in the museum’s collection was reprinted for

176 / Smithsonian Year 1982
the occasion of Writing and Reading, and for the museum’s Con-
servation Consultancy Program, a series of bulletins were issued
dealing with specific conservation issues and practices.

COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT

The museum accessioned 2,074 works of art from 61 donors. The
collections were enlarged by 26 purchases from restricted acquisi-
tion funds. Of particular importance were: an eighteenth-century
etching by Piranesi; an “Argenta” bowl by Wilhelm Kage; a 4-
piece silver tea service by Jean Puiforcat; and 2 vitrines by the
early twentieth-century, Italian designer, Carlo Bugatti. The c-H
borrowed 2,821 objects from 321 public and private collections
and lent 140 objects to 42 museums, galleries, and institutions.
Since 1979, 175,000 articles have been inventoried and put on
computer.

Several construction projects were undertaken to provide more
efficient storage for the decorative arts collection. Extra alarm
systems were installed in the first-floor exhibition areas to insure
greater security, and a new boiler was installed. A new reception
area was constructed, and renovations were made in the Registrar’s
Office. The Design Gallery was renovated as were both classrooms.

The New York Horticultural Society has offered its expertise
for the maintenance of the Conservatory. This has insured the
museum of a seasonal variety of flowers and plants.

PROGRAMS/MEMBERSHIP

During four semesters beginning in the fall of 1981, almost 6,000
students and adults participated in the museum’s extensive educa-
tional programs. Nearly 4,000 others participated in tours and
special events. Total programs attendance was equal to that of the
previous year.

The department offered a selection of special events and courses
relating to the design field, architecture, and the decorative arts.
Three credit classes dealing with European and American Decora-
tive Arts were offered for undergraduates of the Parsons School
of Design. The children and adult workshops and special programs
were extremely well attended by over 9,000 individuals.

More than ninety volunteers and forty interns offered their

History and Art / 177
valuable services in all departments. The Sidney and Celia Siegel
Fellowship Program this year provided stipends for four excep-
tionally qualified summer interns.

Membership support in the form of renewals remained constant.
A membership drive at the end of the summer boosted the number
of new applicants.

As one of ten member institutions of Museum Mile, initiated
by the Cooper-Hewitt four years ago, the museum again partici-
pated in the annual street festival.

Along with nine other cultural institutions in New York City,
the c-H involved itself in a unique museum education project
entitled the “Cultural Voucher Program.” This program was con-
ceived by Museums Collaborative, Inc., for the purpose of promot-
ing broader public understanding and use of cultural institutions.
The Cooper-Hewitt was chosen to participate because of its ability
to present educational opportunities that relate to design and the
decorative arts. The Cultural Voucher Program provides a strong
incentive to develop new educational programs, and the c-H re-
sponded with a wide variety of model projects involving nearly
3,000 students—more than any other cultural institution involved
in the program.

In September, the museum welcomed the first class of twenty-
five students accepted into a new graduate program in the history
of European decorative arts. The two-year program, leading to a
Master of Arts degree, is a collaboration between the Cooper-
Hewitt and the Parsons School of Design/The New School and is
the first of its kind in the country to deal exclusively with Euro-
pean decorative arts and art history.

This year, with a grant from the New York State Council on
the Arts, the museum has established the Conservation Consul-
tancy for New York State. This consultancy will offer specialized
conservation advice to the many museums and historical societies
in New York State that may otherwise have little access to profes-
sional conservators.

Several special fund-raising events were held at the museum
over the spring and summer. For the second year, “Crafts in the
Carnegie Mansion” was held over two weekends in May, with 89
craftsmen participating and 6,000 museum-goers attending. Again,
the museum hosted its annual Summer Ball, a gala evening event

178 / Smithsonian Year 1982
.

held in the Mansion and Garden. Over 500 people attended, 75
percent of which were under the age of 35. In honor of the
museum’s fifth birthday, in October, the Junior Committee spon-
sored a birthday party to celebrate the event.

PERSONNEL

The Cooper-Hewitt noted with sadness the death of Alice Baldwin
Beer, curator emeritus, at the age of 94. In her honor, a memorial
purchase fund has been established.

After 29 years of service to the museum, Assistant Director
Christian Rohlfing retired in September 1982.

AWARDS

One exhibition and two publications were honored during the past
year. Now I Lay Me Down to Eat, curated by Bernard Rudofsky,
was given top award by Designers’ Choice Magazine in the cate-
gory of “environments.” Both the Newsletter and the Frederick E.
Church poster were awarded citations of merit for excellence in
printing and design.

Freer Gallery of Art

Renovation was a primary theme in the Freer Gallery of Art (FGA)
throughout the year. In addition to the continued renovation of the
heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning system—which partially
closed some of the galleries to the public—the effort to improve
the lighting throughout the newly painted corridors on the exhibi-
tion-gallery level, as well as in the main lobby, was completed.
The enhanced appearance of these corridors makes them more
effective for the exhibition of works of art.

The Freer auditorium—the scene of the annual Freer oriental
art lecture series, classroom for the Resident Associate programs,
and forum for this year’s Centennial Celebration symposium on
U.S. and Korean diplomatic relations—also underwent a transfor-
mation with lighter-painted walls and ceiling. New lighting facili-
ties are also scheduled.

The Freer’s twenty-ninth annual lecture series included: ‘The

History and Art / 179
Self-Portrait by Sesson: A Winter Night’s Journey of 1200 Years,”
by Barbara Brennan Ford, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, which
was jointly sponsored with the Embassy of Japan; the Rutherford
J. Gettens Memorial Lecture, “The Contribution of Technical
Studies to the Understanding of Chinese Culture,” delivered by
Ursula M. Franklin, University of Toronto; and “Mamluk Jewelry:
Influences and Echoes,” by Marilyn Jenkins, The Metropolitan
Museum of Art.

A program that was initiated last year to renovate the frames
of the American paintings in the collection was greatly expanded
this year. Work was finished on all of the frames to appear in the
1984 James McNeill Whistler exhibition, and many of the frames
for works of other American artists represented in the collection
have been repaired. The work has included rebuilding gesso por-
tions, regilding, and toning the frames.

Other renovation activities included a small collection storage
room that was altered to provide more work space for the Tech-
nical Laboratory.

Despite the turmoil of renovations, a number of new exhibitions
was presented this year. Autumn’s Voices displayed twenty-one
works of Japanese art, including paintings, calligraphy, ceramics,
and two lacquered wooden drums dating from the early thirteenth
to the early nineteenth centuries. The mid-sixteenth- to early
seventeenth-century drums and the seventeenth-century calligra-
phy by Shokado represented significant recent acquisitions on
exhibition for the first time. The exhibition showed the variety of
interpretations of autumnal motifs in Japanese art.

Winter into Spring: American Landscapes was an exhibition
drawn from the Freer collections by curator David Park Curry to
explore the theme of seasonal change, a subject of great interest
to both Charles Lang Freer and the small group of American artists
he admired. Six of the works had not previously been displayed at
the museum.

Other special exhibitions included: Two Centuries of Japanese
Ceramics, 1550-1750, which displayed approximately forty exam-
ples of Japanese stoneware and porcelain from the Kyoto, Kyushu,
and Mino regions; a group of thirty Japanese prints featuring
eighteenth- and nineteenth-century prints by Utamaro, Hiroshige,
and Hokusai; Screens of Genres and Narratives, dating from the

180 / Smithsonian Year 1982
seventeenth to nineteenth centuries of Japan, and Luminous
Shadows, with objects representative of the art collected by the
Ashikaga Shoguns of the Muromachi period. Glass of the World,
Korean Art, and Chinese Paintings: Recent Acquisitions were also
shown. This group of Chinese paintings of the sixteenth to nine-
teenth centuries fills a gap in the Freer’s Chinese collections and
was on view for the first time at the gallery.

Tours of these exhibitions increased in number under the
museum’s new docent program. In addition, the Freer now offers
nine free leaflets to visitors and to those inquiring by mail to
explain aspects of oriental art exhibited at the museum.

Among the well-known visitors to the museum this year were
Yoshio Sakurauchi, Japanese minister for foreign affairs; South
Korean Vice Foreign Minister Ro Jae-won, chancellor of the Insti-
tute of Foreign Affairs; Haidar Mahmoud, director general, Depart-
ment of Culture and Arts of Jordan; and Xia Nai, director of the
Institute of Archaeology, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
along with a group of fifteen other specialists from the People’s
Republic of China concerned with archaeology.

The third award from the Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund
enabled the Freer to invite Professor Toshio Ebine of the Tokyo
National University of Fine Arts and Music to spend three months
at the Freer doing research on Japanese Muromachi painting.

Through the Smithsonian’s Collections Acquisition Program, the
Freer Gallery was able to acquire a pair of important Chinese
paintings by Tao-chi (1641-1707), a prince of the Ming imperial
family. He is generally regarded as the most brilliant painter to
emerge since the sixteenth century. His innovative and individual
style, characterized by a rich variety of brushwork, earned Tao-chi
the respect of his contemporaries, but it is only during the twen-
tieth century that his seminal role in later Chinese painting has
been properly understood.

Notable donations to the Freer collection this year included a
twelth-century Sung dynasty Chinese Chiin ware bowl from Mr.
and Mrs. James M. Avent of Sewanee, Tennessee; seven Chinese
blue-and-white porcelain vases of the Ch’ing dynasty, Y’ang-hsi
period, 1662-1722, from Mr. and Mrs. Myron S. Falk of New York
City; a Japanese landscape painting with calligraphy of the Edo
period by Nanko (1759-1839), from Mr. and Mrs. Willard G.

History and Art / 181
Clark of Hanford, California; and a Chinese jade chime, Ch’ing
dynasy, K’ang-hsi period 1662-1722, from Mr. William S. Weedon
of Charlottesville, Virginia.

The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation of Charlottesville donated
funds for the Freer library, and the Metropolitan Center for Far
Eastern Art Studies of Kyoto, Japan, contributed to the publishing
of a proposed catalogue on Japanese Buddhist and Shinto art. A
grant from the James Smithson Society was awarded to support
publication of a child’s version of the Ramayana, a well-known
Indian epic, which is well illustrated in the Freer’s sixteenth-
century manuscript. The National Committee to Honor the Four-
teenth Centennial of Islam extended an existing grant for the
organization of the Myron Bement Smith archives.

Dr. John Alexander Pope, director emeritus of the Freer Gallery
of Art and specialist in Far Eastern porcelain, died on September
18, 1982. Although he was a pioneer in the study of early Chinese
blue-and-white porcelain, he also made important contributions to
the understanding of developments in Japanese, Korean, and Thai
ceramics. While he was director of the Freer (1962-1971), signifi-
cant acquisitions to the gallery’s collection of Ming dynasty por-
celains were made. The high quality of those collections is directly
attributable to Dr. Pope’s relentless curiosity and informed judg-
ments. Born in Detroit on August 4, 1906, Dr. Pope earned a
bachelor’s degree at Yale University and master’s and doctoral
degrees at Harvard University. He joined the Freer in 1943.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

As one of the major museums of contemporary art in the country,
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (HMscG) maintains
an active exhibition schedule and acquisitions program. In support
of these are related programs of lectures, films, concerts, and edu-
cational activities involving audiences of all ages. Technical and
support units include offices of conservation, registration, and
photography and a reference library.

From its opening in October 1974, the museum has evolved an
active schedule of major exhibitions, usually of material borrowed

182 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The senior lama of Ladakh (center) on a visit to the Freer with his assistant (right)
and an interpreter, examines a seated Bodhisattva from China, Northern Ch’i dynasty,
6th century a.pD. In the left foreground is an Indian sculpture—a Mathura-style torso
of a Buddha, 5th century A.p.

Dr. John Alexander Pope, Au-
gust 4, 1906—-September 18, 1982,
was director of the Freer from
1962 to 1971, and was director
emeritus and a specialist in Far
Eastern porcelain from 1971 until
his death in September. A pioneer
in the study of early Chinese blue-
and-white porcelain, he also made
important contributions to the
understanding of developments in
Japanese, Korean, and Thai ce-
ramics.

from collectors and other institutions. There are also unit exhibi-
tions drawn from the permanent collection. Many exhibitions
organized by the usc are circulated to other museums, and there
are frequent loans of individual works of art to other museums.

The first major exhibition of 1982 was Metaphor: New Projects
by Contemporary Sculptors (December 17, 1981—February 28,
1982). This unique exhibition was actually created in the galleries
by six artists from their drawings and blueprints. The artists had
developed a rough idea of what they would construct, and com-
ponent elements were created in advance, then assembled in the
museum.

An “Evening with the Artists of the Metaphor Exhibition” was
sponsored by the museum. Vito Acconci, Siah Armajani, and
Lauren Ewing were the speakers.

The next major exhibition was De Stijl: 1917-1931, Visions of
Utopia (April 20—June 27, 1982). Organized and first shown by
the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, this exhibition consisted of
250 works illuminating the art, architecture, and design of the
influential Dutch movement. The Washington presentation was
supported by a grant from Champion International Corporation.

On the afternoon of April 19, 1982, Her Majesty Queen Beatrix
of The Netherlands officially opened the De Stijl exhibition, which
was one of several international events celebrating The Nether-
lands-American Bicentennial. Secretary and Mrs. Ripley and other
guests were in the museum to greet the queen and her husband,
Prince Claus.

Other events in connection with this exhibition included an all-
day symposium, sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Asso-
ciates Program; a free concert, sponsored by the Division of Per-
forming Arts; free films; and the American premiere and first pro-
duction in English of The Ephemeral Is Eternal, a 1926 Dada
play by Michel Seuphor. This play, with reconstructions of Mon-
drian’s sets, was presented June 25-27, 1982, and was supported
by a grant from the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Fund.

Finally, two exhibitions of the works of Raphael Soyer were
presented by the museum (August 5—October 3, 1982). Raphael
Soyer: Sixty-five Years of Printmaking consisted entirely of works
owned by the usc, and Soyer since 1960 was an exhibition of
paintings made over the last two decades.

184 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Above. Artists Raphael Soyer (left) and Chaim Gross attended the opening
of the HMsG’s exhibitions, Soyer since 1960 and Raphael Soyer: Sixty-five
Years of Printmaking, August 4, 1982. Below. At the opening of Five Distin-
guished Alumni: The W.P.A. Federal Art Project, in January 1982, were
(from left) Senator Claude Pepper, former I.R.S. Commissioner Mortimer
Kaplan, Hmsc Director Abram Lerner, and American artist Alice Neel.

Smaller exhibitions presented were: European Abstractions on
Paper (January 6—March 7, 1982); Five Distinguished Alumni:
The WPA Federal Art Project (January 21—February 22, 1982),
honoring the centennial of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s
birth; Red Grooms: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den Collection (February 25—May 2, 1982); Drawings from the
Museum's Collection (March 11—April 25, 1982); Heirs of De Stijl
(April 20-June 27, 1982); Samuel Murray: The Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection (May 20-July 18, 1982);
Variations on a Musical Theme: Selections from the Museum's
Collection (July 22—September 5, 1982); and Works on Paper:
Genre Scenes (August 19—November 7, 1982).

A special exhibition, Modern Indian Paintings from the Collec-
tion of the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi (July 28-
August 29, 1982), was displayed in conjunction with the state
visit of the Indian Prime Minister. Madame Gandhi visited the
exhibition on July 30, 1982.

Exhibitions to which the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden lent objects included Canada/US (Winnipeg Art Gallery);
What It Is: 20th-Century Black Folk Art (Corcoran Gallery of
Art); Sculpture au XXéme Siécle 1900-1945 (Fundacion March,
Madrid, Spain); Hans Richter Retrospective (Akademie der
Kunste, Berlin, West Germany); 20th-Century American Masters
1915-1957 (Cedar Rapids Art Center); Orientalistes Provenciaires
(Musée des Beaux Arts, Marseilles, France); Miréd in America
(Museum of Fine Arts, Houston); Milton Avery (Whitney
Museum of American Art); Ritual and Myth (Studio Museum of
Harlem, New York City).

Although the one-day visit of French President Mitterand to the
United States on March 12 was widely reported in the press as a
meeting between presidents, the fact is that M. Mitterand also
expressed a wish to visit the Hirshhorn Museum. He made a
thorough tour of the museum, spending one and a quarter hours
in the galleries, and concluded his visit with a walk through the
Sculpture Garden. Upon departing, he was presented with the
museum’s inaugural catalogue and in turn expressed his thanks
and satisfaction with the visit.

Acquisitions are vital to any museum, but especially to a con-
temporary art museum. During 1982 the HMsG acquired 161 works

186 / Smithsonian Year 1982
of art, including 67 silkscreens, lithographs, and etchings by R. B.
Kitaj. Purchases in 1982 included Leon Polk Smith’s Black-White
Duet with Red, 1953, and Willem de Kooning’s Untitled III, which
was an exchange and part purchase.

The usc continued its three-part film series: Lunchtime Films
about Artists, Evening Films by Artist Filmmakers, and Saturday
Films for Young People.

Hirshhorn Holiday, a special Saturday program presented each
year in early December, again met with enthusiasm from area
children and their parents. This special day, sponsored in part by
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, included
performances and music.

The museum has designated a special theater area in the third-
floor galleries for presentation of a special slide/tape program
designed to introduce the museum visitor to various concepts and
principles of art. Two additional adjoining galleries are used for
the exhibition of the paintings and sculptures from the museum’s
collection referred to in the slide/tape lecture. The initial pre-
sentation, called ‘“The Elements of Art: Line,” began on May 1.
It will be followed by a presentation called ““The Elements of Art:
Color.”

The museum’s exhibition program was augmented by lectures
on various aspects of contemporary art and art history. Speakers
during the past year included Abram Lerner and Milton Brown,
Daniel Robbins, Red Grooms, and Raphael Soyer.

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden continued the
annual inventory of its collections. Paintings were fully inven-
toried in the second three-year cycle.

Joseph Henry Papers

Work continued on The Papers of Joseph Henry during 1982,
with volume five, covering the years 1841-43, edited and set to
go to the Smithsonian Institution Press by the end of the year.
This period of Henry’s life was among his busiest, including
intensive experimentation in physics, promotion of the American

History and Art / 187
Philosophical Society as a revitalized center for science, and pro-
fessional campaigning to promote the cause of science in Ameri-
can government and universities.

During the past year, scholars in various disciplines visited the
project to use its extensive microfilm and Xerox collections in mid-
nineteenth-century science. Visitors included researchers on James
Espy and the beginning of the national weather-reporting system;
on a biography of Henry Rowe Schoolcraft; and on American
perceptions of Latin America by artists and naturalists. The Henry
Papers acted as host for Cynthia Field, a research associate in the
history of American architecture, and sponsored two Smithsonian
Fellows this year: Jeffrey K. Stine, researching the activities of
American engineers in the overseas possessions of the United
States, and Gregory Good, who is investigating the organization
of nineteenth-century American research in terrestrial magnetism.

The staff of the Joseph Henry Papers has engaged in a wide
variety of other professional activities. Nathan Reingold has con-
tinued to serve as chairman of the Commission on Documenta-
tion of the International Union for the History and Philosophy of
Science, and is organizing an international conference on the sub-
ject for September, 1983. He was invited to comment on antebel-
lum southern science at the first Barnard—Millington Symposium
on Southern Science and Medicine at Oxford, Mississippi, and
continues as a member of the Governing Council of the Rocke-
feller Archives. Dr. Reingold’s monthly Nineteenth-Century Semi-
nar continued throughout the year with presentations on science,
engineering, art, and the law.

Marc Rothenberg completed a bibliography of American sci-
ence—which is being published by Garland as part of their series
of bibliographies of the History of Science and Technology—and
he delivered an overview of his findings to the Nineteenth-
Century Seminar. Kathleen Waldenfels served as director of pub-
lications for the Association for Documentary Editing. In this
capacity, she edited the Newsletter of that society for a second
year. Paul Theerman delivered papers on Victorian science to the
History of Science Society in Los Angeles, to the Nineteenth-
Century Seminar, and to the weekly Tuesday colloquium at the
Museum of American History.

188 / Smithsonian Year 1982
National Museum of African Art

For the National Museum of African Art (NMaAfa), 1982 was
marked as a period of assessment, definition and refinement.
Objectives were refined, exhibitions aligned with objectives, and
an acquisitions program was planned to advance these goals.

The nmafa Commission approved a statement affirming the
museum’s primary mission of collecting and exhibiting the tradi-
tional art of sub-Saharan Africa. Worthy exhibition opportunities
from the contemporary field or from adjacent areas are not
excluded, but exhibition and collection emphasis will be confined
to the designated area. This is an important development in the
museum’s history because it gives clearer focus to program activi-
ties and guides the staff in resisting the numerous temptations to
pursue important endeavors that are only tangentially related to
traditional African art.

In line with this statement of objectives, the nmafa presented
three major exhibitions during the year. Each of these shows—
Life . . . Afterlife: African Funerary Sculpture; Thinking with
Animals: African Images and Perceptions; and The Stranger among
Us—was designed to elucidate some of the complexities in diverse
African cultures. Life .. . Afterlife, for example, dealt with the
functions of art objects associated with traditional African funer-
ary practices. Thinking with Animals explored the many ways in
which animals are depicted in African art, but more importantly,
it revealed why certain animals are represented and others are
not. Finally, The Stranger among Us assembled art objects from
many African peoples, all of them representing different ways in
which Africans have viewed outsiders or “strangers” to their own
culture. Each exhibition was developed by the museum’s staff
using, in addition to objects from our permanent collection, major
pieces on loan from private collectors and other museums through-
out the United States. Informational brochures and checklists
were produced to accompany each exhibition.

Several extension exhibitions were prepared by the nmafa
during 1982. They included exhibitions for: the Women’s National
Democratic Committee; the Ramapo College Art Gallery; the
Studio Museum of Harlem, New York City; the Stewart Center

History and Art / 189
The standing female figure
from the Bambara people in
the Segou region of Mali is a
major acquisition of the NMafa.
From the exhibition Life...
Afterlife: African Funerary
Sculpture comes the other fe-
male figure shown here, a me-
morial statue from the Yombe
people of Zaire. And the rap-
torial bird, which symbolized
the power and status of its
royal owner, sits atop an ivory
spoon from Owo, Nigeria, and
was featured in the exhibition
Thinking with Animals: Afri-
can Images and Perceptions.

Gallery, Department of Creative Arts, Purdue University; and
Meridian House International.

The nmafa’s collection grew significantly during fiscal year 1982,
primarily through the donation of 204 objects. Large numbers of
items were received from the collections of Gaston DeHavenon,
Norman and Mary Michie, Robert and Nancy Nooter, Gerald
Pennington, Benjamin Weiss, and Uzi Zucker. The museum
purchased a major work of Bambara sculpture—a standing female
figure. Donations of art works by Afro—American artists were also
received. These included five paintings by Edward M. Bannister
and a sculpture by Edmonia Lewis. The comprehensive inventory
of the museum’s collection, begun in 1980, has been completed.

Donations received by the Eliot Eliosofon Archives included
fifty black-and-white photographs of African art by Walker Evans,
approximately 300 color slides of African art and culture, and a
16-mm film, Museum, from Janus Films, Inc. Archives projects
during 1982 included the cataloguing of more than 1,800 photo-
graphs of museum activities—such as exhibitions, in-house pro-
grams and performances, and outreach programs—and the printing
of more than 300 glass plate negatives of scenes photographed
in Zaire, circa 1910.

Although of primary importance, exhibitions are only one seg-
ment of the nmafa’s goal of providing the public with knowledge
regarding Africa, its art, and its peoples. To this end, didactic
and aesthetically appealing exhibitions are supplemented by
courses, workshops, seminars, public lectures and performances,
and by outreach programs and tours conducted by the museum’s
docent corps.

During 1982, the museum’s Department of Academic Studies
offered four courses in African art at universities and educational
institutions in the Washington area: Georgetown University (“Art
of Black Africa’) and the United States Department of Agriculture
Graduate School (‘Understanding Africa Through Its Art,” “Afri-
can Decorative Arts,” and “Collecting African Art’). In addition,
special lectures and gallery tours were presented to other university
groups, including, for the fifth successive year, a class in “Aes-
thetics and Education” for the University of Virginia.

The museum hosted a prominent visiting scholar from the Uni-
versity of Ife, Nigeria, Professor Rowland Abiodun, during the

History and Art / 191
month of April 1982. Traveling, teaching, and lecturing under the
auspices of the Council for the International Exchange of Scholars,
Fulbright Program, Professor Abiodun delivered two public lec-
tures and one training session for museum docents. In addition, he
consulted with staff members and utilized the museum’s collection,
photographic archives, and library to pursue his own research.

In 1982, the museum continued to cosponsor, with Johns
Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, a
monthly series of lectures entitled, The Africa Roundtable. The
roundtable presents lectures by local and international scholars
on all aspects of African political, economic, and social life. Afri-
canist scholars who presented papers during 1982 included Pro-
fessor Nehemia Levtzion (Hebrew University), Professor Emmannel
Ayendele (University of Calabar), and Warren M. Robbins
(NMAFA).

The nmafa’s internship program hosted sixteen interns during
1982. Five of the interns were recruited from historically black
colleges, a result of the museum’s intensive efforts to encourage
such students to consider careers as museum professionals. Special
recruiting efforts continue in this area.

The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and
Public Programs coordinates all school and group tours, work-
shops, and public lectures, performances, and demonstrations at
the museum. This department also trains and coordinates the
activities of the docent corps and oversees collaborative activities
with local institutions.

For the second successive year, the museum participated, with
the National Museum of Natural History and the National Zoo-
logical Park, in the Collaborative Education Outreach Program.
Designed to serve audiences that are unable to visit the museum,
the program provides museum services to nursing homes, deten-
tion units, senior-citizen centers, and public schools. The nmafa
program included three offerings: “Traditional African Music,”
“Animal Symbolism in African Art,” and “African Folktales.” A
total of 104 programs were presented during 1982, serving more
than 1,700 people in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area.

The Education Department also began, in 1982, a new outreach
program based on African textiles, entitled “Have Loom Will
Travel.” Geared to grades 4—6, the program was conducted by

192 / Smithsonian Year 1982
museum docents at elementary schools in the greater metropolitan
area.

Exhibitions were supplemented by a great variety of public per-
formances, lectures, and special events at the museum during 1982.
Performances by African musicians and dancers included a Sene-
galese griot singer, Malian and Upper Voltan balaphone (xylo-
phone) players, and a concert by the master mbira (thumb piano)
player, Ephat Mujuru, of Zimbabwe. In April the museum
cosponsored, in conjunction with the African Literature Confer-
ence, a Theater Showcase, featuring the National Theater Com-
pany of the University of Ibadan, Nigeria. A ‘Festival of
Animals” at the museum in June featured a parade, musical per-
formances, children’s workshops, films, and live animals. In Decem-
ber and January, the museum celebrated Kwanzaa with tours,
children’s workshops, films, and live animals; and cosponsored a
city-wide celebration, “Tribute to Langston Hughes.” “Afro-
Tales,” a performance by the Nubian League Theater Company,
was part of the museum’s celebration of Black History Month in
February.

More than eighteen Africanist scholars spoke at the museum
during 1982, both in individual lectures linked to specific exhibi-
tions and in panel discussions. Professors John Murungi (Towson
State College), Abena Busia (Rutgers University), Rowland
Abiodun (University of Ife, Nigeria), Phillip Peek (Drew Univer-
sity), and Eliot Skinner (Columbia University) were among those
who discussed diverse aspects of African art, life, and thought,
illuminated by the museum’s exhibitions.

On July 1, 1982, following a one-year sabbatical, Warren
Robbins, director of the National Museum of African Art since its
establishment in 1964, became senior scholar and founding director
emeritus at the museum. Dr. John Reinhardt, who served as act-
ing director of the museum during Mr. Robbins’s sabbatical year,
continued to serve in that capacity during the search for a perma-
nent director. A committee has been formed by the Secretary,
with Assistant Secretary for History and Art Charles Blitzer as
chairman, to seek candidates for the director’s position.

History and Art / 193
National Museum of American Art

The search for a new director for the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art (NMAA) was successfully completed with the formal
announcement on November 25 that Dr. Charles C. Eldredge,
director of the Spencer Museum of Art and professor of art his-
tory at the University of Kansas, had accepted the appointment
to head the museum, effective July 1, 1982. During the interim,
Mr. Harry Lowe continued to serve as acting director.

In keeping with nmaAa’s continuing interest to explore the rich
resources of regional art in this country, the autumn exhibition
schedule was highlighted by More than Land or Sky: Art from
Appalachia, which included 109 works by 69 artists from the 13
Appalachian states. Organized by the Department of Education,
this major exhibition served as a focal point for a number of
well-attended public programs, which included films, poetry read-
ings, concerts, a symposium, and a panel discussion. The exhibi-
tion is reaching an even wider audience in Appalachia, where it
will go on tour to at least 12 museums and galleries until Septem-
ber 1984.

Exploring the American print from an historical perspective,
the major exhibition organized by the Department of Prints and
Drawings, The Print in the United States from the Eighteenth
Century to the Present, brought together a fascinating selection of
over 100 works on paper from various Smithsonian museums and
collections. The exhibition had been shown initially in Mexico
City the previous summer.

Nmaa’s permanent collection was significantly enriched by 685
new accessions, bringing the total collection to 26,481 works.
Among the many generous gifts given to NMAA this year were a
major new color lithograph by Frank Stella, an important water-
color by Maurice Prendergast, Blueberry Eyes by Franz Kline, a
limestone sculpture by the folk artist William Edmondson, five
paintings by Abraham Rattner, and a selection of 36 nineteenth-
century silhouettes by some of the finest masters of this genre.
The silhouettes are from the collection of F. W. Reidenbach of
Rochester, New York, and provide an exceptional starting point
for future collecting in this area.

194 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Among the most significant works purchased this past year by NMAA is this oil on
canvas landscape, Lost Balloon, by William Beard, 1882.

Among the most significant works purchased this year is an
evocative landscape by William Beard, The Lost Balloon (1882),
revealing as much about the artist’s attitude toward post—Civil
War America as his many humorous and satirical animal paintings.
The purchase of Mark Lindquist’s Ascending Bowl added to the
museum’s growing collection of contemporary craft objects. In
addition, a significant group of approximately 700 contemporary
photographs, transferred from the National Endowment for the
Arts, represents the most significant addition to date to the NMAA’s
photography collection.

The Renwick Gallery observed two especially festive occasions
this year. On January 31, it commemorated its tenth anniversary
with an all-day celebration that featured tap-dancing perfor-
mances, music and songs, and appearances by a magician and a
juggler, and culminated in a huge birthday party. Two exhibitions,
The Inedible Renwick Birthday Cake and The Grand Renwick
Gallery Souvenir Show, were planned in conjunction with the
tenth birthday. From 80 proposals by American craftsmen, the
Renwick staff selected 14 birthday cakes of porcelain, neon, steel,
crocheted cotton, stuffed fabric, glass, and earthenware. American
craftsmen, in response to the question “If the Washington Monu-
ment can be a thermometer, what can the Renwick be?” submitted
60 proposals, from which seventeen souvenirlike objects were
selected. The objects related to the gallery by utilizing the dis-
tinctive image of the Renwick facade or the portrait of architect
James Renwick.

The first part of a major two-part exhibition cosponsored by the
Renwick Gallery and the Office of Folklife Programs, Celebration:
A World of Art and Ritual, was inaugurated on March 17. The
second part opened August 26 and will continue through Febru-
ary 21, 1983. Over 600 objects, culled from the collections of nine
Smithsonian museums, vividly illustrate how 62 diverse cultures
celebrate events through ritual, ceremony, and festival. Accom-
panying the exhibition are free public-education programs, which
directly interpret the objects and customs exhibited. Such varied
activities as ethnic dances and music, lectures by anthropologists
and ethnography scholars, films, symposia, and a monthly series
of “Living Celebrations” explore the concept of celebration and
further elucidate how people celebrate with their bodies, voices,

196 / Smithsonian Year 1982
>

In attendance at the June 11, 1982, symposium “Creative Women in Paris and New
York in the 20s and 30s” were (from left) Lillian Hellman, Berenice Abbott, and
Emily Hahn.

ideas, and words, and with ritual objects such as those displayed.
During this year, the Department of Exhibition and Design
designed and installed eight changing exhibitions at the Renwick
Gallery and twenty-four at NMAA. One of the most handsomely
mounted exhibitions at nMaa was The First Annual Awards in the
Visual Arts Exhibition/AVA 1. The pioneering project’s stated
purpose is to promote, through fellowships and publication of an
exhibition catalogue, the national recognition of accomplished
artists whose works are not yet generally known. On May 5,
AVA I was previewed by Mrs. Ronald Reagan who met with the
artists; she was accompanied by S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, and Dr. Harry Rand, NMaa curator of 20th
Century Painting and Sculpture. Earlier in the year, another exhi-
bition of contemporary art, Recent Trends in Collecting: Twenti-
eth-Century Painting and Sculpture at the National Museum of
American Art, focused on 130 recently acquired works, which
showed the range and breadth of the museum’s holdings.
Nmaa’s dedication to research and professional training—efforts
which began with an Intern Program in 1968 and a Research
Fellowship program in 1970—continues. These programs are
showing splendid results with numerous, former NMAA interns and
fellows having become museum professionals or pursuing academic
careers. A symposium on the American decorative arts of the
1920s and 1930s was organized by the Department of Research
and Professional Training; five eminent scholars spoke on the uses
of new materials and design problems, and a panel of museum
curators discussed problems of collecting decorative art objects. In
addition, a new cooperative program for the study and teaching of
American art and culture of the 1930s was initiated by the Depart-
ment of Research and Professional Training and involves George
Mason University and two other Smithsonian bureaus, the National
Museum of American History and the Archives of American Art.
The nMAA year began and closed with notable exhibitions by
two major black artists. In November, A Life in Art: Alma Thomas,
1891-1978 displayed 46 paintings, sculptures, and works on paper
by this artist, who made Washington, D.C., her home. Thomas
dedicated her life to art education and turned to painting relatively
late in life. On September 17, William H. Johnson: The Scandi-
navian Years opened to show an impressive segment of NMAA

198 / Smithsonian Year 1982
holdings by this artist, the largest single collection of Johnson’s
work. These loosely painted landscapes in bright, saturated colors
were executed mainly between 1930 and 1938.

Three of the thirteen nMaAa publications and miscellaneous man-
uscripts that were monitored through press by the Department of
Publication were singled out for awards by the Art Directors
Club of Washington, D.C. The project to save the Peter A. Juley
and Son Collection of 127,000 negatives, which document eighty
years of American art, received an added boost in the form of
funding from the James Smithson Society and continued support
from the Samuel H. Kress Foundation. Within the past year the
NMAA/National Portrait Gallery (npc) Library successfully com-
pleted a search for the position of librarian with the appointment
of Cecilia H. Chin, formerly associate librarian at the Art Institute
of Chicago.

In January of 1982, the nMaa/npc Library received the Mallett
Library of Reproductions from the Library of Congress. Daniel
Trowbridge Mallett, whose 1948 publication, Mallett’s Index of
Artists, is an indispensable source for locating biographical material
on artists, assembled a series of 495 scrapbooks containing repro-
ductions of works by the artists included in the index. Although
largely undocumented, these illustrations provide a visual docu-
mentation of the artists’ works and will be a useful tool for schol-
ars in American art.

National Museum of American History

Among this year’s accomplishments at the National Museum of
American History (NMAH), two exhibitions and several on-going
programs stand out. G. Washington: A Figure Upon the Stage
and FDR: The Intimate Presidency explored the ways these two
great men addressed the world. Much time was devoted to con-
tinuing efforts such as the inventory of the collections, with a
shelf survey of nearly 16 million items now more than 75 percent
complete; planning a major exhibition on ways of life in eigh-
teenth-century America; and a multidepartmental effort to pre-
serve the Star-Spangled Banner. Finally, with the guidance of

History and Art / 199
This is a view of the entrance to the exhibition G. Washington: A Figure
Upon the Stage at the nMAnH. Below. Standing at the entrance to the exhibi-
tion FDR: The Intimate Presidency are (from left) NMAH Director Roger G.
Kennedy, President Ronald Reagan, and Smithsonian Secretary S. Dillon
Ripley.

J. Michael Carrigan, the new assistant director for exhibitions and
public spaces, the NMAH has developed a new plan for the use of
collections and space over the next ten years.

One accomplishment in October was the publication of The
National Museum of American History, a book describing the
museum and its collections in richly illustrated pages. Written by
Shirley Abbott in coordination with the museum’s Office of Public
and Academic Programs, this large volume was published by
Harry N. Abrams, Inc., in New York.

Two diverse exhibitions marked the start of the year. By Sea
and By Land: Independence With the Help of France, organized
by Philip Lundeberg, curator of Naval History, opened October 9
in the Castle. Funded by a grant from the James Smithson Society,
the exhibition commemorated the crucial aid given American
troops by the French at Yorktown. Also, in the NMAn’s Hall of
Glass, Birds of North America—Porcelain by Edward Marshall
Boehm offered examples of the master craftsman’s work.

Regular concerts, sponsored by the Division of Musical Instru-
ments, provided continuity before the changing backdrop of exhi-
bitions. In addition to “Saturday Live,” its popular series of
informal concerts, the division, in cooperation with the Smith-
sonian Chamber Players, inaugurated a four-part series of lectures
and concerts around the theme “Music from the Ages of George
Washington.” The series focused on the music that contributed
to cultural life in late eighteenth-century London, Vienna, Paris,
and Philadelphia.

Continuing a long-standing museum tradition, Mrs. Ronald
Reagan presented her inaugural gown at a special ceremony on
November 4. At the time of the donation, Mrs. Reagan announced
the establishment of a First Ladies Fellowship to encourage research
in American fashion design.

In that same month, the Division of Graphic Arts opened a
new exhibition entitled The Machine as Artist: 19th-century
Drawing Devices and Their Products. The exhibition allows vis-
itors to try their own skill at a camera obscura (a device used to
project images onto paper in a darkened room) and _ includes
weekly demonstrations of a profile-drawing pantograph, showing
how silhouettes may be made.

In December, Beverly Sills gave the last of the 1981 Doubleday

History and Art / 201

lectures on music in America. Cultural exchange was evident in
an important exhibition, Steuben: Secret Aid for the Americans,
which opened December 12. Organized by Werner Giesebrecht
of the Foundation for Prussian Cultural Property, Berlin, ““Von
Steuben” documented the origins and character of the Prussian
officer, who brought discipline to Washington’s troops during and
after the cold winter at Valley Forge. Ending 1981 was the
traditional Trees of Christmas, produced by the Smithsonian’s
Office of Horticulture, and a holiday fete, sponsored jointly by
the museum and the Smithsonian’s Division of Performing Arts,
featuring mimes, musicians, jugglers, and all manner of per-
formers.

On January 30, to commemorate the centenary of Franklin
Delano Roosevelt’s birth, FDR: The Intimate Presidency opened
to the public. This major exhibition was organized by Arthur
Molella of the Division of Electricity and was supported in part
by a special congressional appropriation and generous gifts from
LIFE and RCA. Photographs, newsreels, radio broadcasts, news
magazines, posters, newspapers, and other channels of commu-
nication were used to illustrate the ways in which this president
tried to establish direct contact with Americans and make the
national government more aware of the mood of the people. In
conjunction with the exhibition, the Office of Public and Aca-
demic Programs offered a series of films pertaining to Roosevelt
and his era. The exhibition closed on August 1, 1982, and was
adapted for a tour arranged by the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service.

G. Washington: A Figure Upon the Stage—the most compre-
hensive museum exhibition ever devoted to the man and his
time—opened on February 22, the two-hundred-fiftieth anniver-
sary of his birth. Margaret B. Klapthor, curator in the Division
of Political History, organized the exhibition, and with Howard A.
Morrison wrote the accompanying catalog. The result of more
than a decade of research, the 675-object presentation illuminated
the means through which Washington sought to define himself
as a Virginia gentleman, a military leader, as president (a role
for which he established a model), and as an elder statesman.
Supported in part by a generous grant from United Technologies
Corporation, this exhibition provided a focal point for many other

202 / Smithsonian Year 1982
activities, among them a singing school and a dancing school,
both in the eighteenth-century tradition, offered to Resident
Associates.

Doubleday lectures for 1982 carried on the theme of “The
Presidency,” with commentary and insights from several promi-
nent figures. In March, Marcus Cunliffe discussed the myth of
George Washington, and in April John Chancellor shared his
conclusions garnered from long experience with mass-media cov-
erage of American presidents. The month of May brought “Ren-
dezvous with the Thirties,” a special lecture in which John House-
man discussed his career in the American theater, particularly
with the Federal Theater Project. The lecture was punctuated with
selections from 1930s musical theater, sung by a Howard Univer-
sity chous. Garry Wills ended the series with his lecture on the
eighteenth-century view of Washington as Cincinnatus, the leg-
endary hero honored for his service to his country and for his
willingness to relinquish power after the crisis had passed.

“Images of Women in American Culture,” a symposium orga-
nized by Edith Mayo of the Division of Political History and
cosponsored with The Wonder Woman Foundation, took place at
the nMAH during Women’s History Week in March. Among the
distinguished participants were the Honorable Nancy Landon
Kassebaum, the Honorable Patricia Schroeder, and Ms. Gloria
Steinem, with Ms. Susan Stamberg as moderator of the panel of
eight.

The Life in America Project, devoted to developing a major
exhibition interpreting eighteenth-century America, yielded its
first public results when ‘Buyin’ Freedom,” a short dramatic
presentation, was given in the Virginia Parlor of the Hall of
Everyday Life. One of the museum’s first experiments with live
acting in an exhibit, ‘Buyin’ Freedom’ focused on a slave’s tena-
cious efforts to negotiate his release from a patriarchal plantation
owner. During its six-week run from late March into May, it
received a warm response from the visitors who saw it.

April saw the opening of “The Fall of Parity,” a display illus-
trating a successful experimental challenge to a tenet of physics
long held to be true. This was also the time for the annual Spring
Celebration, with musicians and other performing artists delighting
visitors inside the museum as well as outside on its terraces.

History and Art / 203
Activities related to the Division of Community Life’s popular-
entertainment collections brought several celebrities to the NMAH
during the spring. In March, Dick Clark gave a selection of “num-
ber-one hit records’ and other objects commemorating thirty
years of his association with “American Bandstand.” April
brought producer Hal David to present memorabilia from the
American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers, and
comedian Rodney Dangerfield to present one of his shirts and a
red tie. And in May, Hal Linden donated several props from
“Barney Miller,” the television series in which he had the title
role.

In May, the refurbishing of the Bond Clock Shop as a working
exhibition in the Timekeeping Hall was completed, and an exhibi-
tion of marbles dating from the nineteenth century to the pres-
ent—gifts of the Marble Collectors Society of America—went on
view in the pendulum area of the first floor.

On Flag Day, June 14, Director Roger G. Kennedy announced
a major endeavor to preserve the Star-Spangled Banner, a prized
artifact in the museum’s collections. He made the announcement
during a public ceremony attended by Mrs. George Bush, wife of
the vice-president, and sixty children from the District of Colum-
bia’s Francis Scott Key School, who sang patriotic songs. Mr. Ken-
nedy described plans to remove dust from the flag, to improve light-
ing and ventilation systems, and to install a large, opaque cover in
front of the flag, to protect it from light and further dust. The
conservation plan, developed by textile curator Rita Adrosko and
supervised by conservator Scott Odell, required painstaking work
during the summer and early fall. When the project, made possible
by the support of Sears, Roebuck and Co., is complete—shortly
after the end of this fiscal year—the cover will be withdrawn for
several minutes each hour, allowing visitors to see the flag itself.

Examples of American art and crafts figured in three summer
exhibitions. On June 15, an exhibition entitled Gifts of Glass
opened to the public. Offering fine selections of cut, engraved,
and art glass given to the Smithsonian between 1885 and 1920,
the display shows examples that major American glass manu-
facturers believed best represented their companies. Then, in
conjunction with Festival of American Folklife in July, the
museum mounted a display of works created by National Heritage

204 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Fellows—master craftsmen recognized with awards from the
National Endowment for the Humanities. Tooled-leather saddles
by Duff Severe, carved canes by Elijah Pierce, an ornamental iron
gate by Philip Simmons, and other works were featured. Finally
in late July, an exhibition of nineteenth- and twentieth-century
photographs was installed in the Hall of Photography. Organized
by Eugene Ostroff, Gum and Carbon Prints illustrates the results
of two allied but different methods of photographic printing.

July 9 and 10 were days for special events related to the
George Washington exhibition. To commemorate Washington’s
signing his will on July 9, 1799, the Fairfax County Circuit Court
brought the document to the museum for the day, where it was
displayed in the Flag Hall near the exhibition. That evening and
the next day, Gretchen Schneider, formerly of Colonial Williams-
burg, shared her expertise in dress and deportment of Colonial
Virginia’s gentry in a lecture and two family workshops.

Two major acquisions enhanced our collections during this
period. In June, the Division of Military History received a rare
regimental flag of Black Volunteers who fought for the Union in
Louisiana and Texas. The flag, donated by Mr. David K. Lander
of Caldwell, Idaho, is scheduled for display after it has received
conservation treatment. Also, a century-old metal-drawing press
built by the E. W. Bliss Company, then of New York, went on
view in the Tool Hall in August. A gift of the Hudson Tool and
Die Company, the machine is the first of its kind to enter the
collections. Such machines were developed in the nineteenth cen-
tury to shape sheets of metal into buckets, thimbles, and other
seamless containers and utensils.

In September, the first visible signs of the museum’s five-year
plan for reorganization of its public spaces occurred when the
windmill near the pendulum was dismantled and the first in a
series of Victorian arches was put in place. Once completed, the
line of arches will demark a palm court between the pendulum
area and the Victorian ice cream parlour. Designed as an area for
rest and reflection, the palm court will feature the Horn and
Hardart Automat of 1908 and Stohlman’s confectionary displays
and will provide visitors with chairs and tables in a period setting.

The Office of Public and Academic Programs, among other
broad and numerous activities, continued to sponsor the Senior

History and Art / 205
Series, a program that allows specially trained leaders to offer
lectures about and demonstrations of the collections to groups of
elderly adults in the metropolitan area. Funded by grants from
the Smithsonian Education Outreach Fund and other private
sources, the programs followed the theme “Changes in Technology
and Their Effects on American Lifestyles.”

Other major acquisitions not previously mentioned were: a gift
of approximately 2,000 engineering drawings of Corliss steam
engines—the sole surviving records of the company founded by
George Corliss, often called the James Watt of America; the only
known example of an eighteenth-century firearm incorporating a
multifiring system invented by Captain Joseph Belton of Phila-
delphia; an extensive collection of equipment, archival material,
and biological products from Parke-Davis and Company; 2 fine
surveyors compasses, examples of the early work of two impor-
tant nineteenth-century workshops in Philadelphia; and several
artifacts for the ethnic collections, among them an Indian woman
shop figure by John Cromwell of New York City. Noteworthy
donations to the National Philatelic Collections included 5 vol-
umes of Napoleonic and French Revolution covers from the Henry
A. Myer collection; 530 early U.S. Airmail Service objects; a
collection of 5,974 world stamps, including significant holdings
in German colonies and early German issues; and a collection of
4,155 philatelic objects related to the Boy Scouts of America.

Throughout the year, great progress was made on the inven-
tory. Revised estimates of the collections within the nMaH and
at Silver Hill pushed the grand total of the museum’s holdings
from 15,872,168 to 16,257,075. Of those, 12,476,680 objects had
been shelf-surveyed by the end of August 1982, and the data
for 1,468,321 objects had been keyed into the computer. Sub-
stantial progress was achieved in both the philatelic and numis-
matic collections, where the inventory was top priority.

National Portrait Gallery

On June 1, 1982, Dr. Alan Fern became the third director of the
National Portrait Gallery (nrc). Dr. Fern brings to the gallery his

206 / Smithsonian Year 1982
administrative experience of twenty years at the Library of Con-
gress (most recently as Director for Special Collections) and the
scholarly interests and achievements of an art historian and
former faculty member of the University of Chicago. The other
major staff appointment in fiscal year 1982 was that of Cecilia
Chin as American Art and Portrait Gallery Librarian, effective on
May 16, 1982. A native of China, Ms. Chin came to the nrc from
Chicago, where she was associate librarian and head of the Ref-
erence Department at the Ryerson and Burnham Libraries of the
Art Institute.

The crucial process of building a collection to meet the man-
date first defined for the nrc by the Congress in 1962—and a
collection worthy of the individuals who have shaped the nation’s
history—has continued unabated. The most significant acquisition
of the year was announced in Kansas City, Missouri, by the nrc
and the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, Inc., as joint-
purchasers of Gilbert Stuart’s 1805 “Edgehill” portrait of Thomas
Jefferson. This historic and beautiful image of Jefferson was a
long-sought addition to Jefferson’s own collection, hung at Monti-
cello for the last five years of his life, and was owned by several
of his descendants in succession throughout the nineteenth and
early twentieth centuries. The commissioners of the nrc had
desired to bring this particular Jefferson icon into the collection
since the mid-1960s and encouraged lengthy negotiations to that
end, but the opportunity to acquire the work jointly with Monti-
cello developed only recently. Following the precedent established
in 1980 by the joint purchase (with Boston’s Museum of Fine
Arts) of Gilbert Stuart’s 1795 portraits of George and Martha
Washington, the gallery purchased half-ownership of the Edgehill
panel and will place it on exhibition in 1983 for three-year
periods, alternating with Monticello. Funds for this landmark
purchase were provided for the nrc by the Regents Collection
Acquisition Program.

Among the other acquisitions by purchase during the year, the
gallery has been fortunate enough to acquire: a full-length, life-
size portrait of Samuel Clemens (Mark Twain), by John White
Alexander; an unusual double portrait of the industrialist Henry
Clay Frick with his daughter Helen, by the much-admired Edmund
C. Tarbell; an unforgettable ambrotype of the youthful George

History and Art / 207
Among other acquisitions by purchase during
the past year, the nrc has been fortunate to
acquire this full-length, life-size portrait of
Samuel Clemens (‘Mark Twain”) (left), painted
by John White Alexander around 1902, and a
rare likeness of Tenskwatawa (“The Prophet”),
by Henry Inman, painted around 1830-33.

Armstrong Custer; another ambrotype (this one dating from
about 1858) capturing the pre-presidential visage of Abraham
Lincoln; a smashing study of the popular nineteenth-century
actress Juliana Westray Wood, by Rembrandt Peale; and a rare
likeness of Tenskwatawa (“The Prophet’) by Henry Inman.

The list of distinguished gifts accepted for the gallery’s Perma-
nent Collection is also growing. Joanna Sturm presented both
Peter Hurd’s tempera painting of Alice Roosevelt Longworth and
a collection of Theodore Roosevelt family photographs. A superb
1818 portrait of Rembrandt Peale, by his father, Charles Willson
Peale, was the gift of Donald Hamilton Workman in memory of
his father, James Clark Workman, and his grandfather, James
Henry Workman. And a stylish marble head of Helen Gahagan
Douglas by Isamu Noguchi came to the Gallery as the gift of the
estate of the subject’s husband, the actor Melvyn Douglas.

The nrc’s list of temporary exhibitions during fiscal year 1982
continued its traditional diversity and popular success. Two of
America’s most legendary presidents were the subjects of special
tributes: on the two-hundred-fiftieth anniversary of George
Washington’s birth, the gallery opened An American Icon: The
18th Century Image of George Washington in Prints and IIlus-
trations (organized by nrc’s Curator of Prints Wendy Wick and
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibitions Service), and
the centennial of Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s birth was cele-
brated with FDR: The Early Years. An extensive and scholarly
catalog accompanied the Washington show, and a smaller publi-
cation was produced on FDR by gallery historians Frederick S.
Voss and James Barber.

The Frederick Hill Meserve collection of Civil War—period glass
negatives—acquired last year with the help of Congress—became
the focus of a permanent gallery space in which modern prints
(produced in the technically correct nineteenth-century manner)
will be shown on a rotating schedule. These diminutive images
from the studios of Mathew Brady are already proving to be a
major highlight of the nrc’s collections.

Carl Schurz, America’s Teutonic Reformer and John Stevens
and Sons: A Family of Inventors were two additional special-
feature exhibitions, which showed the effects of individual imagi-
nation and diligence on American culture and society. Both were

History and Art / 209
produced by the gallery’s Office of Small Exhibitions, which also
prepared a one-room exhibition, The Godlike Black Dan, to com-
memorate the two-hundredth anniversary of the birth of Daniel
Webster—renowned legislator, secretary of state, and orator. This
exhibition was also accompanied by a short catalog.

The npc’s unique concern with the arts of portraiture shaped
two of the year’s most important exhibitions: Portraits by George
Bellows included a choice group of masterpieces selected by the
gallery’s former director, Marvin Sadik, and was accompanied by
a catalog prepared by Margaret Christman; and American Portrai-
ture in the Grand Manner 1720-1920, organized and first seen at
the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, proved to be a very
popular survey of the most ambitious and imposing formal por-
traits produced in this country.

Two special events bore direct relationship to the exhibitions
programs. In October, as coorganizers with the education depart-
ment of the Henry Francis duPont Winterthur Museum in Wil-
mington, Delaware, the nrc’s Charles Willson Peale Papers staff
presented a one-day conference in Washington on “Charles
Willson Peale: An Interdisciplinary Study of His Work.” Several
speakers explored different aspects of the versatile Peale’s life and
career as an artist, inventor, and museum organizer in the late
eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. Both Lillian B. Miller,
editor of the Peale Papers, and Sidney Hart, assistant editor, were
among the speakers. Wendy Wick’s small exhibition Charles Will-
son Peale and the Challenge of Mezzotint Portraiture was also on
view. In January, to mark the opening of FDR: The Early Years,
Joseph Alsop spoke to a distinguished audience on “The Roosevelt
Enigma.” His talk was a remarkable blending of personal memoir
with the trained journalist’s analysis of the Roosevelt presidency
as a political achievement.

The Education Department continues to serve a wide range of
audiences, from school groups (both in classroom and museum
programs) to senior citizens and individuals who visit the gallery
and are shown the collections by knowledgeable, volunteer docents.
The department’s popular “Portraits in Motion” series has also
attracted steadily increasing critical approval and enthusiastic audi-
ences. In the series, individual actors and small theatrical groups
give vivid portrayals of historical personalities represented in the

210 / Smithsonian Year 1982
gallery’s collections, including H. L. Mencken, Edgar Allan Poe,
and Dorothy Parker.

The Catalog of American Portraits (cap) continued to process
records created during the first three years of its 7-year, nation-
wide survey of American portraiture. Simultaneously, field
researchers have been documenting dozens of collections in Maine,
Vermont, New Hampshire, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Wis-
consin, Minnesota, and Iowa. Funded, in part by the Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation, the Ambrose W. Monnell Foundation, Thomas
Mellon Evans, and numerous other donors in the regions being
surveyed, this unique documentation program has yielded in
excess of 5,000 carefully prepared records from the most recent
field work. When the project is completed, the files of the cap’s
Washington offices will be an unparalleled and irreplaceable index
to American portraiture. The holdings of each collection that is
surveyed by the cap are entered into a computerized data base.
Then each participating institution receives a copy of the processed
records of its holdings from the cap, affording it a thorough record
for convenient local use, as well as a future reference. To date,
such records have been produced and deposited with 124 organi-
zations in 7 states.

Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies (oas) continued its program in
graduate education throughout the year. The autumn 1981 seminar
in “Material Aspects of American Civilization” had as its theme
“Birth, Marriage, and Death” and was taught by the director of
the program and Professor Bernard Mergen of The George Wash-
ington University.

Other seminars during the academic year 1981-82 included
“The Decorative Arts in America,” taught by Barbara G. Carson;
“Study of American Art and History: Portraiture,’ taught by
Ellen G. Miles; and a summer session course on “Folklore in
America,” taught by Geraldine N. Johnson. Individual graduate
students continued to pursue specialized research under the super-
vision of the director of the Office of American Studies.

eA

History and Art / 211
The director of the oas, in his capacity as chairman of the Folk-
life Advisory Council, conducted a meeting of the council on
March 18, 1982, to review the progress of the Folklife Programs
of the Smithsonian. The opening of Celebration: A World of Art
and Ritual, an exhibition in the Renwick Gallery, marked the first
time folk objects from all the Smithsonian museums had been
brought together in a single exhibition bearing on the folklife
theme.

The director of the oas, in his capacity as a member of the
St. Mary’s City Commission, continued his association with the
research and restoration activities of Maryland’s seventeenth-
century capital.

Office of Folklife Programs

Most Americans would agree that the richness of the nation’s
culture lies in the impressive diversity of its people and in their
creative response to historical conditions. Research, presentation,
and preservation of this cultural wealth is the goal of the Office of
Folklife Programs (orp), which produces live performances by the
keepers of tradition, museum exhibitions of traditional artifacts,
and documentary studies of particular technological, social, and
aesthetic processes. Members of the orp also teach and conduct
research on a cooperative basis in Washington—area academic and
governmental institutions. Taken as a whole, the activities of the
program are directed not only toward representing folk culture in
national cultural institutions, but also toward continuing the sur-
vival of folk traditions and their practitioners.

FESTIVAL OF AMERICAN FOLKLIFE

The orp planned, supervised research, and produced the Sixteenth
Annual Festival of American Folklife in fiscal year 1982. The festi-
val was returned to its original site on the National Mall outside
the national museums of American History and Natural History.
It was held over a two-week period: June 24-28 and July 1-5,
1982.

This year, three major programs were presented. The main per-

212 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ES:

At the 1982 Festival of American Folklife, the 100th anniversary of
U.S.-Korean diplomatic relations was observed with many folk artists
being presented, among them, this traditional Korean potter. Below.
Two members of the Kutiyattam troupe from Kerala, India, perform

at the Renwick Gallery as part of the nMaAaA exhibition Celebration:
A World of Art and Ritual.

formance stage each day featured a series of tribute concerts in
honor of the recipients of the National Endowment for the Arts’
first National Heritage Fellowships. These fellowships were
awarded at the festival to fifteen traditional musicians and crafts-
persons who have made outstanding contributions to the culture of
the United States. Also, an exhibition of crafts by fellowship
recipients was mounted in the National Museum of American
History.

In observance of the one-hundredth anniversary of the estab-
lishment of U.S.—Korean diplomatic relations, twenty-five folk
artists were presented along with twenty-five artists from Korean—
American communities. This program revived the “Old Ways in
the New World” format, which was highly successful during the
Bicentennial Festival and before. The traditions presented include
sandae-nori (an ancient masked-dance drama); a shinawi instru-
mental ensemble; musical-instrument, pottery, and horsehair-hat-
making; calligraphy; food demonstrations; and a shamanistic
spring-festival ritual that was presented for the first time outside
Korea.

The third program, with approximately 110 participants, pre-
sented the folk traditions of the State of Oklahoma. This program,
part of a celebration of Oklahoma’s Diamond Jubilee of statehood,
included Anglo, black, Native American, and ethnic music and
crafts, as well as the occupational folklore of the oil and horse
industries. The National Mall was transformed by an oil-drilling
derrick and a 400-yard-long runway down its center for quarter-
horse racing.

The festival was cosponsored by the National Park Service and
the Smithsonian and received funding support from the Music
Performance Trust Funds, the International Cultural Society of
Korea, and the Diamond Jubilee Commission of the State of
Oklahoma.

SPECIAL PROJEGES

In conjunction with several Smithsonian bureaus, the orp has been
involved in a series of special projects during fiscal year 1982.
Throughout the year, the staff of the orp worked in collaboration
with the staff of the National Museum of American Art to plan
the exhibition Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, which

214 / Smithsonian Year 1982
opened on March 17, 1982. The exhibition contains more than
600 objects—drawn from Smithsonian collections—which fill all
seven of the Renwick’s galleries. The objects were chosen to dem-
onstrate the ways in which different societies celebrate the impor-
tant cycles and milestones in the lives of their people. To augment
the exhibition, the orp planned and produced a monthly “living
celebration” as well as a monthly lecture and film. These events
were held in the Renwick Gallery. The living celebrations included,
among others, St. Patrick’s Day festivities, Laotian and Cambodian
new year’s ceremonies, and Kutiyattam, an ancient form of San-
skrit theater still performed in Indian for ritual occasions.

During the Roosevelt presidency, seven folk-song concerts were
presented in the White House. On January 31, 1982, in observance
of the centennial of Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s birth, the orFr
planned and produced a concert, entitled Folk Music in the Roose-
velt White House, at the National Museum of American History.
This concert featured the folk music performed for the Roosevelts
and it included some of the musicians who played the music. In
addition, FDR’s son James and folklorist Alan Lomax, both of
whom worked in the Roosevelt administrations, shared with the
audiences reminiscences of the White House concerts.

For the opening week (June 18-22) of the exhibition inua
revealed: the spirit world of the bering sea eskimo, the orp, in
response to a request from the Department of Anthropology, orga-
nized a program of Eskimo culture at the National Museum of
Natural History. A group of twelve Eskimos from the Village of
Gambell, on St. Lawrence Island in Alaska, demonstrated their
crafts and games, told traditional stories, and presented perfor-
mances of dancing, drumming, and singing.

Research was begun during fiscal year 1982 under the super-
vision of the orp for an exhibition on the surviving traditional
potteries of the Southeastern United States. The exhibition is being
planned by this office in conjunction with the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Traveling Exhibition Service, and will begin a 26-month-
long tour of American museums in November 1983.

Finally, on February 13, 1982, the orp and the National Council
for the Traditional Arts cosponsored a performance by the Khmer
Classical Ballet in the National Museum of Natural History’s
Baird Auditorium.

History and Art / 215
RESEARCH

Collaborative work with the American Folklife Center at the
Library of Congress (tc) began in the summer of 1979 on a project
to preserve more than 3,500 wax-cylinder recordings principally
held by the tc. These contain Native American songs and stories
recorded prior to 1930. Dr. Thomas Vennum, Senior Ethnomusicol-
ogist in the orp, has served as project director since 1979. The proj-
ect involves the transfer of fragile cylinder recordings to magnetic
tape, the preparation of accompanying written material, and the
development of suitable means for the dissemination of these his-
toric cultural documents. Before his term of duty as director ended
in June 1982, Dr. Vennum, at a conference on American Indian
Arts sponsored by University of California, Los Angeles, delivered
a paper on the ethics of accessibility to sacred Indian recordings
in archives. The paper is to be published as part of the proceed-
ings of the meeting. Additionally, he published an article on the
Truman Michaelson cylinder collection in the tc’s Folklife Center
News.

Research, writing, and production continues on seven mono-
graphs and accompanying films, which are included in the
Smithsonian Folklife Series. The series was established in 1978 to
document, through monographs and films, folkways still practiced
(or recreated through memory) in a variety of traditional cultures.
Drawing on more than a decade of research accruing from field-
work conducted for the office’s annual Festival of American Folk-
life, the studies are unique in that each consists of a monograph
and a film conceived to complement each other. In fiscal year
1982, one new study has been initiated through the filming of a
two-day shamanistic ritual conducted by several Korean festival
participants in the home of a local Korean—American family. This
is the first time the ritual has been filmed.

During fiscal year 1982, a film was begun in conjunction with
the exhibition, Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. Conceived
of as more than a visual catalogue of an exhibition, the film will
present a portrait of the exhibition’s guest curator, Dr. Victor
Turner, the world’s foremost symbolic anthropologist. The film
will be a document of one of the twentieth century’s most original
and compelling intellectuals, using the exhibition as a springboard.
This production is scheduled to be completed in fiscal year 1983.

216 / Smithsonian Year 1982
On May 6, 1982, a film entitled Miles of Smiles, Years of
Struggle premiered in Washington. Depicting the heretofore untold
story of the black Pullman porters who formed the Brotherhood
of Sleeping Car Porters—the first black union—this film was pro-
duced by the Columbia Historical Society in cooperation with the
orp. Dr. Jack Santino of this office was a coordinator of the film,
which grew out of his research for the 1978 Festival of American
Folklife. The film has been shown on public television in New
York and Washington, D.C., and has been highly praised by the
press and public.

VISITING SCHOLARS

Three visiting scholars, supported by funds from the Office of
Fellowships and Grants used the orp’s archives as well as the
scholarly resources of the staff in 1981 and 1982. William Nye
(Ph.D., Tufts) conducted research for a definitive biography on
jazz musician Charlie Parker. Robert McCarl (Ph.D., Memorial
University of Newfoundland) conducted research and commenced
writing a complete ethnography of urban firefighters. Michael
Licht (M.A., University of Texas, Austin, and doctoral candidate
at the University of Texas) conducted research on the role of the
harmonica in traditional American music. Also, the staff of the
oFP supervised the work of eight interns.

History and Art / 217
Smithsonian librarians, Ms. S. Van Haften-Mackler and Dr. C. Jopling, check a print-
out from the online systems, which provide up-to-the-minute data for Smithsonian
research.
Smithsonian Year +» 1982

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

PAUL N. PERROT,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (cat) is primarily respon-
sible for advising and assisting Smithsonian museums in the study
and the preservation of the National Collections. It provides
extensive conservation, analytical, information, and educational
services for this purpose.

In this fiscal year, cat has collected and added to its system
945 reprints, bringing the total up to 7,500. This includes publi-
cations from Scandinavia, Japan, Australia, and Germany, among
other countries, on technical matters of concern to conservators.
Some 336 reprints have been read, key-worded, and fully indexed
this year. The file on commercial materials has been updated by
300 additions, and 80 video tapes of the Conservation Orientation
Lecture Series have been shown to 22 persons, of whom 10
received certificates of completion. Twelve others viewed selected
lectures.

The technical publications editor has edited about 144 conserva-
tion reports, of which a total of 119 cat reports—varying in size
from 1 to 40 pages—have been completed and sent out to various
bureaus of the Smithsonian. The editor has also further developed
a thesaurus for use in computerizing our conservation reports and
a more general thesaurus for the 7,500 reprints that cover the
entire field of conservation and related museum activities. Copies
of our thesaurus for conservation have been provided to inquirers
from Israel, Hungary, England, and Seattle, Washington.

219
Literature searches in CAL reports and reprints—by computer or
otherwise—in books and biographies, have numbered about fifty.

Preparation of p1ALoc records has required conversion of the
mass of material from the old setcem file to the preliminary new
file. Some fifty or so over-long abstracts on the old file have been
rewritten to make them fit the new system, and they have been
entered onto tape for transfer to the p1iaLoc records. Ninety-seven
test abstracts have been written for entering into the new system
when it becomes fully operational. About thirteen new-style
tapes have been created by computer manipulation of sELGEM
tapes ready for insertion into DIALOG.

Professional visitors numbered 535, and faculty has been pro-
vided to the following: Office of Museum Programs workshops—
“Museum Registration Methods,” ‘Developing, Managing, and
Maintaining Collections,” “Storage and Handling,” “Principles of
Conservation and Preventive Care: 1) Basic Problems, 2) Environ-
mental Conditions, 3) Control of Insects, 4) Dangers of Photog-
raphy;” Gunston Hall, “Coping with Collections,” at Lorton, Vir-
ginia; plus attendance at eighty video-tape lectures to expand
lectures and answer questions.

CONSERVATION STAFF

Roland Cunningham joined the cat staff as senior conservator of
paintings at the end of March and spent the greater part of three
months redesigning and reorganizing the small space assigned to
this activity, and purchasing new equipment for this area as well
as for the new paintings studio at the Museum Support Center.
Since the first of May, Mr. Cunningham has examined and treated
five paintings, all oil on canvas, from the collections of the National
Museum of American History (NMAH) or on loan to that museum
for exhibition. At the request of the Society of the Four Arts,
Mr. Cunningham traveled to Palm Beach, Florida, to examine
large murals on canvas glued to the walls of an outside loggia.
Samples from these paintings are currently being analyzed in CAL.
Several painted objects, including the lettered, wooden signboard
from a turret clock, are current projects.

Senior furniture conservator Walter Angst completed seventeen
objects, seven of which were for the major NMAH exhibition George
Washington: A Figure Upon the Stage. Most notable among the

220 / Smithsonian Year 1982
seven were a foot stool from Mt. Vernon, Washington’s silver
chest, an inlaid table, and a mirror, the treatment of which was
coordinated with conservator Kory Berrett. All of these, except for
the mirror frame, required analysis by scientists, as did a tool
chest from NMAH and an inlaid side chair from the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum. Objects of particular interest treated by Mr. Angst were
the Mace and Badge of Office, used at official Smithsonian func-
tions. Seal imprints attached to two well-known paintings belong-
ing to the National Gallery of Art were examined extensively and
reported. Mr. Angst’s continuing projects include a fire screen from
NMAH, a boulle table from the collection of the S. I. Castle, the
gun said to have belonged to Emperor Maximilian, and eighteenth-
century furniture from the National Air and Space Museum, which
features representations of early balloon flight.

In response to a request for conservation expertise for the major
National Museum of Natural History (NMNuH) exhibition, inua, CAL
provided two objects conservators, Mary Lou Garbin and Nikki
Horton, for two days a week over the period of a month, to work
in the Anthropology Conservation Lab. Here they treated a total of
twenty-seven objects comprised of such materials as ivory, wood,
sinew, plant fiber, hide, rawhide, iron, stone, and fur. Objects
treated included lance tips, earrings, a basket, a fish club, a mask,
a steatite doll, a civet-skin skirt, and an amulet.

Mrs. Garbin, who works part time, completed reports on work
done on a tiny bronze bull’s head in cat and continues two major
literature searches in conjunction with treatment of a wooden tre-
panning kit and a number of Revolutionary War bone buttons
from NMAH collections. It is expected that the data being gathered
and evaluated will aid conservators faced with similar and related
problems. In the instance of the kit, insufficient data found in the
conservation literature has led to an extensive search to determine
which wood adhesives used in industry possess qualities acceptable
for use. With respect to the bone buttons, a literature search has
revealed that a variety of materials have been used to consolidate
bone, but since the bulk of the literature concerns building mate-
rials (stone and wood), it is being examined for its relevance to
bone. Unfortunately, industrial data is not as relevant as in the
case of the wood adhesives. Because consolidation of bone in
paleontological collections is regular, though infrequently pub-

Museum Programs / 221
lished, Mrs. Garbin is collaborating with the Paleobiology Lab at
NMNH, also interested in the problem.

In cat, Mrs. Horton completed treatment of nineteen objects,
eleven of these for the major exhibition, George Washington: A
Figure Upon the Stage. These objects included George Washing-
ton’s shaving kit, two razors and their cases, a leather fire bucket
painted with a portrait of President Washington, Washington’s
camp stool, and the canvas and leather bag used to transport his
campaign tent. Treatment of nearly all of these objects required
the analytical expertise of the cat scientists. Mrs. Horton also
treated objects from other collections within nman. The remainder
of her time was spent conserving an iron oil lamp and a poly-
chome sculpture for the National Museum of African Art (NMafa).
On the seventeen objects she continues to work on, about half are
from the nmafa, three are from the S. I. Libraries, and the
remainder are from NMAH.

Objects conservator Kory Berrett finished treatment of thirty-
eight objects, ten of which required analytical work and six,
extensive literature searches. Thirty of the objects were for the
nNMAH—three of these for the George Washington exhibition and
the remainder principally for exhibition in the Ceramics and Glass
Hall or at out-of-state museums. The remaining eight objects com-
pleted by Mr. Berrett came from the Anthropology Department of
NMNH, with one from the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service. Of the thirty-eight completed, the most noteworthy
from the standpoint of complexity were a framed mirror belonging
to George Washington (worked on in conjunction with Walter
Angst), red-dyed ivory chessmen, a silver fragment from the
Anthropology Department, and a Tiffany candlestick, an oil lamp,
and a glass picture frame containing a photograph from the col-
lections of the Division of Ceramics and Glass, nmau. Twenty-five
on-going projects—notably, a coral brooch and a glass perfume
bottle with attached glass label, from the collections of the NMAH,
an excavated bronze pitcher from the NMNH, and a bronze statue
from the nMafa—all required analysis by scientists.

By means of eighty-one hygrothermographs, cat monitors the
environment of eleven bureaus, ranging from the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum to the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. Seventy of
these hygrothermographs are permanently installed in exhibition

222 / Smithsonian Year 1982
or storage areas, and twelve are placed temporarily. Having up-
dated and revised the system of tracking incoming charts and the
calibration log, Thomas Raysor, conservation technician, main-
tains the first and accomplishes biannual calibration of all but the
Cooper-Hewitt instruments. Mr. Raysor was also responsible for
processing eighteen loads of objects through the cat fumigation
chamber, under the supervision of Mr. Angst or Mrs. Horton, who
were certified as pesticide applicators during this fiscal year. This
service was provided on request to NMAH, NMAfA, NASM, and the
Arts and Industries Building.

With Mr. Raysor’s assistance, 857 information requests (letters
or phone calls) plus questions aired at omp workshops were
answered with 19,803 single information sheets (guidelines). A
recent sampling of 100 consecutive requests revealed that about
75 percent of these were telephone inquiries.

Cat continues its service of providing conservation materials and
lending equipment to the various S. I. divisions. In sixty-eight
such instances, twenty-six were to staff of divisions within NMAH,
excluding the Division of Conservation, for which there were
ten more.

During this period, cat conservators recorded conservation
advice given mainly to Smithsonian callers with a total of 110
“quickie” records. Of these, 36 were replies to conservator col-
leagues, and 74 to nonconservators. Of the nonconservators, 35
came from within NMAH, 31 from other bureaus of the Institution,
and 8 from outside the Smithsonian.

CONSERVATION SCIENCE

The science group has continued its well-established function as a
service lab, answering diverse queries the only common themes of
which are the technical study of the museum’s collection and its
preservation. As usual, cat has used the more interesting and suc-
cessful of these studies to justify long-term research. For example
Tim Padfield, David Erhardt, and Walter Hopwood have written
a joint paper about pollution that is generated within museums.
The paper was presented at the Washington Conference of the
International Institution for Conservation (11c) in September 1982.

Cat is also studying the behavior of hygroscopic salts in porous
materials—a curious choice of subject, but surprisingly important

Museum Programs / 223
in the display of textiles and prints, which often transfer their
images to the glass in front of them and to the boards behind
them. Cat has now studied eight examples, which have come to
the lab, and is making a systematic study that involves simulat-
ing the effect in the lab and measuring the effect of atmospheric
moisture on humidity-sensitive materials. Progress in this was
described by Tim Padfield in a paper presented at the Washington
conference of the Harper’s Ferry Textile Group in September 1982.

Another major occupation is the roof of the Arts and Indus-
tries Building. Cat measurements of the microclimate have now
covered a year and a half, and interpretation of the process by
which liquid occasionally falls from the ceiling in warm, sunny
weather is complete. The results prompted cat to caution the
Office of Design and Construction (opc) about weaknesses in the
design of the next stage in roof renovation. Cat is now reviewing
the mass of data and preparing a paper that will describe the
measurement techniques, which are unusual, and the condensation
process, which is caused by an amazing combination of factors,
none of which, alone, would have caused trouble. Cat is also dis-
cussing the way in which the building has reacted to the incom-
patible needs of the historic structure, the objects, and the inhabi-
tants (joint project with onc).

The most memorable undertaking of the scientific staff this
past year was the cleaning of the gilded bronze equestrian statues
around the Lincoln Memorial and Arlington Memorial Bridge. The
cleaning was done by Nick Veloz of the National Park Service;
caL’s role was to study the current state of the protective varnish
“Incralac,” which had been applied ten years before. The varnish
had altered profoundly. It had shrunk into brittle polygonal frag-
ments, was insoluble in solvents that would easily dissolve freshly
applied lacquer, and showed a high absorption of ultra violet
light, which suggests considerable chemical alteration of the poly-
mer or absorption of pollutants. Since Incralac is widely used on
bronze statuary, CAL is preparing a joint paper to describe the
difficulty in removing the degraded varnish.

In a joint project with Martin Burke, nMauH, CAL made a cool
display case for George Washington’s Commission as Commander
in Chief of the Continental Army. This document was lent to
NMAH by the Library of Congress (Lc) on condition that it would

224 / Smithsonian Year 1982
be kept considerably cooler than our 76° F museum temperature.
Through thermoelectric cooling units clamped to an aluminum tray,
which holds the document under an airtight safety glass lid, this
refrigeration system is basically orthodox. Most of the design
effort went towards insuring that the system would be fail-safe
under any accidental event imaginable. So far it has failed, safely,
twice within half a year, but we are conscious that this document
is intended to last for ever.

Other achievements throughout the year include: evaluation of
a vicious multipronged pigeon scarer for installation on city para-
pets; explaining the appearance of a row of sticky drips on the
walls of the Carmichael auditorium; and giving advice on the con-
servation of eleventh-century Egyptian tombstones on the basis
of analyses of debris from a modern Cairo stonecutter’s yard. On
the subject of fragmental stone, cat is studying gravel from the
paths of a famous French park to find out why their paths are
firm, while the National Mall gravel paths are so incohesive that
a significant portion of the dust found inside the museums is fine
quartz particles.

The scientific staff also worked this year on two hallowed relics
of American history: the Star-Spangled Banner and the Apollo 11
space capsule. The Star-Spangled Banner has been recently veiled
for cleaning by NMAH. Cat’s role in this much-publicized affair
was to report on the condition of the fibers so that a safe clean-
ing method could be developed. Cat found the flag to be some-
what weakened but basically healthy, and coated with a fine,
easily removable dust. Cat identified the dyes on the fibers, which
had been removed for tensile-strength measurements, allowing the
scientists to advise on safe lighting of the flag. The red dye is
cochineal and madder on a tin mordant; the blue is indigo. These
are among the most light-fast of the traditional dyes. Even so,
they fade fast in a bright light.

The Appollo 11 capsule had some rusty liquid drip from its
heat shield onto the Plexiglas enclosure. The trouble turned out
to be corrosion of stainless-steel parts of the shield by salt
absorbed on splashdown. Cat attributed the local, high humidity
necessary for such corrosion to sunlight falling on the outer case
and affecting the microclimate within.

Tim Padfield (supervisor), David Erhardt, Martha Goodway,

Museum Programs / 225
Walter Hopwood, Joan Mishara, and Harold Westley, make up
the scientific staff involved in these various enterprises.

ARCHAEOMETRY

The Archaeometry Section added one new staff member during
fiscal year 1982, Yu-tarng Cheng, a nuclear physicist who had
been working in the Neutron Radiography Section of the National
Bureau of Standards (NBs). Dr. Cheng is now assisting with the
development of the cat’s facility for neutron-induced autoradiog-
raphy of oil paintings, using the nps reactor. A study was begun
on a painting by Thomas Wilmer Dewing, Lady with a Rose, from
the collection of the nmaa. The study will complement the auto-
radiographic study made earlier using the Brookhaven National
Laboratory (BNL) Medical Reactor on the Metropolitan Museum’s
Tobit and the Angel by Dewing.

During fiscal year 1982, the artifacts that were brought back
from the Smithsonian expedition to Kodlunarn Island, Baffin Island,
were received on loan from the Prince of Wales Heritage Center,
Northwest Territories, Canada. An inventory of these artifacts
was prepared in the Department of Anthropology. A sample of
55 mg of charcoal was obtained from a crevice in the surface of
one of the iron blooms recovered on that expedition. That sam-
ple has been submitted to the Chemistry Department at BNL for
carbon-14 dating, using the small counter for which the cat con-
tributed funds to develop. A thirteenth-century date was obtained
earlier at BNL on carbon, which is now in the Naval History Divi-
sion of the Museum of American History, (NMAH) extracted from
a bloom from that area. This bloom had been attributed to the
sixteenth-century English explorer, Martin Frobisher; however, the
carbon-14 date and the attribution do not agree. The Smithsonian
expedition in August 1981 and the subsequent study of the exca-
vated artifacts begun in fiscal year 1982 are intended to resolve the
questions and shed more light on the history of the activities on
Kodlunarn Island.

A 1-mg sample of the charcoal from the Canadian bloom was
also submitted to Dr. Lloyd Currie of the Gas and Particulate
Science Division, Center for Analytical Chemistry, nps, for even-
tual comparison with the sample being dated at Bn. Dr. Currie is

226 / Smithsonian Year 1982
working on the origin of carbonaceous species in the atmosphere,
deduced by radiocarbon. He is using 5-15 mL counters, like those
developed at Brookhaven with cat funding, to determine the
anthropogenic contribution to carbonaceous contaminants in the
environment, but he is not presently doing carbon-14 dating. Dr.
Currie is also beginning to explore the use of accelerator mass
spectrometry to count C-14 atoms directly and is cooperating with
the universities of Rochester and Arizona. Dr. Currie has repeat-
edly offered space for a guest worker from cat to work with him
on carbon-14 dating.

M. James Blackman and Jacqueline S. Olin attended the
Twenty-second International Archaeometry Symposium at the
University of Bradford, Bradford, England, where they both pre-
sented papers. Jacqueline Olin also presented a short talk on the
Smithsonian’s Round Table on Future Directions in Archaeometry
held at the archaeometry meeting at BNL in May 1981. The pro-
ceedings of this round table discussion were published during
fiscal year 1982 by the Smithsonian Institution Press, with Jac-
queline Olin as editor.

Harold Westley has developed the use of direct-current, plasma-
optical emission spectroscopy for quantitative analysis of major,
minor, and trace elemental concentrations in ceramics. A compari-
son with analyses obtained by neutron activation analysis showed
excellent agreement.

Marino Maggetti of the University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switz-
erland, was a visiting scientist in the cat. Dr. Maggetti is with the
Institute for Mineralogy and Petrography at the University of
Fribourg and came to cat to participate in a project on archaeo-
metric study of majolica ceramics. This work will be presented
at the Archaeological Chemistry Symposium of the American
Chemical Society in Kansas City, September 1982.

Two post-doctoral fellows in Materials Analysis were selected
from twelve applicants for that felowship. The two selected are
Albert Jornet, who will receive his degree in geology from the
University of Fribourg, and Christopher Nagle, whose degree is
in anthropology from Brandeis University. Mr. Jornet will begin
his fellowship with a field trip to Spain where he will collect sam-
ples of clays used in the fifteenth- and sixteenth-century produc-

Museum Programs / 227
tion of Spanish majolica. Mr. Nagle will continue the analysis,
begun by Dr. Blackman, of nephrite source samples and artifacts
from sites in Labrador.

Charles Milton, who was formerly with the U.S. Geological
Service and The George Washington University, was appointed as
a research associate in cat. He will begin his appointment in Jan-
uary 1983 and will be engaged in the study of scoriae from metal-
working areas at the site of Tel el Malyan in Iran. Dr. Blackman
(cat) has excavated at that site and has conducted neutron activa-
tion analysis studies of ceramic and obsidian artifacts.

National Museum Act Grant Programs

Through its programs of grants, and in keeping with the original
authorizing legislation of 1966, the National Museum Act (NMa)
continued to provide support for professional training for careers
within the museum profession, for special studies investigating
critical museum and museum-conservation problems, and for tech-
nical assistance to the museum field. As in the past, the 1982
guidelines that describe the grant programs stressed the impor-
tance of the conservation of museum collections and encouraged
the submission of applications for conservation training and
research projects.

In 1982, 139 applications, requesting a total of $2,687,696 in
support, were received. After review by the Advisory Council, 56
grants were awarded with available program funds that totaled
$673,860. Thrity-five of the grants, representing $370,060 of the
total award, dealt directly with conservation training, research,
and studies.

The majority of research and special-study projects supported
in 1982 addressed conservation issues of critical importance to the
care and preservation of the many types of collections held by
museums. Among these were projects involving the development
and testing of useful methods for cleaning tarnishes and other
blemishes from daguerreotypes, ways through which albumen
photographic prints could be preserved, and the development of
consolidants for porous stone and masonry materials. Other stud-

228 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ies dealt with the effectiveness of certain treatments in extending
the life of textiles.

To help meet significant needs of museums generally, NMA pro-
vided support for projects making available technical information
about museum administration, management of collections, educa-
tional programs, exhibition planning, and similar topics. One such
project has enabled the African American Museums Association
to compile and distribute much-needed advisory and instructional
material to its member museums.

Forty-two grants were awarded in 1982 for training museum
personnel. Training activities were varied and ranged from semi-
nars offered to groups of museum-staff persons to advanced
internships for conservation training at the graduate level. Many
areas of specialization were represented in the conservation-train-
ing programs supported by nma: paper, rare books, fine arts, tex-
tiles, leather, and archaeological and ethnographic materials. Per-
sons accomplished in these specializations, as well as conservator
generalists, will help fill a major void in the pool of skilled
resources needed by museums to preserve the diverse and irre-
placeable objects and specimens in their collections for the benefit
of present and future generations.

Throughout the year, the National Museum Act office main-
tained close liaison and exchanged information with agencies and
other organizations that make grants to museums, as well as with
professional museum and conservation associations.

Office of Exhibits Central

Activities in the offices and shops of the Office of Exhibits Central
(oEc) continued at a brisk pace throughout fiscal year 1982, pro-
viding the widest range of exhibition services to clients within
the Institution. Over 300 separate projects were requested, of
which 227 were completed, with the balance scheduled into the
next fiscal year. Long-range scheduling of projects has been the
basis of oEc operations since it was established in 1972 and is the
major factor in o&c’s productivity.

Functional and organizational aspects of the orc were studied

Museum Programs / 229
during fiscal year 1982, and some substantial changes will occur
early in tiscal 1983. Plans have been developed to computerize
much of the accounting and administrative procedure, and it is
hoped to have a terminal on line and programmed by the end of
the calendar year.

As a result of a task-force study by the Office of the Under
Secretary, the Exhibits Motion Picture Unit (Karen Loveland,
director, and John Hiller, assistant director), will be transferred
from the orc to the Office of Telecommunications (otc). The
Motion Picture Unit has been a source of great pride for the OEc;
the work it has produced in conjunction with exhibition pro-
grams throughout the Institution is unmatched in the museum
world. More than forty national and international motion picture
awards, including eight Emmys, have been given to the unit in
recognition of the excellence of its efforts. The transfer of the
unit will make it possible for staff to extend their productivity to
an ever-broader range of Smithsonian-wide film productions.

The work of the film unit, as is true of the entire oEc, was
varied. This year it completed a thirty-second public service
announcement (for TV) for the exhibition inua: spirit world of
the bering sea eskimo at the National Museum of Natural His-
tory (NMNH); two films (five minutes and eighteen minutes) shown
in conjunction with the National Museum of American History
(NMAH) exhibition FDR: The Intimate Presidency; “A Star is
Hatched,” a ten-minute compilation of Hollywood’s view of dino-
saurs for the new Paleobiology Hall in nmnu; four, three-minute,
8 mm film loops on reptiles and amphibians for the Office of
Education at the National Zoological Park (NzpP); a nine-minute
training film for museum personnel on the hearing-impaired, pro-
duced in conjunction with the SI Office of Elementary and Secon-
dary Education; and a film for the nzp, ‘Changes: The Story of
Evolution and Speciation,” animated by Film Polski in Warsaw.

John Hiller again served as cinematographer for filming the
Festival of American Folklife and, with the Folklife Office, he com-
pleted a twenty-eight-minute film, “Miles of Smiles,” which is a
documentary for television about the Brotherhood of Sleeping
Car Porters. He continues to film stone carvers at the National
Cathedral and has shot footage for a film of “Jugtown” pottery.

Projects to be completed in early 1983 include: “American Pic-

230 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ture Palaces,” a twenty-minute film produced with orc for the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, where it will be shown in conjunction
with a major exhibition of the same name; and “‘Kalila wa
Dimna,” a ten-minute animated film to be shown with the Renais-
sance of Islam exhibition. In addition, two one-hour films—the
working titles of which are “The Maine Coast” and “Caribbean
Coral Reef’’—are being produced with and for the Marine Sys-
tems Laboratory. “Coral Reefs: Understanding Their Passage
through Time,” previously produced for the Marine Systems Lab-
oratory, was selected to be shown at the Festival of Mountaineer-
ing and Exploration Films, Trento, Italy, and at the tenth Semana
Internacional de Cine Naval y del Mar, Cartagena, Spain. ‘“The
Big Cats and How They Came to Be,” originally produced for the
NzP, was shown in the Ottawa International Animation and Film
Festival.

William Jacobs, a designer at orc for two years, joined the
NMAH. His final projects for O—C were an NMAH exhibition on the
women’s movement, Perfect in Her Place, which has been rede-
signed for travel with the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service (sites), and “Quicksilver Galleons,” also a siITEs
exhibition, designed and produced with the National Geographic
Society. These are two of the more than twenty exhibitions
designed, edited, and produced by otc for sites. The major sITESs
exhibition this year—and oec’s largest project of the year—is
Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age, which will open at
The University Museum, University of Pennsylvania, on Novem-
ber 10, 1982. Jim Mahoney, chief of orc, designed the exhibition,
and Karen Fort, orc editor, wrote, edited, and assisted in design
of this major presentation.

Otc designed and installed the exhibition The Paintings of
Frederic Clay Bartlett and Evelyn Fortune Bartlett in the Lounge
of the Castle Building this year.

Although some of okc’s projects are small in size, or fairly
quickly performed, all are special to the exhibition media. Pro-
duction of crates for traveling exhibitions seems routine, but all
must be custom made with a variety of interior treatments to
accommodate and protect their valuable contents. The sites exhi-
bition American Impression, an extremely valuable collection of
paintings shown only in Europe, required extreme care in crate

Museum Programs / 231
fabrication. The labels for this exhibition were produced in sev-
eral languages, and the Ban Chiang exhibition is in both English
and Thai—new challenges for our editorial staff.

The editors continue to prepare copy and layouts for the
Smithsonian Associates Travel Program announcements, and the
Models, Plastics and Restoration Unit is producing, for the Feny-
kovi elephant in the Rotunda of NMNH, a new pair of tusks (in
fiberglas) that are the exact duplicates of the originals. The unit
has also produced exceptionally accurate and realistic reproduc-
tions of grave sites for the Ban Chiang exhibition. The Graphic
Production Unit continues to work with all manner of museum
presentations, silk-screening labels and preparing original works
for exhibition and travel. Preparing natural history specimens by
freeze-drying is now routine, and Rollie Hower continues to con-
sult with other museums and related agencies in the use of this
process.

Orc staff continues to teach in the Office of Museum Program
(omr) workshops and to participate in professional seminars and
conferences wherever and whenever possible. Training and intern
programs are now fairly routine, with three to five trainees work-
ing with orc professionals at any time during the year. Our sched-
ule appears equally full and exciting for next year, and we look
forward to the challenges and satisfactions of creating museum
exhibitions.

Office of Horticulture

During fiscal year 1982, the Office of Horticulture expanded into
many new areas of educational, research, and exhibition activities,
including organizing a student internship program, recruiting
additional volunteers for all divisions, organizing major new col-
lections of orchids and bromeliads, planting new gardens, plan-
ning the relocation of storage of all plantings and garden furnish-
ings from the Victorian Garden, continuing research in historic
horticulture, developing plans for installing the first international
horticultural exhibitions (to be held in Munich in 1983); acquiring
major new collections of rare seed and nursery catalogues, and per-

232 / Smithsonian Year 1982
forming numerous services for all of the Smithsonian bureaus.
Once again, without the dedicated performance of hard-working
volunteers, interns, and work-study students, the office would not
have accomplished its mission, especially in light of budget
reductions.

During the year, the office performed services for more than
300 special events for the various Smithsonian bureaus. For these
events, the office provided potted palms, floral arrangements,
and—in most cases—an ever-increasing number of magnificent
orchids and bromeliads from our permanent collections. These
events involved the participation of all divisions of the Office of
Horticulture.

The Education Division, under the direction of Ms. Lauranne C.
Nash, staged the fifth annual Trees of Christmas exhibition at the
National Museum of American History (NMAH), from December
18, 1981, to January 4, 1982. There were twelve trees displayed:
“Soft Sculpture Angels,” by the Textile Volunteers, Witte Mu-
seum, San Antonio, Texas; the tree of ““Armenia,” by the Arme-
nian-American Society of Washington, D.C.; the “Swedish Dowel
Tree,” by Colleen Wallace; ‘Patchwork and Quilting,” from the
Eastern Shore Piecemakers Quilt Club (Easton, Maryland) Chap-
ter of the National Quilters Association; “Kansas Golden Wheat
Dollies,” by the wheat weavers of Kansas; “Poland” by the
Polish-American Arts Association of Washington, D.C., and Per-
spectives, Inc.; “Germany,” by the Association of German-Ameri-
can Societies of Greater Washington, D.C.; “Ukraine,” by the
Ukrainian National Women’s League of American, Inc., Chapter
78, Washington, D.C., and Slava Gerulak; “Origami Around the
World,” by Michael Shall, Alice Gray, and The Friends of the
Origami Center of America; “American Celebration,” by Dixie
Rettig; “Gold Thread Embroidery,” by Sara Hamilton; and
“Grandma’s Christmas,” by Jeannette Whitmer. All ornaments—
most of which were handmade—were contributed to the office and
have been stored for future exhibitions. Mrs. Dixie Rettig, a
dedicated volunteer, assisted Ms. Nash in the coordination of the
exhibition.

During the year, the Education Division coordinated the com-
puterization of the office’s permanent plant collections. A total
of 20,000 records from 1972 to 1982 were entered into the

Museum Programs / 233
permanent data files by Mrs. Libby Ellis Roberts, following the
program of the American Horticultural Society Plant Science Data
Center, with special provisions made by the office to accommodate
the specialized orchid collection. The program was jointly devel-
oped by Ms. Lauranne C. Nash, Director James R. Buckler, and
Mr. Paul E. Desautels of the Office of Horticulture, in conjunc-
tion with Mr. Frank Bennett and Mr. George Meyer of the Office
of Information Resource Management. Brass labels are being pre-
pared for installation on all permanent collections of trees, shrubs,
vines, ground-cover plants, and greenhouse collections. It is antici-
pated that the plant records will be up to date by late spring 1983.

In the fall of 1981, the Education Division coordinated the relo-
cation of the office’s library to the North Balcony of the Arts and
Industries Building, a move that brings together all the books
needed to complement the research in historic horticulture being
undertaken by Mr. Buckler and provides an organized reference
facility for all staff members. Volunteers and interns—including
Mrs. Marguerite MacMahon, Mrs. Libby Ellis Roberts, Mr. Robert
Gardner, and Ms. Kris Ramstad—assisted in the inventory and
organization of the new library area, and for the first time the
forty regular periodicals were organized for research and public
inquiries. Over seventy volumes of antique and contemporary
horticultural books and approximately 1,000 antique catalogues—
not including the magnificent Burpee Collection, described later—
were added to the Office of Horticulture Collection.

In January 1982, Mr. Buckler recruited a volunteer, Mrs. Laura
Triest, to assist the Education Division in developing an intern-
ship program. This task included preparing brochures and appli-
cation forms for the program, compiling a mailing list of agri-
cultural colleges and related horticultural organizations to be con-
tacted, and canvassing most of these organizations to determine
student interest in spending a summer working with the Office
of Horticulture.

This new and direct approach brought about great enthusiasm
from students throughout the United States. Four interns were
recruited, on a volunteer basis, for a six- to ten-week program,
in which they received practical experience in the educational,
research, and exhibition areas, in greenhouse-nursery production,
and in the office’s grounds management and maintenance opera-

234 / Smithsonian Year 1982
tions. The interns included Ms. Connie Maruca-Berger and Mrs.
Libby Ellis Roberts, Northern Virginia Community College; Ms.
Kris Ramstad, Oregon State University; Mr. Robert Gardner,
James W. Robinson Secondary School; and Mrs. Marilyn Nordby,
University of Virginia.

The exhibition A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza and the
new orchid and tropical-plant exhibition in the National Museum
of Natural History (NMNH) were assigned to the Education Divi-
sion for coordination in 1982. Mr. Buckler was able to recruit a
volunteer, Mr. Bruce Buntin, in spring of 1982, to coordinate the
maintenance of the exhibition. This new approach allowed the
office to continue the installation and rotation of fresh flowers
and potted plants, as well as collection items in the exhibition.
Without this volunteer effort, the exhibition would have been
closed because of manpower restraints. Mr. Buntin was assisted
by Mrs. Dorothy D. High, Mrs. Louise Grotlisch, Ms. Charlene
Hescock, and Ms. Rosalie Goodrich. Their untiring efforts im-
mensely improved the quality of the exhibition.

The Interior Plant Program provided support to all museums
by the management of the 2,000 plants located in various exhibi-
tion areas. The Freer Gallery of Art, the Renwick Gallery, the
NMAH, and the National Museum of American Art (NMaAa) had
plant renovations done for their existing exhibit areas. Plant
installation and management were also coordinated for museum
exhibitions—including Hopi Kochina and the Dinosaur Hall at
the nMNH; New Friends at the NMAA; von Steuben and George
Washington at the nMAH; and Yorktown at the Smithsonian Insti-
tution building—as well as for exhibition changes at the National
Museum of African Art and the Anacostia Neighborhood Mu-
seum. Most of the plants for these exhibitions were grown at the
office’s Greenhouse-Nursery Division. The new Smithsonian Insti-
tution Food Services Program was supported by the office’s coordi-
nating plant purchases and installations for them in their new
cafeterias.

The Greenhouse-Nursery Division, under the direction of Mr.
August A. Dietz IV, continued to expand its collections and to
modify its facilities to accommodate the expanding Orchid and
Bromeliad Collections. During 1982, the division produced over
65,000 annual plants, over 10,000 cut flowers, and approximately

Museum Programs / 235
13,500 seasonal plants, such as poinsettias, chrysanthemums,
coleus, primroses, and forced spring bulbs. It propagated and
maintained approximately 2,500 tropical plants tor exhibitions
and special events, 37,000 orchids, and over 1,000 bromeliads.
Improvements such as vertical racking, installation of pad and fan
cooling systems, new circulation fans, overhead misting systems,
and installation of gravel and mulching beds in lath house and
around greenhouses permitted the office to increase productivity
as well as improve the over-all quality of its seasonal and peren-
nial plant collections. Over twenty-six tours of the greenhouse-
nursery facility were provided during 1982, fulfilling an increas-
ing demand by garden clubs and orchid and other specialized
plant societies requesting these tours. It is anticipated that docent
volunteers will need to be recruited if the demands for tours con-
tinue in fiscal year 1983.

Mr. Paul E. Desautels continued as curator of the Office of
Horticulture Orchidaceae Collection. Through his untiring efforts
and those of the Orchid Subcommittee—Mrs. Mary Ripley, Dr.
Edward Ayensu, Mr. Buckler, and newly appointed member, Mr.
Paul N. Perrot—the collection increased substantially in number
as well as quality.

In fiscal year 1982, the Orchid Collection grew from approxi-
mately 27,000 to over 37,000 plants of rare and endangered spe-
cies, awarded and botanical hybrids, specialized display collec-
tions, and new hybrids being developed through the breeding and
meristem cultures of Office of Horticulture plants. In November
1981, an Orchid and Bromeliad Collection expedition to Colombia,
South America, was sponsored by the office. Through the dedica-
tion and assistance of Mr. Jaime and Mrs. Lehia Posada, and a
local Colombian orchid specialist, a total of 820 rare orchids were
added to the office’s collection.

Throughout the year, many rare and unusual orchids were
added to the collection by purchase, exchange, or donation; how-
ever, the addition of two major gifts in August and September
of 1982 provided the office with some of the finest orchids avail-
able in the United States. Dr. Henning Borchers of Mountainside,
New Jersey, donated fifty-three rare orchid species and hybrids
as well as miscellaneous orchid supplies. Mr. Joseph Koss II and
Mr. Joseph Koss III donated the entire Black River Orchid Col-

236 / Smithsonian Year 1982
lection from South Haven, Michigan. This remarkable collection,
negotiated by Mr. Desautels and Mr. Buckler, added over 15,000
rare and endangered species, awarded hybrids (contemporary and
historic), and an extremely fine stud (breeding) collection to the
Office of Horticulture. All of these orchids were packed through
the efforts of Mr. Desautels, Mr. Ted Villapando (the Office of
Horticulture orchid grower), and many fine volunteers from the
South Haven area. Mr. Jules Armellini, of Armellini Trucking,
Stuart, Florida, donated the services of a tractor-trailer and two
drivers to transport the rare collection to the office’s greenhouses,
and all of the plants arrived in mid-September in excellent con-
dition. They are now being accessioned into the permanent col-
lection. In addition, Black River Orchids donated a substantial
quantity of orchid supplies, clay pottery, and resource material
to support the Orchid Collection.

The Bromeliad Collection continued to expand in 1982 with a
total of over 1,000 mature plants now being maintained by the
Greenhouse-Nursery Division. These plants are used throughout
the museums as companion plants for the Orchid Collection. The
enormous growth of offsets from these plants allowed the office
to provide surplus plants to the National Zoological Park, the
United States Botanic Gardens, the Baltimore Aquarium, and the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum and provided exchange material to in-
crease the collection.

Dr. Robert Read resigned as curator of the Bromeliad Collec-
tion in 1982 due to workload and scheduling difficulties.

In March 1982, the office participated in Florafest III, an educa-
tional flower show presented by the United States Botanic Gardens,
the Professional Grounds Management Society, the Smithsonian
Institution, and other horticultural organizations in the Washing-
ton area. Following the theme of “Fantasyland,” Mr. John W.
Monday, assistant director of the office, designed a gigantic
shoe—24 feet tall by 20 feet long by 8 feet wide—to emulate the
Mother Goose nursery rhyme, “The Old Lady in the Shoe.”

The shoe, which was fabricated by Mr. Warren Abbott and Mr.
Fred Burrow—gardener and maintenance mechanic, respectively—
was made of wood, papier-maché, and wire. This colorful creation
was set off with a wide variety of tropical foliage plants, primroses,
cymbidium orchids, and spring flowering perennials grown by the

Museum Programs / 237
office. Installation of the exhibition was coordinated by Mr. Mon-
day in conjunction with the Greenhouse-Nursery Division and the
Grounds Management Division. The exhibition was enjoyed by
over 30,000 visitors to the United States Botanic Gardens Con-
servatory.

Throughout 1982, the office continued to coordinate the design
and installation of the East Garden (formerly the Garden for the
Handicapped) between the Arts and Industries Building and the
west wall of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The
raised beds were planted with a broad array of colorful, textural,
fragrant perennials, annuals, herbs, shrubs, and trees that were
selected to entice the senses. A magnificent three-tiered, cast-iron
Victorian fountain (ca. 1875) from the office’s collection was in-
stalled by the Office of Plant Services. In addition, a cast-iron
Victorian “Griffin” urn and two J. L. Mott cast-iron Victorian urns
(ca. 1880) were installed in the garden and planted with an ex-
uberance of colorful flowers and vines. A grand opening of the
garden is scheduled for spring of 1983 to highlight the contribu-
tion that the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
made toward the garden.

The Grounds Management Division, under the direction of Mr.
Kenneth Hawkins, installed over 75,000 annuals, 80,000 spring
bulbs, 25,000 pansies, and more than 400 large specimen tropical
standards and topiaries on Smithsonian Institution grounds. Special
projects included installation of the Florafest III flower show and
the Trees of Christmas exhibition; resodding major areas of the
NMNH and the nmaA; installation of an irrigation system in the
perennial border of the nmnu; and coordinating the installation of
the new East Garden; as well as the continued renovation and
management of all exterior plantings of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion museums in the Washington, D.C. area.

The Office of Horticulture has designed and will coordinate the
installation of a nineteenth-century style garden for the IV. Inter-
nationale Gartenbau-Ausstellung to be held in Munich, Federal
Republic of Germany, from April 28-October 9, 1983. Designed
by Mr. Buckler and Mrs. Kathryn Meehan, the garden, entitled the
“Smithsonian Institution—American Garden,” is sponsored by the
Smithsonian Institution, but will be privately funded.

The office is continuing to strengthen its historic horticulture

238 / Smithsonian Year 1982
research resources. Through the efforts of volunteers Marguerite
MacMahon, Sally Tomlinson, and Nell Vetter, the assembling,
labeling and registration of growing collections of nineteenth-
century stereopticon cards, seed catalogues, design books, garden
furnishings catalogues, and slides duplicated from illustrations
from nineteenth-century publications is vastly increasing the of-
fice’s ability to serve other Smithsonian Institution bureaus and
the public. A significant increase in the number of public inquiries
from other museums and individual researchers—as a result of
lectures, publications, exhibitions, and tours, along with a generally
growing interest in nineteenth-century horticulture—indicates that
the office has become an important source for information in this
field. In addition, Mr. Buckler and Mrs. Meehan continued collect-
ing historic information and data for their manuscript, The Horti-
cultural Extravaganza of the Victorian Era, to be published by the
Smithsonian Institution Press.

The year was particularly active for Mr. Buckler, who presented
lectures on historic and practical horticulture at various museums
and garden clubs throughout the United States; served on the
thesis committee for Ms. Nancy Bossler of the Longwood Program,
University of Delaware; acted as judge at the National Cathedral
Flower Mart; and served on the Board of Advisors for the National
Colonial Farm in Accokeek, Maryland; gave special tours for the
Resident Associates Program to Longwood Gardens, Chanticleer,
Tyler Arboretum, and the Office of Horticulture greenhouses
located at the United States Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Home; traveled
to England and the Netherlands to study major horticulture shows
and gardens; and gave a special tour of the Victorian Garden and
A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza for the members of the
Council of Botanical and Horticultural Libraries.

On June 16, Mr. Buckler and Dr. Joan Challinor traveled to
West Grove, Pennsylvania, to meet with Mr. Richard Hutton,
president of the Conrad-Pyle Star Roses Co., to discuss naming a
rose in honor of the Bicentennial celebration to commemorate the
1783 signing of the Treaty of Paris. A miniature rose was selected,
and the name “American Independence” was chosen. The rose was
accepted by the American Rose Society in August 1982. This new
rose will be marketed by the Treaty of Paris Bicentennial Com-
mittee through the Smithsonian magazine, the Resident and Na-

Museum Programs / 239
tional Associates, and the Smithsonian Institution Museum Shops.

In July, Mr. Buckler and Mrs. Meehan visited the University of
Rochester to study the renowned Ellwanger—Barry Collection of
catalogues, memorabilia, and records of the Mt. Hope Nurseries.
A number of superb photographs, illustrations, and records—se-
lected by Mr. Buckler for duplication—will be used in future edu-
cational research and exhibitions.

Also in July, Mr. Buckler and Mrs. Meehan visited Fordhook
Farms—the original W. Atlee Burpee home and seed production
site—to negotiate the donation of approximately 6,000 seed, nur-
sery, and other horticultural trade catalogues from 1876 to 1940;
the Burpee family records; rare horticultural books, photographs;
and memorabilia from one of the greatest horticultural families in
America. Following a meeting with Mrs. Linda Harris—represent-
ing W. Atlee Burpee Co.—and Mrs. David Burpee, the gift was
accepted for the Office of Horticulture. This remarkable collection,
packed and shipped to the Smithsonian Institution during the week
of September 20, represents one of the greatest resources in horti-
cultural history in America. The entire Burpee Collection will be
sorted and catalogued by the office, together with the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries, and made available for scholarly research.

Throughout 1982, Mr. Buckler and his staff coordinated plans
to remove the Victorian Garden as part of the Quadrangle Project.
The majority of the trees were to be relocated at the new Museum
Support Center in Silver Hill, with the remaining plantings sched-
uled to be relocated to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Gardens, the nmaa, the United States Soldiers’ and Airmen’s
Home, and the new East Garden. A total of 1,092 major trees and
shrubs and several thousand perennials were removed to Smith-
sonian Institution museums in fall of 1982.

Office of International Activities

The objects of cultural history and the specimens of natural history
preserved in Smithsonian museums, as well as the professional
people who study and exhibit them, are employed in a global
research and education process. The Office of International Activi-

240 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ties (o1A) contributes to this process by fostering international
dimensions of Smithsonian programs. It does so by advising pro-
gram managers and by maintaining liaison with the United States
and foreign governments, with private institutions around the
world, and with international organizations.

In fiscal year 1982, o1a enhanced its capabilities to serve Smith-
sonian staff when Richard T. Conroy, deputy director, completed
a Handbook for International Activities, summarizing knowledge
accumulated through years of helping international projects suc-
ceed. In addition, a group of volunteer escorts for foreign visitors
to the Institution was organized. The group was formed from a
list of Washington area residents with substantial experience
abroad, compiled by the Smithsonian Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center. O1a’s Brian J. LeMay coordinated
the work of the escorts and the schedules of foreign dignitaries,
insuring appropriate contacts with Smithsonian staff as well as
follow-up correspondence. The volunteers contributed substantially
to successful arrangements for 101 foreign dignitaries whose visits
were managed by o1a during fiscal year 1982.

Noteworthy and illustrative of other Office activities in 1982
were: consultations with the Immigration and Naturalization Ser-
vice on new legislation affecting visas for foreign scholars invited
to conduct research in the United States; coordination of contribu-
tions from eight different Smithsonian offices to the celebration
One Hundred Years of United States—Korean Diplomatic Relations;
communication with nations of Asia and the Middle East, concern-
ing their support for construction of the Quadrangle, the center
for non-Western cultures to be built on the Mall to serve as a
showcase in the nation’s capital for cultures rarely seen and poorly
understood by many Americans; monitoring of conditions in East-
ern Europe that might affect the showing of the exhibition Ameri-
can Impressionism, which was to tour the German Democratic Re-
public, Bulgaria, and Romania under the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service in cooperation with the United States
Information Agency (formerly the International Communication
Agency).

Research initiatives with the People’s Republic of China, coor-
dinated by o1a, involved realization of four projects agreed upon
with the Chinese Academy of Sciences during the previous year.

Museum Programs / 241
The initial exchange of paleobiologists was completed in August
1982 when Jin Yugan of the Nanjing Institute of Geology and
Paleontology departed after eight months in the Smithsonian's
Department of Paleobiology. He had worked both in collaboration
with Dr. Richard Grant on Permian brachiopods collected when
they traveled together in China in the fall of 1981, and under a
Smithsonian fellowship covering other research interests of the
Chinese scholar.

In October 1981, Dr. Robert Higgins of the Department of
Invertebrate Zoology collected meiofauna specimens at Qingdao
and Yantai and lectured at the Qingdao Institute of Oceanology,
his host institution. In addition, in July 1982, the ornithologist
Zheng Baolai from the Kunming Institute of Zoology arrived at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama to begin
two years of research with Dr. Martin Moynihan and others there.

Finally, three Americans, led by Dr. Dennis Stanford of the
Department of Anthropology, surveyed potential Pleistocene ar-
chaeological excavation sites in northeastern China and toured other
well-known sites during the period of July through September
1982. This was the second phase of a joint program that brought
three Chinese scholars from the collaborating Institute of Verte-
brate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology to work on Dr. Stan-
ford’s paleoindian excavation in Colorado the previous summer.
Altogether, ora provided advice and assistance on twenty-nine
Chinese exchange matters during the year.

The o1a supported a total of 224 similar Smithsonian collabora-
tive projects with other nations during fiscal year 1982. In addition,
63 exchange visitors and 54 students—a total of 117 profession-
als—were processed by the office for participation in Smithsonian
programs. Twenty-three visa problems were solved for foreign
scholars at the Institution, and, finally, ora responded to 22 re-
guests for assistance from like-minded institutions in the United
States and abroad during the year.

242 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Chung Chai-Kak, president of the Academy of Korean Studies, addresses
Secretary Ripley’s reception in the Freer courtyard after the conference “A
Century of United States-Korean Relations,” sponsored by the Korean Acad-
emy and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Below. The
omp’s Native American Museums Program utilized on-site locations from
several reservations for the production of Tribal Archives, a slide-tape pro-
gram. Here we see the archives of the Museum of the Cherokee Indian, in
North Carolina.

Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs (omp) of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion provides training, services, information, and assistance for the
professional enhancement of museum personnel and institutions
throughout the United States and abroad. Its objectives are ful-
filled through a program of interrelated activities and services and
through research into methods to improve the effectiveness and
impact of museum operations and practices.

The availability of diverse and extensive resources at the Smith-
sonian enables the omr to offer useful museum training workshops,
both in Washington, D.C., and on-site, and to arrange for intern-
ships, short-term professional visits, and foreign professional train-
ing and group projects. The office produces and distributes audio-
visual presentations on conservation theory, preventive care and
practice, and on educational programming, and conducts studies
to evaluate museum exhibitions and educational programs. On an
individual basis, experienced members of the staff offer counseling
and consulting services and arrange conferences on museum
careers, training, and museum practices. The staff also provides
training, technical assistance, and consultation services for Native
American museums. Associated with the omp is a branch of the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries known as the Museum Refer-
ence Center, which consists of a special and unique collection of
books, periodicals, research papers, subject-matter files, and docu-
ments on museums and their operations. Resources at the center
are available to museum professionals and others interested in
doing research on museums.

The grouping of these functions into one program enables the
Institution to respond effectively and directly to the multitude of
requests received from museums throughout the United States and
abroad for assistance and guidance in enhancing their own opera-
tional methods, practices, and techniques. The arrangement has
the added benefit of keeping the staff of the Institution informed
and aware of museological developments elsewhere.

The omp is coordinating the planning efforts of Smithsonian con-
servators and local universities for a graduate conservation train-
ing program to be centered at the Museum Support Center, now
nearing completion in Suitland, Maryland.

244 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The Kellogg Foundation, recognizing the scope and breadth of
the omp’s national and international activities, this year awarded
a generous three-year grant to the Office of Museum Programs
and the Resident Associates Program “to expand the educational
influence of museums” everywhere. With the guidance of a
national advisory committee, the office will implement the program
through colloquia, workshops, residencies, and videotapes for
museum professional leadership throughout the United States. By
promoting interaction among museums colleagues and representa-
tives of community resources—such as universities, corporations,
civic organizations, and school systems—the program will encour-
age a greater recognition and utilization of the educational poten-
tial of museums.

WORKSHOPS

The omp sponsors an annual schedule of three- to five-day work-
shops to provide training opportunities for museum professionals
from the United States and abroad. The workshops, which are
held at the Smithsonian Institution and elsewhere, focus on current
theories and practices in the field, and make both human and
material resources available to the larger museum community.
National surveys are undertaken to assure that workshops are
responsive to the needs of the profession. The most recent survey
was compiled in 1982.

The Smithsonian Workshop Series draws faculty members from
the Institution’s staff, and outside experts join the program to offer
specialized information or to speak from a particular perspective.
Subject matter covers a broad range of topics including exhibition
design and production, registration methods, membership, develop-
ment, collections management and maintenance, grant solicitation
and administration, educational programming, evaluation, museum-
shop management, volunteers and docent training, security, storage,
archives administration, and museum management.

During 1982, more than 300 museum professionals enrolled in
the workshop sessions. Participants represented all types of
museums, and came from a broad geographic distribution that
included 42 states in the continental United States and the District
of Columbia. In addition, there were museum professionals from
Canada, Kuwait, Panama, India, Great Britain, Mexico and
Australia.

Museum Programs / 245
Besides these programs, regional workshops were conducted in
cooperation with the Southern Arts Federation, the Virginia Asso-
ciation of Museums, and The George Washington University’s
Division of Continuing Education. With this cosponsorship, and
at no cost to the Institution, programs were presented by Smith-
sonian faculties to professionals in the field.

INTERNSHIP PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Office of Museum Programs’ Internship Program
offers specialized training in museum practices to undergraduate
and graduate students and to professionals employed in the field.
Individuals from the United States and foreign countries are eli-
gible to participate. During 1982, the program, coordinated by
Mary Lynn Perry, placed sixty-six individuals in internship posi-
tions throughout the Institution. Seventeen of these persons were
from foreign countries. The internships sometimes carry academic
credit, but no stipends are provided by the Institution. The aver-
age length of an internship is from four to six months, with
shorter or longer programs available.

As with the workshops, the focus of the internships is on
museum practices; intern assignments may involve training in
administration, education, collections management, conservation,
registration, exhibit design and production, and curatorial depart-
ments. Long-term interns, especially those from foreign countries,
often elect to travel as part of their program. In such cases, the
OMP prepares itineraries and contacts staff of appropriate museums
throughout the United States and, in some cases, arrangements
with foreign museums also may be made. Interns participate in
a wide variety of programs in addition to their assignments. The
OMP coordinates meetings, lectures and special presentations by
foreign interns to supplement the interns’ museum experiences. In
1982, the omp organized a nine-week Museum Careers Seminar
Series, which exposed Smithsonian interns to a variety of career
choices in the museum field.

VISITING PROFESSIONALS PROGRAM

A specialized service is offered to museum professionals interested
in shorter periods of training and study. Through the Visiting
Professionals Program, museum professionals gain access to col-
lections and Smithsonian staff for concentrated discussion and con-

246 / Smithsonian Year 1982
sultation. The program is designed to serve individuals who are
available for training periods of up to one month and it consists
of a combination of meetings, workshop activities, demonstrations,
research opportunities, and visits to museums selected to meet
special training needs. During 1982, eighty individuals, represent-
ing museums in the United States and abroad, took part in the
program.

Cosponsorship of the annual Education in Museums Project
continued with the United States Information Agency (formerly
the International Communications Agency). Twelve museum pro-
fessionals from foreign countries participated in a four-day sem-
inar in Washington, D.C., as well as in a thirty-day program in
museums in five U.S. cities, all arranged by omp.

CONSERVATION INFORMATION PROGRAM

The Conservation Information Program (cir) produces and dis-
tributes a series of educational, audiovisual information packages
as a service to museums and other cultural institutions. In 1982,
the program offered sixteen slide presentations and ninety-nine
videotaped presentations, most of which are accompanied by
technical booklets.

These audiovisual presentations are borrowed periodically by
organized museum training programs or by individuals concerned
with museum practices. The content of the presentations helps to
sharpen observational skills and increases awareness of current
practices in preventive care of museum collections, and to encour-
age museum staff participation in protecting cultural property from
both natural and man-made hazards. Some of the programs are
planned to enhance the skills of museum educators and to make
museum staffs more aware of visitors’ needs.

Since 1974, when the program began, 4,742 presentations have
been sent on short-term loan. In 1982, 292 slide shows and 286
videotapes were requested by, and lent to, museums, other institu-
tions, and individuals.

Because the loan program is limited to the United States and
Canada, a sales program was initiated in 1976 in response to
requests for these presentations from museums in foreign coun-
tries. In 1982, 47 slide shows and 167 videotapes were sold to
museums in France, Italy, Venezuela, and Peru. In addition, in

Museum Programs / 247
1982, 519 technical booklets were disseminated to institutions and
individuals on request. Copies of the technical booklets were also
sent to libraries requesting them.

This year the crip received an award for its 1981 videotape pro-
duction entitled “Museum Careers.” The award, given by the
Information Film Producers of America, Inc., cited cre for achieve-
ment in the training and education category of its Audiovisual
Department of the Year Competition.

In the last four years, the omp Video Production Unit has
expanded beyond serving only the cir; it also provides video
services to many other units and bureaus of the Smithsonian. Dur-
ing fiscal year 1982, omp responded to 228 requests for dubbings,
documentation, training, and viewings. A list of new crip audio-
visual offerings may be found in Appendix 6.

NATIVE AMERICAN MUSEUMS PROGRAM

The Native American Museums Program (NAMpP) provides specially
designed educational and training opportunities to the personnel
of Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut urban and tribal museums and cul-
tural centers for the advancement of museum practices; it also
serves as a focus for regional and national concerns and informa-
tion related to Native American cultural-heritage preservation. In
previous years, the program conducted a series of on-site work-
shops and internships, and provided on-site technical assistance,
which required staff and participant travel expenditures. In 1982,
because of reduced funding to both the tribal organizations and
the Nap, travel to tribal centers was curtailed, and program efforts
were concentrated on developing new ways of serving these
museums and groups. Educational materials and lines of com-
munications were developed to provide sources of information and
data to those participants who were at a distance from Washing-
ton as well to as those who were able to come to the Smithsonian.

The namp produced the slide-tape presentation, Tribal Archives.
The program, which premiered at the Tribal Archives Conference
in Denver, was also shown at the American Indian Librarians
Association meeting in Philadelphia, and to the board of directors
of the Americans for Indian Opportunity.

A Native American Museums Program newsletter was initiated
this year to maintain close liaison and exchange information with

248 / Smithsonian Year 1982
tribal cultural groups and other organizations who work closely
with Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut museum collections and personnel.
It was developed through an extensive network of Native Ameri-
can contacts and will be published quarterly.

A new bibliography, Native American Museums and Related
Issues, was researched and compiled this year. It includes such
topics as ethics, sacred objects, exhibition policy, history of the
Native American movement, and the role and function of tribal
museums and centers.

The NAmp responded to more than fifty requests for assistance
and information from Native Americans and other museum pro-
fessionals and researchers. Services included supplying copies of
specially selected materials, setting up appointments with experts,
suggesting appropriate places for observation of museum opera-
tions, arranging for research opportunities, and providing biblio-
graphic citations.

MUSEUM REFERENCE CENTER

The year has been a productive one for the Museum Reference
Center (mrc), a branch of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
system. Activities centered around providing information and
bibliographic service to museum professionals, students research-
ing specific aspects of museology, and the public in need of
museum administrative guidance. Administrators, curators, trust-
ees, friends of museums, educators, and students of this burgeon-
ing field were given assistance with their problems and studies.

In 1982, the mrc answered over 2,500 inquiries, and the staff
has met and instructed over 500 visitors in the use of the center.
Under the guidance of Rhoda Ratner, the omp’s publication,
Museum Studies Programs in the United States and Abroad, was
published in its third edition. The publication meets the growing
demand for information about museum curricula in museums and
academic institutions in this country and abroad.

To meet the need for reference sources in museology, two
bibliographies have been compiled to add to the extensive biblio-
graphic lists of over forty subjects: De-Accessioning: Disposal of
Museum Objects and Open-Air Museums: Outdoor Museums and
Restored Villages. Other bibliographies on computers in museums,
ethics, museum training, and an extensive resource on transporta-

Museum Programs / 249
tion museums of all types have been compiled in preparation for
publication.

The mrc’s librarian, who serves as consultant to other museum
libraries, has addressed the omp Workshop Series, increasing an
awareness in the museum community of the museum informa-
tion resources available to them. Many of the participants have
studied the activities, programs, and practices of museums in the
center’s rich clearinghouse of museum data. Through their inquiries
and those of others unable to visit the center, the staff has been
able to further identify current aspects of the field to enrich the
contents of the subject and organization files.

The mrc continues to receive visits from foreign professionals.
During the last year, these have included groups and individuals
from the Philippines, Israel, Syria, El Salvador, Canada, Australia,
India, Peru, Kuwait, and Honduras.

The librarian met with a representative of the Paris-based
International Council of Museums Documentation Center, con-
cerning a critique of the key-word descriptors in museology and to
discuss mutual problems of concern in terminology.

Local university professors and students in museum studies pro-
grams utilized the mrc on a regular basis. Briefings were provided,
individually and in groups, to new students in these programs at
The George Washington University, Mary Washington College,
College of William and Mary, and the University of Maryland.

Materials continue to be added to the collections, and gifts of
museum exhibition catalogues and guidebooks were given to the
center as a result of visits by international interns and profes-
sionals.

In March 1982, Catherine D. Scott became the new chief of the
mrc, replacing Rhoda Ratner.

MUSEUM EVALUATION STUDIES

During 1982, museum evaluation studies, conducted by Dr. Robert
Wolf of the University of Indiana, dealt with several important
developmental projects: a coral-reef study for the National
Museum of Natural History (NMNH) was completed, and the final
report was prepared; an Anacostia Neighborhood Museum study
on the development of labels for hearing-impaired children was
completed; a comparative study of the fossil fuel and Alvin

250 / Smithsonian Year 1982
exhibits at the NMNH were disseminated; and—from January 1981
to June 1982—a training program was presented at the National
Museum of American Art to instruct docents and educational staff
in evaluation techniques.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Career counseling for people who are interested in the museum
field is a subsidiary activity of the omr; more than one hundred
counseling sessions were held last year. The office also organizes
national and international conferences, and staff members serve
as consultants to university and other museum studies programs,
to offices and departments of the Smithsonian Institution—such as
the Office of International Activities and the Office of Symposia
and Seminars—to the SIJ-ALI-ABA Law Conference, and to Pro-
grams for the Disabled. During 1982, over one hundred consulta-
tions on museum practices and organization were provided to
persons from foreign countries and the United States.

Staff members served as speakers at regional and _ national
museum conferences and were actively engaged in international
museum activities. They attended professional meetings of the
American Association of State and Local History, the Midwest
Museums Conference, 1com Conservation Committee, Northeast
Museums Conference, Southeastern Museums Conference, Ameri-
can Association of Museums (AaAm), International Institute for
Conservation, New England Museums Association, and IcoM
Advisory Committee.

Program Manager Jane Glaser is secretary and board member
of the 1com Committee on Training and is program chairperson
for the committee’s 1982 meeting. She is on the aam Council and
serves as chairperson of the Smithsonian Institution’s committee
for planning the Conservation Training Program at the Museum
Support Center. She also serves as chairperson of the Audio-Visual
Advisory Committee and is the coordinator of metric conversion
at the Smithsonian, where a metric-awareness campaign was
launched, with distribution of materials and a “pilot” metric train-
ing workshop. Omp is also represented on the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Internship and Conservation Councils.

In 1982, Mrs. Glaser made presentations to: the District of
Columbia Arts; university presidents from India; an ICOM dele-

Museum Programs / 251
gation from Finland; the ICOM Committee on Training; an Art
News conference; the Organization of American Historians; the
American University School of Government; the American Asso-
ciation of the History of Medicine; classes in museum studies at
The George Washington University, University of Delaware, and
Pennsylvania State University; and a group of Latin American
museum professionals. She was appointed to represent museums
on a Commission for the Social Sciences, organized by the Inter-
national Research and Exchanges Board, which is exploring the
possibilties of exchanges of personnel, publications, and research
with East Germany, and she served on the Interagency Task Force
on Education for the Interagency Committee on the Arts and
Humanities.
A list of omr publications may be found in Appendix 6.

Office of the Registrar

During the last five years, the museum profession, in response to
growing concern about the accountability obligations of museums,
has placed ever-increasing emphasis on sound principles, policies,
and procedures for collections management. The Institution has
not only moved with the trend, but often determined the pace.
Shortly after the Office of the Registrar was reorganized in 1976
it was assigned responsibility for providing impetus and monitor-
ing developments within the Smithsonian. The role of the office,
informal and loosely defined at the outset, gradually assumed
better definition and finally became formalized with the issuance
of an official mission statement in 1982. The office now has a
firmly established responsibility for insuring the adequacy of
Smithsonian collections management policies and procedures.

The activities of the office during the year, though formalized
by the mission statement, followed the pattern already established
for on-going programs. Monitoring and reporting on progress
in collection inventories, reviewing the few bureau collections-man-
agement policies that are still not up to standard, and coordinat-
ing the affairs of the Registrarial Council continued to occupy the
office’s attention. Its annual workshop on registration methods and

252 / Smithsonian Year 1982
its semiannual workshops on computerization for museum collec-
tions were presented as usual and its presentation on the formula-
tion of policies was included again as a regular feature of the
workshop on collections.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

After twelve years of service as archivist, Richard H. Lytle moved
on to become director of the Office of Information Resource
Management. Under Lytle’s guidance, the Smithsonian Institution
Archives (sta) developed, from mostly an ancillary file unit to the
Office of the Secretary, into a strong institutional repository. The
sta’s holdings increased from 1,097 linear feet to 10,000 linear
feet of records, accessioned from the major art, history, and science
museums and bureaus of the Institution. Complementing this
growth, programs were developed to make the rich documentation
resources of the Smithsonian more accessible to administrators
and scholars.

William A. Deiss, deputy archivist, assumed the duties of acting
archivist on July 11, 1982. In January 1982, Gail McMillan, assis-
tant archivist, resigned, and Susan E. Westgate was appointed to
fill that post.

After three years of negotiations, the sia, in cooperation with
Oxford University, donated its small holdings of the John Obadiah
Westwood Collection to the Hope Entomological Library at Oxford
University. Richard Lytle delivered the collection to E. J. Warnock,
vice-chancellor of Oxford, in May.

In June, historian Pamela M. Henson attended a seminar on
“Hierarchy and Classification in the Biological Sciences,” held at
the Naples, Italy, Zoological Station.

During 1982 selection and preservation of archives continued
in the National Museum of Natural History, the National Museum
of American History, the National Museum of American Art, and
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Work
began on archival programs in the Office of the General Counsel
and the Office of Audits. The sia returned to the National Zoo-
logical Park to continue its work there, and discussions were held
at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory concerning the use

Museum Programs / 253
of machine-readable records. Major survey projects begun in fiscal
year 1981 in the National Air and Space Museum and the National
Portrait Gallery, were completed during FY82. A survey and
transfer of archival records were made at the Smithsonian Science
Information Exchange. Records disposition schedules were estab-
ished for the Office of Membership and Development, Smith-
sonian Exposition Books, and the Freer Gallery of Art Museum
Shop. Disposition of records under established schedules contin-
ued in the Office of Plant Services, Accounting Services Division,
Office of Protection Services, Secretary’s Files, the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, and the Smithsonian Institution Em-
ployees Federal Credit Union.

Scholars continued to visit the s1a during the past year. Several
recent publications have appeared, based at least in part on mate-
rial in the archives. Among them are Robert W. Rydell II, “All
the World’s a Fair: America’s International Expositions, 1876-
1919,” Doctoral dissertation, University of California at Los
Angeles, 1980; John M. Peterson, ed., “Buffalo Hunting in Mon-
tana in 1886: The Diary of W. Harvey Brown,” Montana, The
Magazine of Western History 31 (1981):2-13; Marilyn S. Cohen,
“American Civilization in Three Dimensions: The Evolution of
the Museum of History and Technology of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution,” Doctoral dissertation, The George Washington Univer-
sity, 1980; William A. Deiss and Raymond B. Manning, “The
Fate of the Invertebrate Collections of the North Pacific Exploring
Expedition, 1853-1856,” in History in the Service of Systematics,
edited by Alwyne Wheeler and James H. Price (London: Society
for the Bibliography of Natural History, 1981); Lester D. Stephens,
Joseph Le Conte: Gentle Prophet of Evolution (Baton Rouge: Lou-
isiana State University Press, 1982); and Robert Ryal Miller,
“James Orton: A Yankee Naturalist in South America, 1867—
1877,” Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 126
(1982) :11-25.

Work in progress includes biographies of John LeConte,
James E. Keeler, and Henry Rowe Schoolcraft; a history of the
Bernice P. Bishop Museum; an historical account of America’s
world’s fairs; a study of the early fossil invertebrate collections of
Fielding B. Meek and Ferdinand V. Hayden; and a centennial his-
tory of the American Ornithologists’ Union.

254 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Major accessions were received from the Assistant Secretary for
Administration, the Assistant Secretary for History and Art, the
Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden, the National Air and Space Museum, the
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, the National Museum
of American History, the National Museum of Natural History,
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Office of Programming and
Budget, Office of Telecommunications, and the Office of Grants
and Risk Management.

Other accessions of note include: the records of the Museum
Education Roundtable; the records of the Audubon Naturalist
Society of the Central Atlantic States, Inc.; the papers of Farouk
El-Baz, Nathan Reingold, and Doris Holmes Blake; additions to
the papers of C. Malcolm Watkins, Harry H. Knight, and
Charles P. Alexander; the records of the Society of Systematic
Zoology; and the records of the Entomological Society of
Washington.

The Oral History Program continued, with interviews of two
Smithsonian administrators. Materials accessioned and prepared
for research use during the year include interviews with Watson M.
Perrygo, former National Museum of Natural History (NMNH)
taxidermist and field collector, Harald A. Rehder, a marine-mollusk
specialist who celebrated his fiftieth anniversary at the Institution
this year, and with members of the NMNH’s Senate of Scientists
on the formation of their faculty senate.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Libraries (s1L) embodies and continues a
tradition of library service provided for in the Foundation Charter
of 1846. In the mid-1960s Secretary Ripley, realizing that the
Smithsonian needs orderly and speedy access to information, re-
organized, from various quasi-independent library units and collec-
tions, an institution-wide system called the “Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries” and placed it under the leadership of one director.

In fiscal year 1982, no new libraries were added to this system,

Museum Programs / 255
although plans have been advanced for a branch library in the
field of horticulture. The libraries at the Smithsonian Marine Sta-
tion at Link Port, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Joseph Henry
Papers, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the
National Museum of American Art/National Portrait Gallery—rep-
resenting about twenty percent of the Institution’s library expendi-
tures—do not report to the sit director and are discussed elsewhere.
However, the sit assists these libraries in many ways and devotes
approximately five percent of its budget to their direct support.
The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts libraries are further removed from the daily life
of sit, although the Woodrow Wilson library’s acquisition func-
tions are done gratis by sit.

Comprising some thirty-five geographically dispersed branch
and satellite libraries, the sm is organized on the model common
in major North American universities, effecting centralized econ-
omies of administration, collections, and systems planning. In 1982
branches of the sit operated in Cambridge, Massachusetts, New
York City, the Washington, D.C., area, and the Republic of
Panama.

The sit is organized in three operational divisions: Bibliographic
Systems, concerned with automated control of all sit inventories
and providing standard descriptions of all holdings; Collections
Management, responsible for policies, acquisitions, preservation,
and housing of library collections essential to Smithsonian work;
and Research Services, charged with direct, personal assistance to,
and interpretation for, the scholarly clientele of the Libraries. Each
of these divisions reports to a manager, who is a member of the
sIL executive staff. The sit, led by the director and associate direc-
tor, is also assisted by staff for systems planning and administra-
tion, exhibitions and publications, and resource development.

RESOURCES

The si is financed chiefly from the federal budgets granted by
Congress; in fiscal year 1982, these federal monies were $3,153,000
or 93 percent of sm funding. The remaining seven percent, or
$230,300, came from Smithsonian Institution trust funds. The sit
budgets represent two percent of all Smithsonian expenditures—

256 / Smithsonian Year 1982

\
The sta recently received the
papers of Charles P. Alexander,
entomologist and world author-
ity on crane-flies. Dr. Alexander
is here seen on a collecting trip
to Ithaca, New York, 1914.

This display is from the sit ex-
hibition Art of the Fine Press
Book, held for an Associates’
course in 1982.

federal and trust. In addition, the libraries received in 1982
$300,000 in foreign-exchange currencies (P.L. 480) to support its
translation-publication program over the next years.

In addition, during fiscal year 1982, the sit obtained three grants.
One, for $31,500, is from the Atherton Seidell Fund to automate
old catalogue records of sit scientific holdings. The second, $12,500,
also from the Seidell Fund, is for the publication of a catalogue
describing manuscripts in the Dibner donation. The third, $27,500,
from the James Smithson Society, strengthened the libraries’ bird
collections by permitting purchase of Thomas Brown’s Illustrations
of the American Ornithology of Alexander Wilson and Charles
Lucien Bonaparte (1835).

Mr. David Dibner of Norwalk, Connecticut, continues as in the
past to support development of SIL Special Collections. In this
year, Dibner funds were used to purchase G. Polacco’s Anticoper-
nicus Catholicus (Venice, 1644).

Another important sit benefactor in 1982 is the estate of physi-
cist Claire K. Marton, bequesting 142 rare volumes in the history
of science, which augment the large library given by Dr. Bern
Dibner in 1976.

During 1982, the Libraries began its first approaches to founda-
tions. Also, a proposal for a National Advisory Board was drafted
and studied for its feasibility.

PERSONNEL

The sit was authorized ninety-four federally funded work years in
1982. This represents more than a ten percent reduction of forces
over 1981. In addition to federally funded positions, the sit has
nine employees supported by the Smithsonian trust funds. The
reduction of personnel resulted in curtailment of some services in
st. branches, slowed the rate of cataloguing in older collections not
yet under bibliographic control, and necessitated a heavy reliance
on volunteers.

Major staffing accomplishments of the year include the redeploy-
ment of personnel in the Research Services division, the completion
of an extensive committee structure whereby many sit employees
are involved in all aspects of the Libraries’ planning and decision
making, and the appointment of a professional librarian as liaison
with the Library of Congress. Two professional librarians were

258 / Smithsonian Year 1982
deducted from the Bibliographic Systems division and reassigned
to Research Services for direct assistance to readers. Two important
executive positions (systems planner and administrative officer)
were merged into one, effecting savings.

The staffing of the Libraries is at least one-third less than is
normal in academic research libraries of similar scope; this thinness
provides no fail-safe backup and is particularly serious given the
geographic spread of the branches. That the sit manages to pro-
vide a basic level of service is due in no small measure to the dedi-
cation and constant, hard work of many sit employees, as well as
that of eighty volunteers.

The Libraries had one research associate and three interns in
1982 and participated in the cera and Stay-in-School employment
projects.

BIBLIOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS

This division of the sit provides the bibliographic linkage for the
entire sIL system; it was reorganized in 1981 to move more rapidly
toward extensive automation.

The continuing publication and enlargement of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries Catalogue, a computer-output-microfiche
(com), alphabetic guide by author, title, and subject—comprising
all materials catalogued by the libraries in a machine-readable
format—is a proud accomplishment. By the end of calendar year
1982, all older card catalogues containing records generated since
1965 will have been converted into s1t’s electronic database.

A year ago the Smithsonian Institution Libraries Catalogue con-
tained automated bibliographic records generated in the period
1974-1981; during the current year 85,000 records were added to
extend coverage of holdings from 1965 to 1982. Thus, by the end
of 1982, sit will have close to 145,000 automated bibliographic
records. Crucial to this progress was the 1981 Seidell Grant for
conversion of serial records and the 1982 Seidell Grant for conver-
sion of science titles. This retrospective conversion project is a key
element in the progressive automation of library services.

Another milestone was achieved in the completion of a draft
for the si Total Automated System Plan, detailing a single, inte-
grated, electronic system that will control data for all acquisitions,
cataloguing, inventory, binding, and loans and provide manage-

Museum Programs / 259
ment data as well as other services. This system is scheduled to be
operational in late 1984 if funding is forthcoming.

SIL continues to contribute and receive cataloguing data cooper-
atively through the Online Computer Library Center (octc), a
bibliographic utility based in Columbus, Ohio. Use is also made
of the Research Library Group’s utility, Research Libraries Infor-
mation Network (run), in Stanford, California, and the automated
name-authority files of the New York Public Library’s system
(Lions). The siz devoted considerable efforts in 1982 to monitoring
the major North American bibliographic utilities to determine the
best vehicle for st. developments.

During 1982, more than sixty percent of the files controlling
binding operations and contracts were automated. Binding staff
was reduced and integrated into the sm’s acquisition/purchasing
department.

While the sit rigorously conforms to national library standards
in preparation of its data, certain documentation can, nevertheless,
be better and more inexpensively controlled by approaches more
usual among indexers and archivists. In 1982 the sit Thesaurus
and Indexing Committee, under Associate Director Karklins, suc-
cessfully elaborated and tested a strategy for intellectual control of
the sit’s trade literature—mostly commercial catalogues. This in-
dexing technique has speeded the processing of the commercial
and industrial trade collections. The resultant data is made avail-
able in electronic form, is compatible with national norms, and will
be available via the sm’s projected online catalogue. The sit
thesaurus and indexing strategy is being extended to the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute and Panama biological bibliog-
raphies.

The productivity of the Bibliographic Systems division has been
significantly increased in 1982 through a mix of more automation
and streamlining of staff procedures. New performance standards
doubled the previous output of the original cataloguing unit. An
excellent turn-around time for cataloguing of currently acquired
materials has been established and a serious backlog eliminated.
The entire library in the National Museum of African Art was
fully catalogued into the sm system, completing a three-year proj-
ect. There remain, however, large, older collections catalogued im-
properly, or not at all, in the past, which the Bibliographic Systems

260 / Smithsonian Year 1982
division works on after new materials are processed. In 1982 some
6,000 of these older titles were handled by contracted cataloguing.
Without increased staff or funds for contracts, this old problem
will long remain.

COLLECTION MANAGEMENT

The sit has grown in the number of its branch libraries and in its
collections since the mid-1960s. In fiscal year 1981, recognition of
the acute space problems confronting the entire sit system, the
need to better coordinate acquisitions, the demand for updated
and comprehensive collection policies, and the crisis of conserva-
tion for unigue and valuable materials led to the foundation of the
Collection Management division and the appointment of the first
chief, Mr. Jack Goodwin, the nationally known bibliographer for
history of technology. During 1982, Mr. Goodwin was also named
an assistant director of the sit.

Sit space needs continued to be studied, and recommendations
were incorporated into 1983 budgets. In particular a statement was
developed, presenting strategies to confront critical, library-space
problems through a new or renovated structure. The sit Research
Annex, at 1111 North Capitol Street, Washington, D.C., received
increasing numbers of books and reached saturation point in 1982.

A weeding and inventory program in most of the branches per-
mitted deacquisitioning of approximately 17,000 items and indi-
cated that large portions of the collection are still under the un-
satisfactory controls, which obtained widely before 1965. During
the inventory, many rare and valuable items were discovered and
transferred to Special Collections. This weeding/inventory also
cleared up problems in serials dating back twenty years.

In 1981 the first siz master collection-management policy was
drafted; in 1982 this received the approbation of the Institution.
During the year, collecting practices in each of the branches were
reviewed, discussed with appropriate Smithsonian scholars and
directors, and drafted into policies that will be refined in 1983.

The Book Conservation Laboratory, a model of its type and
part of the Collection Management division, continued the restora-
tion of physically endangered and scholarly valuable sit materials.
The structure and chemistry of the books in the collection are the
focus of a professional staff, assisted by volunteers and interns.

Museum Programs / 261
In addition to restoration of paper and bindings, the laboratory
further developed its code of ethics in handling scientific and cul-
tural rarities, continued to monitor atmospheric conditions in li-
brary and book exhibition areas, reviewed standards for bookbind-
ing let on contract, and maintained the sit Disaster Preparedness
Program. A master policy of the sit’s goals and procedures in
conserving all its collection, not just the rare and unique, was
prepared during the year.

Due to budgetary restrictions, $70,000 less in 1982 than in 1981
was available for purchase of library materials—books, journals,
bindings, microforms, conservation supplies, and commercially
available online systems. Thus, collection management staff had
to screen requests more rigorously, and a significant amount of
basic research material was not acquired. In addition to rare pur-
chases noted elsewhere, $20,000 of Smithsonian trust funds were
made available for extraordinary acquisitions.

RESEARCH SERVICES

The Research Services division provides assistance to scholarly
clientele and the Smithsonian administration. These services are
located in the various, geographically dispersed, sit branch li-
braries, as well as in the sit Central Reference and Loan Services
unit, located on the Mall in Washington.

Research Services was without a permanent division chief during
most of 1982. First S. J. Churgin and then R. Maloy, the director
of stL, assumed acting-chief duties until July when Dr. Margaret
Child, former assistant director for Research Resources Programs
at the National Endowment for the Humanities, arrived. Dr. Child
is both manager of Research Services and an assistant director of
the sIL.

The Research Services staff prepared a comprehensive set of
guides to collections and branches of the system and developed
many specialized bibliographic tools; a dozen of these guides
appeared in 1982.

Central Reference and Loan Services is a special focus of the sit
administration. During 1982, M. C. Gray was appointed head of
the unit; a humanities reference librarian was added; the files of
loan records were reviewed and brought up to date for the first
time in decades; an effort at building a large, strong general-

262 / Smithsonian Year 1982
reference collection was begun; the plans for the physical improve-
ment of the unit’s facility in 1983 were studied; and the separating
out of natural history collections was started.

The Natural History branch was more clearly defined as a
distinct unit of the sit when its chief librarian, S. J. Churgin, re-
turned in 1982 from other assignments. In addition to many satel-
lite collections scattered through the National Museum of Natural
History (NMNuH), there is now a central branch library, for which
quarters are being readied in the west wing of the museum. The
branch has its own Advisory Library Committee, organized in 1982
from among sIL and NMNH staffs.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Panama) branch
of the Libraries had an important year, in both the appointment
of Dr. C. Jopling, an anthropologist and librarian, as chief librarian,
and also in the ground-breaking for a new library building. Equip-
ment tests were conducted there, preparatory to the beginning of
online links with computer-database services in the United States.

Other significant changes in the Research Services division were
the following 1982 appointments to chief branch librarian: F. Pie-
tropaoli (National Air and Space Museum), R. Ratner (National
Museum of American History), and C. D. Scott (Museum Reference
Center).

Loans

Interlibrary loan borrowing of sm has grown because online
reference services have brought even greater knowledge of re-
sources to sit clientele. Conversely, loans by the sit have increased
because of the demand by scholars elsewhere who can now see,
on computer terminal screens, what materials are held by the sit.
To facilitate these loans, the siz employs traditional loan-request
forms, electronic mail requests (via the octc network), and tele-
facsimile transmissions. To improve speed of delivery, the sit
sends staff on a regular schedule to borrow from, and return
materials to, the Library of Congress, the National Agricultural
Library, and the U.S. Geological Survey Library. In 1982 inter-
library loan traffic was 15,400 items borrowed, 3,900 lent; these
statistics indicate a borrow/loan ratio of four to one. Thirty percent
of these borrowings were from the Library of Congress. Sit has,
of course, regular and heavy intra-Smithsonian loan traffic.

Museum Programs / 263
Online Services

A significant and growing characteristic of research librarianship
is the shift from book-based to machine-assisted reference ser-
vices. By the end of 1982, 8 sm reference librarians had been
trained or updated in the use of some 170, commercially available,
online databases. While most of this searching is done in Central
Reference, about 30 percent is performed in the branches. In addi-
tion to these online reference services in citation, abstract, diction-
ary, and directory files, a large part of the staff in most units of
the sm regularly uses the strictly bibliographic databases (octc,
RLIN).

PUBLIC PROGRAMS

Public programs sponsored by the sit have included lectures, pub-
lications, and exhibitions.

SIL Lecture and Seminar Series

To illuminate significant items of the sit collections, the history of
libraries and books, or important developments in information
technologies, st. began in 1981 a series of occasional lectures and
seminars. In 1982 the following were held: a seminar, “Collectors
on Collecting,” chaired by J. Goodwin and including W. Van De-
vanter, R. Kaufmann, and E. Wells; a panel presentation on bind-
ing by sit for the Washington Book Publishers; and a seminar,
“The Value of Older Scientific Works: A Dialog among Historians,
Scientists, Bibliographers.”

Publications

In addition to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries Catalogue and
the exhibition catalogues, st. continued its management of a trans-
lation and publication program based on excess foreign currency
(P.L. 480), producing L. I. Blacher: The Problem of the Inheritance
of Acquired Characters; Yu K. Bogoyavlenskii: Structure and
Function of the Integuments of Parasitic Nematodes; A. I. Tolmac-
ver: The Arctic Ocean and Its Coast in the Cenozoic Era; and F. N.
Zagorskii: History of Metal Cutting Machines to the Middle of the
19th Century. The sit publishes a monthly newsletter with broad
distribution to sit staff, the Institution, and the national library

264 / Smithsonian Year 1982
community. Guides to the sit branches and collections began pub-
lication in 1982.

Exhibitions

In addition to special displays, which the various branches mount
from time to time, sit sponsored the following official exhibitions:
Old Books??? Rare Books??!, October 1981—March 1982; The Art
of the Fine Press Book, January—March 1982; Trade Literature:
Catalogues of Fashionable Apparel, April-July 1982; Thomas
Brown’s Works, July 1982; Naturgeschichtes des Thierreichs by
Gotthilf Heinrock von Schubert, Summer 1982; and An Introduc-
tion to Conservation in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries,
September—October 1982. The sit exhibitions were placed in the
Dibner Room at the National Museum of American History, in
the lobby of the National Museum of Natural History, and at the
National Zoological Park.

GENERAL ADMINISTRATION

Renovation of sit areas in the east wing of the nMNuH began after
two years’ planning. The first phase demolished inoperative stacks
of the old National Museum Library and created space for sixteen
staff members where three had been. At the Research Annex, 1111
North Capitol, Washington, security of collections was improved.

Introduction in 1982 of an improved, microcomputer office sys-
tem has increased timeliness of financial record-keeping and of
tracking mechanisms for administrative actions such as delivery
and supply requests.

Compilation of the first regular and comprehensive statistics on
library operations has been underway one year at the end of
FY82. This base of information will, after another year, be useful
in determining directions and trends in the sm and will aid man-
agement.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

The first exhibition of American Impressionist paintings ever
shown in Paris opened at the Musée du Petit Palais on

Museum Programs / 265
At the Community Art Gallery, Santa Fe Community College, Gainesville, Florida,
sires Public Affairs Officer Eileen Harakal gives a gallery tour of Ethiopia: The Chris-
tian Art of an African Nation. (Photographer, Andrew Manis)
March 30, 1982, for a two-month showing. The Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sires) was invited to
organize American Impressionism by the U.S. Information Agency
(usta) (formerly the International Communication Agency) and
the European Association of American Studies. A film, catalogues,
posters, handouts, and lecture series supplemented the exhibition.
The Smithsonian’s Office of Telecommunications produced the
28-minute film, “In Open Air,” which premiered at the Grand
Palais Film Theater. A fully illustrated catalogue in French, Ger-
man, Romanian, and Bulgarian was published by sires and the
usIA, with considerable design and editing support from the Smith-
sonian Institution Press. The exhibition poster, published by sires
and the usia for locations on the tour, was also published by sites
in a commemorative edition for U.S. distribution. Following its
premier showing in Paris, American Impressionism traveled to
East Berlin and Vienna, and will be shown in Bucharest and Sofia.
Financial support for this important exhibition was provided to
sires by a number of foundations and corporations, including The
Armand Hammer Foundation, the Joe L. and Barbara A. Allbritton
Foundation, PepsiCo International, Saks-Jandel, and the Eugenie
Prendergast Foundation.

To further the sires international program, negotiations began
with the usia for a 1983-84 East Asian tour of American Porce-
lain, an exhibition organized by the Renwick Gallery. International
exhibitions from abroad, whose tours began in fiscal year 1982,
included Contemporary Art from the Netherlands, Irish Silver,
English Naive Paintings, Contemporary German Textile Art, and
Korean Drawing Now.

Sites continued to introduce new photography exhibitions,
including Galapagos: Born of the Sea; China From Within; Aqua-
culture; and America’s Space Truck: The Space Shuttle; as well as
The Vanishing Race and Other Illusions: A New Look at the
Work of Edward Curtis—a major photographic retrospective of
Curtis’s work.

An American Icon: The 18th-Century Graphic Portraits of
George Washington was organized with the National Portrait
Gallery, with substantial funding support from The Barra Founda-
tion. Sites published the book by the same name and arranged
for its trade distribution through the University Press of Virginia.

Museum Programs / 267
Sites publications were increasingly recognized for excellence in
design and production, netting nearly twenty awards this year.
Efforts were increased to effect further distribution of books and
posters to other museum stores and individuals and through trade
distributors.

Sites’s education department has remained in the forefront of
new, interpretive programming for exhibitions. A gallery game,
“Fathom,” was developed for children visiting Treasure of the
Quicksilver Galleons and a beautifully illustrated children’s book
was published in conjunction with the exhibition. Sires published
The Magic Shuttle to accompany its textile shows and produced
an innovative fiber kit to introduce visitors to textiles. Guidelines
were developed in conjunction with Perfect in Her Place for a
community-generated panel presentation on working women. Gal-
lery guides and handouts were created for a number of new
exhibitions.

Sires has helped exhibitors publicize its exhibitions in their
galleries by placing articles or arranging coverage in national pub-
lications. Since the beginning of FY82, sites has received coverage
in 134 magazines and major newspapers, with a total circulation
of 49 million readers.

As its thirtieth anniversary year ended, sites could look back on
presenting exhibitions to audiences in 15,000 communities—an
estimated 100 million viewers. In these thirty years, sires has
organized some 1,150 exhibitions. In fiscal year 1982 alone, siTES
scheduled 583 bookings in the United States and abroad. In the
future, sires will continue to seek creative ways to present, inter-
pret, and seek financial support for its broad range of exhibitions.

268 / Smithsonian Year 1982
TOURS FOR PERIOD OCTOBER 1, 1981, THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 30, 1982

MEIER Gt DHOOKINGS ios carne oie h os nce wna Wes bs 583
Number of states served (including Washington,

Re ReMe ee tO RE Re Bled ae 49
Pree TeC MN ATICIETICE: (250) 040.2 se Sire ose 8s a alana’ s 3.5 million
Exhibitions listed in last Update (catalogue of

ERE SAESHIDIEIOINS choca 4 ssi con 7, Se eee Se aac 137
Exhibitions produced for tour during the year .... 20

EXHIBITIONS BEGINNING TOURS OCTOBER 1, 1981, THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 30, 1982

An American Icon: The Eighteenth-Century Graphic Portraits of
George Washington

American Impressionism

America’s Space Truck: The Space Shuttle (2 copies)

Aquaculture

China from Within

Contemporary Art from the Netherlands

Contemporary German Textile Art

English Naive Paintings

Ethiopia: The Christian Art of an African Nation

Galapagos: Born of the Sea

Good as Gold: Alternative Materials in American Jewelry

Irish Silver

Korean Drawing Now

Lithographs of James McNeill Whistler

The Natural History of Sexuality

Perfect in Her Place

Traditional Crafts of Saudi Arabia

Transformed Houses

Urban Open Spaces

The Vanishing Race and Other Illusions: A New Look at the Work
of Edward Curtis

Museum Programs / 269
As part of his internship with the Office of
Horticulture, O—SE summer intern Robert
Gardner monitors the growth of a poin-
settia.

Smithsonian Year - 1982

PUBEM SERVICE

JULIAN T. EUELL,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum (anm), while still growing
as a museum, is also strengthening its role as a leader in ethnic-
oriented museums and advancing as a depository of Afro-American
historical and cultural knowledge. The anm continues to research,
design, and produce innovative in-house and traveling exhibitions,
while at the same time accomplishing its mandated mission “’. . . to
reach and involve segments of the population [museums] are not
now reaching.”

Through the efforts of its education-department staff, a small
park next to the museum was turned, by young neighborhood
children, into a lush garden—providing nourishment for both the
body and the mind.

January 24, 1982, marked the opening of Mary McLeod Bethune
and Roosevelt's Black Cabinet, an exhibition honoring the centen-
nial of President Roosevelt’s birth. Although a small, lobby exhibi-
tion, it was well received by the public, and was described by
The New York Times as “. . . one of the more interesting of the
FDR Centennial exhibitions.”

The research department this past year had the opportunity to
work with Dr. Rosalyn Terborg-Penn, a Smithsonian Fellow and
Visiting Faculty Scholar, and Ms. Jacqueline A. Rouse, a Ph.D.
candidate from Emory University and a Smithsonian museum
intern. Along with the continuing research for the upcoming major

271
exhibition on the Harlem Renaissance period, the research staff
acted as consultants to the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum in
its recent acquisition of a nineteenth-century slave cabin asso-
ciated with Frederick Douglass.

Extensive work is also being done on updating ANM’s very popu-
lar exhibition, Black Women, for further travel with the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, and a version is
being produced for installation at the ano itself.

The most momentous aspect of ANM’s year was the start of
definitive site planning for the Museum Annex at Fort Stanton
Park. The Annex will replace the present public space in the
Carver Theater on Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue.

Division of Performing Arts

Performances continued to animate and enliven Smithsonian
museums and to bring context and educational dimension to
exhibits and special events.

The Division of Performing Arts (ppa) continued to maintain a
high level of program and production expertise in fiscal year 1982.
Concerts of music heard by George Washington were recreated to
complement the National Museum of American History exhibition
of Washington memorabilia. Performances tracing the develop-
ment of the American musical theater in the New Deal era were
presented as a complement to FDR: The Intimate Presidency. The
first American production of The Ephemeral Is Eternal, a play
written in 1926 by Michel Seuphor, with sets designed by Piet
Mondrian, was presented at the Hirshhorn in conjunction with the
exhibition De Stijl: 1917-1931, Visions of Utopia.

The tenth anniversary of the Smithsonian’s Jazz Program was
celebrated with sixteen concerts and four film showings, which
presented some of the most acclaimed American artists of this
century. The concerts were videotaped and will be broadcast over
public television, on educational networks, and on subscription
stations. Five country music concerts traced the development of
southern regional music to national popularity.

The Discovery Theater staged 325 performances for more than

272 / Smithsonian Year 1982
&

From the anm exhibition Mary McLeod Bethune and Roosevelt's Black Cabinet, is a
picture of Dr. Bethune in her office at Bethune-Cookman College, Daytona Beach,
Florida, January 1943. (Photographer, Gordon Park. Photograph courtesy of the
Library of Congress.)

Sess san UE EEEEEEDEEEEEEEESEEEEREERENEEEEnennonneeaneemenamsnemeisaeae

52,000 children. Recognized as one of the outstanding children’s
theaters in the nation, Discovery Theater serves as an important
bridge for young visitors to the world of museums.

The Program in Black American Culture presented significant
concerts that explored the traditions of gospel quartet singing, a
landmark conference, and performances on “The Poetry of the
Blues.” The second annual Smithsonian tribute to prominent
gospel-music composers was devoted to Rev. C. A. Tindley, author
of such classics as “Stand By Me” and “The Storm is Passing
Over.” The Tindley program also yielded a new publication and
recording.

The Chamber Music programs presented by the Smithsonian
are correlated with the program goals and identity of the museums
in which they are performed. These performances included:
baroque and classical period music using instruments from the col-
lections of the National Museum of American History; romantic
period music performed in the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gal-
lery; contemporary music in the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden; exhibit-related music and theater at the National Museum
of American Art; and salon music at Barney Studio House.

Additional efforts were made to research and present the his-
tory of American dance, and live performances or lectures were
presented by Merce Cunningham, Lucinda Childs, and Honi Coles
and the Jazz Tap Ensemble.

Outreach is a major objective of the pra. In fiscal year 1982,
ten recordings were published, bringing to fifty-two the total cata-
logue of musical history available to national audiences. Also in
1982, Smithsonian resident ensembles traveled to twenty-one cities
for local performances. Three Washington concerts were broad-
cast to a national audience by National Public Radio, with a
reported listenership of 2.5 million persons.

International Exchange Service

The Smithsonian’s first Secretary, Joseph Henry, established the
International Exchange Service (res) as the first bureau of the new
Institution. At the time, Secretary Henry was responding to a real

274 / Smithsonian Year 1982
aes A ee ee ‘

Fortunato Arico (left) and Kenneth
Slowick, members of the Smithsonian
Chamber Players, are seen here per-
forming music by Mozart at the
NMAH’s Hall of Musical Instruments.

The ppa’s Program in Black Ameri-
can Culture presented a program on
gospel music composer Rev. Charles
A. Tindley in May 1982. Pictured is
Avery Brooks as the Reverend Mr.
Tindley.

and present need in the world’s scholarly community by promot-
ing the exchange of scholarly, scientific, cultural, research, and
archival documents among nations, academic and learned institu-
tions, and individuals. Even though vastly improved communica-
tions technologies have increased the quality and quantity of
information-exchange systems nationally and internationally, Sec-
retary Henry’s original purpose is still being carried out by the tes
as it has been for more than 130 years.

Indeed, it is now even closer to its original mandate since the
1Es is in the process of transferring to the Library of Congress and
the Government Printing Office responsibility for the exchange of
U.S. government publications—the Congressional Record, Federal
Register, and all publications designated by the Library of Con-
gress for depository libraries, among others—with foreign govern-
ments in return for their own official publications. The transfer
of this function has enabled the 1&s to concentrate more fully on
the exchange of publications originating in the private sector.

For example, in fiscal year 1982 more than 200 universities,
libraries, agricultural experiment stations, medical and dental asso-
ciations and libraries, scientific institutions, and members of Con-
gress exchanged publications with comparable institutions or dig-
nitaries abroad. In addition, almost all of the countries in the
world, principally through their universities and libraries, send
some of their publications to U.S. addresses on an exchange basis.
This aspect of the res operation has been particularly beneficial
to the developing countries of the Third World.

One final note: much of the good work of the 1s over the past
decade is due in large measure to the untiring efforts of its direc-
tor, Jack Estes. So, it is especially sad to report that his sudden
death in February 1982 removed from our midst a good friend and
a dedicated colleague. He is missed.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

A firm belief in the power of museum objects as educational
resources is the guiding principle behind the activities and pro-
grams of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (oEsE).

276 / Smithsonian Year 1982
With the conviction that it is equally as important for students to
learn to use works of art, natural history specimens, historical arti-
facts, and other museum objects as research tools, as it is for them
to learn to use words and numbers, oESE continues to serve the
Smithsonian’s education offices while working to meet a solid com-
mitment to foster the educational uses of museums in the Wash-
ington, D.C., area and throughout the nation.

On the local level, o—sE continues to offer a number of programs
that have proven successful in the past. Let’s Go (a monthly news-
letter) and Learning Opportunities for Schools (an annual bro-
chure) inform teachers of the ever-growing variety of Smithsonian
services available to students. Multiple copies are sent free of
charge to approximately 1,200 schools in the Washington, D.C.,
area.

In December 1982, the fifth annual ““Teacher’s Christmas Pro-
gram” was held at the National Museum of American History. A
Christmas tree, decorated with ornaments made by area school-
children, and madrigal singers were the highlights of this year’s
program, attended by nearly 150 Washington-area educators. In
May 1982, the eighth annual “Teacher’s Day” brought more than
100 teachers and Smithsonian staff together for activities at the
National Zoo and during the summer, more than 300 teachers
participated in a full-scale workshop program that included a
series of five-day courses on such subjects as “Victorian Archi-
tecture,” “Insects in Your Classroom,” and “American Cultural
History through Art.”

In addition to these programs for local teachers, a three-credit
graduate course on “Using Museums to Teach Writing” was
offered to teachers nationally in cooperation with the University
of Virginia. This course, held in the Smithsonian museums, in-
volved teachers from as far away as California and Panama in a
variety of writing assignments adaptable to classroom use. As a
final project, the teachers were required to develop curriculum
units that would draw on the resources of their own communities.
Orst’s workshops have been well received by all participants as
attested by comments from teachers. One teacher writes, “I
wouldn’t have missed this course for the world! I feel genuinely
privileged to have been part of this experience.” While another

Public Service / 277
found it to be “an excellent workshop—well taught with a good
balance of individual and group participation and discussion.”

In cooperation with the Department of Anthropology, oEsE has
completed a media kit for high-school students, drawing on the
extensive papers and collections of the nineteenth-century nat-
uralist, Edward W. Nelson. It is anticipated that the ““Nelson Kit”
will be the first in a series of curriculum units on various aspects
of the Smithsonian collections in art, history, and science. A spe-
cial media project with the Children’s Hospital National Medical
Center was also begun. When the kits are completed, they will
be distributed to children’s hospitals and wards throughout the
country.

Also for teachers nationally, Art to Zoo—a six-page publication
to promote the use of community resources—reached approxi-
mately 55,000 classrooms; and The Museum Idea, a slide-tape
loan kit, has proven very popular. As one teacher wrote us,
“Reading Art to Zoo has been fascinating. I am amazed at all the
information you present in each issue. The popularity of this
publication is certainly not difficult to understand.”

In response to an Art to Zoo article on insects, another reader
wrote: “I just received a copy of the April issue of Art to Zoo,
which is fabulous! We are in the process of concluding our insect
study, and it has proven a terrific resource for a review of our
unit. The children have loved it, especially the ‘hands on’ of
catching and caring for the insects.”

In 1982, oESE sponsored its eighth annual program for summer
interns. “Intern ’82” brought twenty-four high-school seniors from
rural and inner-city communities to the Smithsonian to participate
in learning and service projects. The students worked under the
guidance of curatorial and technical staff members in various parts
of the Institution. The program often provides students with new
perspectives. As one intern put it, “Each person here has influ-
enced me in ways that have broadened my outlook in my chosen
field of journalism and also the outside world.”

In 1982, orsE also assumed responsibility for a Career Aware-
ness Program for the District of Columbia Public Schools. Through
this pilot program, carried out in cooperation with the various
Smithsonian museums, minority young people of junior-high and

278 / Smithsonian Year 1982
high-school age will receive an introduction to the variety of career
opportunities available to them at the Smithsonian.

In addition, ofse continued its progress in making Smithsonian
programs accessible to disabled visitors. The office maintained
such services as providing sign-language and oral interpreters
for special events and regular program offerings, developing bro-
chures for mentally retarded visitors, and offering sign-language
and “disabilities awareness” sessions to Smithsonian staff and
volunteers.

OeseE also initiated several new projects this year to develop
materials for and about disabled individuals. One of these projects
is a slide kit for language-delayed students. The kit, which in-
cludes lessons based on several different Smithsonian collections,
is designed to help teachers use museum artifacts in developing
students’ language skills. Also, in conjunction with the kit, a sum-
mer course on museums as a resource for developing language
skills, was offered to teachers from the Washington, D.C., area.
A second project is a package of materials designed to train
docents—here at the Smithsonian and in other museums nation-
ally—on how to teach disabled persons effectively in a museum
setting. The package, to be completed in 1983, will consist of a
manual and a videotape for national distribution.

Other important oksE activities include developing and coordi-
nating a pan-Institutional lesson program for seventh- and eighth-
grade teachers and students in the District of Columbia public
schools—with support from the Cafritz Foundation—and expand-
ing the scope and understanding of the professional museum
educator, through participation in national and regional confer-
ences and workshops. Orse staff members also helped to plan
and teach seminars on museum/school relations, and museum
interpretation, offered by the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum
Programs.

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

In November 1981, the long-awaited seventh international sym-
posium of the Smithsonian took place: ““How Humans Adapt: A

Public Service / 279
Prior to the formal opening of the November 1981 symposium “How Humans Adapt:
A Biocultural Odyssey,” Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth, bearer of the Mace, leads the
academic procession from the Castle up the south steps of the NMNH on the way to
Baird Auditorium.
Biocultural Odyssey” began with a colorful academic procession
across the Mall from the Castle to the National Museum of
Natural History on a bright, breezy morning. Following the Insti-
tution’s mace were some seventy scholars in their academic regalia,
including many of the Smithsonian research staff. The formal
opening in Baird Auditorium featured René Dubos, making his
last public appearance before his death in February 1982. The
Secretary presented the James Smithson Bicentennial Medal to
symposium chairman James V. Neel in recognition of his enor-
mous contributions to the symposium and to the larger increase
and diffusion of knowledge.

Original essays were prepared for advance distribution to the
major essayists and commentators, so that the scheduled working
sessions might afford reflective discussion of each writer’s ideas.
Essays were contributed by Edward S. Ayensu, Richard J. Barnet,
Kenneth E. Boulding, Asa Briggs, George Morrison Carstairs,
Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza, James M. Gustafson, Fekri A. Hassan,
Jane B. Lancaster, Peter Laslett, Geoffrey McNicoll, Betty J. Meg-
gers, Mary Midgley, Moni Nag, James V. Neel, Donald J. Ortner,
John Arthur Passmore, Nevin Stuart Scrimshaw, and Stephen
Toulmin. The collected proceedings, edited by Smithsonian anthro-
pologist Donald J. Ortner, will be published by the Smithsonian
Institution Press in winter 1982-83.

A subsequent conference on human adaptation, in May 1982,
was held jointly with The International Organization for the Study
of Human Development in Carmichael Auditorium. Wilton S.
Dillon, director of the office, gave a paper on “Rites of Passage at
Adolescence.”

The Joys of Research, edited by Walter Shropshire, Jr., based
on the Einstein Centennial colloquim of the same name, was pub-
lished by the Smithsonian Institution Press in late 1981. This
book tells of eight successful scientists’ experiences in basic re-
search, providing insight into creative imagination and outlining
their disappointments and successes.

Following two Smithsonian colloquia on refugees from Nazism,
Jarrell C. Jackman, a California historian, and Carla M. Borden,
associate director of the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Semi-
nars, have edited a volume titled The Muses Flee Hitler: Cultural

Public Service / 281
Transfer and Adaptation, 1930-1945. Work on this book, to be
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press in spring 1983, has
been made possible by support from The Rockefeller Foundation.

On September 17, 1982, the Smithscnian was host to a program
on Galileo, cosponsored with The Catholic University of America.
William A. Wallace, Catholic University, spoke on “‘Galileo’s
Science and the Trial of 1633,” and James Lennox, University of
Pittsburgh, discussed “Aristotelian Background of the Mixed-
Sciences Tradition.”

In anticipation of future commemorations by the Smithsonian
and the need for more central coordination of its participating
units, an advisory Commemorations Committee was established
to work with the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
in scheduling and overseeing Institutional observance of signifi-
cant events.

Office of Telecommunications

This Office of Telecommunications (oTc) continued to extend
the Institution’s reach both in the United States and abroad
through bold new ventures in film, radio, and television during
1982. The productions, primarily educational and informative,
were done in close cooperation with Smithsonian curators, re-
searchers, and scientists. The broadcast industry honored several
cf these productions with prestigious awards and major recogni-
tion.

One of this year’s highlights was the production of a half-hour
film to accompany the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service’s major exhibition, American Impressionism, which
toured Europe in the spring of 1982. Made possible by a grant
from the Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Foundation, “In Open
Air: A Portrait of the American Impressionists,” is the first film
ever to explore the growth of impressionist painting in this coun-
try. Through the U.S. Information Agency (formerly the Inter-
national Communication Agency), versions of the film were pre-

282 / Smithsonian Year 1982
pared in French, German, Bulgarian, and Romanian for the
European showings. “In Open Air” premiered on March 30, 1982,
to great acclaim, at the opening of the American Impressionism
exhibition in Paris, and has since received several coveted awards,
including the bronze “Cindy” from the Information Film Producers
of America, and the bronze “Chris” plaque from the Columbus
Film Festival. The first U.S. television showing took place July 1,
1982, on WETA-TV, Washington, D.C., and a national PBS tele-
cast was planned for the fall of 1982.

In keeping with the office’s goals to expand its national broad-
cast efforts, an experimental new series of short features for tele-
vision was launched with extraordinary success. Called Here at
the Smithsonian ..., this innovative series of 15 features is now
appearing in news broadcasts and in “magazine” shows on 35
selected television stations across the country, reaching a poten-
tial audience of 34 million households. Patterned after Smithso-
nian Galaxy, the office’s highly successful series of 21/2-minute
radio features, Here at the Smithsonian . . . offers a lively, behind-
the-scenes look at the activities and exhibitions of the Institution.
With the favorable results of this initial experimental year, the
office is encouraged to produce another edition of video features
beginning in January 1983.

The McDonnell Foundation granted $500,000—part of its total
commitment of $3,000,000—for the research, development, and
staffing of the projected PBS series, Smithsonian World. A copro-
duction of WETA-TV and the Institution, the series will consist
of seven 1-hour programs on various aspects of the Smithsonian.
Executive producer Martin Carr has assembled a core research and
production staff, and broadcast is slated for 1984.

At the request of the White House, the otc supervised the pro-
duction of a half-hour documentary commemorating the two-
hundredth anniversary of the victory at Yorktown. The film, pro-
duced by Charles Guggenheim Productions, features the Bicen-
tennial reenactment of the historic battle and is scheduled for
release in October 1982.

A special edition of Radio Smithsonian, the weekly, half-hour
radio series, was also produced for the Yorktown Bicentennial.
Broadcast nationwide during the week of the anniversary of the
battle, “Yorktown: Echoes of a Victory” has received many com-

Public Service / 283
Ann Carroll of the otc is shown here with a video crew at the 1982 Festival of
American Folklife, producing a short feature for the otc series “Here at the Smith-
sonian ...,” which brings news of SI activities to TV viewers around the nation.
mendations including letters from the French Ambassador, Gov-
ernor John N. Dalton of Virginia, Ambassador at Large Daniel J.
Terra, and Secretary of the Army John O. Marsh, Jr. The regular
Radio Smithsonian programs can be heard on the sixty stations
that subscribe to the series.

The International Radio Festival of New York awarded a gold
medal to Smithsonian Galaxy. Receiving the top prize for infor-
mation programs, this radio series of twice-weekly, 21/2-minute
features is carried on more than 212 stations in 45 states, Canada,
the Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Canadian Forces
Network in Germany.

In conjunction with the Division of Performing Arts (ppa), the
otc produced 3 musical specials, which were broadcast on 110
National Public Radio stations across the country. Beginning with
a November production of the first complete recording of Victor
Herbert’s operetta, Naughty Marietta, the series of specials also
marked this office’s first live radio broadcast of concerts from the
Institution, with a live holiday concert in December, followed by
a live Bach concert in January.

In an effort to stay abreast of the fast-changing cable industry,
OTC participated in an experimental cable project in 1982. The
office coordinated the videotaping of the tenth anniversary per-
formances of the ppa’s Jazz at the Smithsonian. It is now being
sold as a mini-series to cable systems all across the country. Along
the same lines, the sports division of Home Box Office filmed
scenes for a one-hour cable television special in the National
Portrait Gallery’s Champions of American Sport exhibition for
broadcast in the 1982-83 season.

The otc has been working with the Agency for Instructional]
Television on several production elements of a new science series
for junior high school students. Dr. David Challinor has invited
key SI staff members to be on-camera guests, and taping will take
place during the winter of 1983.

The office continues to monitor the latest developments in the
electronic and film media, gathering information and outlining
future directions for the Institution, from low-power television to
home video discs and cassettes to satellite teleconferences. Assist-
ing in this on-going effort is consultant Tom Wolf, former vice-
president of ABC News.

Public Service / 285
Smithsonian Institution Press

The most noteworthy and significant event for the Smithsonian
Institution Press (srr) in fiscal year 1982 was the reorganization
of all book-publishing activity. To strengthen the Institution’s
important outreach objective of diffusion cf knowledge, and to
continue the development of a well-defined book-publishing pro-
gram that encourages development of the Institution’s resources,
Smithsonian Exposition Books became part of the sip in December
1981.

Under the reorganization, the newly named University Press
Division will continue the traditional role of publishing trust-
funded scholarly books, general trade books, federally funded
series monographs, exhibition catalogues, and other publications
necessary to Smithsonian activities. The new Direct-Mail Book
Division will develop and offer popularly presented books on
themes relevant to the Institution, using the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates’ list and other large mailing lists.

The reorganized sip will be directed by Felix C. Lowe. Glen B.
Ruh will serve as deputy director of the sir, itself, as well as
editorial director of the Direct-Mail Book Division. John Ouellette
was hired to fill the newly created position of financial manager.

During the year, the University Press Division published a
total of 279 books, catalogues, and miscellaneous publications.
Books of special significance published and/or distributed by the
sIP in 1982 include:

Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, which won the Silver
Medal from The Art Directors’ Club of Metropolitan Washington;

Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks, which was selected
for special exhibition by the Association of American University
Presses and received Honorable Mention in the Association of
Government Communicators’ annual Blue Pencil Publication
Awards competition;

inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo, which was published
in conjunction with the National Museum of Natural History
(NMNH) exhibition of the same name;

The National Museum of Natural History, a handsome book
featuring the collections and research efforts of the staff of NMNH.
This book was copublished with the New York firm, Harry N.

286 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Felix C. Lowe (right), director of the recently reorganized sip, and Glen B. Ruh, deputy
director of the Press and editorial director of the new Direct-Mail Book Division,
pause in discussing forthcoming editions. In the foreground are some of the Press’s
best sellers.
Abrams, which has now cooperated with the sip on three beauti-
fully illustrated books on Smithsonian museums and galleries, as
well as on such previously published books as The Smithsonian
Collection of Newspaper Comics;

The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize,
I: Structure and Communities, presenting research of the Smith-
sonian program investigations of marine shallow-water ecosystems.
This publication is the first of several volumes on the ecosystem
at Carrie Bow Cay projected for Smithsonian Contributions to
the Marine Sciences.

In September, the Direct-Mail Book Division published Thread
of Life: The Smithsonian Looks at Evolution, by Roger Lewing.
This 256-page book, which explores recent findings in evolutionary
biology by Smithsonian scientists and many others, is available
through mail order and will, in addition, be distributed to book-
stores by W. W. Norton in New York.

A complete list of sip publications may be found in Appendix 5.

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian magazine had another great year and, since the
magazine is the fundamental benefit of Associate’s membership,
its prosperity augers well for the Institution. Membership, just
under 2,000,000, has remained steady, continuing the trend of
the past few years. That it remained steady is an achievement
since the national economy was in recession and since membership
dues were raised to $17.00, an increase necessitated by increased
costs.

Advertising in the magazine was extremely strong in the first
half of the year but weakened thereafter—the weakness being
attributed to general economic conditions.

Postal increases have been a principal reason for increased
costs and these, themselves, pursued an erratic and oftentimes
unpredictable course; less than projected first quarter, higher than
projected middle quarter, and lower than projected last quarter.

The magazine again made a significant contribution to the
Institution’s unrestricted funds.

288 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Smithsonian's editorial strength was reflected in the high demand
for reprint rights both from commercial publications—such as
the New York Times Syndicated Service, the Reader’s Digest, and
a variety of European magazines—and from nonprofit cultural
and educational institutions. Some editorial highlights include
Joseph Alsop’s memoir of FDR, the richly illustrated story on the
El Greco exhibition, and the award-winning article on the return
of the Atlantic salmon.

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

As the Institution’s Public Service bureau charged with providing
a range of centralized information and assistance services, the
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center (viaARc) made
significant strides in 1982 toward the refinement of several estab-
lished programs while expanding and adding others to meet the
expressed needs of the public, Associate members, and Smith-
sonian staff.

The Seven-Day Information Service Unit is comprised of four
program areas. The Museum Information Desk Program utilized
the services of 380 volunteer information specialists who, working
in excess of 50,000 hours, once again achieved staffing goals in
the ninetieth percentile. In January, the National Museum of
African Art officially joined the complement of Smithsonian
museums whose information desks are staffed through the center,
bringing the total number to fourteen duty stations, involving
some forty-nine daily assignments.

Memorial Day weekend marked the beginning of the summer
Mall Information Program, which, through the generous support
of the Smithsonian Women’s Committee, was equipped with four
brightly colored mobile units. Propelled to various outdoor loca-
tions from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily by five energetic and specially
trained young staff members, the service was enthusiastically
received by the hundreds of confused visitors who arrived on the
Mall thinking the Smithsonian was but one building.

Volunteer lecturers active in the Group Orientation Program,
presented daily half-hour, illustrated orientations to some 10,000

Public Service / 289
Q Q) () OINORMATIONG

SMITHSONIAN €3 INFORMATION Jf

ie

i%

‘e
\ a 4
ete j

Visitors gather around vrarc’s Maria Bruzzese (center) and her brightly colored
mobile information unit. Through a generous assist from the Smithsonian Women’s
Committee, four of these units were purchased and were used daily during peak
summer visiting hours.
Smithsonian visitors. During the month of August, daily walk-in
orientations—scheduled prior to museum hours—attracted more
than 1,400 visitors to the Discovery Theater in the Arts and
Industries Building. Adaptations of the visitor orientation were
tailored to meet the needs of special audiences within the Institu-
tion (new employees, interns, and docents) while viarc’s own
summer intern further expanded the program’s repertoire by
developing a presentation for children. Requests from organiza-
tions outside the Institution, especially agencies offering tourist
services to Washington, D.C., visitors, found the Smithsonian
orientation a valuable addition to their training agenda.

The Castle Docent Program, strengthened by five new volun-
teers, led some 170 tours of the historic Smithsonian Institution
Building for more than 2,700 persons, including fellow Smithsonian
volunteers and participants in three National Associate programs—
Domestic Study Tours, the Regional Events Program, and Selected
Studies Seminars.

Completing the spectrum of programs encompassed in the
Seven-Day Information Service Unit is the Telephone Information
Program. Staffed daily by senior volunteer information specialists,
this program provides “live” response to an immense volume, and
sometimes dizzying variety, of inquiries about the Smithsonian,
its bureaus’ activities and programs.

To handle the volume of incoming traffic more efficiently and
to acquire valuable statistical data, an automatic call-sequencing
system was installed, a first for the Institution. Another new
acquisition, an improved Telecommunications Device for the Deaf
(TDD) not only insures the dependability of this service, but also
provides a printed record of calls. The availablity of after-hours
recorded information was expanded by doubling the number of
incoming lines to six. Dial-A-Museum and Dial-A-Phenomenon,
the Smithsonian’s two recorded twenty-four hour information
services, are temporarily being produced by the Telephone Infor-
mation Program to accommodate the Office of Public Affairs.

As the central research, response, and referral point for the
Institution’s unsolicited public mail, the Public Inquiry Mail
Service (pims), vIARC’s second major program unit, handled some
30,000 letters during the course of the year.

Working both independently and in cooperation with curatorial

Public Service / 291
offices, pms generated a record number of new fact sheets, bibli-
ographies, and updated, preprinted materials. A major production
was the “Smithsonian Collection of Warship Plans,’ completed
in conjunction with the Division of Naval History. Another
accomplishment was the initiation of an Institution-wide public
mail survey which, among other determinations, confirmed that
the majority of Smithsonian staff take seriously their charge to
educate the public through timely and informative answers to
inquiries.

Pims continued to produce a quarterly master list of sales
merchandise for the Institution’s auxiliary units and, in response
to requests for previsit information, mailed over 14,000 copies
of its booklet entitled Planning Your Smithsonian Visit.

Viarc’s third major program unit, the Staff/Volunteer Service
Unit (svs), substantially broadened the scope of its responsibility
in fiscal year 1982. The Volunteer Receptionist Program, begun in
1980 to provide group assistance for administrative staff, was
expanded to include task forces in several major offices. To accom-
modate a request from the Office of International Activities, the
Volunteer Escort Attaché program was established to facilitate the
itinerary of foreign officials visiting the Smithsonian.

Functioning as the Institution’s central point of registration
for all behind-the-scenes volunteers, the Independent Volunteer
Placement Service (1vps) maintained a file of over 750 volunteers;
440 new volunteers were added to the register, 41 percent of
whom were screened, interviewed, and assigned through the 1vPs
office. Independent projects involved a wide range of curatorial
and technical activities, including assignments at the Fred L. Whip-
ple Observatory, the Oceanographic Sorting Center, and the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

The Institution-wide survey conducted by this unit to document
annual volunteer participation revealed that in fiscal year 1981
3,777 volunteers contributed 359,521 service hours, a 36 percent
increase in unpaid personnel over the previous year.

Two publications were coordinated through the Staff/Volunteer
Service Unit: Volunteer! O Volunteer! A Salute to the Smithso-
nian’s Unpaid Legions. Written by Philip Kopper, with support
from the Smithsonian Women’s Committee, this book documents
the tradition of volunteerism that has prevailed at the Smithsonian

292 / Smithsonian Year 1982
since its founding. The second publication, The Smithsonian Insti-
tution: An Overview, will be used as an orientation tool for new
volunteers, employees, and interns.

In addition to fulfillment services for some 4,300 National Asso-
ciate memberships, the Staff/Volunteer Services Unit assumed re-
sponsibility for Smithsonian magazine’s Complimentary Mailing
List. With the transfer of this function to svs, all Washington-
based special magazine files were centralized.

Public Service / 293
Smithsonian Year - 1982

ADMINISTRATION

A WIDE RANGE OF administrative, technical, and other central sup-
port services were provided during fiscal year 1982 to help the
museums, art galleries, research laboratories, and other program
activities perform their work. These central units include budget,
personnel, equal opportunity, procurement and contracting, ac-
counting, grants and risk management, printing and photography,
management analysis, information resource management, travel,
and facilities services. Exclusive of utility, telephone, and mail-
service costs and the expenses associated with the maintenance,
operation, and protection of the Institution’s many buildings and
natural areas, the costs of these central administrative and tech-
nical services amounted to only about six percent of the total
operating expenditures of the Institution. Particular care is given
to controlling these costs.

Special areas of emphasis over the past year included the devel-
opment of the Institution’s planning document called the Five-
Year Prospectus; efforts to identify, coordinate, and integrate in-
formation-handling problems; equal opportunity programs con-
cerning the historically black colleges and universities; successful
negotiations of union contracts; strengthening of financial man-
agement controls and accountability; and construction and plan-
ning development of the Museum Support Center and Quadrangle
projects, respectively.

294
Administrative and Support Activities

JOHN F. JAMESON, ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION

At its January 25, 1982, meeting the Board of Regents approved
the Smithsonian’s Five-Year Prospectus, covering the period 1983-
1987, with a look past 1987 for longer-range goals and objectives.
The prospectus, highlighting research, education, and other pub-
lic-service plans as well as necessary attention to security and
the care of collections and facilities, was submitted to the Appro-
priations Committees of Congress with the specific budget request
for 1983. This planning effort, which involves staff in all Smith-
sonian areas, serves to highlight directions and priorities, to sus-
tain action to reach objectives, and to provide a unified overview
of accomplishments and plans to interested persons and organiza-
tions. Work was started on the next cycle of preparation, culmi-
nating in a draft prospectus for 1984-1988 and beyond, and was
submitted for Regents review at the September 20, 1982, meeting.

An Office of Information Resource Management was estab-
lished, and Richard H. Lytle, who had been Smithsonian Institu-
tion Archivist since 1970, was appointed director. This action
recognized the critical importance that word and data processing
have to every aspect of Institutional life. The purpose of this new
office, which incorporates the Office of Computer Services, is to
identify information needs and their relationships, including rela-
tionships to unify the work of bureaus and offices and to provide
solutions to requirements in integrated and cost-effective ways.
In on-going activity, the first steps were taken toward establish-
ment of a Smithsonian-wide local area network for communica-
tions. The network makes possible a number of advances in auto-
mation, opening the possibility of linking computers and other
devices among offices and the central computer. In a related activ-
ity, work continued to develop, essentially on schedule, an inte-
grated computer system for personnel, payroll, equal opportunity,
and budget records. This new system will become operational in
mid-1983. Continued strong support was given to data-handling
projects for research, collections management, and administrative
purposes. Particularly useful were registration and booking sys-

Administration / 295
tems development in support of the Associates and Traveling
Exhibition Services programs.

The new performance appraisal and companion Merit Salary
increase systems concluded their first full year of operation
smoothly, with indication that the new process will contribute to
effective personnel management and to strengthened communica-
tions between managers and employees. The first two available
students under the Institution’s Cooperative Education Program
were employed, and, in addition, about twenty internship appoint-
ments and five faculty fellowships were made, primarily from the
students and staff of the historically black colleges and universi-
ties. Continued attention was given to recruitment and applicant-
selection processes to correct underrepresentation for women,
minorities, and the handicapped. Increased procurements and con-
tracts were awarded to firms in the small, minority, and women-
owned categories.

Union contracts were negotiated with Local 400 of the United
Food and Commercial Workers, for trust employees of the
Museum Shops; Local 2463 of the American Federation of Gov-
ernment Employees, for eligible civil-service employees at Insti-
tution facilities in the United States; and with the National Mari-
time Union, for certain employees of the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute in the Republic of Panama.

The Office of Printing and Photographic Services (opps) com-
pleted construction in May 1982 of an archival cold-storage facil-
ity, which is used to store processed film—both color and black-
and-white—at 45° F and 45 percent RH to insure extended archival
life. At the same time, opps has been converting hazardous nitrate
film onto safety-based materials. During the past twelve months,
approximately 25,000 conversions have been completed. Working
with the Smithsonian Archivist, a new computerized cataloguing
system has been developed for retrieval of photographic images.
It is expected that this catalogue will provide access, which has
never before been possible, to Smithsonian photographic collec-
tions.

Priorities for the Office of Facilities Services included overseeing
the construction of the Museum Support Center and the detailed
architectural and engineering planning and design for the Quad-
rangle development project. Progress was excellent in both of the

296 / Smithsonian Year 1982
major facilities-development areas, with the Support Center sched-
uled for completion on time in early 1983 and Quadrangle plans
and specifications to be ready, for construction bids at that same
time, should funding be available. The office also managed a wide
range of protection, health, saftey, design, construction manage-
ment, and plant maintenance services, performed by its constitu-
ent branches. In addition to meeting successfully the day-to-day
demands of keeping Smithsonian museums and galleries in good
condition—safe, with proper temperature and humidity for the
protection of collections—significant progress was made in a num-
ber of other facilities areas.

During the past year, the Office of Plant Services continued to
expand its Computerized Preventive Maintenance Program in its
effort to provide a highly reliable and efficient physical plant oper-
ation. Special attention was given to adding fire, smoke, and heat
detectors to the system to insure reliability of operation for these
important safety systems. In addition, the Computerized Equip-
ment Monitoring System, which analyzes the operation of various
types of mechanical equipment in major Smiithsonian museums,
continued to be expanded.

In the Office of Protection Services, work continued on the
phased development of a new electronic security and fire-alarm
system to extend to all Smithsonian buildings and to be owned
and operated by the Institution. Computer communications net-
work equipment and software packages have been purchased, and
other software modules are being written. Closed-circuit television
equipment and security sensor devices are being acquired for
installation in the Museum Support Center along with the first
command and control system. Installation is scheduled to begin
in January 1983 and to be completed that summer.

The energy conservation program continues to receive close
attention with the effective participation of program and support
personnel. Comprehensive energy audits of buildings are under-
way, and the Institution has initiated a phased program, through
the Restoration and Renovation of Buildings account, to renovate
heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, and electrical sys-
tems to improve their energy efficiency. Controls for lighting levels
and other heavy users of energy are continuing.

Elsewhere in the administrative area, the word-processing sys-

Administration / 297
tem, set up by the Office of Supply Services to prepare, issue, and
record all procurement and contract transactions, performed very
successfully and has become a model installation for examination
by other organizations. Similarly, the Office of Programming and
Budget extended the use of similar equipment to assist in the
preparation of a wide range of narrative and tabular materials.
Comprehensive federal and trust budgets were prepared for inter-
nal use and for submission to the Office of Management and
Budget and the Congress. Important management surveys were
completed by the Management Analysis Office, which also sus-
tained progress on the large and difficult task of improving the
policies and procedures that govern the Institution’s operations.
The Travel Services Office planned and facilitated national and
international trips in support of research, performances, and
administration.

Financial Management Activities

CHRISTIAN HOHENLOHE, TREASURER

Steady improvement has been realized in financial accountability,
controls, and services. At the direction of the Audit and Review
Committee of the Board of Regents, and to enhance further the
public accountability of the Institution, the annual audit of trust
funds by an independent public-accounting firm was extended this
year to include the federal monies appropriated to the Smith-
sonian. In addition, the Institution’s Federal Accounting Principles
and Standards were reviewed and approved by the General
Accounting Office. To facilitate accounting requirements of the
various bureaus, the number of accounting-service units located
in Smithsonian facilities was increased from five to eight. These
units, linked by computer terminal to the central Accounting
Office, enable expeditious processing of accounting documents and
provide guidance and assistance on financial procedures. Com-
munications and understanding were furthered through seminars
and specialized training on accounting procedures, grants admin-
istration, and risk management concepts, as well as through
expanded financial reports.

298 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Based on a comprehensive study of the Smithsonian banking
system, the Institution has taken steps to simplify, streamline, and
modernize its banking relationships and cash management. Incor-
porating recent advances in banking technology and data-process-
ing applications the number of banking relationships will be
decreased, and investment opportunities for non-appropriated
funds will be maximized. As a part of the active risk manage-
ment, a computerized management-information system, which will
accumulate data on damages and losses to the collections, was
completed this year. This data will allow accurate measurement
of the cost of losses for each fiscal year and suggest ways of pre-
venting future losses. Surveys to identify and eliminate risks were
also conducted in a variety of areas.

Direct responsibility for certain auxiliary activities, including
the Museum Shops, the Mail Order Division, Concessions, and the
Belmont Conference Center, lies with the Business Management
Office. Richard O. Griesel, business manager and director of this
office, resigned his position in June after nine years of distin-
guished service to the Institution. He was succeeded by James J.
Chmelik, formerly director of the Museum Shops.

Reproductions of Smithsonian objects and other products
selected for sale in the Museum Shops and Mail Order catalogues
continue to meet rigorous standards on their relatedness to the
Institution’s collections and activities. This close connection is
highlighted in the catalogues as well as in award-winning displays
in the Museum Shops. Sales, both in the shops and through the
catalogues, were strong, reflecting wide acceptance of Smithsonian
merchandise.

The facilities, formerly operated on a concession basis, were
incorporated within central Smithsonian management; the Smith-
sonian bookstore located in the National Museum of American
History was converted to Museum Shop operation, and the Hirsh-
horn Plaza Cafe is now managed by the Food Service Department,
established in 1980.

During the year, a contract was entered into for sale of a large
tract of the land attached to the Belmont Conference Center to the
State of Maryland for addition to Patapsco State Park. A further
contract was signed to sell the house, outbuildings and remaining
surrounding acreage, subject to restrictive covenants, to the Ameri-

Administration / 299
can Chemical Society, which intends to continue conference cen-
ter operations. Final settlement of both sales is expected by the
end of 1982.

Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities

MARGARET A. SANTIAGO, CHAIRPERSON

The Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council (stwc) continues to
keep management informed on issues that affect the women of the
Institution. Through its programs during the year, the council has
focused attention on information processing and its effects on the
role of women and other office workers. The council sponsored
three tours of the “Paperless Office’ at the Department of Trans-
portation, a three-hour seminar on “How Automation Can Benefit
You,” and a panel discussion entitled “The Changing Role of
Women in the Office.” A financial education program was also
presented in the form of “An Investment-Planning Workshop.”

The council has also been very active during the year in further-
ing the realization of a Day Care Center at the Smithsonian. A
roundtable discussion was held with eight Day Care Center direc-
tors from the local community. A preliminary space design was
prepared by the Office of Design and Construction.

The Women’s Council has put forth great efforts during the
year to attract the attention of all women employees. Volunteers
in support of stwc programs have made all efforts worthwhile.

300 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Smithsonian Year » 1982

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

JAMES MCK. SYMINGTON,
DIRECTOR

Office of Development

The Smithsonian’s Quadrangle Center for African, Near Eastern
and Asian Cultures has been the major focus for the Office. The
director has traveled to the Far East, seeking support in Japan,
Hong Kong, and the Philippines; the assistant secretary for
Museum Programs visited Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, and the
United Arab Emirates on a similar mission. The director has
worked closely with the consulting firm of Brakeley, John Price
Jones and its representative, Richard Stainbrook, who is campaign
director, as well as with William Anderson, former national board
chairman and chairman of the Quadrangle Campaign Committee.
Under the Secretary’s leadership, the campaign has achieved nearly
75 percent of the $37.5 million goal, which is to be matched from
federal appropriations for the Quadrangle construction. The cam-
paign will, of course, continue through 1983, with every expecta-
tion of a successful conclusion.

At the same time, the office has continued its essential activities
in gaining support for the various Smithsonian bureaus and their
needs for private funding of exhibitions, acquisitions, research,
education, and other programs. The availability of the Thomas M.
Evans Gallery for special exhibitions at the National Museum of
Natural History has created new demands for private support of
exhibitions there, many of them productions of the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sires). Sires itself is

301
expanding its activities to include more international exhibitions,
the first of which, American Impressionists, received major support
from the Joe and Barbara Allbritton Foundation and Pepsico Inter-
national. Its April opening in Paris at the Petit Palais served as a
focal point for the spring meeting there of the National Associate
Board.

This has been a challenging year, therefore, for the Develop-
ment Office, involved as it is in the Smithsonian’s first major
capital campaign for the Quadrangle, as well as in maintaining its
traditional role of serving the funding needs of all the bureaus
of the Smithsonian.

Further complicating the business of development have been the
state of the national economy and the president’s pressure on the
private sector to fill the gaps in social and human services no
longer supported by government. These demands have resulted in
enormous new competition—which is likely to characterize the
balance of this decade—for corporate, foundation, and individual
contributions toward the arts, culture, research, and education.

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

Under the continuing chairmanship of James M. Kemper, Jr., the
board has maintained its positive interest in the Smithsonian and
the Associate programs. Most especially has this been so in sup-
port of the Quadrangle Center for African, Near Eastern and
Asian Cultures. As of September 1982, personal gifts of board
members to the Quadrangle amount to $1.4 million, and it is
expected that this support will eventually exceed $2 million.

The Regents meeting in May saw the first attendance of sev-
eral National Associates Board (NAB) members, including the
chairman, at one of their meetings. It proved a good opportunity
for these two groups to explore ideas to advance the progress of
the Quadrangle.

New members elected to the NAB in 1982 were Mr. David
Coffin, Mrs. Brooks McCormick, Mr. Arjay Miller, Mr. Arthur
Altschul, Mr. Malcolm Stamper, Mrs. Joseph Allbritton, Mrs.

302 / Smithsonian Year 1982
George Seignious, and Mrs. Parker Hart (Chairman of the
Women’s Committee).

Board meetings were held in Washington in autumn 1981 and
in Paris in spring 1982. The Paris meeting was held in conjunction
with the Institution’s opening of the sires exhibition, American
Impressionism. Following the meeting, the board visited museums
and other cultural institutions in Lugano and Provence.

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates

Once again, the net proceeds of the annual Christmas Ball, spon-
sored by the Women’s Committee, provided support for a number
of worthwhile projects of various Smithsonian bureaus, offices, or
departments. Selecting from among forty-nine projects submitted
by twenty-four organizations, the committee awarded eleven
grants, which helped make possible the following activities: the
Free Film Theater of the Resident Associate Program; renovation
of the Frederick Douglass Room at the National Museum of
African Art; the Amelia Earhart Symposium of the National Air
and Space Museum; the Thomas M. Evans Gallery exhibition,
inua revealed: the spirit world of the bering sea eskimo; audio-
visual equipment for the National Zoological Park; a public-school
exhibition for Cooper-Hewitt; the Family Learning Project of the
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies; mobile infor-
mation units for the Visitors Information and Reception Center; a
secondary-school publication, Of Kayaks and Ulus, for the Office
of Elementary and Secondary Education; and, for the Office of
Museum Programs, a videotape, “Techniques in the Care of Rare
Books and Flat Papers.”

During the year, the Women’s Committee decided to sponsor
yet another major fund-raising program, which, like the Christmas
Ball, would become an annual event. This is to be the Washington
Craft Show, patterned after other such shows in Philadelphia,
Baltimore, and other cities across the country. It will take place
May 5-8, 1983, in the Departmental Auditorium on Constitution
Avenue. Chairman of the subcommittee of the Women’s Com-

Membership and Development / 303
mittee for this project and show director is Mrs. Robert Gray; she
and her committee are well on their way toward making this
important endeavor a great success next year and in subsequent
years as well.

Finally, it is expected that the East Garden, between the Arts
and Industries Building and the Hirshhorn Museum on Jefferson
Drive, will be formally opened to the public in early summer 1983.
This will be the culmination of dedicated efforts by the Women’s
Committee to create an attractive new feature in that portion of
the Mall, stemming from the committee’s major contributions
toward its design and construction in 1978 and 1979.

The James Smithson Society

The James Smithson Society, the highest level of the Contributing
Membership Program, grew to a new total of 364 members—
184 Annual Members and 180 Life Members. No new Life Mem-
bers were admitted in the Society this year.

Since the Society’s inception in 1977, it has granted nearly $1
million in support of projects and acquisitions throughout the
Institution. This year, through the contributions of Annual Mem-
bers, the society funded the preservation of the Juley Collection, a
photographic archive of numerous works of art, for the National
Museum of American Art as well as funds for the construction
of a combination recreation area, wildlife trail, telescope platform,
and information center at the Whipple Observatory, Mt. Hopkins,
Arizona. Monies were also provided for the development of a
learning exhibition on the techniques of sculpture to be produced
by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. The
Smithsonian Institution Libraries received funds to purchase a
rare book, Illustrations of the American Ornithology of Alexander
Wilson and Charles Lucian Bonaparte, by Thomas Brown. And
finally, the society, for the third year, has given $40,000 toward
the construction of the Educational Center within the Quadrangle
development.

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the gen-
erous support of the members of the James Smithson Society.

304 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Smithsonian National Associate Program

Since its inception in 1970, the Smithsonian National Associate
Program (snap), in cooperation with other Smithsonian bureaus,
has provided innovative educational opportunities for Smithsonian
Associates throughout the nation. Through Smithsonian magazine,
members join activities that increase their awareness of the Insti-
tution and encourage additional support for its work.

The four units that currently comprise the National Associate
Program offer benefits to Associates in a variety of ways, all of
which are directed toward increasing members’ personal involve-
ment with the life of the Smithsonian.

The Selected Studies Program invites Associates to Washington,
D.C., for intensive, week-long seminars, during which lectures,
field trips, and films provide members with an in-depth under-
standing of topics as diverse as American Impressionism and Air-
craft Restoration.

The Regional Events Program serves Associates by presenting
lectures, workshops, and seminars in their home communities.
Smithsonian curators and scientists describe their work to Asso-
ciates in programs that visit ten cities of various sizes and various
distances from Washington each year. The events are cosponsored
by local museums, universities, and cultural organizations.

Members who participate in the Associates Travel Program
share educational experiences with Smithsonian study leaders as
they travel throughout the world. Under the expert guidance of
scholars, Associates visit domestic and foreign destinations and
learn about the unique features of these areas.

The Contributing Membership Program provides members with
an opportunity to contribute to the unrestricted funds of the
Institution in five levels of membership. In return, Contributing
Members receive a variety of benefits, including publications
related to the work of the Institution and invitations to special
events and behind-the-scenes tours of the museums.

In 1982, snap continued to increase the services to its members
as it encouraged private support for the Institution. Inherent in
the approach of the program is an emphasis on four themes: edu-
cational pursuits, member participation, public awareness, and

Membership and Development / 305
at
sa ee i lis

Smithsonian National Associates pose with faculty and students at the
Szechuan Provincial Opera Arts School, Chengdu, People’s Republic of China.

cooperation with Smithsonian bureaus and like-minded organiza-
tions nationwide.

EDUCATIONAL PURSUITS

In Washington, across the country, and abroad, Smithsonian Asso-
ciates joined their fellow members in a wide range of activities
that demonstrate the Institution’s varied research interests. The
Selected Studies Program offered sixteen seminars this year, includ-
ing “Quilting: Traditional to Modern,” “Post Impressionist Mas-
ters,” and “Religions of the Far East.” “The New Astronomies”
was the first seminar held at a Smithsonian research facility out-
side Washington, D.C. Eighty-eight Associate members traveled to
Tucson, Arizona, to participate in the activities led by Smithsonian
scientists from the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory and their
colleagues from the University of Arizona and Kitt Peak National
Observatory. The program combined lectures and films with tours
of the area’s most advanced astrophysical facilities.

Participants in Domestic Study Tours explored the northern
forests and waterways of the Pacific Northwest, Isle Royale, and
Minnesota’s North Shore. Others spent a week in residence at
the Colorado Outdoor Education Center, where instructors cov-
ered topics from wildflowers and birds of the Colorado Rockies
to astronomy and fossil hunting.

Associates gained a greater understanding and appreciation of
the fragile ecosystem of south Florida during their week-long stay
in Everglades National Parks; they learned about Colorado’s fasci-
nating mining and railroad history from local historians and pro-
fessors; and they traveled to Savannah, Charleston, Boston, and
Philadelphia to experience, firsthand, architectural history and the
cultural heritage of these cities. Each of the thirty-five domestic
tours provided orientation lectures and on-site discussions led by
local experts.

Associates traveling abroad chose from forty-four sea- and land-
based itineraries. Aboard the tall ship Sea Cloud, they sailed
through the Leeward and Windward islands to learn about Carib-
bean cultural and natural history. They cruised the Rhine River
from Basel to Arnheim, or explored the historic cities surrounding
the Adriatic and Red Seas. Museum curators and historians pro-
vide shipboard lectures and led walking tours through various

Membership and Development / 307

ports of call. New land-based destinations for the Foreign Study
Program included tours of Peru’s legendary archaeological sites,
the art and architecture of Belgium and Holland, and a two-week
countryside visit to England’s picturesque Cotswolds region.

The China Program expanded to fourteen departures this year.
Associates toured Tibet, climbed the sacred peaks of Taishan and
Emeishan, and followed the Eastern Silk Route across the steppe
region of Central Asia. The Associates Travel Program success-
fully completed its most ambitious plan to date: a thirty-seven-day
rail journey from Paris to Beijing in the company of Sino and
Soviet experts.

The Regional Events Program traveled to Oshkosh, Wisconsin;
Gainesville, Florida; Columbus and Cincinnati, Ohio; Boise, Idaho;
Spokane, Washington; Nashville, Tennessee; Santa Barbara, Cali-
fornia; and Tulsa, Oklahoma City, and Norman, Oklahoma, bring-
ing 132 events to Associates in their home communities. In coop-
eration with eighty-two local cosponsoring organizations and
two national cosponsors, the Regional Events staff developed new
programs that reflect current Smithsonian research and comple-
ment local interests.

A lecture, by Adrienne Kaeppler of the National Museum of
Natural History (NMNu), at the Cincinnati Museum of Natural His-
tory on Oceanic art, focused attention on the opening of the
museum’s major exhibition of the Fleischman collection of Mela-
nesian artifacts. Smithsonian Fellow Don Fowler presented sem-
inars on historic preservation in Cincinnati and Spokane. Preserva-
tion groups in each city enhanced his presentations with walking
tours of historic areas. Other first-time events were “WWII
Aviation: A Closer Look,” by Donald Lopez, National Air and
Space Museum (nasm), “Worksongs, Playsongs, Spirituals and
Blues,” by Bernice Reagon, Division of Performing Arts (ppa), and
“Margaret Mead: A Personal Reminiscence,” by Wilton Dillon,
Office of Symposia and Seminars.

Fourteen special events were arranged for Contributing Mem-
bers during the year, including an evening with David Atten-
borough, who previewed portions of his award-winning BBC tele-
vision series Life on Earth, and a special evening-viewing of the
Renwick exhibition Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. In
recognition of their support for the Institution, members received

308 / Smithsonian Year 1982
copies of Mr. Attenborough’s best-selling book as well as two
other Smithsonian-related publications. Sustaining Members ($500
category) were invited to a curatorial tour through the Frances
and Sidney Lewis collection of contemporary art at the Lewis
residence and Best Company headquartered in Richmond, Virginia.

PARTICIPATION

New educational benefits offered by snap attracted thousands of
Associates who had not participated previously in the Selected
Studies, Associates Travel, and Regional Events activities. The
over-all response to the Selected Studies offerings, as in the past,
was excellent. More than double the anticipated number enrolled
in the quilting seminar, and the ““New Astronomies” program was
repeated to meet the unexpected demand.

Foreign and domestic study tours also continued to show strong
enrollments, with about one-third of the travelers returning for
additional Smithsonian tours. More than 3,175 Associates traveled
on eighty-two domestic-study and foreign-study tours. Many of
the China programs, as well as other Associates tours were filled
four to six months prior to departure. The Washington “Anytime”
program was enjoyed by 3,200 Associates who wanted to visit the
Smithsonian for a weekend.

The Regional Events Program invited more than 200,000 Asso-
ciates and local members to events in the host cities of 1982. The
majority of events were fully booked, and additional sessions were
scheduled when requests exceeded available space. Participation in
forty-five in-depth seminars—a program format introduced in
1980— increased by fifty percent this year.

Eighteen thousand Associates are now Contributing Members,
a twenty-four percent increase in the past year. The most signifi-
cant growth was recorded in the Donor ($100) Membership cate-
gory, which increased by fifty-five percent in 1982. Unrestricted
funds for the Smithsonian, provided by the five categories of
Contributing Members (Supporting, Donor, Sponsoring, Sustain-
ing, and the James Smithson Society), along with the Corporate
Matching and Annual Giving revenues, increased by twenty-six
percent over 1981.

In May, 250 Contributing Members in Santa Barbara were
invited to a gem-appreciation seminar, led by Paul Desautels

Membership and Development / 309
(NMNH), and a reception in their honor at the Santa Barbara
Museum of Natural History during the Regional Events series.
The Associates Travel Program cooperated with Regional Events
to plan Washington, D.C., tours for members from organizations
that had been host for Smithsonian programs. These included the
Rochester Museum and Science Center, the California Academy of
Sciences, and the Colorado Historical Society. Behind-the-scenes
tours and meetings with curators were arranged to meet the special
interests of these membership groups.

PUBLIC AWARENESS

The services provided to national members this year drew increas-
ing attention from the media, creating a greater awareness among
the general public of Smithsonian activities. Lecturers traveling
with the Regional Events Program were invited to describe their
research interests on twenty-eight TV and radio broadcasts in this
year’s host cities. Local newspapers highlighted the series in sixty
feature articles.

In Columbus, Ohio, the Regional Events Program collaborated
with Warner Amex Cable Communications, Inc., and was assisted
by the Office of Telecommunications in the production of five
half-hour cable-television lectures: ““The Continental Puzzle: A
Look at Plate Tectonics,” by Richard Fiske (nmNnu); “Nature’s
Lights Beneath the Sea,” by Clyde Roper (NMNu); ‘George Bellows:
Boy Wonder of American Art,” by Margaret Christman, National
Portrait Gallery (npc); “Beyond the Ocean, Beneath a Leaf,” by
Kjell Sandved (NMNH); and “Of Myth and Men: The American
Presidency,” by Marc Pachter (nrc). The series, entitled Smith-
sonian Profiles, has been scheduled for cablecast on Warner-
Amex stations in Columbus, Cincinnati, Houston, Pittsburgh,
Dallas, suburban St. Louis, and suburban Chicago. Following each
cablecast, viewers will be given a toll-free number to request infor-
mation about the Smithsonian and its Associate membership.

The Selected Studies Program once again enjoyed extensive
national media attention. Articles and notices describing seminars
appeared in special-interest publications such as Antiques, Antiques
Monthly, Art and Antiques, Flying Machine, AOPA Pilot, Asia
Mail, and Quilters Newsletter Magazine. Articles by participants

310 / Smithsonian Year 1982
have also appeared in local and national publications, including
Model Airplane News.

Corporate interest in Smithsonian activities was stimulated by
the Contributing Membership’s Matching Gift Program. In 1982
over fifty corporations made pledges to match or exceed the dona-
tions of employees who are currently Contributing Members. This
represents more than double the amount raised in 1981. The
Matching Gift Program, still in its early stages, is expected to
become a major source of revenues in the coming years.

Newspapers and magazines carried articles about or by partici-
pants in domestic and foreign study tours. Some Associates have
developed regular lecture circuits to civic, corporate, and education
groups.

COOPERATION

Cooperation with SI bureaus continues to be the essence of success
for the program. Staff members travel with the Regional Events,
Domestic Study, and Foreign Study programs, and participate in
Selected Studies and Contributing Membership activities.

Thirty-five representatives from eleven bureaus joined the Re-
gional Events series in 1982. While traveling, curators and scien-
tists often further their research interests and confer with col-
leagues throughout the country. David Pawson and Clyde Roper
(NMNH) visited and conducted research at the Smithsonian field
station in Fort Pierce, Florida, after they lectured to Associates in
Gainesville. In Cincinnati and Santa Barbara, Howard Fox (Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden) met with artists currently
working in new creative directions. Following his programs in
Boise and Spokane, George Venable (NMNH) traveled to Portland
and Seattle to lead professional seminars for the Guild of Scien-
tific Illustrators. Herman Viola (NMNH) participated in the Native
American Archives Project workshop during the Regional Events
in Norman, Oklahoma.

The Visitors Information and Associates Reception Center
(vrarc) provided docent-led tours of the Castle each Sunday for
participants in the Washington “Anytime” Weekend. Beginning
in 1982, a Washington “Anytime” brochure was included in infor-
mation packets mailed to those who requested information from
the viarc. To help promote attendance at Smithsonian Performing

Membership and Development / 311
Arts events, Washington “Anytime” Weekend participants re-
ceived with their confirming letters a list of coming performances.

A number of curators helped with weekend programs at the
Smithsonian, including Paul Desautels, John White, and Pete Dunn
in the “All About Gems Weekend.” John Falk and staff at the
Chesapeake Bay Center introduced their facilities on the bay to
Associates.

Staff members with expertise in foreign and domestic areas
were invited to accompany several trips this year. Gus Van Beek
(NMNH) joined members for the ‘“Red Sea Odyssey” and offered
lectures on ancient Egypt and Jordan as members toured Petra,
Luxor, and the Valley of the Kings. Julia Murray (Freer Gallery of
Art) served as study leader for an Associates tour to northern
China, and Predoctoral Fellow David Steadman (NMNH) led mem-
bers through the Galapagos Islands. Domestic study programs
down the Salmon River and through Desolation and Gray Canyons
were led by Von Del Chamberlain (Nasm). William Melson (NMNH)
accompanied Associates through the Grand Canyon.

Walter Boyne (NAsM) coordinated Selected Studies’ ‘Aircraft
Restoration” seminar, which combined lectures by Boyne and
Donald Lopez (Nasm) with tours of the Paul H. Garber Facility
led by staff members. Martin Amt, William T. Chase III, and Julia
Murray led tours of the Freer Gallery collections and conservation
facilities for participants in seminars on Chinese ceramics, Eastern
religions, and Chinese cultural history. Members who attended
the quilting seminar enjoyed the opportunity to view the Smith-
sonian’s collection of American quilts during small group visits
coordinated by Doris Bowman (NMAH).

By making an advance commitment to purchase a Smithsonian
book and an exhibition catalogue each year as benefits for its
members, the Contributing Membership Program has helped make
possible the development and printing of a number of Smithsonian
museum publications. In 1982, Contributing Members across the
country received the catalogue published for the Natural History
Museum’s exhibition inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo.
Members were invited to a specially arranged preview of this exhi-
bition. The National Museum of American Art (NMAA) and Wash-
ington’s Harry Lunn Gallery also collaborated with the Contribut-
ing Membership Program to offer members “An Evening with

312 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Berenice Abbott” to mark the opening of nmaa’s exhibition of
Ms. Abbott’s photographic works. Other special activities for
Contributing Members were arranged throughout 1982 in coopera-
tion with most Smithsonian museums.

Snap is dedicated to the belief that learning should be an enjoy-
able lifelong pursuit for everyone, and that the national museums
and research organizations of the Smithsonian Institution will
continue to make a valuable contribution to this learning process.

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program (srap)—the private,
self-supporting membership and continuing-education arm of the
Smithsonian Institution for metropolitan Washington, D.C.—is
considered a model for museum membership and education pro-
grams both nationally and internationally. Established in 1965 by
Secretary Ripley to provide opportunities for those who live in the
Washington area to participate actively in the life of the Smith-
sonian, the program offers an extensive range of educational activi-
ties that complements and enhances the exhibitions, collections,
and research of the Institution.

Resident Associates represent a broad cross-section of the greater
Washington community. Membership has grown from 8,000 with
a retention rate in excess of fifty percent in 1972, to more than
52,000, with a retention rate of over seventy-six percent in
1982—including more than 110,000 persons in the Washington
Metropolitan area. The program also provides full membership
benefits and support to over 3,000 Contributing Members residing
in the Washington metropolitan area and limited benefits to over
17,000 Contributing Members living elsewhere in the U.S. and
abroad. During fiscal year 1982, the program offered 904 activities
attended by 95,000 persons.

Self-supporting since 1972, the program fully reimburses the
Institution for office space, computer and audio-visual support,
labor and guard service, and administrative overhead (over

Membership and Development / 313
$500,000 in fiscal year 1982). In addition, the program generates
a modest annual surplus that is transferred to the unrestricted
funds of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN COOPERATION

The program’s primary focus continues to be planning activities
that enhance popular appreciation of Smithsonian exhibitions,
collections, curatorial research, and special activities. During fiscal
year 1982, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (HMsG)
and the srap formed a special affiliation to cosponsor annual lec-
tures and symposia. In celebration of the opening of the Hirsh-
horn’s newly redesigned Sculpture Garden, eminent art historian
Daniel Robbins lectured on the concept of a twentieth-century
sculpture garden. In an evening dialogue, Hmsc Director Abram
Lerner, who was a Work Project Administration (wpa) artist, and
art historian Milton Brown recalled the life of the wea artists
during the depression days of the 1930s.

In recognition of Raphael Soyer’s recent contribution of his life’s
work in graphics to the msc in honor of Abram Lerner, the srar
commissioned an original self-portrait lithograph by this Ameri-
can “old master.”” An artist’s proof of the lithograph was donated
to the umsc by the srap and was included in the Hirshhorn show,
Raphael Soyer: 65 Years of Printmaking. Artist’s proofs were also
donated to the National Gallery of Art (nca), National Museum of
American Art (NMAA), National Portrait Gallery (Npc), and the
Smithsonian Institution Castle Building, in honor of the James
Smithson Society, of which Mr. Soyer is a Life Member. In con-
nection with this exhibition and the concurrent Soyer Since 1960,
a dialogue was presented between Raphael Soyer and Abram
Lerner ranging over the artist’s prodigiously productive life.

The opening of the reconstructed Dinosaur Hall in the National
Museum of Natural History (NMNH) provided the occasion for an
all-day seminar on the dinosaur epoch by four eminent scientisis,
including Nicholas Hotton, curator of Paleobiology. Two evening
extravaganzas on dinosaurs—embellished with dinosaur songs,
puppetry, ballons, art, and cookies—were staged for young people
and their families. Another nmnu exhibition, inua: spirit world of
the bering sea eskimos, served as the stimulus for an all-day
seminar exploring Eskimo art with internationally eminent anthro-

314 / Smithsonian Year 1982
pologists and art historians, including William Fitzhugh, curator
of North American Archaeology.

The srap responded to the Institution-wide celebration of the
centennial of Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s birth with a variety of
activities. An all-day seminar examining FDR as a politician and
statesman was organized with leading Roosevelt scholars from
across the country. Guitar-playing songwriter Joe Glazer presented
a concert of political and social songs of the Roosevelt era. A
course, organized by Nathan Reingold, editor, Joseph Henry
Papers, examining the home front in World War II featured re-
spected economist John Kenneth Galbraith, who was assistant
administrator of the Office of Price Administration in the Roose-
velt administration. Tours were offered of the National Museum
of American History (NMAH) exhibition on FDR and the HMsG wpa
show. The Free Film Theater screened eight films on FDR, the
New Deal, and the war years.

The program observed another national landmark, the two-
hundred-fiftieth birthday of George Washington, with gala open-
ings of the nmaun’s exhibition George Washington: A Figure Upon
the Stage. A participatory course, teaching eighteenth-century
dances, was also offered in connection with the exhibition, and
students demonstrated their dance accomplishments at the exhibi-
tion’s opening.

In connection with the exhibition Berenice Abbott: the ’20s and
‘30s, at the NMAH, the srap presented a special evening with the
renowned American photographer Berenice Abbott, in dialogue
with Barbara Shissler Nosanow, curator of the exhibition. The
program also presented a lecture on the new book on Arshile
Gorky, by Harry Rand, nmaa curator of Twentieth Century Paint-
ing, and a lecture on the sculpture of Frederic Remington, by
Michael Shapiro, guest curator of the nmaa exhibition Cast and
Recast: the Sculpture of Frederic Remington.

The nca’s major exhibition, El Greco of Toledo, served as the
stimulus for three well-attended lectures by Jonathan Brown, dis-
tinguished art historian and author of the catalogue, providing a
new interpretation of El Greco’s work. A course on the Spanish
people, their traditions, art, and music was also planned around
the exhibition in collaboration with the Embassy of Spain. In
addition, fifteen tours of the exhibition were offered and filled.

Membership and Development / 315
To celebrate the Renwick Gallery’s tenth birthday, the program
commissioned—at the suggestion of Renwick Director Lloyd Her-
man—a poster reproduction of the festive and visually appealing
1979 Wayne Thiebaud painting, California Cakes. The poster was
donated to the nmaa, the HMsc, and the Renwick Gallery.

In conjunction with the major exhibition, Of Time and Place,
organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (strEs) and the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the srap presented
a film series focusing on American times and places central to our
national identity. An all-day seminar, examining the visions cf
everyday life in America created by artists and photographers
from the early nineteenth century through World War II, was also
offered in connection with this exhibition.

During the year, the program organized several successful courses
in collaboration with the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars, examining U.S. defense policies in the 1980s, issues
in U.S. power projection in East Asia, and current nuclear con-
cerns. Another popular course was offered by Smithsonian Regents
Fellow G. Ledyard Stebbins, on the timely topic of evolution:
chemical, human, and cultural. Michael Quick, organizer of the
major NPG exhibition, American, Portraiture in the Grand Manner:
1720-1920, lectured on the significant historical role played by
formal portraiture in American painting in conjunction with the
show. Associates were offered study tours of all major Smithsonian
museum shows throughout the year.

The srap’s director participated in three workshops under the
auspices of the Office of Museum Programs, and the associate
director conducted a two-day seminar on museum membership for
the Virginia Association of Museums.

COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND CONSORTIA

The srap works closely with civic, cultural, and educational insti-
tutions in the Washington area to present activities that address
current issues and are open to the public as well as to members.
The program also supports local cultural and outdoor sporting
festivals and city-wide projects, and commemorates civic observ-
ances with appropriate programming.

For the ninth consecutive year, the program presented the Audu-
bon Lecture Series in cosponsorship with the Audubon Naturalist

316 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Society and the Friends of the National Zoo. This year’s double
series was sold out.

In March the program, in cooperation with the Washington
Metropolitan Chapter of the American Institute of Architects,
presented a unique four-part architectural design seminar that
provided a forum for the study and application of basic design
principles to a specific site in D.C.—Eighth Street, N.W.—between
the Mount Vernon Square Library and the nmaa.

In a spring term course, “Conversations on the City,” Washing-
ton architects, planners, preservationists, critics, and government
officials—including Mayor Marion Barry, architect Arthur Cotton
Moore, and J. Carter Brown, chairman, Commission of Fine Arts
and director, NcA—joined in discussion and debate on fundamental
issues affecting the quality of life in the nation’s capital. A winter
course on “Titans of Typography” was organized in cooperation
with the Art Directors Club of Metropolitan Washington, and a
spring course featuring internationally known interior designers
was planned in conjunction with the American Society of Interior
Designers. A summer course exploring new directions in publica-
tion design was offered in cooperation with the National Associa-
tion of Government Communicators to consider new ways of
creating innovative, cost-effective publications.

In observance of Black History Month in February, the program
offered a lecture by Joseph Harris, a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and
former chairman of the Department of History at Howard Univer-
sity, examining the 1,500-year story of the global African diaspora.
A tour that encompassed the Corcoran Gallery of Art’s exhibition
Black Folk Art in America, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum,
and the Mary McLeod Bethune Museum sampled the wealth and
diversity of Washington’s black legacy.

Saluting the Caribbean/American Intercultural Organization’s
annual Caribbean Independence Week, the program offered its
sixth consecutive Caribbean Gala, featuring Jamaican, Trinidadian,
and Haitian dances and traditional Cuban music.

As has been the practice of the program for the past ten years,
tuition-free scholarships were awarded to innercity young people
and adults to attend courses of their choice. Through the D.C.
Public School System, ninety-seven youngsters received full schol-
arships to attend Young Associate classes in fiscal year 1982, and

Membership and Development / 317
137 scholarships were awarded to adults, high-school students,
and Smithsonian docents to attend the program’s adult courses.
The srap received funding from the Rouse Company for seed
money to plan the presentation of educational and cultural activi-
ties—primarily crafts/lecture demonstrations—at the company’s
Columbia and White Marsh malls. This local program outreach
would be related to activities now conducted by the Resident
Associate Program at the Smithsonian, but would also be especially
designed for mall shoppers.

NATIONAL CONCERNS

The Resident Associate Program occupies a prominent position in
the continuing education field, among universities as well as in
the museum world. Resident Associate staff members are active in
the National University Continuing Education Association, as well
as in the American Association of Museums. Janet W. Solinger,
the program’s director, consults regularly in education, program-
ming, and membership for museums, art centers, and institutions
of higher learning throughout the country and abroad. She also
serves on many boards of cultural institutions. This year, Ms. Sol-
inger was instrumental in obtaining a three-year grant of over
$1 million for the Institution from the W. R. Kellogg Foundation
of Battle Creek, Michigan. As a result of this grant, the Smith-
sonian will launch a three-year national program to improve and
expand the educational role of museums in society. Ms. Solinger
will serve as senior advisor for the grant.

INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

The program was active in several different international arenas
during the year. The Netherlands-American Bicentennial, for
which Ms. Solinger served as national vice-chairperson for Cul-
ture and Publications, celebrated 200 years of unbroken diplomatic
relations between the two countries. An array of activities marked
the celebration, including a film series, organized by the srap, that
was shown in D.C. before traveling to eight other key cities in the
U.S., an all-day seminar on the art of the De Stijl movement, and
the presentation of the dada play The Ephemeral is Eternal at the
uMmsG. A course and a lecture were offered on the golden age of

318 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Resident Associates pause outside a historic house in Rockville, Maryland,
on a walking tour of the town’s historic district.

A member of the First Maryland Regiment (left) shows a Young Associate
his rifle, following the Regiment’s performance “From Reveille to Tattoo,”
sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Associates Program.

Dutch painting, as well as a course on the art of Jan Vermeer, and
tours were arranged of the De Stijl exhibition at the umscG and
the Dutch masters show at the nea. Films on Rembrandt were
screened, Dutch games and stories were organized for young
people, and a workshop on Dutch lace was offered. In addition,
the sraP was responsible for the design and printing of the elegant
poster reproduction of Larry Rivers’ exquisite painting, Rainbow
Rembrandt I, which was published in commemoration of The
Netherlands—American Bicentennial.

The Centennial celebration of the birth of Kemal Atatiirk was
recognized with the presentation of an all-day scholarly seminar
on ancient Anatolian civilizations, in collaboration with the Office
of the Ambassador for Turkish Affairs, Turkish Republic. Another
centennial celebration, that of U.S./Korean relations, was observed
with a course examining the past, present, and future relationship
between South Korea and America.

Throughout the year, the program cooperated with several
Washington embassies to enhance appreciation and understanding
of foreign cultures. The annual Christmas entertainment of the
British Embassy Players was performed at the Smithsonian under
Resident Associate auspices, and courses were offered in coopera-
tion with the embassies of Australia, Portugal, Spain, and Turkey.

PROBLEMS AND INNOVATIONS

The impact of the recession has been felt by the program during
the year and probably bears some responsibility for a slight drop
in membership, both in retention and new membership figures.
Attendance at activties was high, and program expenses, while
rising, have not increased as dramatically in fiscal year 1982 as in
the two previous years. Income objectives were surpassed.

A totally new on-line computerized membership record system
was developed and became operational during the year. With this
system, new memberships and changes in existing membership
records are instantly recorded, expediting processing of such items
as membership cards, renewal notices, newsletter and magazine
mailings, and changes of address. The new system was designed
and developed by Office of Computer Services and Resident Asso-
ciate staff to meet the unique needs of the program.

320 / Smithsonian Year 1982
SPECIAL EVENTS: FILMS, SEMINARS, SYMPOSIA,
LECTURES, PERFORMING ARTS

The special events component of the program enables members to
enjoy a wide variety of one-time cultural experiences through lec-
tures, films, performing arts, seminars, and symposia. During fiscal
year 1982, 149 special events, directed toward the arts, humanities,
and sciences, were attended by over 59,000 people.

Films

More than 16,000 persons attended srap films this year. IMAX
films on Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, a festival celebrating the
outstanding films of Alec Guinness, and the historical films of
Roberto Rossellini were among the year’s highlights. A scholar in
the field introduced each film or series.

The Free Film Theater—which is sponsored by the Women’s
Committee of the Smithsonian and the Office of Public Service,
as well as by srap—a weekly series of documentaries open to the
public, screened fifty films. The film, “Birds of the Indian Mon-
soon,” by internationally acclaimed wildlife cinematographers Stan-
ley and Belinda Breeden, was shown at a special screening intro-
duced by Secretary Ripley. Additionally, the program presented the
United States public premiere of a new film produced by the Office
of Telecommunications, “In Open Air: A Portrait of the American
Impressionists.”

Seminars and Symposia

Seventeen intensive day-long seminars and symposia exploring
Imperial Russian palaces, the art and music of Venice, Edwardian
England, the natural and cultural history of Wales, 4.5 billion years
of rocks, and the world of medieval Europe constituted a major
component of the program.

Lectures

Among the year’s notable speakers were portraitist Alice Neel,
photographer Berenice Abbott, art historian Dore Ashton, comedy
writer Robert Orben, artist/painter/filmmaker Red Grooms, realist
painter Raphael Soyer, and film critic John Simon. In addition,

Membership and Development / 321
Participants in srAp-sponsored activities

during the past year include (clockwise
from upper right): portraitist Alice Neel,
architect Romaldo Giurgola, Roosevelt
scholar William E. Leuchtenburg, art
historian Dore Ashton, film and drama
critic John Simon, and Smithsonian Re-
gents Fellow G. Ledyard Stebbins.

lectures exploring subjects as diverse as the fourth dimension,
computer animation, and sinking of the Titanic, recent excavations
at Petra, Ice Age art, and Saturn’s rings were offered by distin-
guished experts.

Performing Arts

Sunday brunch concerts are a regular feature of the annual pro-
gram, September through May. This past season, for the third
consecutive year, demand necessitated two schedulings of pianist
John Eaton’s American popular music series. Summer outdoor
concerts in the courtyard of the National Museum of American
Art/National Portrait Gallery—featuring outstanding jazz, Dixie-
land, and bluegrass groups—continued to attract large audiences.
The rich tradition of the art of mime was discussed and demon-
strated in a special evening with Mark Thompson, veteran of the
internationally acclaimed Swiss mime troupe, Mummenschanz.
The annual Caribbean Gala, sponsored in collaboration with the
Caribbean/American Intercultural Organization, was a sell-out pro-
duction. A total of 8,090 persons registered for the program’s
limited number of performing arts events.

ADULT COURSES

Through a broad-based curriculum in the arts, sciences, and hu-
manities, the adult courses segment of the program provides
opportunities for serious study with distinguished Smithsonian and
visiting scholars. During fiscal year 1982, 169 lecture courses were
offered, attended by 8,325 students, which set a new record for
Resident Associate enrollment—up thirteen percent over the previ-
ous year. Among the best-attended courses of the year, attracting
some 1,300 persons, were ‘“The Emerging Solar Home,” “Masters
of Portrait Photography,” “Titans of Typography,” “Basic Com-
puter Literacy,” and “Archaeology and the Old Testament World.”

During the year there was increased emphasis on presenting
courses that probed the latest developments in science and tech-
nology, such as practical applications of recombinant DNA tech-
nology, or gene splicing, and topics in the forefront of brain re-
search today. The noontime course program remained strong, with
a total of thirty-six courses taking place at locations on the Mall,

Membership and Development / 323
at Dupont Circle, and in the new facility of the YWCA on Ninth
Street, N.W.

STUDIO ARTS

The studio arts sector of the program seeks to enhance apprecia-
tion of age-old crafts by keeping alive hands-on techniques that
are rapidly disappearing from our modern world. During the past
year, intensive courses in sketching, wood sculpture, and photog-
raphy, and short classes in figure drawing and painting on fabric
were extremely well-received. An expanded selection of photo-
graphic courses and workshops was also offered during the year.
A course on contemporary quilts with an antique flair and a
lecture/demonstration on the art of gilding with master gilder
William Adair were among the highlights of the 179 programs
attended by 2,736 individuals in fiscal year 1982.

TOURS

On-site learning experiences are offered for small groups in art,
architecture, archaeology, history, industry, and science at the
Smithsonian and complementary facilities. Ranging in length from
one hour to two days, tours are geared to appeal to a spectrum of
age groups, financial circumstances, and interests. During fiscal
year 1982, 269 tours took place, with a total participation of over
30,000 individuals.

YOUNG ASSOCIATE AND FAMILY ACTIVITIES

Through Young Associates and family activities, young people,
ages three to fifteen, alone or with their families, gain new under-
standing of the Smithsonian’s vast resources. Classes, workshops,
monthly free films for families, tours, and performances exploring
topics in history, art, science, and studio arts are specially tailored
to their ages and interests. Parent/child classes and workshops
enable a parent and child to work together on projects of mutual
interest. During fiscal year 1982, 138 Young Associate and family
programs were attended by 12,562 individuals.

VOLUNTEERS

A total of 438 volunteers provided invaluable assistance to the
Resident Associate Program, monitoring special events, lectures,

324 / Smithsonian Year 1982
courses, and tours, and performing vital office duties. The 78
volunteer office workers represent the equivalent of five full-time
staff members, and the hours contributed by 360 monitor volun-
teers is equivalent to the work of six staff members. In apprecia-
tion of their contribution to the program, all volunteers were feted
at a special reception at the Renwick Gallery on September 14
and office volunteers at a luncheon on May 5.

Membership and Development / 325
Smithsonian Year - 1982

PUBLIC INFORMATION

LAWRENCE E. TAYLOR,
COORDINATOR

Office of Public Affairs

In its continuing efforts to reach a broader segment of the public
and the media, the Office of Public Affairs (opa), in cooperation
with the Smithsonian Institution Press, redesigned and redirected
its ten-year-old science-oriented periodical, Research Reports, to
include the full breadth of the Institution’s research activities. The
publication now features in-depth reports on art, history, and
science research and highlights of on-going efforts. Research
Reports is distributed free of charge to all Smithsonian Contribut-
ing Members, to journalists, and to thousands of specialists who
work at museums, universities, government agencies, corporations,
and cultural and educational organizations, as well as science and
research institutions and foundations. The diverse interests of the
Smithsonian are mirrored in the publication’s contents which, last
year, included reports on the space age, Antarctic meteorites, a
study of nineteenth-century art connoisseur Charles Lang Freer,
the endangered status of our Native American languages, and the
photography of Edward Curtis.

Diversity continued to be the hallmark of the Smithsonian News
Service, a free, monthly feature-story service produced by opa for
daily and weekly newspapers. Completing its third year of opera-
tion, the service has received an enthusiastic reception from more
than 1,400 newspapers with an estimated 40 million readers
throughout the United States and expanded its readership over-

326
seas, in Canada, and among ethnic-oriented media during the year.
There were 50 feature-length articles distributed, illustrated with
photographs, drawings, and color artwork—a new addition to the
service.

A special story on White House renovations, with an exclusive
interview with First Lady Nancy Reagan, was especially popular
among subscribers. Recognizing the outstanding quality of the
service, the National Association of Government Communicators
awarded the top three prizes and two honorable mentions in its
“feature” category of “Blue Pencil Awards’”” to News Service
writers.

As part of its continuing mission to encourage visits to the
Smithsonian, opa produced an experimental thirty-second, televi-
sion public-service announcement (PsA) to promote the concept
that a planned museum visit is more rewarding than an unplanned
visit. In cooperation with the Visitor Information and Reception
Center, a packet of information, ‘Trip Planner,” was offered to
viewers who wrote in for it. Stations in twelve states received the
announcement, and hundreds of responses were received from
these states and seventeen neighboring states.

Opa also produced thirty-second and sixty-second Psas on the
exhibitions at the Smithsonian and elsewhere in the Washington
metropolitan area to commemorate the one-hundredth anniversary
of Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s birth. Nearly half of the television
stations in Washington, D.C., Maryland, Virginia, and Pennsyl-
vania used the announcement, encouraging many people to attend
the exhibitions.

In an effort to conserve Institution funds, ora realized major
savings in its publishing program this year. The Torch, a monthly
newspaper for employees and friends of the Institution, was
adapted to a computerized system, which shaved seventeen percent
off typesetting costs. The publication won second prize among all
government in-house newspapers in the nationwide National Asso-
ciation of Government Communicators Blue Pencil Awards contest.
Opa redesigned the Welcome brochure—the publication seen by
most visitors to Smithsonian museums—to effect a forty percent
savings on the total printing bill. The brochure was updated and
reprinted in four languages—French, German, Spanish, and Japa-
nese—in response to the needs of large numbers of foreign visitors

Public Information / 327
who come to the museums each year. A revised edition of Guide
to the Smithsonian for Disabled Visitors was also published, re-
flecting improvements that have made Smithsonian buildings and
programs more accessible to people with physical and mental
handicaps.

Research at the Smithsonian was emphasized in two special
science-oriented events coordinated by ora. In conjunction with
21 professional societies and organizations, opa organized and co-
sponsored a reception at the National Air and Space Museum
(NAsM) for 350 science writers attending the annual meeting of
the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In
April, opa coordinated a ““Behind-the-Scenes Day” for members
of the National Association of Science Writers, when more than
30 nationally known writers visited facilities at the new Mu-
seum Support Center, NasMm and the National Museum of Natural
History.

Opa continued to provide assistance to other bureaus and offices,
with an ora staff member assisting the Office of Folklife Programs
by preparing, coordinating, and distributing information for the
media about the sixteenth annual Festival of American Folklife
and for events held at the Renwick Gallery in conjunction with

the exhibition Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual.

328 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Smithsonian Year +» 1982

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

MRS. ELLIOT RICHARDSON, CHAIRMAN
RUTH GRAVES, PRESIDENT

SINCE ITS FOUNDING sixteen years ago, Reading Is Fundamental,
Inc., (RIF) has grown into a nation-wide reading motivation pro-
gram with local projects in all fifty states, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam. Such extraordinary
growth attests to the soundness of the riF approach to motivating
reading.

The riF concept is simple: give youngsters the chance to choose
and keep books that appeal to them, and they will discover for
themselves that reading is both enjoyable and useful. Once they
have made this discovery, they will read more and learn more.

Rir’s goal is to make books and reading a natural part of every
child’s daily experience. In its first fifteen years alone, Reading Is
Fundamental brought more than 43 million books into American
homes.

Convinced that the rir method of getting children to read is
sensible and easy to administer, some 117,000 citizens volunteered
their time last year to operate RIF projects. Sponsors and supporters
of RIF programs include schools and school districts, state agencies,
service clubs, correctional facilities, library associations, pTAs and
pTos, united charities, businesses, day-care centers, and recrea-
tional centers.

In 1982, some 3,400 riF projects gave 2.7 million young peo-
ple—age three through high school—the chance to choose and
keep 8.9 million books. The children who chose rir books were a
cross section of America: youngsters from the heart of major cities

329
like Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, and Dallas, as well as chil-
dren from remote rural districts, often without libraries or book-
stores. At least 10,000 of the young people choosing books during
1982 were native Americans, and more than 87,000 youngsters
were the children of migrant and seasonal farmworkers.

In 1982, Reading Is Fundamental continued its technical-assis-
tance services to local projects, providing them with 115 work-
shops; special services and discounts negotiated with 346 book
suppliers; and guidance materials, including a comprehensive col-
lection of reading motivation activities.

Riz also completed production of a short documentary film,
which shows how parents, citizens, business, and industry can
work with rir to help school-age children overcome reading
problems.

For the sixth consecutive year, Reading Is Fundamental con-
tracted with the U.S. Department of Education to operate the In-
expensive Book Distribution Program—a federal program, modeled
on RIE, that permits Reading Is Fundamental to match with federal
funds the local funds that projects raise for books. Ri also en-
couraged local groups to organize rir projects relying solely on
local funds. Some 295 locally funded projects were in operation at
the end of fiscal year 1982.

In June of 1982, the Educational Publishers Association, an or-
ganization of publishers and wholesalers, honored RIF President
Ruth Graves with the fourth annual Jeremiah Ludington Memorial
Award, in recognition of her promotion of literacy and her service
to young people.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, RIF Chairman, welcomed two new mem-
bers to the Board of Directors this year: W. Thomas Johnson,
publisher of the Los Angeles Times, and Harry Hoffman, president
and chief executive officer of Waldenbooks.

Rir’s success in promoting reading continues to attract substan-
tial private support from corporations, foundations, and private
citizens. More than fifty major corporations, foundations, labor
unions, and organizations supported the RIF program in 1982.
Book companies also contributed by earmarking to rir the proceeds
of sales on a special edition, in one case, and in another, the reve-
nues from a benefit screening of the movie version of a major best
seller.

330 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation made a
major grant to Reading Is Fundamental, giving rir the unique
opportunity to develop materials and methods that parents can
use at home to encourage their children to read. Rir will survey a
sample of parents in the 3 million families served by rir projects,
and analyze the data to identify information and materials that
parents could use.

The National Home Library Foundation, a supporter of RIF since
1966, awarded RF a grant to underwrite the cost of producing a
brochure describing RIF project techniques, to be published in
memory of riF’s founder, Mrs. Margaret McNamara.

Since 1971, r1F has mounted a public-education campaign to
promote reading. Rir public-service announcements have received
nearly $20 million in free broadcast time and magazine space from
the ABC, CBS, and NBC radio and television networks, and from
magazines such as Reader's Digest, Newsweek, U.S. News and
World Report, Fortune, Business Week, Ladies Home Journal, New
York Magazine, and many others.

U.S. commissioners of education since 1969 have endorsed rir,
and nearly every major educational and service organization has
supported and endorsed the rir program—including the National
Association of Elementary School Principals, the National Asso-
ciation of Secondary School Principals, the National Association
for the Education of Young Children, the National Catholic Educa-
tional Association, the American Library Association, Association
for Library Services to Children, the International Reading Asso-
ciation, the National Urban League, the National Education Asso-
ciation, the Girl Scouts of America, and Campfire, Inc.

Rir has cooperated with many of these organizations to promote
a public awareness of literacy issues. At the 1982 International
Reading Association convention, for example, RIF cosponsored with
the National Parent Teachers Association, Inc., a symposium on
the topic “I Want a Book I Picked Myself . . . The Right to
Choose.”

A recent major study of illiteracy reports that one in five Ameri-
cans can’t read or write well enough to handle the needs of every-
day life. Reading Is Fundamental is working to reverse this trend,
and a number of studies, reports and surveys clearly demonstrate
that the rie method is succeeding. As a result of RIF programs,

Reading Is Fundamental / 331
according to these reports, youngsters spend more time reading;
their attitudes toward reading improve; parents get involved in
reading with their children; the community at large focuses more
attention on reading and education; and often, reading scores rise
and library circulation increases.

But despite these successes and the rapid growth of the program,
RIF is reaching only a small percentage of the young people it could
serve. If America is to become a society where the ability to read
is the birthright of every American, then Reading Is Fundamental
will have a role to play for many years.

332 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Mrs. George Bush, a member of the rir Board of Directors, shares a
tale with two youngsters at the Cameron Elementary School, Alexan-
dria, Virginia, during a book distribution visit. Behind Mrs. Bush
(from left) are R1F President Ruth Graves and a riF volunteer.

In the lounge of the Castle, at one of the Center’s events celebrating
the 125th birthday of Woodrow Wilson, Vice President George Bush
(center) is shown here with the Center’s new Board of Trustees Chair-
man William J. Baroody, Jr. (left), and wwics Director James H.
Billington.

ROW By.
Smithsonian Year » 1982

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

JAMES H. BILLINGTON, DIRECTOR

Tue Witson CentER—with the Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts and the National Gallery of Art—is one of three institutions
with mixed trust/public funding created by the Congress within
the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., fulfilling a na-
tional mission under a board appointed by the president of the
United States. The Wilson Center is an active workshop and
switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels. Since its opening
twelve years ago this fall, it has gained widespread recognition for
the work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of Washing-
ton, for its many meetings that bring together the world of affairs
and the world of ideas, and for its democratic openness to all
comers through its annual fellowship competition.

Each year, some fifty fellows are brought in through open inter-
national competition involving ever-increasing numbers of appli-
cants from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines, cultures, and
nations. A broad spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a non-
specialized national audience through The Wilson Quarterly, which
already has more subscribers than any other scholarly quarterly
journal in the English-speaking world.

The Wilson Center seeks to render a service to the world and to
the Washington, D.C., community by throwing open its core
fellowship program to all interested individuals. Fellows are selected
for the promise, importance, and appropriateness of their projects
on the recommendation of broadly based academic panels outside

334
the center. The fellows come for limited periods, not only in the
broadly inclusive program entitled History, Culture, and Society,
but also in special programs in Russian and Soviet studies (the
Kennan Institute), Latin American studies, international security
studies, East Asia studies, and a program in American society and
politics. Each program is directed by a scholar on the staff.

Following its mandate to symbolize and strengthen the fruitful
relation between the worlds of learning and of public affairs, the
center sponsors conferences and seminars on topics of special cur-
rent interest to both worlds. In 1982, for example, the center
brought together scholars from many different disciplines, mem-
bers of Congress, representatives of the Executive Branch, busi-
nessmen, journalists, military experts, writers, educators, and diplo-
mats to consider a variety of issues, examine current questions,
enjoy celebrations, and participate in evaluative discussions. In
commemoration of the one-hundred-twenty-fifth birthday of
Woodrow Wilson, the center held an evening dialogue at which
John M. Cooper, Jr., professor of history at University of Wiscon-
sin-Madison, presented a paper on “Woodrow Wilson’s Demo-
cratic Politics,” and Richard L. McCormick of Rutgers University
presented one on “Progressivism: A Modern Reassessment.”
Arthur S. Link, editor of the Pages of Woodrow Wilson, being
published by Princeton University Press, gave an address entitled
“Woodrow Wilson: Hinge of the 20th Century.”

A dinner-discussion, cosponsored with the Atlantic Council, on
“The Teaching of Values in Colleges and Universities,” was
chaired by James H. Billington, center director, and included such
participants as Thomas Bartlett, president of the Association of
American Universities; Edmund Pellegrino, president of the Catho-
lic University of America; Glenn Campbell, director of The Hoover
Institution; Georg Turner, president of the West German Rectors’
Conference; and Paula Brownlee, president of Hollins College.

During the year, the International Security Studies Program of
the center held seminars on security issues in the Middle East and
Gulf, covering such topics as Middle East oil and the industrial
democracies, the Arab-Israeli conflict, and Soviet and United States
strategies for the region. Among the principal participants were
Hermann Frederick Eilts, Shahram Chukin, Shlomo Avineri, and
Parker T. Hart.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars / 335
The center’s fellows continue to come from all over the world,
from many disciplines, and from many areas of the United States.
Among its 1982 fellows and guest scholars were Yao Wei, chief of
the Press Division, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People’s Republic
of China, studying the American foreign policy-making process;
Karl Dietrich Bracher, historian of modern political ideas from the
University of Bonn, Federal Republic of Germany; Jagat Singh
Mehta, India’s former foreign secretary, evaluating India’s role in
the world today; Edward Rowny, lieutenant general, U.S. Army
(ret.), former SALT negotiator and now serving as chief of the
U.S. START Delegation; George Morrison Carstairs, former vice
chancellor, University of York, United Kingdom; Patricia Albjerg
Graham, The Charles Warren Professor of the History of
American Education at Harvard University, recently appointed
dean of Harvard’s Graduate School of Education; Sergio Zermefio-
Garcia, professor of sociology, National University of Mexico,
studying democracy in present-day Mexico; and Heinrich Vogel,
director of the Federal Institute for East-West and International
Relations, working on East-Central European cooperation. The
result of this broad and heterogeneous mix of fellows is an intel-
lectual life greater than the sum of its parts: the collegial atmos-
phere provides an opportunity for learning and communication
that transcends national and academic boundaries for the benefit

of all.

336 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Smithsonian Year « 1982

TORN FARENNED Y CENTER
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

ROGER L. STEVENS, CHAIRMAN

Tue Jonn F. Kennepy Center for the Performing Arts was autho-
rized by an Act of Congress in 1958 as the National Cultural
Center. It is administered as a self-supporting performing arts
organization under the direction of a board of trustees, the citizen
members of which are appointed by the president of the United
States. Affiliates of the Kennedy Center that present programming
in its theaters include the National Symphony Orchestra, The
Washington Opera, the American Film Institute, and the Wash-
ington Performing Arts Society. The programming presented by
each of these organizations at the center during fiscal year 1982
is reflected in this report.

The Kennedy Center, which celebrated its tenth anniversary
during the past year, operates under a congressional mandate to
present artistic programming of the highest quality, to serve as a
national focus for the performing arts in America, and to reach
the broadest possible audience through its activities. Since the
center receives no direct federal appropriation to carry out its
performing arts programming, its board of trustees, which has
been able to operate the center in the black for ten years, has
relied on ever-increasing private contributions from corporations,
foundations, and individuals to supplement box office revenue and
additional earned income.

The National Cultural Center Act of 1958 explicitly recognized
that cultural enrichment is a vital part of our nation’s well being.
Twenty-four years later, the John F. Kennedy Center stands in

337
From the Robinson Jeffers version of Medea at the Kennedy Center are (from left)
Zoe Caldwell in her award-winning performance of the title role and Dame Judith
Anderson in her role as the Nurse.

lively tribute to the vision of our nation’s leaders as a unique,
American cultural institution.

Performing Arts Programming

The 1981-82 season at Kennedy Center in the Eisenhower and
Terrace Theaters, Opera House, and Concert Hall was attended
by 1.3 million people. Programming highlights are outlined in the
sections that follow:

DRAMA AND MUSICAL THEATER

The “Tenth Anniversary” theater season was distinguished by the
Eisenhower Theater Season of plays, produced by the center in
association with the CBS/Broadcast Group. Such outstanding
artists as Dame Judith Anderson, Brian Bedford, Zoe Caldwell,
Len Cariou, George Grizzard, Barry Nelson, Jean Stapleton,
Frances Sternhagen, Liv Ullmann, and Irene Worth appeared in a
season of six productions: Diirrenmatt’s The Physicists; Sidney
Howard’s The Late Christopher Bean; Moliére’s Tartuffe; the
Robinson Jeffers version of Medea; A. R. Gurney’s The Dining
Room; and Ibsen’s Ghosts. Three of the six productions toured
elsewhere in the country, and Zoe Caldwell received a Tony award
for her performance as Medea.

The Kennedy Center Opera House hosted an unusually broad
variety of musical and dramatic productions. The Grand Kabuki
of Japan appeared for a week with a repertory that featured the
most extraordinary group of Japanese artists ever to perform out-
side Japan, including four designated as Living National Treasures
by the government of Japan. The United States tour of only two
cities other than Washington was sponsored by the Japan Society
on the occasion of its seventy-fifth anniversary. A revival of
George M. Cohan’s Little Johnny Jones, and touring productions
of West Side Waltz, starring Katherine Hepburn, and Sugar Babies
were also presented in the Opera House.

The Acting Company continued to tour the United States under
the sponsorship of the center, with substantial support provided
by Conoco. During the season, more than thirty states were

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 339
visited. The company’s two-week residency in the Terrace Theater
was highlighted with productions of Shakespeare’s A Twelfth
Night and Wycherley’s The Country Wife.

At the conclusion of the season, the Opera House was equipped
with infra-red listening equipment to aid the hearing-impaired, the
Eisenhower and Terrace theaters having been similarly equipped
during 1981. Eisenhower Theater productions are also enhanced
by commentary for visually impaired patrons—a service provided
by volunteers working with Washington Ear.

DANCE

The 1981-82 season offered the largest number of dance attrac-
tions in the center’s history, ranging from the latest in the “‘post-
modern” school of modern dance to the classics of the Royal
Danish Ballet.

Highlights included the December 1981 engagement of Ameri-
can Ballet Theatre, which offered not only its renowned Nut-
cracker—staged by Mikhail Baryshnikov—but also two weeks of
repertory, including the world premiere of The Wild Boy, by the
British choreographer, Kenneth Macmillan, with Mikhail Barysh-
nikov and Natalia Makarova in the leading roles.

The Dance Theatre of Harlem, sponsored by the Washington
Performing Arts Society, offered a new production of Stravinsky’s
Firebird, staged by John Taras and designed by Geoffrey Holder.
This ballet was taped at Kennedy Center and televised later on
public television as one segment of the Kennedy Center Tonight!
series.

The Joffrey Ballet returned to the center—after several seasons—
with a gala opening performance attended by President and Mrs.
Ronald Reagan, and with a repertory that included John Cranko’s
famous evening-length version of The Taming of the Shrew, pre-
viously seen at the center only with The Stuttgart Ballet.

Continuing Kennedy Center’s ideal of presenting at least one
of America’s fine regional companies each year, The Pennsylvania
Ballet made its second appearance at the center and received out-
standing critical reviews.

The Eliot Feld Ballet presented a virtual retrospective of the
work of this brilliant American choreographer in a two-week
engagement.

340 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Nakamura Kanzaburo, declared a National Living Treasure by the government of
Japan, was one of many celebrated performers and musicians appearing with the

Grand Kabuki troupe during its 1982 engagement in the Kennedy Center’s Opera
House.
The Royal Danish Ballet closed the season with a two-week run
that attracted national press attention and garnered rave reviews
for all performances. In addition to a week featuring ballets by
the classical Danish choreographer Bournonville, the company also
offered the United States’ premiere of a new version of Stravin-
sky’s Firebird, by American choreographer Glen Tetley.

In the Dance America series, sponsored jointly by the Kennedy
Center and the Washington Performing Arts Society, six com-
panies were offered in the Terrace Theater and three in the Eisen-
hower. The “classical” school of modern dance was represented
by: the Joyce Trisler Danscompany, one performance of which
offered commentary on Trisler’s work by the well-known author
and dance critic, Walter Terry; the Erick Hawkins Dance Com-
pany, which sold out every performance; and the Kennedy Center
debut of the Maryland Dance Theatre, a company associated with
the University of Maryland. The Maryland company honored the
distinguished American choreographer Anna Sokolow with its
performance, and Miss Sokolow was introduced to the audience
from the stage. Representing the “post-modern” group of com-
panies were: Jennifer Muller and her company; Crow’s Nest, an
outgrowth of the Pilobolus company; and a company called
“Harry.

Three larger companies appeared in the Eisenhower for the
Dance America series: the brilliant and popular Paul Taylor Dance
Company, the Twyla Tharp Dance Company, and the Jose Limon
Dance Company.

MUSIC

The past year was marked by a number of musical tributes includ-
ing a re-staging of Leonard Bernstein’s Mass, which opened the
Kennedy Center ten years ago. The entirely new production was
broadcast live on public television as part of the Kennedy Center
Tonight! series. The premiere American composers’ concert was
devoted to the music of Aaron Copland, who attended the presen-
tation and offered special remarks. The National Symphony Or-
chestra celebrated the seventy-fifth anniversary of Dmitri Shosta-
kovich’s birth, with a concert conducted by the composer’s son,
Maxim, and featuring his grandson, Dmitri, as pianist.

342 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The National Symphony Orchestra presented 138 performances
at the center and enjoyed a triumphal European tour under musical
director Mstislav Rostropovich.

The Metropolitan Opera returned to the center for a two-week
engagement—its longest appearance outside New York City—and
offered its new production of Offenbach’s Les Contes d’Hoffman
and a highly acclaimed production of Wagner’s Parsifal, as well as
Madama Butterfly, The Magic Flute, and Rigoletto.

The Washington Opera presented fifty-seven performances of
seven productions in the Opera House and Terrace Theater. Among
the highlights of the season was the production of Puccini’s La
Boheme, staged by Gian Carlo Menotti, Verdi’s Macbeth, Igor Stra-
vinsky’s The Rake’s Progress, Mozart’s The Magic Flute, Offen-
bach’s Monsieur Choufleuri, Gaetano Donizetti’s L’Elisir D’ Amore,
and Madama Butterfly.

The annual Kennedy Center Christmas Festival was expanded
to include more public-service programs than in previous years.
The highlight free event, A Night in Old Vienna, with New Year’s
Eve dancing in the Grand Foyer, was enjoyed by nearly 8,000
people—more than in any previous year.

The second ‘Festival of Festivals’—a great success, with sub-
stantially increased attendance over the first year—included the
Carnegie Hall Serenades, featuring the St. Paul Chamber Orches-
tra, conducted by Pinchas Zukerman, and an appearance by the
Guarneri String Quartet; the Mostly Mozart Festival, with con-
ductors David Zinman and Gerard Schwartz and soloists Richard
Stoltzman, Cecile Licad, and James Galway; and the Bach Festival
from Baldwin—Wallace College in Berea, Ohio, which performed
the complete St. Matthew Passion.

A new Orchestra Discovery Series featured the Zagreb Phil-
harmonic, the New York Strings, the Fairfax Symphony, and the
Sofia Philharmonic.

The Friedheim awards, which recognize American composition
in symphonic and chamber music in alternating years, have been
described by leading music critics as the “only significant com-
petition in existence for new American music.” The awards honcr
the late Arthur Friedheim and are supported, in part, by a grant
from the Eric Friedheim Foundation. The 1981 Friedheim award
for chamber composition was awarded to Joseph Schwantner; the

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 343
final competition performance was broadcast on National Public
Radio.

Chamber music continued to thrive under the guidance of Marta
Istomin, the center’s artistic director. In addition to the already-
established series by the Theater Chamber Players and the Young
Concert Artists, several new series were inaugurated, including a
piano series, an art-song series, eight chamber music series, and
the American Portraits Series, which devotes an entire evening to
the music of a living American composer. Performers included
clarinetist Richard Stoltzman, the Kalichstein—Laredo—Robinson
Trio, pianist Anton Kuerti, tenor Peter Schreier, and the New
York Woodwind Quintet, along with the American Portraits Series,
which this year honored Aaron Copland, Ned Rorem, Alberto
Ginastera, Roger Sessions, Dane Rudhyar, and Philip Glass. The
Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center offered its annual series
of four concerts.

FILM

The American Film Institute (arr) has presented film programming
in its 224-seat theater at the Kennedy Center since 1973. In that
time, 6,500 motion pictures have been shown to a total audience
of one million people. Many of the films are drawn from AFI's own
motion-picture archives. The institute has, in addition, cooperated
with the Library of Congress to carry out the most extensive film
preservation program in the nation.

The art, dedicated to preserving the heritage and advancing the
art of film and television in the United States, conducts activities
around the country which work toward the achievement of three
primary goals: to increase recognition and understanding of the
moving image as an art form, to assure preservation of the art
form, and to identify, develop, and encourage new talent.

The ari’s Television and Video Services annually presents the
National Video Festival, sponsored by Sony Corporation of Amer-
ica, in the AFI Theater—the only public theater in the country
regularly exhibiting video in a large-screen format.

During this year, Exhibition Services toured several film series
nationally, including China Film Week, Jewish Film Festival, and
New American Cinema. Public Service Programs conducted sem-
inars, workshops, and classes around the country—including the

344 / Smithsonian Year 1982
annual “Patricia Wise Lecture’’—to focus public attention on the
moving image as an art form. The Wise lecture for 1982 was
delivered by Dr. Stanley Cavell in the AFI Theater.

Several of ari’s programs are administered from its Los Angeles
campus as well as the Kennedy Center headquarters. The Center
for Advanced Film Studies provides training in all aspects of film-
making; the Independent Filmmaker Program administers grants to
filmmakers across the country; and the Directing Workshop for
Women provides training for professional women who wish to
enter the field of feature-film directing. Education Services pre-
sented its annual Faculty Development Workshops, a series of
sessions focusing on various aspects of film and television educa-
tion.

Finally, the tenth Life Achievement Award was bestowed upon
director Frank Capra—a tribute that recognized a lifetime of
accomplishments acknowledged by scholars, Capra’s peers, and
the public.

Public-Service Programming

During the past year, the Kennedy Center allocated more than
$3.5 million, raised from private sources, to fulfill the center’s
Section 4 mandate, including its national Education Program, Cul-
tural Diversity activities, Performing Arts Library, and to support
the presentation of special music festivals and the development of
new works and younger artists. Four hundred seventy-five public-
service events were presented by the center, of which 400 were
sponsored by the center itself and 75 by associated organizations.
Audience attendance for these events totaled 300,000, both in
Washington, D.C., and around the country.

SPECIALLY PRICED TICKET PROGRAM

The Specially Priced Ticket Program (strT) the most extensive
reduced-price ticket program of any performing arts institution in
the country, has been in effect since the center’s opening. It is
administered daily throughout the year by Friends of the Kennedy

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 345
Center volunteers and provides up to fifteen percent of available
tickets at half price to students, military personnel in grades E-1
through E-4, and handicapped, senior, and low-income citizens.

The sprp operates without benefit of public subsidy, the atten-
dant costs being borne by the center itself as part of its education
and public service responsibility. During the past fiscal year,
96,681 half-price tickets for center-produced or presented attrac-
tions were sold through the program. The sale of these tickets at
full price would have resulted in additional gross income to the
center of $576,663.

The center also requires that independent producers participate
in the program by making a percentage of their tickets available
for sale at half price. During the past year, combined half-price
tickets sales for center-produced or presented attractions and those
of independent producers, totaled 112,873. The sale of these tickets
at full price would have resulted in a total additional gross income
of $1,104,040 to the center and independent producers.

Education Programming

The Kennedy Center’s authorizing legislation specifically directed
the Board of Trustees to develop programs for children and youth
in the performing arts. The Education Program was designed
toward this end to provide national leadership in the field of arts
education and to cooperate with regional performing arts centers
and education networks across the country in developing and pre-
senting model performances for young audiences. The program has
three coordinated components: the Alliance for Arts Education,
the Programs for Children and Youth, and the American College
Theatre Festival.

At both the state and national levels, the program seeks, by
identifying and supporting exemplary arts-education projects, to
promote incorporation of the arts into the education of every child.
As part of this commitment, the center works closely with the
National Committee, Arts for the Handicapped. Principal funding

346 / Smithsonian Year 1982
for the Education Program is provided by the U.S. Department of
Education and the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, with addi-
tional assistance from corporations, foundations, and individuals.

ALLIANCE FOR ARTS EDUCATION

The Alliance for Arts Education (AAE) serves as a national and
regional network for information exchange on model arts-education
programs. Conducted with the Department of Education since
1973, the AAE is composed of fifty-six committees: one in each of
the fifty states, plus representation for American Samoa, the
Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Department of Defense Dependents
Schools—Pacific Area, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and
the Virgin Islands. The national office is responsible for promot-
ing information exchange among AAE committees, providing tech-
nical assistance in the field of arts education upon request to the
committees and the public, and distributing to the committees
operation and programmatic funds.

Each committee (usually composed of representatives from pri-
vate and public agencies involved in arts education) sets its own
goals, objectives, and activities. Most often, these activities focus
on the committee’s role: a forum for state and local awareness and
advocacy work for arts education; for the development and imple-
mentation of statewide plans for comprehensive arts education;
and for providing consultant services to individuals and organiza-
tions conducting arts education programs and projects.

The national aae staff provided direct technical assistance and
consultation services to more than half of the aaE committees dur-
ing fiscal year 1982. Each committee received a copy of a new
slide-tape presentation, “First Flights,” prepared by the Education
Program. The national aae office also published Interchange, a
bimonthly arts-education newspaper.

PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH

The commitment of the center’s Education Program, to quality per-
forming arts programming for young people, is clearly expressed
in the goals of its Programs for Children and Youth (pcy) “. . . to
support arts-education programs in the schools through the
medium of performance and to provide a variety of quality per-
formances to student and general audiences.” Along with the

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 347
development and presentation of performances for young people,
materials are provided for audiences and teachers to help integrate
the performance experience into the student’s over-all education.

During the past season, the pcy presented nearly three hundred
free performances and related events to audiences of more than
150,000 in Washington, D.C., and cities around the country. The
pcy produced a Children’s Arts Series at the Kennedy Center in
the fall, featuring professional artists performing for young people
and a Caribbean Festival during February. Performing companies
were selected from across the United States to represent the cul-
turally diverse population of our country.

The pcy annually presents “Imagination Celebration,” a national
children’s arts festival at the Kennedy Center, and key elements
are replicated in selected cities throughout the United States. This
program not only provides a model for performing arts festivals
for young audiences, but enables the Kennedy Center to contribute
to the development of new works, to involve noted artists in per-
forming for young people, and to serve as a catalyst for the
development of programs for young people at performing arts
centers throughout the country.

The pcy provides technical assistance and core professional pro-
ductions for each outreach festival, featuring such well-known
artists as Sarah Caldwell, Jacques d’Amboise, and Leon Bibb. Each
year during the “Imagination Celebration,” an Award for Excel-
lence is presented to an outstanding artist or individual for their
contribution to young people through the arts. The recipient of
this year’s award was composer Gian Carlo Menotti whose new
opera, A Bride from Pluto, was commissioned by rcy for its world
premiere during the “Imagination Celebration.”

Another component of the pcy is the series of Arts Education
Workshops offered to elementary and secondary school teachers,
created to provide greater awareness and apreciation for all the
art forms, thus enhancing teacher commitment to the arts in edu-
cation. The workshops are offered annually in the fall and spring.

Pcy programs received support from the George Preston
Marshall Foundation, the Alvord Foundation, Mobil Oil Corpora-
tion, The McLachlen National Bank, the Eugene and Agnes E.
Meyer Foundation, and the German Orphan Home Foundation
during the past year.

348 / Smithsonian Year 1982
AMERICAN COLLEGE THEATRE FESTIVAL

The American College Theatre Festival (acTF) is presented annually
by the Kennedy Center to provide national recognition of the
efforts of college and university theaters throughout the United
States. Nearly 13,000 students and 2,200 faculty members from
368 schools participated in ACTF XIV. Their production across
the country drew audiences of more than two million. The festival
seeks to encourage new styles of theatrical presentation and meth-
ods of staging, innovative approaches to the classics, original
plays by young writers, and revivals of significant plays of the
past. It emphasizes excellence of total production, including act-
ing, directing, design, and writing.

Nearly sixty productions were presented in twelve regional festi-
vals. Of these, seven were chosen for showcase presentation at
the two-week national festival in the Kennedy Center Terrace
Theater: Between Daylight and Boonville, University of Evans-
ville, Evansville, Indiana; Oedipus Rex, California State University,
Hayward; Don’t Bother Me, I Can’t Cope, Prairie View A&M Uni-
versity, Prairie View, Texas; The Cashier, Indiana University,
Bloomington; Seduced, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston; The
Birds, St. Michael’s College, Winooski, Vermont; and Folk Art,
Masks and Puppets, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque.

The ACTF Michael Kanin Student Playwriting Award and other
AcTF awards and scholarships in acting, theatrical design, theater
criticism, and theater management offer students vital professional
experience and cash awards totaling over $30,000.

The Kennedy Center’s Committee on Cultural Diversity pro-
vided assistance to the actF to support the Black College Technical
Assistance Project, intended to increase the participation of the
historically black colleges and universities in the national festival.
The project was initiated in 1980 in order to allow project staff to
work with a number of the colleges on entry productions for the
fourteenth annual actF competition. At the conclusion of the first
full year of the project, national actr judges awarded Prairie View
A&M’s production of Don’t Bother Me, I Can’t Cope a place in
national showcase festival at Kennedy Center.

Actr is produced by the University and College Theatre Asso-
ciation for the American Theatre Association and is supported in
part by the Amoco companies.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 349
Cultural Diversity Programming

The National Committee on Cultural Diversity in the Performing
Arts serves as a standing advisory body on minority affairs to the
chairman of the center’s board of trustees. Its members are com-
poser Roque Cordero, dancer/choreographer Chuck Davis, vocalist
Ella Fitzgerald, actress Cicely Tyson, pianist André Watts, play-
wright Richard Wesley, and Kennedy Center trustees, Marjorie M.
Lawson and Henry Strong. Dr. Archie L. Buffkins, who serves as
president of the committee, also worked closely this year with the
center’s Education Program to plan a major “Caribbean Festival,”
in observance of Black History Month, which received support
through the Cultural Diversity Committee.

Major support for the committee’s projects is provided through
the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund. Highlights of the year
included: recitals by promising young artists in the center’s Terrace
Theater; a musical salute to America’s black composers; play read-
ings of new works by the Rep Theatre Company and support for
major Kennedy Center productions of Shiro, a Japanese musical,
and An Evening with Cab Calloway.

Friends of Kennedy Center

The Friends of Kennedy Center (FKc) was authorized in 1966 by
the center’s board of trustees as a nationwide, self-supporting
auxiliary of volunteers and donor members. In the Washington
metropolitan area the Fxc volunteers contributed more than 65,000
hours of service during the past year to provide visitor and infor-
mation services 365 days a year. The volunteers staffed the cen-
ter’s souvenir shops, provided special visitor assistance to the
handicapped, administered the Specially Priced Ticket Program
and served as docents for the exhibition, Shakespeare: The Globe
and the World, from the collection of the Folger Shakespeare
Library.

The FKc organization also helps support public-service programs
on behalf of the center and promotes a national membership net-
work to aid and sustain the center’s national outreach and pro-

350 / Smithsonian Year 1982
gramming activities: The Acting Company’s national tour, the
annual American College Theatre Festival, “Imagination Celebra-
tion,” Children’s Arts Festival, the national Performing Arts
Library at Kennedy Center, the National Committee Arts for the
Handicapped, and a number of regional ballet companies. To assist
recruitment of new members, a national membership committee
has been formed on which many of the former state chairmen
have agreed to serve. Members receive Kennedy Center News, a
bimonthly periodical published by the Fxc.

Throughout the past year, the FKc sponsored such weekly, free,
public-service events as “Conversations from Kennedy Center,”
weekly live and radio-broadcast symposia with leading guest per-
forming artists appearing at the center and around Washington;
free demonstrations of the Filene organ in the Concert Hall and
the Wurlitzer organ in the AFI Theater; and special tours of the
center as part of the annual summer 4-H program in Washington,
D.C:

Friends tour-guides offer free tours of the Kennedy Center every
day of the year to more than 6,000 people who visit the center on
an average day. Tours are also conducted in French, German,
Spanish, and Portuguese to accommodate the unusually large num-
ber of visitors from abroad. Group tours, including those arranged
through the offices of each United States Senator and Member of
Congress, are also offered on a daily basis.

The revenue from FKc membership and souvenir shops is
designed to assist the over-all public-service and performing arts
mandate established for the Kennedy Center by its authorizing
legislation.

Mrs. Polk Guest has served as chairman of the Friends of
Kennedy Center since its founding in 1966.

Performing Arts Library

The Performing Arts Library, a joint project of the center and
the Library of Congress, opened to the public in March 1979 as
the final element in the new Terrace Theater’s artistic and educa-
tional complex. During the past year, nearly 22,000 visitors utilized

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 351
the library’s information, reference, audio-visual, and exhibition
facilities. In addition to the services provided artists, directors,
visitors, patrons, and staff at the Kennedy Center, the library staff
responded to requests on the performing arts from all parts of the
country and received many visitors from around the world as well.
The library’s video-display computer link to the collections of the
Library of Congress enhanced and assisted all of its services.

The library staff includes specialist reference personnel in
theater, music, and dance. Thoughout the year, special bibliog-
raphies were prepared, and exhibitions and displays were mounted.
The exhibition, Highlights of a Decade, honoring the first ten years
of the Kennedy Center, remained on view from September 1981
through April 1982.

In April, in conjunction with the Library of Congress’s National
Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped, the
library mounted an exhibition of performing arts materials in the
form of tapes, records, books in braille, and braille music scores
for blind and physically handicapped persons. These materials
exemplified the kinds of services provided by the Library of
Congress.

Also in April, another new exhibition, Focus on the Performing
Arts: The Photography of Bern Schwarz, was unveiled. The exhibi-
tion, comprised of portrait photographs of prominent persons in
the performing arts, signaled the gift made to the Library of Con-
gress by Mrs. Ronny Schwarz of a large number of negatives
created by her late husband, Bernard Lee Schwarz, and a fund for
the purchase of photographs.

During 1982, in conjunction with the Exhibits Office of the
Library of Congress, the Performing Arts Library made plans for
a new exhibition of nineteenth-century American theater posters
made to advertise the spectacles of the Kiralfy brothers.

The Performing Arts Library continued to provide increased
service to readers during 1982. Several on-going projects included
final preparations of background material for the ““Kennedy Center
Honors,” a television production of Medea; theater productions of
Tartuffe, The Dining Room, Ghosts, Twice Around the Park and
Monday After the Miracle; material used by the center’s Public
Relations and Marketing Office for ‘““Theater Lovers’ Notes”; and
the organizing of the collection of Kennedy Center Stagebill pro-

352 / Smithsonian Year 1982
gram books—a collection, nearly complete, that spans the ten and
one-half years of center performances.

The library was supported by the Library of Congress and a
major gift from R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc., through the Ken-
nedy Center Corporate Fund.

Kennedy Center Honors

The Kennedy Center’s board of trustees established the Kennedy
Center Honors in 1978 to express the nation’s esteem for its most
distinguished artists. The 1981 Kennedy Center Honorees—Count
Basie, Cary Grant, Helen Hayes, Jerome Robbins, and Rudolf
Serkin—were the principal guests at a White House reception and
subsequently were celebrated by their fellow artists at a gala
performance in the center’s Opera House. The event was shared
nationwide by CBS telecast on December 26, 1981.

Kennedy Center Tonight!

Kennedy Center Tonight! is produced by the center in association
with public television station WQED, Pittsburgh, with generous
funding provided by the Shell Companies Foundation and addi-
tional funding provided by the Corporation for Public Broadcast-
ing. The second season of four outstanding programs was enjoyed
by more than 25 million viewers and will be seen in more than
fifty countries around the world. Great Vibes: Lionel Hampton
and Friends, included triumphant appearances by the guest vibra-
harpist at both the White House and Kennedy Center; Broadway
Plays Washington, a salute to the American musical theater,
helped public broadcasting stations across the country meet their
annual fund-raising goals; and the Dancer Theatre of Harlem
made its television bow on Kennedy Center Tonight! with its new
production of Stravinsky’s Firebird. The season concluded with a
gala tribute to the great bass-baritone, George London.

The center has consistently sought to exercise leadership in the

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 353
development of the performing arts in America and to carry out
its mandate as the National Cultural Center. Kennedy Center
Tonight! has enabled the center to share with a nationwide audi-
ence outstanding new productions, many of America’s leading
artists, and rare behind-the-scenes understanding of our nation’s
artistic achievement.

Funding

The Kennedy Center’s operating budget for 1982, from its theater
operations, concession income, and contributions, exceeded $27
million. More than $3.5 million was raised from private sources
in order for the center to fulfill its mission as a national
performing arts center and to sustain a year-round calendar of
educational and public-service programming.

The National Park Service is responsible for the maintenance
and security of the Kennedy Center, which, as a presidential
memorial, is open to the public without charge every day of the
year. The center, however, must reimburse the National Park
Service a 23.8 percent pro rata share of maintenance, utility, and
housekeeping expenses allocated to its operation as a performing
arts center. Beyond its 1982 reimbursement to the National Park
Service of nearly $900,000 for its apportioned share of costs, the
center, in addition, bears the complete cost of maintaining its five
theaters and extensive backstage and office facilities.

Since its opening in 1971, foundations, corporations, and indi-
viduals have contributed more than $20 million to enable the
center to carry out the broad mandate of performing arts, public
service, and educational programming that is set forth in its
authorizing legislation but is not supported by federal appropria-
tions. A major portion of the private support contributed on
behalf of the center has been provided by the Corporate Fund for
the Performing Arts at Kennedy Center.

The Corporate Fund was organized in 1977 by the principal
officers of thirty-six major American corporations and currently
represents nearly 300 corporations committed to the support of
the center as a National Cultural Center. Funds contributed to the

354 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Corporate Fund enable the center to extend its national outreach
through programming and public-service activities, to foster new
works, and to offer performing arts programming, at reduced
prices or, in many instances, at no admission charge whatsoever.

Participation in the Corporate Fund is open to any corporation
that contributes to the center. Charles L. Brown, Jr., chairman of
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, served as chairman
of the 1982 Corporate Fund. The members of the board of gov-
ernors and a listing of fund contributions received during the past
year are named in Appendix 8.

Board of Trustees

The Kennedy Center is independently administered as a bureau
of the Smithsonian Institution by a board of trustees, thirty of
whose members are citizens appointed by the president of the
United States for ten-year overlapping terms. The remaining fif-
teen members are legislatively designated ex officio representatives
of the legislative branch and executive departments of the federal
government. Members of the Kennedy Center Board of Trustees
are listed in Appendix 1.

President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts

New appointments to the Advisory Committee on the Arts for the
Kennedy Center were announced in September 1982 by Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan. The committee, under the chairmanship of
Herbert Hutner of California, includes membership from forty-
three states and the District of Columbia. The Advisory Committee
is authorized by the Kennedy Center Act to assist the center’s
Board of Trustees. At its first meeting in July 1982, the new mem-
bers of the committee concentrated their discussions on private
fund-raising and national outreach programs on behalf of the cen-
ter. Members of the committee as of September 30, 1982, are
listed in Appendix 1.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 355
Smithsonian Year « 1982

NATIONAL GALLERY OF Ak

J. CARTER BROWN, DIRECTOR

Tue Nationa GALLERY OF ArT (NGA), although formally estab-
lished as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autono-
mous and separately administered organization. It is governed by
its own board of trustees, the ex officio members of which are the
Chief Justice of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution. Of the five general trustees, Paul Mellon continued
to serve as chairman of the board, with John R. Stevenson and
Carlisle H. Humelsine as president and vice president, respectively.
Also continuing on the board were Dr. Franklin D. Murphy and
Ruth Carter Johnson.

During the year, visitors entering both of the gallery buildings
numbered 6,117,234 and included Mrs. Ronald Reagan and Her
Majesty Queen Sofia of Greece; His Excellency, Sandro Pertini,
president of the Italian Republic; and Her Majesty Queen Beatrix
and Prince Claus of the Netherlands.

The programs developed and distributed by the gallery's
Department of Extension Programs during the year reached an
estimated audience of over 48,000,000—nearly double that of
the previous year. This figure reflects a 98 percent increase in
viewers of educational and public television programs, and a 400
percent increase in orders for videocassette programs. Forty-seven
new agencies joined the long-term Regional Extended Loan system.
Three films developed and produced by the department won
awards; 1982 Cine Golden Eagle awards were given to Rodin: The
Gates of Hell and Picasso and the Circus; and Mobile, by Alex-
ander Calder won the grand prize at the Montreal International
Film Festival.

356
Renovation continued in the West Building. A new dining facil-
ity, the Garden Cafe—serving light lunches and desserts—opened
in March in the Central Lobby of the ground floor. Construction
continued on the new graphics, decorative arts, and small sculpture
galleries in the west end of the ground floor to ready them for a
January 1983 opening.

Seventeen scholars were in residence at the Center for Advanced
Study in the Visual Arts for varying periods during the year. The
Kress Professor for the first half of the academic year 1981-82
was Frank E. Brown, a leading scholar on the archaeology of
ancient Italy, professor emeritus of classics at Yale University and
former director of excavations of the American Academy in Rome.
Professor Jean V. Bony, a specialist in medieval architecture and
professor emeritus at the University of California at Berkeley, was
appointed Kress Professor for the second half of the academic year.

Washington area art historians were invited to the center for
thirty-three meetings. There were eleven colloquia, in which papers
were presented by the senior members; six seminars in various
fields of art history and related disciplines; four meetings to hear
area art historians discuss their current research; and seven lec-
tures presented by scholars from the United States and abroad.
Three informal meetings were held for visiting foreign scholars
to present papers on their most recent research to members of the
center and gallery and area historians having a particular interest
in the topic under discussion. There were also two symposia, the
first of which was the art history session of the Hermeticism and
the Renaissance symposium organized by Catholic University and
the Folger Institute. The second symposium was the Twelfth
Annual Middle Atlantic Symposium in the History of Art.

The center cosponsored two other symposia held elsewhere. The
first, in Baltimore, Maryland, in March, dealt with new research
in Italian studies of the fourteenth to the seventeenth centuries
and was cosponsored by the Art History Department at the Johns
Hopkins University. The largest symposium of the year was held
in Toledo, Spain, in conjunction with the Spanish opening of the
El Greco of Toledo exhibition and with the collaboration of the
Instituto Diego Velasquez in Madrid, marking the first time the
center has held a program outside the United States.

A number of fine paintings came into the collections through

National Gallery of Art / 357
gifts or purchases. Two seventeenth-century paintings, a still life
by Dutch artist van Aelst, and a Madonna and Child, by Jan
Gossaert (Mabuse), were added to the newly renovated and rehung
Dutch and Flemish galleries. Two marine paintings by British-
born artists of the early nineteenth-century, Seapiece: Off the
French Coast, by Richard Bonington, and The Ship “Favorite”
Maneuvering off Greenock, by Robert Salmon, were also added to
the collection, as well as an historically and artistically important
work by American Martin Johnson Heade, entitled Cattleya Orchid
and Three Brazilian Hummingbirds around Nest. The gallery also
received a partial interest in an early twentieth-century painting,
Woman with a Hat, by Fauvist Maurice Vlaminck.

Several other important twentieth-century works of art were
acquired for the collections. The mysteriously beautiful A Moment
of Calm, by Max Ernst, painted between 1939 and 1956, is a
masterpiece of surreal landscape painting. Although the gallery has
a major collection of Helen Frankenthaler works on paper, her
painting entitled Wales, done in 1966, is the first acrylic on canvas
by this artist to enter the collection. Gifts of a recent construction
by Frank Stella entitled Jarama II, the bronze Wandering Rocks,
by Tony Smith, and a painting by Hans Hartung entitled T-51-6
further broadened the gallery’s contemporary holdings. An impor-
tant early Braque collage, Aria de Bach (1913), and a Picasso col-
lage, Guitar, done in 1926, provide a fascinating comparison of
these two twentieth-century masters in their treatment of essen-
tially the same subject matter in similar techniques.

Twentieth-century graphics were greatly enhanced by several
purchases of prints by Picasso—in particular, the first complete
set to come to America of his famous series of eleven lithographs
entiled The Bull, and a unique impression of the final state of his
important, but unpublished, analytic cubist drypoint Man with a
Guitar. Fourteen contemporary prints by Johns, Lichtenstein,
Stella, and Francis were also received as gifts.

Among the finest gifts of drawings received this year were an
early Claude landscape; a partial interest in a rare Schongauer
drawing, Young Woman with a Scarf, from about 1475; and a
partial interest in a beautiful early Matisse, Reclining Nude. Gifts
of old master prints were distinguished by extremely fine impres-
sions of Castiglione’s Genius, Callot’s complete Solimano series,
and of Jan Muller’s striking mannerist, Harpocrates.

358 / Smithsonian Year 1982
The gallery was able to purchase several unusually fine Italian
drawings, in particular a Perugino sketch for a Baptism of Christ,
for which curators had been searching for more than six years, a
preparatory drawing by Raphael for the Nca’s painting of Saint
George and the Dragon, and a large, intensely felt, Resurrection,
by Testa. Nea also acquired Watteau’s most important surviving
drawing for a wall painting or architectural design, The Bower.
The gallery’s finest Dutch drawing acquired this year was a strik-
ing Self-Portrait by a little-known seventeenth-century painter,
Dirk Helmbreker.

Of the 13 temporary exhibitions mounted, 5 presented selec-
tions from private collections: 101 nineteenth-century American
paintings, drawings, watercolors, pastels, and sculptures lent by
Los Angeles collectors, JoAnn and Julian Ganz; 100 Picasso prints
and drawings from the family collection of Chicagoan Morton
Neumann; 25 eighteenth-century drawings from the collection of
the late former Ambassador to Spain, Irwin Boyle Laughlin, lent
by his daughter, Gertrude Laughlin Chanler; 66 paintings by
twentieth-century American and European artists, lent by Swiss
collector Baron Thyssen-Bornemisza; and a selection of approxi-
mately 80 pieces of sixteenth-century maiolica from the collection
of Dr. Arthur M. Sackler.

Other painting exhibitions presented the works of Dutch artists
of the seventeenth century, El Greco, and George Bellows. Coinci-
dental with the bicentennial anniversary of Dutch-American dip-
lomatic relations, Her Majesty Queen Beatrix of The Nether-
lands opened an exhibition of forty outstanding examples of
seventeenth-century Dutch painting from the Mauritshuis, the
Royal Picture Gallery of The Netherlands and one of the best
loved museums in Europe. The exhibition El Greco of Toledo was
the most comprehensive ever assembled and included fifty-five
paintings drawn from United States and foreign museums,
churches, monasteries and private collections. An exhibition of
American artist George Bellows’s boxing paintings, drawings, and
lithographs celebrated the centennial of that artist’s birth.

The first comprehensive exhibition of Costa Rica’s pre—Colum-
bian treasures to travel outside Central America presented more
than three-hundred objects including pendants and other orna-
ments in finely wrought gold and elegantly carved jade, richly
colored and incised ceramic jars and vessels, and large stone sculp-

National Gallery of Art / 359
tures of warriors and other figures, as well as curved grinding
tables intricately carved from volcanic stone.

Three other exhibitions of works on paper included The Cubist
Print, the first comprehensive survey of cubist prints in all media;
Dutch Figure Drawings from the Seventeenth Century, 100 draw-
ings and watercolors from the Rijksmuseum and other major
museums and private collections in Europe and the United States;
and the memorial exhibition, Lessing J. Rosenwald: Tribute to a
Collector, a selection of 100 prints, drawings, and watercolors
chosen from the more than 20,000 graphic works which Mr.
Rosenwald donated to the gallery between 1943 and 1979, the
year of his death.

The gallery made loans to 38 exhibitions at 51 American insti-
tutions and to 25 exhibitions at 28 museums in foreign countries.
Included were a total of 105 paintings, 4 sculptures and 170 works
of graphic art.

The Education Department prepared interpretative material for
the Costa Rica exhibition, El] Greco of Toledo, and the paintings
from the Mauritshuis. Attendance at the special tours, lectures,
and films as well as the regularly scheduled tours and talks relat-
ing to the gallery’s collections, the tours conducted by volunteer
docents for area school children and foreign visitors, and the audi-
torium lectures delivered by staff docents and invited scholars
totaled 207,493.

A number of distinguished scholars lectured during the year.
Among them were: Leo Steinberg, eminent critic and Renaissance
scholar, currently serving as Benjamin Franklin Professor of the
History of Art at The University of Pennsylvania, who delivered
the 1982 A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts on ““The Burden
of Michelangelo’s Painting’; 1982 Kress Professors Frank E.
Brown and Jean V. Bony; 1981 Press Professor Leopold D.
Ettlinger, University of California, Berkeley; Alan Fern, director
of the National Portrait Gallery; Terisio Pignatti, University of
Venice; Robert Rosenblum of the Institute of Fine Arts, New
York University; Peter Schatborn, curator of drawings at the
Rijksmuseum; Giles Waterfield, director of the Dulwich Picture
Gallery, London; Kathleen Weil—Garris of the Institute of Fine
Arts, New York University; and Mahonri S. Young, former direc-
tor, Columbus (Ohio) Museum of Art.

360 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Smithsonian Year + 1982

CHRONOLOGY

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the
fiscal year. No attempt has been made to make this a complete compilation of
Smithsonian activities.

October

Milestone: The first Museum of Natural History major research field trips in
China during the modern era were conducted by paleobiologist Richard Grant
and marine biologist Robert Higgins, and continued through November.

Publication: The National Museum of American History, the second book
jointly produced with the Smithsonian Institution, was published by Harry N.
Abrams, Inc. of New York.

Seminars: For the sixteenth consecutive year, the Joseph Henry Papers spon-
sored the monthly “Nineteenth-Century Seminar.” Topics this year ranged
from hydraulic engineering on the Mississippi River to the political content of
historical-religious art.

Symposium: “The Silver Jubilee Symposium” organized by the International
Society of Tropical Ecology was held in Bhopal, India, and included six papers
presented by the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

Outreach: Urban Spaces Project began, providing an introduction to con-
cepts of architectural design and history to fifth and sixth graders during the
school year, part of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s Cultural Voucher Program.

October 2
Exhibition: The Print in the United States from the Eighteenth Century to the

Present, 90 works on paper from various Smithsonian museums and collec-
tions, opened at the Museum of American Art.

October 5

Milestone: The Cooper-Hewitt marked its fifth anniversary as the Smithson-
ian’s National Museum of Design.

October 6

Radio Special: “Yorktown: Echoes of a Victory,” produced by the Office of
Telecommunications, was broadcast nationwide as part of the Bicentennial
celebration of the historic battle.

361
October 10

Seminar: Five European military figures who were instrumental in helping
win American independence were the subject of a seminar organized by the
Office of Symposia and Seminars as part of the Yorktown Bicentennial ob-
servance.

October 15-18

Special Event: The original script and score of the musical theater classic
“Rose-Marie” was reconstructed by the Division of Performing Arts for a live
performance at the Museum of Natural History and for a cast recording.

October 21

Special Event: The Contributing Membership of the National Associate Pro-
gram, in cooperation with Warner Communications, Inc./Warner Bros., spon-
sored an evening preview of Life on Earth, narrated by David Attenborough
who created and served as host of the successful British series later shown
on public television.

October 21—23

Seminar: The second “Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems,
and the Sun” was held at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory; pro-
ceedings appeared as SAO Special Report 392.

October 26

Concert: In celebration of the 250th anniversary of George Washington’s
birth, the Smithsonian Chamber Players and the Division of Musical Instru-
ments presented the first in a series of four concerts re-creating performances
given during Washington’s lifetime in Vienna, London, Paris and Philadelphia.

October 30

Exhibition: More than Land or Sky: Art from Appalachia, 105 works by 69
artists in 13 Appalachian states, opened at the National Museum of American
Art. Subsequent public programs included films, poetry readings, concerts, a
panel discussion and symposium. The exhibition is being circulated to a dozen
museums and galleries in Appalachia.

October 30—November 1

Outreach: The National Associates Travel Program sponsored a program of
lectures and tours for members of the Grand Rapids Art Museum. This was
one of five programs offered to the members of selected museums who had
co-sponsored 1981 events with the Regional Events Program, National Asso-
ciate Program.

November

Milestone: A series of concerts, films, publications, tours and recordings be-
gan, marking the tenth anniversary of the Smithsonian Jazz Program. The
series, produced by the Division of Performing Arts (DPA), included great
jazz musicians who had appeared at the Smithsonian during those years.

Agreement: A cooperative agreement was signed among Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (STRI), Recursos Naturales Renovables, Instituto de Inves-
tigacion Agropecuaria de Panama and Centro Agronomico Tropical de Inves-
tigacion y Ensenanza to promote joint action for investigation and develop-
ment in relation to the management of natural resources.

362 / Smithsonian Year 1982
November 2-5

Seminar: Twenty museum professionals from museums and state arts councils
in 12 states and Canada attended a seminar in Washington, D.C. on exhibi-
tion interpretation, sponsored by Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (SITES), Office of Museum Programs and the Corcoran Gallery of
Art. The program was held in conjunction with SITES’ exhibition Of Times
and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery.

November 4

Presentation: Mrs. Nancy Reagan presented to the National Museum of
American History the gown she wore at the inaugural balls held on January
30, 1981.

November 4

Grants: The First Ladies Fellowship was established for the study of costume
in America.

November 5

Concerts: The first of four programs of Asian dance, music and theater fea-
tured the Court Dance Theater and Music from Okinawa, a joint venture of
the Division of Performing Arts and the Museum of Natural History.

November 8

Concerts: The 20th Century Consort, sponsored by the Division of Performing
Arts, began its season commemorating the centennial of Igor Stravinsky’s
birth by including one of his works in each of four concerts at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden.

November 8-12

Symposium: “How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey,” seventh in the
Smithsonian’s international series of the Office of Symposia and Seminars,
featured 20 major essayists examining the historical, biological, cultural and
philosophical implications of human adaptation.

November 15

New Facility: A new electronic image processing system, coupled with a VAX
computer, for producing video and hard-copy images of observational data
from both ground-based and space-borne telescopes was installed at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

‘November 18

Lecture: Mr. Ayad Musa El-Awamy, curator of the National Museum of
Natural History in Libya, presented an illustrated talk on the museum as
part of the Office of Museum Programs’ International Program Lecture Series
featuring foreign museum professionals in training at the Smithsonian.

November 19-20

Study Tour: “New York, New York!” an art study tour sponsored by the
Resident Associate Program, offered participants the opportunity to experi-
ence the inside New York art scene. The tour was repeated in January and
February 1982 to meet demand.

November 25

Appointment: Dr. Charles C. Eldredge, Director of the Spencer Museum of
Art and Professor of Art History at the University of Kansas, was named
Director of the National Museum of American Art to succeed the late
Dr. Joshua C. Taylor.

Chronology / 363
December

Publication: The Joys of Research, based on the colloquium organized by the
Office of Symposia and Seminars for the Einstein Centennial celebration, was
published by the S.I. Press.

December—January

Expedition: Smithsonian scientists Robert Fudali and Ursula Marvin, Museum
of Natural History, were members of an expedition to Antarctica that dis-
covered a record number of 375 meteorites at the Allan Hills, an area where
the polar ice cap has acted to concentrate meteorites on its surface.

December 3

Children’s Theater: “The Elves and the Shoemaker,” a production by the
Puppet House Players, opened the season of the Discovery Theater in the
Arts and Industries Building, presented by the Division of Performing Arts.

December 4

Exhibition: A newly reorganized dinosaur exhibition and other displays deal-
ing with fossils and the evolution of life opened at the Museum of Natural
History. A “Dinosaur Extravanganza,” sponsored by the Resident Associate
Program for Young Associates and their families, celebrated the reopening
and featured a quick sketch artist, dinosaur songs, puppetry, balloons and
tyrannosaurus cookies.

December 4-6

Milestone: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its tenth
annual “Christmas at the Smithsonian” for Smithsonian Associates. This
weekend program was highlighted by a gala dinner and tree-trimming party
in the Castle.

December 12

Exhibition: Von Steuben: Secret Aid to the Americans, organized and co-
sponsored by the Foundation for Prussian Cultural Property, Berlin, opened
at the Museum of American History.

December 14

Lecture: Amina Said, education officer of the Lamu Museum in Kenya and a
Smithsonian intern, presented an illustrated talk about the museum and its
programs for school children, for the Office of Museum Programs.

December 15

Special Event: The final event in the 1981 Doubleday series presented opera
star/director Beverly Sills at the Museum of American History, in an evening
of reminiscences and insight into American musical artistry.

December 15-21

Research: Dr. Gerald Deitzer, Radiation Biology Laboratory, worked with
Dr. Lee Pratt at the University of Georgia, Athens on the development and
construction of an ultra-sensitive microprocessor-assisted spectrophotometer
for the measurement of the pigment phytochrome.

December 17

Exhibition: Metaphor: New Projects by Contemporary Sculptors, large-scale
temporary installations by six American artists, opened at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden.

364 / Smithsonian Year 1982
December 18

Reopening: The Reptile and Amphibian House at the National Zoological
Park was opened to the public after undergoing renovation.

December 21

Milestone: The first live satellite radio program of a special holiday concert
produced by the Division of Performing Arts and the Office of Telecommuni-
cations was broadcast from the Institution to more than 110 National Public
Radio stations across the country.

January

FDR Centennial: Five exhibitions were opened at Smithsonian museums as
part of a citywide observance of the 100th anniversary of Franklin Delano
Roosevelt’s birth: Five Distinguished Alumni: The W.P.A. Federal Art Project
at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; Mary McLeod Bethune and
Roosevelt's Black Cabinet at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum; FDR:
The Intimate Presidency at the Museum of American History; FDR: The
Early Years at the National Portrait Gallery, and The Flying Roosevelt at the
National Air and Space Museum.

Outreach: Television public service announcements marking the 100th anni-
versary of Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s birth and related exhibitions at the
Smithsonian and elsewhere in Washington, D.C., were prepared by the Office
of Public Affairs and were aired on stations in Washington, Maryland, Vir-
ginia and Pennsylvania.

Publication: Subarctic, the fourth volume of the Smithsonian’s encyclopedic
Handbook of North American Indians, was published by the Smithsonian
Institution Press.

New Service: Information Desk services were initiated at the National
Museum of African Art by the Visitor Information and Associates Reception
Center.

Lecturer: Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, Radiation Biology Laboratory, was designated a
distinguished lecturer for the Phycological Society of America for the year
1982.

January 1

Grant: The New York State Council on the Arts provided a grant to Cooper-
Hewitt Museum for the establishment of a Conservation Consultancy Program
for New York State.

January 3

Special Event: The Office of Public Affairs organized and co-hosted a recep-
tion at the National Air and Space Museum for 350 science writers attending
the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science.

January 5

New Facilities: Groundbreaking ceremonies began construction of the library
serving the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in the Republic of
Panama.

January 6

Lecture: Li Ching Wong, conservator with the National Museum of Singapore,
spoke on the artifacts and galleries of that museum in a program for the
Office of Museum Programs.

Chronology / 365
January 15

Publication: Revealing the Universe: Prediction and Proof in Astronomy, a
collection of essays on the complementing roles of theory and observation in
astronomy, was published by the MIT Press, edited by James Cornell and
Alan Lightman of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

January 16

Lecture: Walter E. Fauntroy, Delegate to the U.S. Congress from the District
of Columbia, lectured to area students at the Anacostia Neighborhood Mu-
seum on his reminiscences of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

January 16—18

Concert Series: The Smithsonian Chamber Players, sponsored by the Division
of Performing Arts, presented three all-Haydn concerts in celebration of the
250th anniversary of the composer’s birth.

January 18

Milestone: The National Air and Space Museum welcomed its 50 millionth
visitor to the museum: Joseph P. Rostron of Clemson, S.C., a retired professor
of engineering and a private pilot of forty years.

January 19

Exhibition: City Dwellings and Country Houses: Robert Adam and His Style,
opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York.

January 28

FDR Centennial: Joseph Alsop, author and columnist, lectured on “FDR: The
Early Years” at the National Portrait Gallery.

January 30

FDR Centennial: “FDR: In the Shadow of History,” a seminar sponsored by
the Resident Associate Program, featured four eminent historians—William E.
Leuchtenburg, James MacGregor Burns, Gaddis Smith and Frank Friedel—
presenting a composite view of the late president.

January 31

Special Event: “Dance, Music, Art and Ritual in African Funerary Celebra-
tions,” a lecture presented by Rowland Abiodun, a Fulbright Scholar and
Professor of Art at the University of Ife, was one of several events scheduled
at the Museum of African Art in conjunction with its exhibition Life...
Afterlife: African Funerary Sculpture.

January 31

Anniversary: To celebrate the Renwick Gallery’s tenth birthday, an open
house was held at the Gallery with dance and music, a magician and a
juggler. Two exhibitions were opened in conjunction with the anniversary:
The Inedible Renwick Birthday Cakes (January 29) and The Grand Renwick
Gallery Souvenir Show (June 11).

January 31

FDR Centennial: “Folk Music in the Roosevelt White House,” a concert of
music that had been performed for the Roosevelts, was produced by the
Office of Folklife Programs and included some of the musicians who had
played on those occasions. The late President’s son James and folklorist Alan
Lomax provided their personal reminiscences of the White House concerts.

366 / Smithsonian Year 1982
February

Automation: Smithsonian Institution Libraries began automation of its bind-
ing records and contracts. Sixty percent were converted by the end of 1982.

Docent Training: An advisory committee was established by the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education to develop a docent training manual for
working with disabled museum visitors.

February 5-6

Special Event: The “Poetry of the Blues,” a combined symposia/performance
featuring international scholars and artists discussing, analyzing and perform-
ing America’s native poetic form, was presented by the Division of Perform-
ing Arts.

February 10

Stamp Issue: The Office of Biological Conservation assisted the Wildfowl
Trust in marketing a special Darwin commemorative postage stamp signed by
Secretary Ripley.

February 13

Performance: The Khmer Classical Ballet was presented in a concert per-
formance at the Museum of Natural History, cosponsored by the Office of
Folklife Programs and the National Council for the Traditional Arts.

February 20-26

Research: Dr. William H. Klein and Bernard Goldberg, Radiation Biology
Laboratory, collaborated with scientists at Harbor Branch Foundation in
Florida to monitor the spectral quality of underwater light in the Indian
River, using newly designed instruments constructed at the Laboratory.

February 22

Exhibitions: Two exhibitions opened honoring the 250th anniversary of the
birth of the nation’s first President: G. Washington: A Figure Upon the Stage
at the National Museum of American History and An American Icon: The
18th Century Image of George Washington, produced by the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service, at the National Portrait Gallery.

February 23
Special Event: Four hundred 7th and 8th grade students from the District of
Columbia schools participated in educational activities at the National Air
and Space Museum’s D.C. Day, that included a talk by Space Shuttle astro-

naut Fred Gregory, kite and model building demonstrations and a student art
competition.

February 24

Lecture Series: In cooperation with the Boston Museum of Science and with
the support of the Lowell Institute, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory began “Astronomy from Space,” documenting a quarter-century of space
science research. The series continued through April 7.

February 24

Lecture: Martha Lucia Sierra, a Fullbright Scholar and Smithsonian intern,
lectured on The Gold Museum in Colombia in a program for the Office of
Museum Programs.

February 27

Special Event: Ephat Mujuru from Zimbabwe, master artist of the mbira
(thumb piano) performed at the National Museum of African Art.

Chronology / 367
March

Grant: Office of Elementary and Secondary Education received funding from
the Cafritz Foundation in support of the “Exploring the Smithsonian” program
for the District of Columbia Public Schools.

Seminar: “Architectural Design Seminar: An Urban Site,” a four-part design
series, was conducted by some of the country’s most distinguished architects
and architectural design students, presented by the Resident Associate
Program.

March 3

Exhibition: The Vanishing Race and Other Illusions: A New Look at the
Work of Edward Curtis, organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, opened at the Museum of Natural History and provided
an analysis of the photographs taken by Curtis of American Indians.

March 4

Special Event: The Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian National
Associate Program held A Waltz in Space, its annual membership ball, in the
Milestones of Flight Hall of the National Air and Space Museum.

March 5

Research: Dr. Devra G. Kleiman of the National Zoo left for the People’s
Republic of China for seven weeks of cooperative work with Chinese counter-
parts on the giant panda at the Chengdu Zoo and at the Wolong Reserve
breeding facilities and discussions with Chinese scientists and officials con-
cerning the Smithsonian’s giant panda study.

March 8-12

Teaching: Robert M. Organ, Director of the Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory taught for five days as part of a four-month course in “Scientific Prin-
ciples of Conservation” at ICCROM, Rome.

March 11

Symposium: In honor of Women’s History Week, a panel of eight distin-
guished guests discussed “Images of Women in American Culture,” co-
sponsored by the Wonder Woman Foundation and the Museum of American
History.

March 12

Special Event: The National Air and Space Museum and the Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants hosted a reception for the 40 panelists convened by the
National Academy of Sciences to evaluate applications for the Ford Founda-
tion post-doctoral fellowships for minorities in the humanities and sciences.

March 12

Visit: President Mitterand of France visited the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden accompanied by the museum’s director, Alan Lerner.

March 13

Special Event: A Tri-Museum Family Weekend focusing on the lives of five
distinguished black Americans, was held at the Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum, National Portrait Gallery and the Museum of American Art. Tours
were conducted at each museum, with transportation provided between the
sites.

368 / Smithsonian Year 1982
March 17

Exhibition: Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual opened at the Renwick
Gallery. The exhibit, presented in two parts, included 600 objects assembled
from the collections of nine Smithsonian museums and representing 62 socie-
ties from around the world. Part I opened March 17; Part II, August 26.

March 17-21

Giant Panda Breeding: Ling-Ling, the National Zoo’s female giant panda,
came into estrus, however, the ensuing breeding encounters were not success-
ful. She was then artificially inseminated. No birth resulted.

March 18

Exhibition: American Portraiture in the Grand Manner 1720-1920 opened at
the National Portrait Gallery, the first major exhibition devoted exclusively
to America’s most grandiose formal portraiture.

March 20

New Program: “Basic Computer Literacy” provided an introduction to com-
mercially available home micro-computers and software packages, basic com-
puter language and usage. This intensive course represented a timely new
subject area for the adult courses segment of the Resident Associate Program.

March 20

Seminar: “Ancient Anatolian Civilizations,” an all-day program with four
distinguished archaeologists, was presented by the Resident Associate Pro-
gram and the Office of the Ambassador for Turkist Affairs, Turkish Republic,
commemorating the birth of Kemal Ataturk.

March 22-25

Guidelines: Standards for use and measurement of artificial lighting systems
of environmentally controlled rooms were formulated by a Department of
Agriculture committee chaired by Dr. John C. Sager, Smithsonian Radiation
Biology Laboratory. These standards were adopted by the American Society
of Agricultural Engineers as guidelines for use throughout the United States.

March 25-26

Workshop: “Museum Membership Programs” workshop was held in Front
Royal, Va., in cooperation with the George Washington University’s College
of General Studies and the Virginia Association of Museums.

March 26

Exhibition: Contemporary Art from the Netherlands, a SITES exhibition,
opened at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, in celebration of the
1982 bicentennial of diplomatic relations between the Netherlands and the
United States.

March 27-28

Special Event: A seminar entitled “Human/Animal Partnerships” was held at

the National Zoo with demonstrations, lectures and films, as part of the Year
of the Disabled.

March 30

Milestone: American Impressionism, organized and circulated by SITES,
opened at the Musee du Petit Palais, the first exhibition of American Impres-
sionist paintings ever shown in Paris and the first show in the new SITES
Abroad program.

Chronology / 369
March 30—April 2

Lectures: Jacqueline S. Olin, supervisor of Archaeometry and James Blackman,
Research Chemist, both with the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, were
participants in the 22nd Archaeometry Symposium, University of Bradford in
England.

March 30

Film Premiere: IN OPEN AIR: A Portrait of the American Impressionists,
produced by the Office of Telecommunications, had its premiere in Paris in
conjunction with the SITES exhibition. This film subsequently won a Bronze
“Cindy” from the Information Film Producers of America and a Bronze
“Chris” Plaque from the Columbus Film Festival.

April

Research: Based on pioneering studies in the tropical forest canopy in Panama
and the Amazon, Terry L. Erwin, Museum of Natural History entomologist,
calculated that there could be as many as 30 million species of insects extant
globally, not 1.5 million as is usually estimated.

Research: Estimates of growth rates of lichens collected in Antarctica’s dry
valleys by Dr. Mason E. Hale, Museum of Natural History Botanist, indicated
ages in excess of 10,000 years, making them the oldest known living orga-
nisms on earth.

New Program: The Office of Museum Programs and the U.S. Information
Agency co-sponsored a project for museum professionals from abroad to
study at the Smithsonian and other museums in the United States.

New Program: The Officer of Elementary and Secondary Education assumed
responsibility for an Institution-wide Career Awareness Program, for the Dis-
trict of Columbia public schools.

Outreach: “Here at the Smithsonian... ,” a new series of short features for
television, was launched by the Office of Telecommunications for broadcast
by a selected group of stations across the country.

Extended Program: The contract for the Threatened Plants Committee’s Latin
America project was renewed for an additional year by the International
Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, in order to enable
a more thorough treatment of the region. This is a project of the Office of
Biological Conservation.

Outreach: An experimental television public service announcement was pre-
pared by the Office of Public Affairs in cooperation with the Visitor Informa-
tion and Reception Center and distributed to stations in twelve states to
promote Trip Planner, a packet of information offered to viewers to help plan
their visits to Smithsonian museums.

April 3-5
Special Event: Coinciding with the appearance of Honi Coles and his Jazz Tap
Ensemble at the Museum of Natural History under the sponsorship of the
Division of Performing Arts, Mayor Marion S. Barry proclaimed April 2

“Honi Coles Day” in Washington, D.C. to honor the renowed tap dancer on
his 71st birthday.

April 5

Outreach: The Office of Public Affairs, in cooperation with the National Air
and Space Museum and the National Museum of Natural History, hosted a
“Behind-the-Scenes Day” for 30 nationally known science writers, featuring
interviews with more than two dozen Smithsonian scientists and curators and
visits to major Smithsonian science facilities.

370 / Smithsonian Year 1982
April 11-15

Research: Drs. Roy Harding and Nicholas Shaw, Radiation Biology Labora-
tory, presented two papers on research results of control of enzymes in Neuro-
spora at the eleventh Neurospora Information Conference held at the Univer-
sity of Georgia.

April 14-18

Milestone: The fifth anniversary of the Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restora-
tion and Storage Facility of the National Air and Space Museum was cele-
brated with an open house and restoration-in-action demonstrations. Nearly
9,000 visitors toured the facility during the five days.

April 14-18

Research: Dr. Robert Stuckenrath, Radiation Biology Laboratory, presented a
paper on The Stratigraphy, Cultural Features and Chronology of Meadowcroft
Rockshelter, Washington County, Southwestern Pennsylvania at a University
of Pittsburgh symposium. The dates he presented were accepted as firmly
establishing human occupation about 18,000 years ago, and now force revision
of all previously held chronologies for the first human settlements on the
east coast of the United States.

April 15

Lecture: Jacqueline S. Olin, Conservation Analytical Laboratory, presented a
lecture on “Artifacts of Uncertain Provenance in the History of North
American Exploration” to the Coast Guard Academy at New London, Conn.

April 16-17

Milestone: The tenth anniversary of the arrival of the giant pandas, Ling-Ling
and Hsing-Hsing, at the National Zoo was marked with the unveiling of a
plaque expressing friendship with the People’s Republic of China.

April 17

Symposium: Director Ira Rubinoff, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
presented a plan to preserve tropical rainforests from destruction at the
“Leeds International Symposium on Rainforest Ecology” in Leeds, England.

April 17-18

Performance: Laotian and Cambodian New Year celebrations were organized
with members of the Laotian and Cambodian communities of the District of
Columbia metropolitan area by the Office of Folklife Programs and presented
at the Renwick Gallery in conjunction with the current Celebration exhibition.

April 19

Visit: Her Majesty, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands and His Royal Highness,
Prince Claus officially opened the exhibition De Stijl: 1917-1931; Visions of
Utopia—z250 works illuminating the art, architecture and design of this influ-
ential Dutch movement—at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
Related events included a seminar, films, concert and a 1926 Dada play.

April 20

Grant: The McDonnell Foundation granted $500,000, a part of its total com-
mitment of $3 million, for the research, development and staffing of the
projected Public Broadcasting System series of seven one-hour programs,
“Smithsonian World.” This is a co-production of WETA-TV and the Office of
Telecommunications, scheduled for broadcast in 1984.

Chronology / 371
April 21

Lecture: Rosina Corruthers Tucker, the 100-year ex-international secretary-
treasurer of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, spoke at the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum on “A. Phillip Randolph and the Brotherhood.”

April 22

Seminar: As a follow-up to the International Year of Disabled Persons, a
seminar on further steps for improving research and education on disability
was held by the Office of Symposia and Seminars.

April 27

Lecture: Economist John Kenneth Galbraith discussed his activities as Deputy
Administrator in the Office of Price Administration during World War II in
a program entitled “Memories of Price Fixing Days,” presented by the Resi-
dent Associate Program.

April 27

Automation: Smithsonian Institution Libraries began conversion of its older
card catalogues into machine-readable electronic form.

April 27

Lecture: Fatima Ben Toug, museum specialist at the National Museum of
Kuwait and a Smithsonian intern, spoke on the museum in a program for the
Office of International Activities and the Office of Museum Programs.

April 29

Lecture: Ione Carvalho de Medeiros, technical director of the Archaeological
Museum, Rio Grande Do Sul, Brazil and a Smithsonian intern, spoke on her
recent work in developing a new museum for the community of Camoopa in
Nicaragua, in a program for the Office of Museum Programs.

April 29

Lecture: Dr. W. Montague Cobb, president of the NAACP, spoke on “Blacks
in Washington, D.C. after 1900,” at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.

May

Outreach: To mark its 10-year anniversary, Research Reports, a periodical
produced by the Office of Public Affairs and reporting primarily on science
research, was redesigned and redirected to cover the full breadth of Smith-
sonian research including history and the arts.

Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received two Atherton Seidell
Endowment Fund grants, for computerization of old catalogue records of
scientific titles and for a publication describing manuscripts in the Dibner
donation.

May 5

Visit: Mrs. Nancy Reagan reviewed the exhibition The First Annual Awards
in the Visual Arts Exhibition/AVA 1 at the National Museum of American
Art, accompanied by Secretary Ripley and Dr. Harry Rand, the museum’s
curator of 20th century painting and sculpture.

May 6-8

Seminar: A conference on human adaptation was held in cooperation with
the International Organization for the Study of Human Development as a
follow-up to the Smithsonian’s seventh international symposium held in
November 1981.

372 / Smithsonian Year 1982
May 7

Name Change: At ceremonies in Arizona, the name of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory major field facility on Mt. Hopkins was officially
changed to The Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory in honor of SAO’s
former director.

May 11

Gallery Opening: The Frederick Hill Meserve Collection Gallery was opened
at the National Portrait Gallery with an exhibition of photographic portrait
prints made from Mathew Brady glass plate negatives that were part of the
entensive, recently-acquired Meserve Collection.

May 14-15

Performance: A “big drum” dance was performed by recent immigrants from
the Caribbean island of Carriacou, one of several Living Celebrations pro-
duced by the Office of Folklife Programs in conjunction with the Renwick
Gallery’s Celebration exhibition.

May 16

Special Event: A program with Kitty Wells, presented by the Division of
Performing Arts as a tribute to the acknowledged “Queen of Country Music,”
was held in the Museum of Natural History auditorium.

May 26

FDR Centennial: Actor/director John Houseman presented one in a series of
Doubleday Lectures on “The Presidency,” discussing his career in the Ameri-
can theater, especially under the Federal Theater project.

May 26

Discovery: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scientists F. R. Harnden
and Fred Seward reported the discovery of an X-ray pulsar blinking on and
off several times a second in the heart of a supernova remnant, providing new
support to the theory that stellar explosions must leave behind compact cores
of original material.

May 29-30

Lectures: At the annual meeting of the American Institute for Conservation
in Milwaukee, Wisc., Robert M. Organ, director of the Conservation Analyti-
cal Laboratory, spoke on “Information Systems for Conservators” and Walter
Angst, senior conservator, presented a slide lecture on “Conservational
Sleuthing.”

June

New Facility: A joint STRI-University of Panama laboratory was inaugurated
on Naos Island.

Awards: Fourteen prizes in eight categories went to the Smithsonian in the
National Association of Government Communicators 1982 Blue Pencil Awards
Competition. The Office of Public Affairs received seven, including first (tied),
second, third and two honorable mentions to the Smithsonian News Service;
S.I. Press received four, and the National Air and Space Museum, three.

Outreach: A five-week series of workshops, designed to train teachers in the
educational uses of museums, was launched by the Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education.

Chronology / 373
June—Continued

New Service: The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center initi-
ated daily summer Mall information services.

Publication: The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize,
was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

June 2

Acquisition: Lost Balloon, an 1882 landscape by William Beard, was acces-
sioned by the National Museum of American Art.

June 3

Award: Anacostia Neighborhood Museum received an award on Energy
Awareness Day for “the greatest percent reduction in gas consumption over
the previous year.”

June 3

Visiting Lecturer: Dr. Zoe Apostolache-Stoicescu, director of the Natural
Science Museum in Ploiesti, Romania, lectured on that museum’s wildlife
conservation park, in a program for the Office of Museum Programs.

June 3

Visit: Princess Benedikte of Denmark toured the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, accompanied by Secretary Ripley and the museum’s direc-
tor, Abram Lerner.

June 4
Award: “Smithsonian Galaxy,” Office of Telecommunications’ radio series,
received a gold medal from the International Radio Festival of New York.
June 6

Special Event: A ‘Festival of Animals,” featuring a parade, music, children’s
workshops, films and live animals, was held at the Museum of African Art in
conjunction with the exhibition Thinking with Animals.

June 11

Symposium: Lillian Hellman, Emily Hahn and Berenice Abbott discussed
“Creative Women in Paris and New York in the 20s and 30s” in conjunction
with an exhibition of Abbot’s work at the Museum of American Art.

June 11

Lecture: Pia Vivarelli, participant in the Visiting Professionals Program, Office
of Museum Programs, lectured on the National Gallery of Modern Art in
Rome.

June 14

Conservation: Special Flag Day ceremonies at the Museum of American
History, with Mrs. Barbara Bush, wife of the Vice President, launched con-
servation work to protect the Star Spangled Banner.

June 15

Seminar: The Office of Museum Programs began a nine-week course, “Museum
Careers Seminar,” providing Smithsonian interns with an overview of museum
professions and the skills and education required.

June 16

Milestone: SITES exhibition, American Impressionism, opened in East Berlin,
the first East European city on its tour.

374 / Smithsonian Year 1982
June 18

Symposium: “Amelia Earhart: Flight into Yesterday,” a program at the
National Air and Space Museum, joined as panelists individuals who knew
Earhart personally, including her sister Muriel, and historians who have
researched her disappearance.

June 19

Milestone: Inua: Spirit World of the Bering Sea Eskimo, the first major
traveling exhibition assembled from the ethnological collections of the Mu-
seum of Natural History/Museum of Man, opened at that museum. Craft
demonstrations, dancing, drumming and singing by Eskimos from St. Law-
rence Island in Alaska, were arranged by the Office of Folklife Programs in
conjunction with the first week of the exhibit. The group also performed at
Renwick Gallery for its Celebration exhibit.

June 20

International Conference: David Erhardt and Tim Padfield, Conservation
Analytical Laboratory, presented a paper on “A Method for Making Molds
from Embossed Paper” at the International Institute for Conservation Cana-
dian Group Conference in Quebec.

June 23-27

Family Event: A weekend of special activities on the Mall was sponsored by

the National Associates Travel Program for Smithsonian Associates and their
children.

June 24-28, July 1-5

Festival of American Folklife: The 16th annual festival, co-sponsored by the
Smithsonian and the National Park Service, returned to its original site on
the National Mall adjacent to the museums of American History and Natural
History. Participants came from Oklahoma, Korea and Korean-American
communities. The first annual National Heritage Fellowship Awards were
presented by the National Endowment for the Arts and these 15 musicians
and craftspersons also participated in the festival.

June 24

New Facilities: Legislation was signed by President Reagan authorizing the
construction of a new center on the Mall for African, Near Eastern and Asian
cultures.

June 25

Lecture: Dr. S. M. Nair, director of the National Museum of Natural History
in New Delhi, India, lectured on that museum in a presentation for the Office
of Museum Programs.

June 26-July 2
Special Event: “Summerfest” was held at the National Zoo, observing Zoo
and Aquarium Month as designated by proclamation of the President.

July

Research: Dr. Elisabeth Gantt, Smithsonian Radiation Biology Laboratory,
began three months of collaborative research on phycobilisomes at the
Okazaki National Research Institute in Japan.

Grants: The James E. Webb Fellowship was established in honor of James E.
Webb, Regent Emeritus, to promote excellence in the management of cultural
and scientific not-for-profit organizations.

Chronology / 375
July—Continued

Research: Dr. David Correll, Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies completed a study which documents large increases in the acidity of
rainfall at the Center during the period 1974-1982.

Film: The Office of Biological Conservation began consultation with National
Geographic’s film division on a two-part documentary on “The Galapagos
Since Darwin.” The subsequent placement of cameras on the Islands resulted
in the first 16mm film of a Galapagos volcanic eruption.

July 1

Appointment: Irwin I. Shapiro, professor of physics and geophysics at MIT,
was named Director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and
Director of the Center for Astrophysics, which encompasses SAO and the
Harvard College Observatory, effective January 1, 1983.

July 1
Tours: In cooperation with the University of Arizona and with support from

the Office of Public Service, the guided bus tours of the Whipple Observatory
in Arizona were reinstated.

July 1

Exhibition: The National Air and Space Museum opened 25 Years of Space
Exploration, a commemorative exhibit with photographs, film, memorabilia
and artifacts that placed the developments of the space age against the back-
ground of social, cultural and other historical events of the time.

July 1

TV Premiere: IN OPEN AIR: A Portrait of the American Impressionists, pro-
duced by the Office of Telecommunications, had its first television showing
on WETA-TV, Washington, D.C.

July 20

Publication: Astronomy and the Astrophysics for the 1980s, the report of the
Astronomy Survey Committee containing recommendations and priorities for
the development of research instrumentation in the next decade, was pub-
lished by the National Academy Press. George B. Field, director of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, served as committee chairman.

July 28
Visit: Her Royal Highness Queen Sophia of Spain visited the National Air
and Space Museum, accompanied by Secretary Ripley, Under Secretary Phillip

S. Hughes, Assistant Secretary David Challinor and the museum’s acting
director Walter J. Boyne.

July 30

Visit: Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India visited the exhibition Modern
Indian Paintings from the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi, at the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, accompanied by Under Secretary
Phillip S. Hughes, Assistant Secretary Charles Blitzer and the museum’s
deputy director, Stephen Weil.

August

Grant: The James Smithson Society enabled Smithsonian Institution Libraries
to purchase Thomas Brown’s Illustrations of the American Ornithology .. .
(Edinburgh, 1835).

376 / Smithsonian Year 1982
August—Continued

Exhibitions: Soyer Since 1960 and Raphael Soyer: Sixty-five Years of Print-
making, featuring the work of the eminent 82-year-old American realist,
opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The artist also par-
ticipated in “An Evening with Raphael Soyer,” sponsored by the Resident
Associate Program.

Publication: The Behavior and Natural History of the Caribbean Reef Squid
Sepioteuthis sepioidea, by Martin H. Moynihan and Arcadio F. Rodaniche of
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, was published by Verlag Paul
Parley of Berlin and Hamburg.

Construction: Scientists at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies completed a permanent fish monitoring station on Muddy Creek, a
tributary of Chesapeake Bay.

Publication: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries, through its translation/
publications program based on excess foreign currency funds (P.L. 480), pub-
lished History of Metal Cutting Machines to the Middle of the Nineteenth
Century by F. N. Zagorskii.

August 1-5

Symposium: “The Biology and Management of the Cervidae,” an international
conference, was held at the National Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center,
Front Royal, Va.

August 6

Film Premiere: Flyers, the National Air and Space Museum’s third IMAX film,
sponsored by Conoco Inc., opened in the museum’s Samuel P. Langley Theater.

September

Publication: The National Museum of Natural History, the third book jointly
produced with the Smithsonian Institution, was published by Harry N.
Abrams, Inc. of New York.

New Program: Master of Arts Degree Program was launched by the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum in conjunction with Parsons School of Design/The New
School.

New Directions: The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum initiated planning for
a new Museum Annex site at Fort Stanton Park.

Milestone: The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies was desig-
nated a National Estuarine Sanctuary.

New Facility: STRI acquired the sixty-six-foot SS Las Cruces from the Panama
Canal Commission at no cost, for conversion into a floating dormitory/
laboratory.

Research: A study by paleobiologists Storrs L. Olson and Helen James,
NMNH, showed prehistoric Polynesians responsible for the extinction of
apparently half of the bird species on the islands before the arrival of
Captain James Cook in 1778, disproving the generally accepted belief that
pre-European Hawaii was an unspoiled paradise.

Automation: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries completed planning for
the extensive automation of its operations.

Exhibition: Introduction to Conservation in the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries, the first exhibition on the work of the Book Conservation Labora-
tory, opened in the Museum of American History.

Chronology / 377
September 5

Festival: The sixth annual Smithsonian Frisbee Disc Festival, largest non-
competitive disc event in the world, was held on the Mall, sponsored by the
National Air and Space Museum.

September 8

Conference: Three scientists from the Conservation Analytical Laboratory,
Timothy Padfield, David Erhardt, and Walter Hopwood, were participating
speakers in the International Institute for Conservation annual conference,
held in Washington, D.C.

September 10-11

Performance: Traditional Sanskrit theater (Kutiyattam) of Kerala, India, was
presented at the Renwick Gallery in conjunction with the Celebration exhi-
bition.

September 11-12

Symposium: “Animal Extinction—What Everyone Should Know,” a sympo-
sium directed to the general public, was held at the National Zoo with inter-
nationally known speakers.

September 15

Gift: Arthur M. Sackler of New York, art collector, researcher and publisher,
pledged 1,000 masterpieces from his Chinese, Southeast Asian, Near Eastern
and other art collections to the new Smithsonian facility devoted to Asian and
Near Eastern cultures, to be named the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.

September 17

vf

Lectures: “Reinterpreting Galileo,” sponsored by the Office of Symposia and
Seminars in association with the Catholic University of America, examined
Galileo’s significance to the history and philosophy of science.

September 20-25
Conference: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory sponsored an inter-
national workshop on “Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy Using the
Atmospheric Cerenkov Technique in Oootacamund, India,” with the support
of the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Exchange Program and the cooperation
of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.

September 21

Exhibition: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened Scandinavia Modern: 1880-
1980 as part of the nationwide program Scandinavia Today.

September 23

Exhibition: Black Wings: The American Black in Aviation, depicting the con-
tributions and achievements of blacks in the field of aviation, opened at the
National Air and Space Museum.

September 25

Reception: Dr. Mary Leakey, distinguished anthropologist, was honored with
a reception by the Contributing Membership of the National Associate Pro-
gram on the occasion of her presentation of the first Allen O’Brien Memorial
Lecture at the Museum of Natural History.

September 29

Premiere: Probe, a new Spacearium presentation—an armchair tour of the
solar system—opened in the National Air and Space Museum, produced by
the Spacearium staff.

378 / Smithsonian Year 1982
10.

Smithsonian Year » 1982

APPENDICES

Organization Chart

Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and
Commissions, September 30, 1982

Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards
Made October 1, 1981, through September 30, 1982

National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1982

Academic, Research Training, and Internship
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1982

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
in Fiscal Year 1982

Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1982

The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1982

Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1982

Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in

Fiscal Year 1982

Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1982

379

page 380

382

392
395

397

415

425

521
553

624
639
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

BOARD OF REGENTS

THE SEGRETPARY®

AUDITOR

TREASURER*
Accounting Office

Office of Grants and Risk Management

Investment Accounting Division
Business Management Office
Concessions

Food Services Division

Mail Order Division
Smithsonian Museum Shops

Assistant Secretary for
SCIENCE*

Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies
National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of Man
Center for the Study of Man
National Museum of
Natural History
National Zoological Park
Office of Biological Conservation
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Radiation Biology Laboratory
Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute

* Secretary's Executive Committee

UNDER SECRETARY*

Assistant Secretary for
HISTORY AND ART*

Archives of American Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Freer Gallery of Art
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers
Museum of African Art
National Collection of
Fine Arts
Renwick Gallery
National Museum of
History and Technology
National Portrait Gallery
Office of American and
Folklife Studies

GENERAL COUNSEL*

Assistant Secretary for
MUSEUM PROGRAMS*

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

National Museum Act

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of International
Activities

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Archives

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition

Service
Under Separate Boards of Trustees:

| JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER
| FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
|

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

Cae jee ae SS Se

aes, Sage ee

a

Coordinator of
PUBLIC INFORMATION*
Office of Congressional Liaison

Office of Public Affairs
Office of Special Events

Director of
MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT*

Development Office

Smithsonian National Associate
Program

Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program

SEES

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SERVICE*

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Division of Performing Arts

International Exchange Service

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

Assistant Secretary for
ADMINISTRATION*

Contracts Office
Office of Equal Opportunity
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Information Resource
Management
Management Analysis Office
Office of Personnel Administration
Office of Printing and Photographic
Services
Office of Programming and Budget
Office of Supply Services
Travel Services Office
APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards,
and Commissions, September 30, 1982

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS

Warren E. Burger, The Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor
George H. Bush, The Vice-President of the United States, ex officio

Henry M. Jackson, Senator from Washington
Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona
Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California
Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts

David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

Gordon N. Ray,
Chairman

Dore Ashton

Milo C. Beach

Milton W. Brown

Frederick B. Burkhardt

William H. Davenport

Anne d’Harnoncourt

A. Hunter Dupree

Frank B. Golley
Stephen Jay Gould
Neil Harris

August Heckscher
Nathan I. Huggins
Ada Louise Huxtable
Bennetta Jules-Rosette
George F. Lindsay
Thomas E. Lovejoy

Peter Marler

David F. Musto

Ruth Patrick

Vera C. Rubin

Andre Schiffrin

Carl E. Schorske
Gunther Schuller
Barbara W. Tuchman

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman

Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney, President

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley, Vice-President
Mr. Alfred Taubman, Vice-President
Mr. Henry deForest Baldwin, Treasurer
Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Secretary

Mrs. Eli Broad

Mrs. Dwight Kendall

Mr. Porter A. McCray

Mrs. William L. Mitchell
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond
Mr. C. Bagley Wright

Mrs. Charles Kessler

Mr. Irvin A. Levy

Mr. Howard W. Lipman
Mr. Richard Manoogian
Mrs. Walter Maynard, Jr.

Dr. Irving F. Burton

Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
Mrs. Walter B. Ford II
Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn
Mr. John Lowell Jones

382 / Smithsonian Year 1982
FOUNDING TRUSTEES

Lawrence A. Fleischman Mrs. Edsel B. Ford

HONORARY TRUSTEES

Mr. Harold O. Love Mr. Russell Lynes

EX OFFICIO

S. Dillon Ripley Charles Blitzer

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY

NEW YORK

Milton Brown, Lloyd Goodrich

Chairman Eugene Goossen
Thomas N. Armstrong III James J. Heslin
John Baur John Howat

Anne d’Harnoncourt
John Dobkin
William Gerdts

James Humphrey III
Bernard Karpel
John A. Kouwenhoven

NEW ENGLAND

Harley B. Holden, Hugh Gourley

Chairman Elton W. Hall
Winslow Ames Patricia Hills
Mr. and Mrs. Sinclair Hitchings

John Kirk
William Lipke
Kenworth Moffett
Elliott Offner

George H. Bumgardner
Carl Chiarenza
Charles Ferguson
Wolfgang M. Freitag

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Wesley Chamberlin,
Chairman

Stanley Andersen

Herschel Chipp

Van Deren Coke

Wanda Corn

James Elliott
Albert Elsen
Bruce Guenther
Harvey Jones
Martha Kingsbury
Margaretta Lovell

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Richard Koshalek
Susan C. Larsen
Earl A. Powell III
Moira Roth

Constance W. Glenn,
Chairman

E. Maurice Bloch

Burton Fredericksen

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Bernard Mergen,
Chairman
Marjory Balge
Lorraine Brown
Peggy Burke
David Driskell

Charles Eldredge
Alan Fern

Lois Fink

Henry Glassie
William Homer
Charles Hummell

E. P. Richardson

Mrs. William L. Richards

COMMITTEE

Abram Lerner
Russell Lynes
Barbara Novak
Clive Phillpot
Jules D. Prown
Joseph T. Rankin
William B. Walker

James O’Gorman
Stephen Riley

Laurence Schmeckebier
Theodore Stebbins
Richard Teitz

Bryant F. Tolles

Peter Wick

Margaret Craver Withers

George Neubert
Don Stover

Harvey West

Ian McKibbin White

Josine Ianco Starrels
Maurice Tuchman
Robert R. Wark

Al Lerner

Marc Pachter
Phoebe Stanton
John Vlach

John Wilmerding

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 383
BOARD OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS

Richard Fiske, Thomas Lawton David Challinor,
Chairman Michael H. Robinson ex officio

John Eisenberg Charles Blitzer,

Roger Kennedy ex officio

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM ADVISORY COUNCIL

August Heckscher, Russell Lynes Marietta Tree

Chairman Gilbert C. Maurer S. Dillon Ripley,
Karen Johnson Boyd Kenneth Miller ex officio
Rosemary Corroon Amanda Ross Charles Blitzer,
Joan K. Davidson Arthur Ross ex officio
Joanne du Font Robert Sarnoff

FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL

Wilcomb E. Washburn, William Fitzhugh Ralph Rinzler
Chairman Lloyd Herman Peter Seitel

Roger Abrahams Robert Laughlin Richard Sorenson

Richard Ahlborn Scott Odell Thomas Vennum

FREER VISITING COMMITTEE

Mrs. Jackson Burke Charles A. Greenfield Laurence Sickman
Kwang-chih Chang Porter McCray Priscilla P. Soucek
Marvin Eisenberg Norman Y. Mineta John S. Thacher
Murray Gell-Mann John M. Rosenfield Richard Weatherhead

Mrs. Katherine Graham Hugh Scott

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Daniel P. Moynihan, Leigh B. Block Olga Hishhorn
Chairman Anne d’Harnoncourt Dorothy C. Miller
Sydney Lewis, Thomas M. Evans Leonard C. Yaseen?

Vice Chairman Jerome Greene

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

James R. Buckler, Jimmie L. Crowe Belva Jensen
Chairman
ORCHID SUBCOMMITTEE
Edward S. Ayensu Paul Desautels Mary Ripley
James R. Buckler Paul N. Perrott

* Through June 1982.
* Beginning July 1982.

384 / Smithsonian Year 1982
JOINT SPONSORING COMMITTEE FOR THE
PAPERS OF JOSEPH HENRY

Frederick Seitz, Lee Anna Blick S. Dillon Ripley
Chairman Charles Blitzer Henry D. Smyth
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

S. Dillon Ripley, Donald M. Koll

Chairman Vice Adm. Wesley McDonald, USN
Gen. Lew Allen, Jr., USA (Ret.) Lt. Gen. James H. Merryman, USA
Phillip E. Culbertson James P. Moore, Jr.
Michael J. Fenello Jacqueline A. Ponder
Lt. Gen. William H. Fitch, UWSGMC Vice Adm. Benedict L. Stabile, USCG

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM VISITING COMMITTEE

Alexander H. Flax Lt. Gen. James T. Stewart, USAF (Ret.)
Gerald K. O’Neill Richard R. Whitcomb
Leon T. Silver

NATIONAL ARMED FORCES MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Andrew J. Goodpaster, Lt. Gen., U.S. Army, retired

Theodore Ropp

Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense, ex officio

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

NATIONAL HUMAN STUDIES FILM CENTER
ADVISORY COUNCIL

Sol Tax, Phoebe Ellsworth Norman Miller
Chairman Gordon Gibson Phileo Nash

Matthew Huxley, Edward T. Hall Marion Stirling Pugh
Secretary Glenn Harnden Jerold Schecter

Ira Abrams Stephen P. Hersh Hubert Smith

T. Berry Brazelton Paul Hockings George Spindler

Roma Crocker Benetta Jules-Rosette Colin Turnbull

William H. Crocker Peter Marzio Carroll W. Williams

Herbert Di Gioia Constance B. Mellon Joan Swayze Williams

ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT

Paul N. Perrot, Watson M. Laetsch Kenneth Starr
Chairman Thomas N. Maytham Joyce Hill Stoner
George H. Abrams Jan K. Muhlert F. Christopher Tahk

Donald V. Hague Paul E. Rivard Jean Weber

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 385
NATIONAL BOARD OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.,
Chairman

Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. Arthur G. Altschul

Mr. Perry R. Bass

Honorable Lucius D. Battle

‘Mr. William W. Bodine, Jr.

Honorable Nicholas F. Brady

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mr. David L. Coffin

Mrs. Justin Dart

Mr. Gaylord Donnelley

HONORARY MEMBERS

Mr. William S. Anderson
Mr. Richard P. Cooley
Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd

Mr. James A. Elkins, Jr.
Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Mr. Gordon Hanes

Mr. John F. Harrigan
Mrs. Parker T. Hart

Mr. Richard D. Hill
Mrs. Henry L. Hillman

Justice Sandra D. O’Connor
Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Jr,
Mrs. George M. Seignious II
Mr. David E. Skinner

Mr. Roger B. Smith

Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. Malcolm T. Stamper

Honorable Carla Anderson Hills Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.

Mr. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. Seymour H. Knox III
Mr. Brooks McCormick
Mr. Arjay Miller

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. William A. Hewitt
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson

Honorable Leonard K. Firestone Mr. Lewis A. Lapham

Mr. Vernon Taylor, Jr.
Mr. Parke Wright

Honorable George C. McGhee
Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. Merritt Kirk Ruddock
Honorable Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION

Lee Bronson

David Driskell

John B. Duncan

Carl Freeman

S. I. Hayakawa

Frances Humphrey
Howard

Richard Long
Frank Moss

Walter Washington

Franklin Williams
Charles Blitzer,

Milton Ratner ex officio
Thomas Schwab S. Dillon Ripley,
Roy Sieber ex officio

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART NATIONAL COUNCIL

Joseph James Akston
Arthur Ashe

James Avery

Ernie Barnes

Saul Bellow

Julian Bond

Rep. John Brademas
Dona Bronson
Edward W. Brooke
Joseph Campbell
Rep. John Conyers
Ossie Davis

Lula Dawson

Rep. Donald Dellums
Barbaralee Diamonstein
Charles Diggs

Ofield Dukes

Joanne duPont
Ralph Ellison

John Hope Franklin
Buckminster Fuller
James Gibson

Dick Gregory

Chaim Gross

Lily Polk Guest

Alex Haley

George Haley

Eliot Halperin
Geoffrey Holder
Rep. Frank Horton
Muriel Humphrey Brown
David Lloyd Kreeger
Jacob Lawrence
Vera List

J. Bruce Llewellyn
Mary McFadden
Robert McNamara
Stanley Marcus

Rae Alexander Minter
Clarence Mitchell
Nancy Negley

Mace Neufeld
Dorothy Porter
Vincent Price
Benjamin Quarles
Milton Ratner
Michael Rea

386 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Saunders Redding
Norman B. Robbins
Harold Rome
Bayard Rustin

Sen. Hugh Scott
Stanley Scott

Evelyn Sessler
Mabel Smythe
Michael Sonnenreich
David Stratmon
Lynette Taylor
Anne Teabeau
Maurice Tempelsman
Paul Tishman
Sterling Tucker
Mike Wallace
Barbara Watson

G. Mennen Williams
Isabel Wilson

Lester Wunderman
Elizabeth Bouey Yates
Andrew Young
Nicholas Zervas

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART COMMISSION

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy, _ R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Mrs. Hiram W. McKee
Chairman Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Philip Pearlstein
Thomas S. Buechner, August Heckscher George Segal
Vice Chairman Mrs. Robert Homans Mrs. Oliver Seth
S. Dillon Ripley, Thomas C. Howe Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Secretary Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Donald Anderson Richard L. Hunt George B. Tatum
Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake David Lloyd Kreeger Mrs. Charles Bagley Wright
Lloyd Goodrich Abram Lerner,
Walker Hancock ex officio
HONORARY MEMBERS
Martin Friedman Ogden Pleissner Charles H. Sawyer
Henry P. Mcllhenny Edgar P. Richardson Andrew Wyeth

Paul Mellon

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY COMMISSION

Senator Barry Goldwater® Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Robert Hilton Smith
Barry Bingham, Sr. Robert H. Morgan Frank Stanton
Thomas Mellon Evans Barbara Novak Barbara Tuchman

Katie Louchheim

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS
NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE,
W. K. KELLOGG FOUNDATION PROJECT

Paul N. Perrot, Julian Euell Abram Lerner
Chairman Richard Fiske Richard Randall

Jane R. Glaser, J. O. Grantham Adelle Robertson
ex officio Neil Harris Susan Stitt

Janet Solinger, Philip S. Humphrey Michael Templeton
ex officio Watson Laetsch

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM
ADVISORY COUNCILS

Archeology and Related Disciplines Advisory Council

Bennet Bronson Daniel M. Neuman William Trousdale
Thomas J. Hopkins Barbara Ramusack Edward Wente

Astrophysics and Earth Sciences Advisory Council

Felix Chayes William Klein Victor Szebehely
George Field William Melson Louis Walter
Paul Hodge Thornton Page

Systematic and Environmental Biology Advisory Council
Lafayette Frederick David L. Pawson Richard H. Tedford
Richard Highton Beryl B. Simpson Charles A. Triplehorn

* Resigned April 21, 1982.

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 387
WOMEN’S COMMITTEE OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Mrs. Parker T. Hart, Chairman

Mrs. Townsend Burden III, Vice Chairman

Mrs. Ray Scherer, Secretary

Mrs. Malcolm MacIntyre, Assistant Secretary
Mrs. Frank B. Clay, Treasurer

Mrs. Edmund Wellington, Jr., Assistant Treasurer

Mrs. Donald Alexander Mrs. James Lehrer

Mrs. Albert Barclay, Jr. Mrs. William S. Mailliard
Mrs. James M. Beggs Mrs. Alexander M. Maish
Mrs. Denton Blair Mrs. Roemer McPhee

Mrs. Huntington T. Block Mrs. Donald Notman

Mrs. Philip Bowie Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds
Mrs. Harrison Brand III Mrs. Dudley Owen

Mrs. Adelyn Breeksin Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Mrs. George Bush Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr.
Mrs. Thomas J. Camp, Jr. Mrs. C. Michael Price

Mrs. Charles H. Clark Mrs. Malcolm Price

Mrs. Richard Cobb Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley

Mrs. James L. Collins, Jr. Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts
Mrs. James M. Collins Mrs. Reynaldo Rodriquez
Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker Mrs. Robert Rogers

Mrs. John Davidge Mrs. Peter T. Russell

Mrs. Stuart C. Davidson Mrs. Leonard Silverstein
Mrs. J. Edward Day Mrs. Henry P. Smith III
Mrs. John W. Gill Mrs. Howard Smith, Jr.
Mrs. Robert R. Gray Mrs. Wells Stabler

Mrs. William T. Hamilton Mrs. James McK. Symington
Mrs. Karl G. Harr Mrs. Thomas K. Taylor
Mrs. Walter Hodges Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen
Mrs. Edgar W. Holtz Mrs. Charles Verrill

Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries Mrs. Charles Swan Weber
Mrs. George W. Jones Mrs. Philip C. White

Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III Mrs. John Burke Wilkinson
Mrs. Robert Koehler Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

William J. Baroody, Jr., | William J. Bennett S. Dillon Ripley
Chairman Daniel J. Boorstin Richard S. Schweiker

Robert A. Mosbacher, Kenneth B. Clark Anne Firor Scott
Vice Chairman Stuart E. Eizenstat George P. Shultz

James A. Baker III Max M. Kampelman Robert M. Warner

Theodore C. Barreaux Jesse H. Oppenheimer Charles Z. Wick

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Honorary Chairmen

Mrs. Ronald Reagan Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Jimmy Carter Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Gerald Ford Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

388 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Officers

Roger L. Stevens,
Chairman

Senator Charles H. Percy,
Vice Chairman

Henry Strong,
Vice Chairman

Frank Ikard,
Secretary

Charlotte Woolard,
Assistant Secretary

W. Jarvis Moody,
Treasurer

Harry McPherson,
General Counsel
William Becker,
Associate Counsel
James F. Rogers,
Assistant Treasurer
John J. Ronveaux,
Assistant Treasurer
Henry Strong,
Assistant Treasurer

Members Appointed by the President of the United States

Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Mrs. Edward T. Breathitt
Marshall B. Coyne
Richmond D. Crinkley
June Oppen Degnan

Mrs. J. Clifford Folger*
Abe Fortas°

Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen
J. William Fulbright

Cary Grant®

Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr.°
Orval Hansen

Mrs. Bob Hope

Frank Ikard

Melvin R. Laird

Marjorie M. Lawson

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

Dina Merrill®

Joan Mondale

Ronald H. Nessen*
Donna Stone Pesch
Gerald M. Rafshoon
Mrs. Abraham Ribicoff
Jean Kennedy Smith
John G. Spatuzza
Roger L. Stevens

Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss
Henry Strong
Benjamin A. Trustman*
Donna Tuttle®

Jack J. Valenti

Lew R. Wasserman
Mrs. Jack Wrather
Efrem Zimbalist, Jr.

Members Ex Officio Designated by Act of Congress

Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of

Health and Human Services
T. H. Bell, Secretary of Education
Charles Z. Wick, Director,

United States Information Agency
Senator James A. McClure
Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Senator Charles H. Percy
Representative Joseph M. McDade
Representative Charles Wilson
Representative Sidney R. Yates

Honorary Trustees

Mrs. George A. Garrett
Ralph E. Becker
Mrs. Albert Lasker

*Term expired September 1, 1982.
° Deceased April 5, 1982.
° Appointed September 24, 1982.

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 389

Marion S. Barry, Mayor,
District of Columbia
S. Dillon Ripley II, Secretary,

Smithsonian Institution
Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian
of Congress

J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the

Commission of Fine Arts

Russell E. Dickenson, Director,

National Park Service

William H. Rumsey, Director, District
of Columbia Department of Recreation

Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger
President's Advisory Committee on the Arts

Herbert Hutner, Chairman

Los Angeles, California
Margaret Archambault

Chicago, Illinois
Robert D. Bain

Bismarck, North Dakota
Charles Camalier, Jr.

Potomac Falls, Maryland
Clara Chambers

Bloomfield Hills, Michigan
Margot Denny

Anchorage, Alaska
William M. Fine

New York, New York
Beverly Gosnell

Charleston, South Carolina
Cynthia Grassby

Denver, Colorado
Carl Halvorson

Lake Oswego, Oregon
Leota Hayes

Jackson, Mississippi
T. David Higgins

South Charleston, West Virginia
Martin B. Hoffman

Needham, Massachusetts
Stephen Jernigan

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Gerald Kirke

Des Moines, Iowa
Gary Levine

Bellevue, Washington
Peggy Mallick

Casper, Wyoming
John Marsh

Gainesville, Virginia
Alyne Massey

Nashville, Tennessee
Julia M. McCabe

Wilmington, Delaware
Virginia McCann

Short Hills, New Jersey
Lindsay J. Morgenthaler

Cleveland, Ohio

Jim Nelson

Rapid City, South Dakota
Jeanette Nichols

Shawnee Mission, Kansas
H. Davison Osgood, Jr.

Scarborough, Maine
K. Voith Penberthy

Paradise Valley, Arizona
John Piercey

Salt Lake City, Utah
Millie Pogna

Albuquerque, New Mexico
Gladys Prescott

West Palm Beach, Florida
Chesley Pruet

El Dorado, Arkansas
Ann Rydalch

Idaho Falls, Idaho
Hugh K. Schilling

Minneapolis, Minnesota
William Siems

Billings, Montana
Harriet Slaybaugh

Montpelier, Vermont
Eileen Slocum

Newport, Rhode Island
Charles C. Spalding

Honolulu, Hawaii
Richard Taylor

Potomac, Maryland
Dr. Paul Tessier

New Castle, New Hampshire
James Thompson

Louisville, Kentucky
Judith Thompson

Birmingham, Alabama
Diane Ushinski

Shavertown, Pennsylvania
Dorothy Vannerson

Sugar Land, Texas
Joseph Vetrano

Bristol, Connecticut
Judith Woods

St. Louis, Missouri

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Paul Mellon,
Chairman

Carlisle H. Humelsine
Ruth Carter Johnson

John R. Stevenson

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
George P. Shultz, Secretary of State, ex officio

Donald T. Regan, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

390 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Franklin D. Murphy
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WOMEN’S COUNCIL

Margaret A. Santiago, Marilyn J. Hilton,
Chairperson Treasurer
Julia Anne Hoover, Ann C. Gilstrap,
Vice-Chairperson Historian
Sherrill G. Berger Roberta Geier
Betty Beuck Margery Gordon
Constance Bond Linda St. Thomas
Martha Cavpelletti Joanna C. Scherer
Prudence Clendenning Carolyn Thompson
Linda Laws Corliss Deborah Jean Warner
Audrey B. Davis Miriam Weissman
Linda S. DuBro Edith M. Whiteman

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 391
APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program
Awards Made October 1, 1981, through
September 30, 1982

ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES
(INCLUDING ANTHROPOLOGY)

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for
administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; publica-
tions program; Center for Ethnomusicology; the autobiography of Indulal
Yagnik; editing of Advaita Vedanta volumes.

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Operation of Cen-
ter in Cairo; fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disci-
plines in Egypt; continuation of the architectural and epigraphic survey of
Egypt; an archeological map of the Theban necropolis; excavations at Hiera-
konpolis.

Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. Tibetan modern history,
1933-1950; pre- and protohistorical culture development in West Bengal
(India); excavations at Allahdino (Pakistan); International Congress of Paki-
stan Archeology.

Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado. International Congress of
Pakistan Archeology.

Columbia University, New York, New York. Tibetan studies seminar (India).

Corning Museum of Glass, Corning, New York. Documentation of early glass-
making tradition surviving in Firozabad, India.

Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire. The oral epic in India.

Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, Washington, D.C. A corpus of
the mosaics of Tunisia (Tunisia).

Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, New York. Ceramic production and distri-
bution in Rajasthan, India.

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Indo—American fellowship program.

New York University, New York, New York. Ramilila of Ramnager (India).

Social Science Research Council, New York, New York. Islam, ethnicity and
the state (India and Pakistan).

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt.

State University of New York at Oswego, New York. Photographs and history
of Indian women.

University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Changes in the population and ma-
terial culture of a north Indian village: 1953-1983.

392 / Smithsonian Year 1982
University of California, Berkeley, California. Food policy and feeding cities:
a case study of Guinea; excavations at Opovo—Bajbuk (Yugoslavia); Hima-
layan region conference (India and Pakistan); paleoclimatic studies of the
Son Valley, India.

University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Investigation of Near/Far East trad-
ing sites in South India.

University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. Fourth South Asian Roundtable (India) ;
Burmese old court language.

University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Vijayanagara: Urban
space in a medieval Hindu imperial capital (India).

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Translation of the
verbal and pictorial epic of Devnarayans: scroll painting in Rajasthan, India;
ancient economic plants of South India; conference on twentieth-century
literature (India), workshop on Late Cenozoic paleoclimatic changes (India).

Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut. Ethnographic research in
north Pakistan.

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY
(INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY)

Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Paleoanthropological investiga-
tions of Miocene sediments of Northeastern India.

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Herpetofauna
of South India.

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Anthropological and paleontologi-
cal research into the fossil anthropoid sites of the Egyptian Oligocene.

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Later Miocene hominoids
(Pakistan).

Howard University, Washington, D.C. Cenozoic mammals of Pakistan.

Illinois State University, Normal, IIlinois. Floral biology of Myristica fragrans
(India).

Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana. Studies of Euphorbia (India).

Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa. Managing semitropical wetlands (India).

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Examination of
echinoderm collections at Calcutta, India; systematic study of Indian micro-
lepidoptera; the migratory birds of India.

National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C. Conference on conservation of
biological diversity (India).

Pennsylvania State University, University, Pennsylvania. Comparative study
of Old World and New World tiger beetle community structure (India).

Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey. Comparative ecology and ethnol-
ogy of three species of Apis (India).

Queens College, Flushing, New York. Evolution and ecology of parasitoid-
drosophilid complex of India.

Smithsonian Office of Biological Conservation, Washington, D.C. Conservation
workshop (India).

Appendix 2. Special Foreign Currency Program Awards / 393
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Panama. Comparative statis-
tical study of social behavior (India); fellowship travel support (India);
cephalopod behavior in South India.

Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois. The occlusal epidemiological
transition in populations of North India.

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Studies in Gondwana paleon-
tology (India).

University of California, Berkeley, California. Paleontological and paleoan-
thropological investigation of Cenozoic strata of Burma.

University of Maine, Orono, Maine. Nanoplankton/microzooplankton preda-
tor/prey link in the northern Adriatic marine food web (Yugoslavia).

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Fossil mammals in Paleocene
and Eocene sediments in Pakistan.

ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES

Alcorn State University, Lorman, Mississippi. Development of a program of
scintillation studies at low-latitute ionospheric stations (India).

Carnegie Institution, Washington, D.C. Travel of Indian participants in Hawaii
workshop and symposium, IGCP Project 163; petrological and mineralogical
investigation of Indian kimberlites.

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Investigations of
Lonar Crater (India).

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Confer-
ence on high-energy gamma rays (India); balloon-borne far-infrared-telescope
project (India); continuation of operation of Uttar Pradesh State Observatory/
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observing Station, Naini Tal, India.

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Collection
management workshop (India).

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Joint Indo-U.S. programs.

394 / Smithsonian Year 1982
APPENDIX 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded
in Fiscal Year 1982

SEMINAR/WORKSHOP PROGRAM

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee
Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.

Calvert Marine Museum, Solomons, Maryland

Charleston Museum, Charleston, South Carolina

Congress of Illinois Historical Societies and Museums, Springfield, Illinois
National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C.

Southern Arts Federation, Atlanta, Georgia

Texas Historical Commission, Austin, Texas

STIPENDS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR
CONSERVATION STUDIES

Michael Connolly, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
Madeleine W. Fang, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
Cathy Giangrande, University of London, London, England

Kathleen Hansen, Columbia University, New York, New York

Kristin F. Hoermann, Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware
Judith Levinson, Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Maryland

Janet Null, International Center for Conservation in Rome, Rome, Italy
Abigail Quandt, Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware

Paul Rabin, Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada

Marta Rothwarf, The Textile Conservation Center, Ltd., Surrey, England
Robert Sawchuk, Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware

J. William Shank, Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Massachusetts
Pamela Spitzmueller, Newberry Library, Chicago, Illinois

Phillip Sykas, The Textile Conservation Center, Ltd., Surrey, England

Timothy Vitale, International Centre for Conservation in Rome, Rome, Italy

STIPEND SUPPORT FOR GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING

Bank Street College of Education, New York, New York
Columbia University, New York, New York

Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 395
Cooperstown Graduate Programs, Oneonta, New York
New York University, New York, New York

University of Delaware (Conservation Program, Hagley Museum Program,
Winterthur Program), Newark, Delaware

Yale University (University, Art Gallery), New Haven, Connecticut

STIPEND SUPPORT FOR MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS

Fogg Art Museum, Cambridge, Massachusetts

Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York

Northeast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts
Panhandle—Plains Historical Museum, Canyon, Texas

Rocky Mount Historical Association, Piney Flats, Tennessee
University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California

Zoological Society of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH

Eastern National Parks and Monuments Association,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania

Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York

Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities,
Boston, Massachusetts

University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin
Washington Park Zoo, Portland, Oregon

Zoological Society of San Diego, San Diego, California

SERVICES TOF TRE FIELD
(PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE)

African American Museums Association, Washington, D.C.

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee
American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.

Association of Systematics Collections, Lawrence, Kansas

National Conservation Advisory Council, Inc., Washington, D.C.

396 / Smithsonian Year 1982
APPENDIX 4. Academic, Research Training, and Internship
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1982

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research
and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. These
appointees are provided access to the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties,
and reference resources. The persons—listed by bureau, office, or division—in
this appendix began their residencies between October 1, 1981, and September
30, 1982. Predoctoral Fellows are designated as Ph.D. candidates, and Grad-
uate Student Fellows are marked with an asterisk. Postdoctoral Fellows, Visit-
ing Scientists and Scholars, holders of special awards, and participants in
special programs are so listed. The institution where each individual received,
or expects to receive, the degree, is listed, or the home university or institu-
tion is given for Visiting Scientists and Scholars. Also given is the title or
brief description of the project to be conducted at the Smithsonian and the
name of the Smithsonian advisor.

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBOHROOD MUSEUM

Rosalyn Terborg—Penn, Visiting Scholar, Department of History, Morgan State
University. Black women in the struggles against racism and sexism, 1870-
1970, with Mrs. Louise Hutchinson, Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, and
Mrs. Edith Mayo, Department of Social and National History, National
Museum of American History, from June 1, 1982, through August 31, 1982.

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Thomas E. Jordan, Ph.D., Boston University. The role of plant litter in nutrient
cycling, with Dr. David Correll, from September 1, 1982, through August 31,
1983.

Anne Sorenson, Ph.D., Oxford University. The influence of plant growth form
on feeding preference of frugivorous birds, with Dr. James Lynch, Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies, and Dr. Eugene Morton, National
Zoological Park, from September 15, 1982, through September 14, 1983.

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Marva L. Carter,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Illinois. The life and works
of Will Marion Cook, violinist, composer and conductor, with Mr. James
Morris, from June 7, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Laurie Berman, M.A. candidate, University of Michigan. The paintings of
Liang K’ai and their relationship to Japanese ink paintings of the Muromachi
Period with Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu, from January 11, 1982 through April 30,
1982.

Carol Bier, Ph.D. candidate, New York University. Dionysiac imagery in the
art of Iran, with Dr. Esin Atil, from January 1, 1982, through December 31,
1982.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 397
Suzanne Cahill, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Style and iconog-
raphy in Chinese bronze mirrors of the Han through T’ang periods, with
Dr. Thomas Lawton, from April 1, 1982, through June 30, 1983.

Toshio Ebine, Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund Fellow. Ph.D. candidate, Fac-
ulty of Fine Arts, Tokyo Geijutsu Daigaku. Relationship between Chinese
and Japanese ink paintings, with Dr. Thomas Lawton, from July 15, 1982,
through September 30, 1982.

Linda Landis*, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. The relationship between
optical theory and pictorial space in the work of Degas, Manet, Courbet, and
Whistler, with Dr. David Curry, from June 21, 1982, through August 27,
1982.

Fumiko Togasaki,* Ph.D. candidate, Indiana University. Calligraphy and
painting by Koetsu and Sotatsu of the Japanese Rimpa School, with
Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu, from May 31, 1982, through August 6, 1982.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Mostyn Bramley—Moore,* Ph.D. candidate, University of St. Andrews. The
pop milieu; some critical issues, with Mrs. Cynthia Jaffee McCabe, Depart-
ment of Painting and Sculpture, from January 12, 1982, through March 19,
1982.

Ellen Todd, Ph.D. candidate, Standford University. The Fourteenth Street
School; images of New York’s Union Square, with Dr. Judith Zilczer, Depart-
ment of Painting and Sculpture, from September 1, 1982, through Decem-
ber 31, 1983.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Gregory Good, Ph.D., University of Toronto. The genesis of geophysics;
American efforts to understand geomagnetism, 1830-1860, with Dr. Nathan
Reingold, from February 1, 1982, through January 31, 1983.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

R. E. G. Davies, The Charles A. Lindbergh Chair. The history of air trans-
port, with the director and staff of the National Air and Space Museum,
from July 1, 1982, through June 20, 1983.

Ralph Kenat, Guggenheim Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland.
Quantum physics and the composition of the stars, with Dr. David DeVorkin,
Department of Space Science and Exploration, from August 1, 1982, through
July 31, 1983.

John Logsdon, National Air and Space Museum Chair in Space History.
Graduate Program in Science, Technology and Public Policy, George Wash-
ington University. The development of U.S. space policy from 1969 to 1972,
with the director and staff of the National Air and Space Museum, from
September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

Joseph Tatarewicz, Ph.D. candidate, Indiana University. Space technology
and the renaissance of planetary astronomy, 1958-1975, with Dr. Allan
Needell, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from September 1,
1982, through August 31, 1983.

Gerald Wasserburg, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Division of Geo-
logical and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of Technology. Develop-
ment of publications on the origins of the solar system and of the results of
space exploration for the public, and documentation of aspects of the space
program since the early 1960s, with the director and staff of the National
Air and Space Museum, from September 15, 1982, through December 15,
1982,

398 / Smithsonian Year 1982
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Zakaria Ali, Visiting Scholar. Sains University of Malaysia. Development of
American art in the 1930s, with Dr. Harry Z. Rand, Department of 20th Cen-
tury Painting and Sculpture, from November 1, 1981, through February 28,
1982.

Martha Anderson,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Indigenous
roots of New York Dada, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale
Papers, National Portrait Gallery, and Dr. Judith Zilczer, Department of
Painting and Sculpture, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from
September 6, 1982, through November 12, 1982.

Nancy Kay Anderson, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Albert Bier-
stadt and the California landscape painters of the 1870s, with Mr. William
Truettner, Department of 18th and 19th Century Painting and Sculpture,
from September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

Elizabeth Ellis, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. Art and taste in Bos-
ton, 1839-1850, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, Na-
tional Portrait Gallery, from November 15, 1981, through November 14, 1982.
Richard Gruber, Ph.D. candidate, University of Kansas. Thomas Hart Benton;
the teacher and his students, with Dr. Charles Eldredge, Director, from
September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

Katherine Manthorne, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. Latin America
and the American consciousness; images of Latin America by American art-
ists, naturalists and travel writers, 1839-1898, with Mr. William Truettner,
Department of 18th and 19th Century Painting and Sculpture, from Febru-
ary 1, 1982, through January 31, 1983.

Nancy Mathews, Ph.D., New York University. The letters of Mary Cassatt,
with Dr. Adelyn Breeskin, Department of 20th Century Painting and Sculp-
ture, from June 1, 1982, through December 31, 1982.

Barbara Melosh, George Mason/Smithsonian Institution Fellow. Department
of History, University of Wisconsin. The iconography of gender; manhood
and womanhood in New Deal art, with Mrs. Virginia Mecklenburg, Depart-
ment of 20th Century Painting and Sculpture, and Dr. Lois Fink, Office of
Research and Professional Training, from September 1, 1982, through August
31, 1983.

Angela Miller, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Progress and decay; west-
ward expansion and the imagery of ruin in America, 1830-1880, with
Mr. William Truettner, Department of 18th and 19th Century Painting and
Sculpture, National Museum of American Art, and Dr. William Sturtevant,
Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, from
September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

Richard Powell, Visiting Scholar. Department of Art History, Yale University.
William E. Johnson, American artist, 1901-1970, with Dr. Adelyn Breeskin
and Mrs. Virginia Mecklenburg, Department of 20th Century Painting and
Sculpture, from June 1, 1982, through August 6, 1982.

Susan Rather, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Paul Manship and
Archaism in American sculpture, 1900-1930, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of
Research and Professional Training, from September 1, 1982, through
August 31, 1983.

Marc Simpson, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. American artists working in
the Worcestershire, England, village of Broadway in the 1880s and 1890s,
with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Professional Training, from Sep-
tember 1, 1982, through August 30, 1983.

Maren Stange, George Mason/Smithsonian Institution Fellow. Ph.D., Boston
University. Painting, photography, and cultural discourses in the 1930s, with
Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Professional Training, from January 1,
1982, through August 31, 1982.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 399
Elizabeth Turner, Ph.D. candidate, University of Virginia, American artists in
Paris, 1920-1929, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Professional
Training, from September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

William Bayreuther,* M.A. candidate, Texas A & M University. Tool mark
analysis of the hull of the Continental gondola, Philadelphia, with Dr. Philip
Lundeberg, Department of History of Science and Technology, from Septem-
ber 6, 1982, through November 11, 1982.

Bernard Carlson, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Artifacts and
the innovative process; a special study of Elihu Thomson, with Dr. Bernard
Finn, Department of History of Science and Technology, from February 1,
1982, through October 31, 1982.

Patricia Cooper, Ph.D., University of Maryland. From skilled craft to mass
production; technology, work, and work culture in the American cigar indus-
try, 1900-1940, with Dr. G. Terry Sharrer, Department of History of Science
and Technology, from December 1, 1981, through November 30, 1982.

Rayna Green, Visiting Scholar and Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow.
Native American Studies Department, Dartmouth College. Modern application
of Native North American science, medicine, and technology, with Dr. William
Sturtevant, Department of Anthropology, from August 1, 1982, through
July 31, 1983.

Sally Griffith, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. William Allen
White’s Emporia Gazette; a case study in community journalism, with
Mr. Carl Scheele and Dr. Elizabeth Harris, Department of Social and National
History, from January 1, 1982, through September 30, 1982.

David Jaffee, Ph.D., Harvard University. Arts and crafts in the rural North;
the itinerant artisan, 1790-1860, with Dr. Gary Kulik, Department of Social
and National History, from September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.
Peggy Kidwell, Ph.D., Yale University. Preliminary studies toward a biography
of Cecilia Payne—Gaposchkin, with Ms. Deborah Warner, Department of His-
tory of Science and Technology, from September 1, 1982, through August 31,
1983.

Gary Puckrein, Ph.D., Brown University. Classical medicine and social de-
velopment in early America, with Dr. Ramunas Kondratas, Department of
History of Science and Technology, from September 1, 1982, through April 30,
1983.

Robert Rydell, Ph.D., University of California, Los Angeles. America’s inter-
national expositions, 1928-1974, with Dr. G. Terry Sharrer, Department of
History of Science and Technology, from August 1, 1982, through July 31,
1983.

Holly Shulman, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. The development of
American overseas radio propaganda, with Mr. Elliott Sivowitch, Department
of History of Science and Technology, and Dr. Forrest Pogue, Eisenhower
Institute for Historical Research, from September 1, 1982, through August 31,
1983.

Susan Smulyan, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. And now a word from our
sponsors; commercialization of early broadcast radio, 1920-1934, with
Mr. Carl Scheele, Department of Social and National History, and Dr. Bernard
Finn, Department of History of Science and Technology, from September 1,
1982, through August 31, 1983.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Jay Bernstein,* Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Medical
and religious paraphernalia from Indonesia, with Dr. Paul Taylor, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, from July 5, 1982, through September 10, 1982.

400 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Yvonne Bishop,* M.S. candidate, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Docu-
mentation and regional comparison of design elements of Near Eastern textiles
and clothing, with Dr. Gordon Gibson, Department of Anthropology, from
June 7, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Barbara Bocek,* Ph.D. candidate, Stanford University. Ethnographic testing of
achaeological hypotheses; testing a model of prehistoric subsistence and settle-
ment in California, with Dr. Bruce Smith, Department of Anthropology, from
January 4, 1982, through March 12, 1982.

Sarah Brett-Smith, Ph.D., Yale University. West African textiles; symbolic
meanings, ritual functions, with Dr. Gordon Gibson, Department of Anthro-
pology, from March 1, 1982, through February 28, 1983.

Mario DeVivo,* M.S. candidate, University of Sao Paulo. Systematic revision
of the genus Callithrix, with Dr. Richard Thorington, Department of Verte-
brate Zoology, from September 20, 1982, through November 26, 1982.

Bruno Frolich, Ph.D., University of Connecticut. The skeletal biology of
ancient Near East human populations, with Dr. Donald Ortner, Department of
Anthropology, from January 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

Kumar Ghorpade, Ph.D., University of Agricultural Science, Bangalore. Revi-
sion of Indian Syrphini and review of Syrphidae of Sri Lanka, with Dr. Wayne
Mathis, Department of Entomology, from September 15 1982, through Septem-
ber 14, 1983.

Mark Guagliardo, Ph.D., University of Tennessee. Age changes, dental func-
tion, and cranial variation in Eskimo, Aleut, and Egyptian skeletal collections,
with Dr. Donald Ortner, Department of Anthropology, from August 15, 1982,
through August 14, 1983.

Marcia Herndon, Visiting Scholar. Native American Studies Department, Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley. Eastern Cherokee sacred formulas and medi-
cinal prescriptions, with Dr. William Merrill, Department of Anthropology,
from June 28, 1982, through September 28, 1982.

Reginald Jackson, Visiting Scholar. Department of Communication, Simmons
College. The visual interpretation of African survivals as witnessed in the
Orisha tradition of Nigeria, Brazil, and Cuba, with Dr. Richard Sorenson,
National Human Studies Film Center; Dr. Bernice Reagon, Division of Per-
forming Arts; and Dr. Roy Bryce—Laporte, Research Institute for Immigration
and Ethnic Studies, from June 1, 1982, through August 31, 1982.

Jin Yu-Gan, Ph.D., Nanking Institute of Geology and Paleontology, Academia
Sinica. Permian brachiopod fauna of the Tibetan Plateau, China, with
Dr. Richard Grant, Department of Paleobiology, from December 1, 1981,
through August 31, 1982.

Gail Johnston,* M.S. candidate, Mississippi State University. Functional
morphology of the external oral structures of anuran larvae, with Dr. Ronald
Heyer, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from June 7, 1982, through
August 13, 1982.

Catherine Jolley, Ph.D. candidate, Ohio State University. A comparative anal-
ysis of certain verbal constructions in Fox and Plains Cree, with Dr. Ives
Goddard, Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1982, through
August 31, 1983.

Reinhardt Kristensen, Ph.D., University of Fribourg. A revision of the family
Echiniscidae, Heterotardigrada, on the genus level, with Dr. Robert Higgins,
Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from September 1, 1982, through
August 31, 1983.

Lawrence Liao,* Educational Outreach Program. M.S. candidate, University of
the Philippines. Research and training in phycology including training in tech-
niques of curation, sorting and identification of algal taxa, with Dr. Ernani
Menez, Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, from June 1, 1982, through
May 31, 1983.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 401
Scott Lidgard, Ph.D. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. Growth and for
in cheilistome bryozoans, with Dr. Alan Cheetham, Department of Paleo-
biology, from June 1, 1982, through May 31, 1983.

Jerry McDonald, Ph.D., University of California, Los Angeles. Systematics,
evolution, and zoogeography of North American Ovibovni, with Dr. Clayton
Ray, Department of Paleobiology, from September 15, 1982, through
August 31, 1983.

Kenneth Miyata, Ph.D., Harvard University. Evolution of the genus Enyalio-
ides (Sauria: Iguanidae), with Dr. Ronald Heyer, Department of Vertebrate
Zoology, from November 1, 1981, through October 31, 1982.

Muriel Poston, Visiting Scholar. Department of Botany, Howard University.
A systematic revision of Caiophora (Loasaceae), with Dr. Stanwyn Shetler,
Department of Botany, from June 15, 1982, through September 15, 1982.

V. Louise Roth, Ph.D., Yale University. Systematics and zoogeography of
African Xerini (Sciuridae: Rodentia), with Dr. Richard Thorington, Depart-
ment of Vertebrate Zoology, from March 1, 1982, through February 28, 1983.
Alan Rubin, Ph.D., University of New Mexico. Formation and history of stony
meteorite breccias, with Dr. Roy Clarke, Department of Mineral Sciences,
from September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

Michael Schauff, Ph.D., University of Maryland. Revision of the Nearctic
genera of the Elachertini and the Euplectrini, with Dr. Karl Krombein, Depart-
ment of Entomology, from June 1, 1982, through May 31, 1983.

Scott Shaw,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. A phylogenetic study
of the subfamily Euphorinae, with Dr. Paul March, Department of Entomol-
ogy, from June 7, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Katherine Spielmann, Ph.D., University of Michigan. Intercultural interaction
on the Southern Plains, with Dr. Bruce Smith and Dr. Dennis Stanford,
Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1982, through August 31,
1983.

G. Ledyard Stebbins, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Department of
Genetics, College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, University of
California, Davis. Population biology and systematics of the genus Anten-
naria, with the director and staff of the National Museum of Natural History,
from December 1, 1981, through March 31, 1982.

Garland Upchurch, Ph.D., University of Michigan. The systematics, evolution,
and paleoecology of early angiosperm leaves from the Potomac Group of
Maryland and Virginia, with Dr. Leo Hickey and Dr. Francis Hueber, Depart-
ment of Paleobiology, from November 1, 1981, through October 31, 1982.
Donald Whitcomb, Ph.D., University of Chicago. Archaeology of Islamic
southern Arabia, with Dr. Gus Van Beek and Dr. William Trousdale, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, from September 1, 1981, through November 30, 1981,
and April 1, 1982, through December 31, 1982.

Sven Zea,* M.S. candidate, National University of Colombia. Sponges of the
Colombian Caribbean, with Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate
Zoology, from June 14, 1982, through August 20, 1982.

Ulrich Zeller,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Gottingen. A reexamination of
Wortman’s investigations of mammal skulls at the U.S. National Museum in
1921, with Dr. Richard Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from
August 2, 1982, through October 8, 1982.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Barbara King,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Oklahoma. Observational
learnings among a group of captive orangutans, with Dr. Robert Hoage, from
June 7, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

402 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Rebecca Ross,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Oklahoma. Foraging behavior
responses to artificial provisioning, with Dr. John Seidensticker, Conservation
and Research Center, from June 7, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Michael Licht, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas, Austin. The role of the
harmonica in American traditional music, with Mr. Ralph Rinzler, from
June 15, 1982, through June 14, 1983.

Robert McCarl, Ph.D., University of Newfoundland. Urban firefighting; exam-
ination of work culture from a folklife perspective, with Dr. Peter Seitel,
from September 1, 1982, through August 31, 1983.

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Jenny Clement—Metral, Visiting Scientist. Ph.D., University of Paris. Relation-
ship of Phycobilisomes and photosystem I and II, with Dr. Elisabeth Gantt,
from October 1, 1981, through June 30, 1982.

M. Geoffrey Holmes, Visiting Scientist. Plant Physiology, Albert Ludwigs Uni-
versity, Freiburg. Blue light/phytochrome interactions in the control of vegeta-
tive growth in green plants, with Dr. William H. Klein, from September 1,
1982, through August 31, 1983.

Hugo Vogel, Visiting Scientist. Swiss Federal Institute of Technology.
Development of a method to measure the production of biomass, CO:z assimi-
lation, and Oz production under reproducible conditions for plants living both
in and out of water, with Dr. John C. Sager, from November 1, 1981, through
June 30, 1982.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Sir David Bates, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Department of
Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics, Queens University, Belfast.
Theoretical studies of atomic and molecular processes, aeronomy, and atomic
and molecular astrophysics, with the director and staff of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from June 15, 1982, through December 15, 1982.
Edward Guinan, Visiting Scientist. Department of Astronomy, Villanova Uni-
versity. Study of surface phenomena in cool stars, with the director and staff
of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from August 15, 1982, through
June 30, 1983.

Maciej Kozlowski, Visiting Scientist. Astronomical Observatory, Warsaw Uni-
versity. Study of Einstein Observatory data including one or more of the
following areas; supernova remnants, active galaxies, OSOs, normal stars, and
cluster X-ray emission, with the director and staff of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, from October 1, 1981, through February 28, 1982.
Peter Meszaros, Visiting Scientist. Max Planck Institut fuer Physik und
Astrophysik. Research in high energy physics, with Dr. George Rybicki, from
March 1, 1982, through February 28, 1983.

Stanley Owicki, Langley—Abbott Fellow. Ph.D., University of Colorado.
Research in the acceleration and ionization balance of the outer atmosphere
and winds of cool stars including the sun, with Dr. George Withbroe, from
December 1, 1981, through November 30, 1982.

Graeme Smith, Ph.D., Australian National University. Research involving the
origin of the CN band strength variations occurring among giants within
individual globular clusters, with Dr. Andrea Dupree, from September 1, 1982,
through August 31, 1983.

John Stauffer, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Survey of the nuclear
emmission line spectra of field and cluster disk galaxies, with Dr. David
Latham, from July 1, 1982, through June 30, 1983.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 403
Richard White, Visiting Scientist. Department of Astronomy, Smith College.
Survey of interstellar potassium absorption and observations of interstellar
absorption toward stars associated with reflection nebulae, with Dr. F. H.
Chaffee, from July 1, 1982, through June 30, 1983.

Allan Wirth, Ph.D., University of Illinois. Research into the properties of
elliptical galaxies, with Dr. David Latham, from August 1, 1982, through
July 31, 1983.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Phyllis Coley, Ph.D., University of Chicago. Variation in the physiology of
leaf development among species of tropical trees and vines and its relation-
ship to herbivory, with Dr. Alan Smith, from March 1, 1982, through
August 31, 1982.

Leonard Freed, Ph.D., University of Iowa. Evolution of clutch size in a tropi-
cal passerine, with Dr. Neal Smith, from January 1, 1982, through Decem-
ber 31, 1982.

Sandra Gilchrist, Ph.D., Florida State University. Hermit crab housing; a
re-evaluation of the assumptions, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from September 1,
1982, through August 31, 1983.

David Hamill,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Iowa. Relationship between
dispersal and seedling success in Octea skutchii, with Dr. Alan Smith, from
May 8, 1982, through August 21, 1982.

Thomas Kursar, Ph.D., University of Chicago. Variation in the physiology of
leaf development of tropical trees and vines and its relationship to photosyn-
thesis, with Dr. Alan Smith, from March 1, 1982, through August 31, 1982.
Gordon Rodda, International Environmental Science Program Fellow. Ph.D.,
Cornell University .Social interactions among nonbreeding iguanas, with
Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from July 1, 1982, through June 30, 1983.

Joshua Schwartz,* Ph.D. candidate, University of Connecticut. Interspecific
acoustic interactions in three neotropical hylid frogs, with Dr. A. Stanley
Rand, from June 7, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Thomas Spight, Ph.D., University of Washington. Relationships between
hermit crabs and the snails that supply their shell, with Dr. Martin Moynihan,
from October 1, 1981, through November 30, 1982.

Zengh Bao-Lai, Visiting Scientist. Kunming Institute of Zoology, Academia
Sinica. Natural history of hole-nesting/termitary-nesting birds; trogons,
motmots, and puffbirds, with Dr. Martin Moynihan, from July 15, 1982,
through July 14, 1983.

INTERNSHIP APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers internship appointments to visiting graduate and
undergraduate students. The persons, listed by bureau, office, or division, in
this appendix began their internships between October 1, 1981, and Septem-
ber 30, 1982. Holders of special awards and participants in special programs
are so listed. The institution attended, the title, or a brief description, of the
project to be undertaken where applicable, and the name of the Smithsonian
supervisor are given for each intern.

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

Jacqueline Rouse, Ph.D. candidate, Emory University. Research and work on
organizing an exhibit on early 20th century Black women, with Mrs. Louise
Hutchinson, from June 14, 1982, through August 20, 1982.

404 / Smithsonian Year 1982
CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Rochelle Anderson, B.S. candidate, University of Maryland. Research assistant
in the NSF Family Learning Project, with Dr. John Balling, from June 28,
1982, through September 31, 1982.

Bernd Bendinger, B.S. candidate, University of Osnabruck. Upland ecology
study of the role of heterotrophs in salt marsh metabolism, with Dr. Dennis
Whigham, from August 30, 1982, through December 17, 1982.

Katherine Betts, B.S. candidate, Yale University. Food preference studies of
mice and deer in connection with studies of seed predation and plant/animal
interactions, with Dr. James Lynch, from June 7, 1982, through August 27,
1982.

Eloise Bradham, B.S., University of South Carolina. Studies in upland plant
ecology, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from February 8, 1982, through July 16,
1982.

Keith Elwood, M.S. candidate, Pennsylvania State University. Analysis of the
relationship between visual preference for certain environments and the way-
finding legibility of those environments, with Dr. John Balling, from June 14,
1982, through August 20, 1982.

Karan Forsberg, M.A. candidate, George Williams University. An exploratory
study of factors associated with continued participation in a family-based
learning program, with Dr. John Falk, from March 1, 1982, through May 28,
1982.

Jennie Jacobson, B.A. candidate, Swarthmore College. Science activities for
informal learning, with Dr. John Falk, from June 14, 1982, through August 13,
1982.

Marjorie Marenberg, B.S. candidate, Oberlin College. Program Leader for the
Summer Ecology Program, with Dr. John Falk, from June 20, 1982, through
August 20, 1982.

Amy Michelson, B.S. candidate, Clark University. Study of light availability
affecting the structure and function of plankton communities, with Dr. Maria
Faust, from May 23, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

Kenric Osgood, B.S. candidate, University of Maine. Study to develop meth-
odology for long-term measurements of fish population dynamics, with
Dr. Anson Hines, from May 17, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

Cynthia Trowbridge, B.A. candidate. Cornell University. Work on an estua-
rine benthic community project, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 17, 1982,
through October 22, 1982.

Kristoffer Van Gieson, B.A. candidate, Evergreen State College. Program
Leader for the Summer Ecology Program, with Dr. John Falk, from June 21,
1982, through August 20, 1982.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Steven Holt, A.B. candidate, Brown University. Sidney and Celia Siegel Fel-
lowship Student, working with Mrs. Mary Kerr, programs manager, from
June 14, 1982, through August 20, 1982.

Paul Kane, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow-
ship Student, working with Mr. Christian Rohlfing, assistant director, from
June 14, 1982, through August 20, 1982.

David Kuhn, B.A. candidate, Harvard University. Sidney and Celia Siegel Fel-
lowship Student, working with Mr. Robin Parkinson, exhibits designer, from
June 14, 1982, through August 20, 1982.

Diana Mendley, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Sidney and Celia Siegel Fel-
lowship Student, working with Mrs. Elaine Dee, Department of Prints and
Drawings, from June 14, 1982, through August 20, 1982.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 405
Patricia Nuckles, B.S. candidate, Fisk University. Cataloguing project in the
Wallcoverings Department and a project updating the costume files, with
Mrs. Ann Dorfsman and Ms. Sheila Smith, from June 14, 1982, through
August 20, 1982.

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Marquette Folley, Howard University. Studies in Black American culture, with
Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon, from June 1, 1982, through December 10, 1982.
Julie A. Halpin, College of the Holy Cross. Performing Arts production and
promotion, with Ms. Shirley Cherkasky, from September 1, 1982, through
December 9, 1982.

Beth Hurstein, Washington University. Study in media research, with
Ms. Carson Connor, from October 1, 1981, through December 1, 1981.

Jennifer B. Stahmer, Middlebury College. Research and study compiling mar-
keting/communications information, with Ms. Carson Connor, from October 1,
1981, through February 28, 1982.

Rene Jean Troop (OESE Intern), Sumter (South Carolina) High School. Study
in performing arts production and promotion for the Smithsonian Discovery
Theater, with Ms. Lynn Brice Rooney, from June 21, 1982, through July 30,
1982.

Eric Robert Weiss, the National Law Center, George Washington University.
Study of the legal and artistic aspects of recording production for the Smith-
sonian Collection of Recordings, with Mr. J. R. Taylor, from September 13,
1982, through December 3, 1982.

Loretta Dawn Whitcomb, University of North Carolina. Study of performing
arts production and promotion, with Ms. Shirley Cherkasky, from Septem-
ber 1, 1981, through December 1, 1981.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Mary Jannotta, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu-
dent. B.A. candidate, Smith College. Research on Dwight William Tryon, with
Dr. David Curry, American Art, from September 7, 1982, through Decem-
ber 17, 1982.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Catherine Crangle, B.S. candidate, Canisius College. Sorting and photograph-
ing objects in the collection of Works of Art Done on Paper, with Mr. Frank
Gettings, Curatorial Department, from June 3, 1982, through August 13, 1982.
Gordon Crock, B.A. candidate, Kent State University. Work on the Collabora-
tions exhibition scheduled for 1983-1984, with Ms. Cynthia Jaffee McCabe,
Department of Painting and Sculpture, from June 7, 1982, through August 13,
1982.

Anne Fehr, B.A. candidate, University of Delaware. Archival research in the
assigned department, with Ms. Valerie Fletcher, Department of Painting and
Sculpture, from June 7, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Peggy Fogelman, B.A. candidate, Johns Hopkins University. Curatorial studies
in the assigned department, with Dr. Judith Zilczer and Ms. Phyllis Rosen-
zweig, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from June 7, 1982, through
August 13, 1982.

Amy Gendler, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Learning techniques of label-
ing, silkscreening, and other skills needed for exhibitions, with Mr. Joseph
Shannon, Department of Exhibits and Design, from June 7, 1982, through
August 13, 1982.

Jessica Nicoll, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Student.
B.A. candidate, Smith College. Research on David Burliuk, with Dr. Judith

406 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Zilezer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from September 7, 1982,
through December 17, 1982.

Other Interns

Lynne Baer, University of California, Davis Campus. Research and study in
the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Valerie Fletcher. Special
one-year appointment, from January 11, 1982, through December 31, 1982.
Frances Betz, Saint Mary’s College, Maryland, Research and study in the De-
partment of Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Miranda McClintic, from Jan-
uary 11, 1982, through May 31, 1982.

Kathleen Emmet, graduate of Boston University School of Fine Arts. Research
and study in the Department of Exhibition and Design, with Mr. Joseph
Shannon, from January 11, 1982, through May 31, 1982.

Margaret Lewis, University of Maryland. Research and study in the Depart-
ment of Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Phyllis Rosenzweig, from January 4,
1982, through May 31, 1982.

Denise Michelsen, George Washington University, MAT program. Research
and study in the Education Department, with Mr. Edward Lawson, from
January 11, 1982, through May 31, 1982.

Camille Moseley, H. D. Woodson High School. Special six-week appointment.
Research and study throughout the museum, as summer high-school intern,
under the supervision of Mr. Edward P. Lawson, from June 21, 1982, through
July 31, 1982.

Sophie Orloff, Brussels, Belgium. Research and study in the Department of
Painting and Sculpture, with Ms. Cynthia McCabe, from February 1, 1982,
through May 31, 1982.

Brian Ramer, Assistant Keeper (Conservation), Sainsbury Centre for Visual
Arts, University of East Anglia, England. Four-month internship in examina-
tions and treatments of works of art on paper, with Ms. Toni Owen, from
September 1982, through December 1982.

Sandra Smith, University of Maryland special student, from Sydney, Aus-
tralia. Research and study in the Department of Painting and Sculpture, with
Ms. Cynthia McCabe, from February 1, 1982, through May 31, 1982.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Victoria Avery, B.S. candidate, College of William and Mary. Improving and
updating comparative planetology unit in exploring the planets, with Dr. Ted
Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 21, 1982, through
August 13, 1982.

Anthony Bartelme, B.A. candidate, Northwestern University. Research on
Blacks in Aviation exhibition, with Ms. Rita Bobowski, Office of Public
Affairs, from June 21, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

B. Edward Bleeker, M.A. candidate, George Washington University. Assisting
in the process of managing progress of gallery design and construction, with
Dr. David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from
September 7, 1982, through November 12, 1982.

Martin Collins, M.A. candidate, University of Maryland. Development of
archival procedures and appraisal of archival collections, with Dr. Paul Hanle,
Department of Space Science and Exploration, from May 24, 1982, through
August 13, 1982.

Derek Elliott, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Work on
the 1983 Stars exhibition, with Dr. David DeVorkin, Department of Space
Science and Exploration, from June 12, 1982, through August 21, 1982.

John Gaertner, Senior, Albemarle High School. Work on packing archival
materials at the Paul Garber facility, with Mr. Tim Wooldridge, Department
of Aeronautics, from June 21, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 407
Martha Hoffman, B.S. candidate, Catholic University. Organizing changes in
the library computer system, with Mr. Frank Pietropaoli, Library, from
May 17, 1982, through July 9, 1982.

Carleton Johnson, B.S. candidate, Lycoming College. Collecting and filing
materials on ethnoastronomy and material for the Sky Interpretation Bulletin,
with Mr. Von Del Chamberlain, Department of Space Science and Explora-
tion, from May 17, 1982, through July 9, 1982.

Susan Lawson, B.F.A. candidate, Maryland Institute College of Art. Cata-
loguing and photographing art work, with Mr. William Good, Department of
Art, from June 21, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Ann Mahoney, B.A. candidate, Georgetown University. Research in oral his-
tory and curatorial files, with Dr. Allan Needell, Department of Space Science
and Exploration, from May 17, 1982, through August 6, 1982.

Royce A. Martin, B.A. candidate, Indiana University. Work on the Golden
Age of Flight display, with Mr. Donald Lopez, Department of Aeronautics,
from June 21, 1982, through July 30, 1982.

Beatrice Matkovic, B.A. candidate, Washington University. Work with design-
ers on exhibitions, with Mr. Lucius Lomax, Exhibits and Presentations Divi-
sion, from June 21, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

Chris Matthews, B.A. candidate, University of Maryland. Study of marketing
strategies for the promotion of literature and books, with Ms. Helen Mc-
Mahon, Office of Public Affairs, from May 17, 1982, through July 9, 1982.
Kathryn Mayer, B.F.A. candidate, Maryland Institute College of Art. Cata-
loguing and photographing art collection, with Mr. William Good, Depart-
ment of Art, from June 21, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Alice Meadows, M.A. candidate, Manchester University. Archival project on
collection of ethnographic concepts of the sky, with Mr. Von Del Chamber-
lain, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from August 16, 1982,
through December 3, 1982.

Charles Pepe, B.S. candidate, Georgetown University. Researching documents,
photographs, and publications related to artifacts, and preparing files on spe-
cific objects, with Dr. Allan Needell, Department of Space Science and Explo-
ration, from February 17, 1982, through May 7, 1982.

Christopher Ross, B.A. candidate, Princeton University. Research and study
for a bibliography for a book on Flying Wings, with Mr. Robert Mikesh,
Department of Aeronautics, from June 21, 1982, through August 13, 1982.
Todd Ross, Senior, Abington Heights High School. Photographic developing,
printing, and photo reproduction, with Mr. Dale Hrabak, Photographic Lab-
oratory, from June 21, 1982, through July 31, 1982.

Krista Strider, M.A. candidate, Wright State University. Work on improving
accession records, with Mrs. Robin Schroffel, Office of the Registrar, from
June 21, 1982, through October 9, 1982.

Eolin Tweedie, B.A. candidate, Wood College. Work on the library serials
index and corrections on the periodical index, with Mr. Frank Pietropaoli,
Library, from May 17, 1982, through August 6, 1982.

Other Interns

Judith A. Dean, Ithaca College. Videodisc on aircraft restoration research,
with Mr. Dale Hrabak, Photographic Laboratory, from August 16, 1982,
through November 5, 1982.

Irene Endsley, American University. Work on oral history tapes, with
Dr. David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from
November 16, 1981, through May 21, 1982.

Russell Lee, Southwest Texas State University. Inventory and research in
aviation-related materials with emphasis on ultra-light aircraft, with Mr. Rob-

408 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ert Mikesh, Department of Aeronautics, from January 25, 1982, through
August 13, 1982.

Pamela Mays, Georgetown University. Work on 25 Years of Space Explora-
tion exhibition tour guide, with Mrs. Janet Wolfe, Education Services Divi-
sion, from November 23, 1981, through January 29, 1982.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Rosalyn Cambridge, M.A. candidate, Syracuse University. Cataloguing and
registration of incoming loan objects, with Ms. Lee Williams, Registrar's
Office, from July 1, 1982, through August 31, 1982.

Allyson Cook, M.A. candidate, Sangamon State University. Development of
promotional materials for African Emblems of Status exhibition, with
Ms. Amina Dickerson, program director, from September 7, 1982, through
November 26, 1982.

Jacquelyn Gray, B.A. candidate, University of Virginia. Research and study in
the photographic archives, with Mr. Edward Lifschitz, Department of Aca-
demic Studies, and Ms. Bryna Freyer, Library/Archives, from June 1, 1982,
through August 20, 1982.

Barbara Hunt, Ph.D. candidate, Northwestern University. Background research
on color symbolism in African art, with Ms. Roslyn Walker, Curatorial De-
partment, from June 1, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

Other Interns

Julia Carlisle, St. Lawrence University. Work and study in the Photographic
Archives, with Mr. Edward Lifschitz and Ms. Bryna Freyer, from September 7,
1981, through December 15, 1981.

Mary Jo Cole, Rutgers University. Work and study in the Photographic Ar-
chives, with Mr. Edward Lifschitz and Ms. Bryna Freyer, from January 25,
1981, through April 30, 1982.

Afsaneh Firouz, George Washington University. Work and study in the Cura-
torial Department, with Ms. Carolyn Michels, from March 1, 1982, through
May 30, 1982.

Karri Fritz, Marquette University. Work and study in the Registrar’s Office,
with Ms. Lee Williams, from June 10, 1982, through August 6, 1982.

Helene Gillette, University of Maryland. Work and study in Conservation,
with Ms. Renee Welfeld, from January 25, 1982, through August 27, 1982.
Teresa Glisson, American University. Work and study in the Education De-
partment, with Ms. Amina Dickerson, from September 7, 1981, through
December 15, 1981.

Norman Higginson. Work and study in the Operations and Curatorial depart-
ments, with Mr. Basil Arendse, from January 4, 1982, through April 30, 1982.
Catherine Johnson. Work and study in the Education Department, with
Ms. Amina Dickerson and Ms. Gretchen Jennings, from June 1, 1982, through
August 27, 1982.

Peter Roberts, George Washington University. Work and study in the Educa-
tion Department, with Ms. Gretchen Jennings, from January 25, 1982, through
May 15, 1982.

Amina Said, Lamu Museum, Kenya. Work and study in the Education Depart-
ment, with Ms. Amina Dickerson, from December 1, 1981, through Febru-
ary 15, 1982.

Tina Singleton, State University of New York. Work and study in the Regis-
trar’s Office, with Ms. Lee Williams, from June 1, 1982, through August 6,
1982.

Judith Sylvester, Indiana University. Work and study in Conservation, with
Ms. Renee Welfeld, from May 18, 1982, through July 19, 1982.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 409
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Robert Cottrell, B.A. candidate, New College of University of South Florida.

Assistant with the summer “Teachers-in-Residence” program in the Lans-

burgh Art Center, with Mr. Allen Kaneshiro, Education Department, from

June 1, 1982, through July 30, 1982.

Kimberly Kelly, B.A. candidate, Catholic University. Development and presen-

tation of public education programs in conjunction with the exhibition, Cele-

bration: A World of Art and Ritual, with Mr. Walter Hill, Renwick Gallery,

from June 1, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

Michelle Meyers, B.A. candidate, Dartmouth College. Research on the Martha

Jackson collection, with Dr. Harry Z. Rand, Department of 20th Century

Painting and Sculpture, from June 1, 1982, through July 30, 1982.

Katherine Mitchell, M.F.A. candidate, American University. Resarch for the

exhibition Painters and Painting in Washington, 1800-1915, with Dr. Andrew

Cosentino, Department of Education, from June 1, 1982, through July 30, 1982.

Leslie Ranier, B.A. candidate, Bowdoin College. Work in the frame conserva-

tion laboratory, the exhibits and cabinetmaking shop and the silkscreening

and graphics studio, with Mrs. Georgine Reed, Department of Exhibition and

Design, from June 1, 1982, through July 30, 1982.

Elizabeth Stumbo, B.A. candidate, Carleton College. Research for the prelimi-

nary proposal for a Puerto Rican poster exhibition, with Mrs. Barbara Shissler

Nosanow, Department of Education, from June 14, 1982, through July 30,

1982.

Deaderia Warren, B.A. candidate, Spelman College. Work on a data collection

project, with Mr. Robert Johnston, Office of the Registrar, from June 1, 1982,

through July 30, 1982.

Other Interns

Elizabeth Angel, American University, September 11, 1981, through April 23,
1982.

Efrem Calingaert, American University, September 11, 1981, through April 23,
1982.

Montrose Cones, George Washington University, January 18, 1982, through
April 23, 1982.

Paulette Dickerson, American University, September 11, 1981, through
April 23, 1982.

Walter Hill II, Sangamon State University, October 26, 1981, through April 23,
1982.

Nancy Iacomini, George Washington University, September 11, 1981, through
April 23, 1982.

Michael Reynolds, George Washington University, September 11, 1981,
through April 23, 1982.

Elizabeth Tufts, George Washington University, September 11, 1981, through
April 23, 1982.

Meredith Weber, Pennsylvania State University, March 24, 1982, through
June 18, 1982.

Edith Wyss, George Washington University, September 11, 1981, through
April 23, 1982.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Catherine Bond, B.A., Cambridge University. Study of visitors’ information
services and planning and operation of colloquium series, with Mr. Josiah
Hatch, Office of Public and Academic Programs, from August 30, 1982,
through September 24, 1982.

Jennifer Collins, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu-
dent. B.A. candidate, Smith College. Work on the Life in America and Ideal

410 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Images exhibitions, with Ms. Fath Barfield Ruffins, Department of Social and
Cultural History, from September 7, 1982, through December 17, 1982.
Rosemary Connolly, B.A. candidate, Georgetown University. Object and tex-
tile conservation, particularly the process of cleaning and conservation of the
Star Spangled Banner, with Mr. Scott Odell, Division of Conservation, from
July 12, 1982, through September 3, 1982.

Patricia Crews, Ph.D. candidate, Kansas State University. Cataloguing and
conservation of textiles, with Mrs. Rita Adrosko, Department of Social and
Cultural History, from July 2, 1982, through July 30, 1982.

Margaret Curtin, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu-
dent. B.A. candidate, Smith College. Research on women in sports, with
Mrs. Ellen Roney Hughes, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
September 7, 1982, through December 17, 1982.

Donatella DeGiampietro, Diploma Superiore, University of Florence. Conser-
vation of musical instruments, principally wooden stringed instruments and
keyboard instruments, with Mr. Scott Odell, Division of Conservation, from
July 1, 1982, through January 31, 1983.

Shelby Fleck, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Student.
B.A. candidate, Smith College. Survey of the Western Union collection, with
Dr. Arthur Molella, Department of History of Science and Technology, from
September 7, 1982, through December 17, 1982.

Reginald Gougis, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University. Work on the Ideal
Images exhibition, with Ms. Fath Barfield Ruffins and Dr. William Pretzer,
Department of Social and Cultural History, from September 6, 1982, through
December 17, 1982.

Joanne Harris, B.A. candidate, Smith College. Research for the Life in
America project focused on the eighteenth century, with Ms. Fath Barfield
Ruffins, Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 7, 1982,
through August 20, 1982.

Marie O’Shea, B.A., Reed College. Survey of collections for paper and archival
conservation and storage needs, with Mrs. Diane van der Reyden, Paper
Conservation Laboratory, from September 13, 1982, through March 13, 1983.
Julie Reilly, M.A. candidate, George Washington University. Organization
and treatment of poster collections, with Mrs. Diane van der Reyden, Paper
Conservation Laboratory, from June 28, 1982, through August 27, 1982.
Laura Weathers, M.A. candidate, University of Maryland, Baltimore. Work
on the Afro-American Communities project, with Dr. James Horton, Office of
the Director, from July 5, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Carlos Dennis, B.S. candidate, Georgetown University. Research related to the
coral reef exhibition, in particular monitoring the nutrient level of algal
scrubbers, with Dr. Walter Adey and Mr. Timothy Goertemiller, Department
of Paleobiology, from May 24, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

Andrew Gordus, M.S. candidate, Humboldt State University. Assist in de-
veloping an economic methodology for isolating Nucleopolyhedrosis virus
preparing a freeze-dried product, with Mr. Rolland Hower, Freeze—Dry Labo-
ratory, from June 21, 1982, through August 13, 1982.

Debra Key, B.A. candidate, Fisk University. Work in registration techniques,
in collection rearrangement, specimen preparation, and library research, with
Mr. Frederick Collier, Department of Paleobiology, from May 17, 1982,
through July 30, 1982.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Cynthia Caldwell, Smith College/Smithsonian American Studies Program Stu-
dent. B.A. candidate, Smith College. Study of Matthew Brady's photographs,

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 411
with Mr. William Stapp, Curatorial Department, from September 7, 1982,
through December 17, 1982.

Olivia Wallace, B.A. candidate, Howard University. Research and study in the
area of Black political history, with Mr. Harry T. Jackson, Jr., Education
Department, from May 17, 1982, through July 9, 1982.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Ann Dancy, George Mason University.

Samantha Hawkins, Georgetown University.

Karl Heinz Teppert, University of Maryland.
Linda Johnson, Wesleyan University.

Tonah Kalb, Dartmouth College.

Martha Kokes, University of California, Berkeley.
Peg Lewis, University of Maryland.

Betsy Tyrie, Western Kentucky University.

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Peter Barr, Pennsylvania State University. Research and writing concerning
evaluation studies, with Dr. Robert Wolf, from June 7, 1982, through
August 14, 1982.

Nancy Betschart, University of Toronto, Canada. Development of Native
American museology materials, with Ms. Nancy J. Fuller, from June 28, 1982,
through September 30, 1982.

Jennifer Cave, University of Toronto, Canada. Research and writing concern-
ing evaluation studies, with Dr. Robert Wolf, from March 9, 1982, through
April 8, 1982.

Samuel Giles, George Mason University. Development of Native American
museology materials, with Ms. Nancy J. Fuller, from February 11, 1982,
through August 31, 1982.

Beth Lyle, University of Michigan. Development of Native American muse-
ology materials, with Ms. Nancy J. Fuller, from September 13, 1982, through
March 31, 1982.

Catherine Sands, Georgetown University. Program development, research and
writing for projects in international educational exchange, with Ms. Mary
Lynn Perry, from June 7, 1982, through July 29, 1982.

Halgard Stolte, University of Konstanz, West Germany. Research and writing
concerning evaluation studies, analysis of conservation information question-
naire, translation of book from German into English, with Ms. Mary Lynn
Perry; and museum registration methods at the Museum of African Art, with
Ms. Lee Williams and Ms. Lydia Puccinelli, from August 1, 1981, through
December 17, 1981.

Gregory Vaughn, University of Maryland. Research and writing and transla-
tion in French and Spanish for projects in international educational exchange,
with Ms. Mary Lynn Perry, from January 20, 1982, through April 29, 1982.

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Sahle Melles, M.S. candidate, Howard University. Investigation of photo-
tropism of perithecial beaks in the fungus Neurospora crassa, with Dr. Roy
Harding, from May 31, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL LABORATORY

Ricardo Arteaga, B.S. candidate, Boston University. Technical work with elec-
trical schematic drawings and wire lists, with Mr. Larry Coyle, Engineering
Department, from June 1, 1982, through August 7, 1982.

412 / Smithsonian Year 1982
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Katherine Chambers, Pitzer College. Editorial and publication production
management, with Ms. Andrea Stevens, from July through September 1982.
Rebekah Ingalls, Yale University. Survey of publications for dispersal, with
Ms. Eileen Harakal, from June through August 1982.

Sherryl Kohr, George Washington University. Development of interpretive
program for SITES exhibition, The Natural History of Sexuality, with
Ms. Marjorie Share, January through May 1982.

Helene Lisy, George Washington University. Development of interpretive
program for SITES exhibition, The Center Space, with Ms. Marjorie Share,
June through September 1982.

Lisa McDermott, University of California at Berkeley. Exhibition assistance,
with Ms. Elizabeth Driscoll and Ms. Judith Cox, Exhibitions Coordinators,
June through August 1982.

Terry Prokopp, George Washington University. Research and implementation
of new items for SITES exhibition, The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art,
with Ms. Betty Teller, January through May 1982.

Alison Roberts, George Washington University. Development of interpretive
program for SITES exhibition, The Vanishing Race and Other Illusions,
with Ms. Martha Cappelletti, January through May 1982.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Tina Galindo—Ramirez, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Santa Bar-
bara. Assist in Environmental Sciences Program, with Dr. Donald Windsor,
from June 7, 1982, through August 27, 1982.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
SHORT-TERM FELLOWSHIPS/ASSISTANTSHIPS
IN TROPICAL BIOLOGY

Scholarly Studies Program

Catherine Craig, Cornell University.

Robin Chazdon, Cornell University.

Theo Jacobs, Wageningen University, The Netherlands.
Mickey J. Marcus, University of Maine at Orono.

Jane Sherfy, University of California, Berkeley.

Educational Outreach Fund

T. Mitchell Aide, University of Utah.

Kathleen Cole, University of Alberta at Edmonton
Noel Michelle Holbrook, Harvard University.
Rachel Levin, Cornell University.

James Mallet, University of Texas at Austin.
Mandy Medvin, University of Washington.

EXXON Corporation

Gabriel Abrego, Universidad de Panama.

Martin Aluja, Instituto Tecnologico de Estudios Superiores, Monterrey, Mexico.
Itzel Angulo, Universidad de Panama.

Dalys Caceres, Universidad de Panama.

Axel Calderon, Universidad de Panama.

Paulina Castillo, Universidad de Panama.

Orlando Castillo, Universidad de Panama.

Jose Carlos Chang, Universidad de Panama.

Marilise Ching, Universidad de Panama.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 413
Bianca D’Andria, Universidad Simon Bolivar, Caracas, Venezuela.

Wilson Devia, Universidad Nacional de Colombia.

Eric Gonzalez, Universidad de Panama.

Fidel Jaramillo, Universidad de Panama.

Roberto Ibanez, Universidad de Panama.

Gustavo Kattan, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia.

Ameth de Leon, Universidad de Panama.

Maria Elena Leon, Universidad Simon Bolivar, Caracas, Venezuela.

Marta Lucia Martinez, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia.

Jorge Enrique Moreno, Universidad Nacional de Colombia.

Luis Moreno, Universidad de Panama.

Carolina Murcia, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia.

Miguel Perez, Universidad de Panama.

Cecilio Puga, University of Miami.

Argelis Ruiz, Universidad de Panama.

Ligia Rivera, Universidad de Panama.

Carlos Rodriguez, Instituto Vallecaucano de Investigaciones Cientificas, Calli,
Colombia.

Aby Solis, Universidad de Panama.

Raineldo Urriola, Universidad de Panama.

Yira de Ventocilla, Universidad de Panama.

Janzel Villalaz, Florida Atlantic University.

414 / Smithsonian Year 1982
APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
in Fiscal Year 1982

GENERAL PUBLICATIONS

TRADE PUBLICATIONS

Michael Barrier and Martin Williams, editors. A Smithsonian Book of Comic
Book Comics. 336 pages, 277 color and 7 black-and-white illustrations.
May 1982. Cloth: $25.00.

Silvio Bedini, Declaration of Independence Desk: Relic of Revolution. vii +
112 pages, 36 black-and-white illustrations. January 18, 1982. Paper: $5.95.

Lynda Corey Claassen. Finders’ Guide to Prints and Drawings in the Smith-
sonian Institution. 210 pages, 37 black-and-white illustrations. November 30,
1981. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $9.95.

Tom D. Crouch. Blériot XI. The Story of a Classic Airplane. Famous Aircraft
of the National Air and Space Museum, volume 5. vii + 143 pages. 132
black-and-white illustrations. March 22, 1982. Paper: $8.95.

James Dapogny. Ferdinand “Jelly Roll’ Morton: The Collected Piano Music.
Co-published with G. Schirmer, New York. xii + 513 pages, 4 color and
16 black-and-white illustrations. August 8, 1982. Paper: $23.95.

William Rea Furlong and Byron McCandless. So Proudly We Hail: The His-
tory of the United States Flag. 260 pages, 108 color and 82 black-and-white
illustrations. November 9, 1981. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $12.50.

William Fitzhugh and Susan Kaplan. inua: spirit world of the bering sea
eskimo. 296 pages, 8 color plates, 500 duotones, 4 tables, 11 maps. July 26,
1982. Cloth: $35.00; paper: $15.00.

Elizabeth Rees Gilbert. Fairs and Festivals: A Smithsonian Guide to Celebra-
tions in Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, D.C. 160 pages, 18 black-and-
white illustrations. July 26, 1982. Paper: $4.50.

Louise D. Hutchinson. Anna J. Cooper: A Voice From the South. 201 pages,
7 color and 244 black-and-white illustrations. November 1981. Paper: $17.50.

Von D. Hardesty. Red Phoenix: The Rise of Soviet Air Power 1941-1945.
288 pages, 150 black-and-white illustrations, 3 tables, 8 maps. September 30,
1982. Cloth: $22.50.

Margaret B. Klapthor and Howard A. Morrison. G. Washington: A Figure
Upon the Stage. 231 pages, 156 color and 40 black-and-white illustrations.
February 22, 1982. Paper: $12.50.

Christopher Lyman. The Vanishing Race and Other Illusions: Photographs of
Indians by Edward S. Curtis. 159 pages, 129 black-and-white illustrations.
March 29, 1982. Cloth: $22.50.

Otto Mayr and Robert C. Post. Yankee Enterprise: The Rise of the American
System of Manufacturers. xx + 236 pages, 45 black-and-white illustrations.
March 15, 1982. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $9.95.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 415
Office of Folklife Programs and Renwick Gallery. Celebration: A World of
Art and Ritual. 214 pages, 77 color and 137 black-and-white illustrations.
April 26, 1982. Paper: $12.50.

Roger F. Pasquier, editor. Conservation of New World Parrots: Proceedings
of the ICBP Parrot Working Group Meeting, St. Lucia, 1980. 485 pages, 14
figures, 3 tables. February 22, 1982. Paper: $14.00.

Enayetur Rahim. Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C. for South Asian
Studies. (Eighth Guide in the series.) xxxii + 439 pages. January 25, 1982.
Cloth: $27.50; paper: $12.50.

Walter Shropshire, Jr., editor. The Joys of Research. 180 pages, 65 black-and-
white illustrations. March 1, 1982. Cloth: $17.50; paper: $6.95.

Jay P. Spenser. Bellanca C.F.: The Emergence of the Cabin Monoplane in the
United States. 95 pages, 6 color and 129 black-and-white illustrations. July 12,
1982. Paper: $7.95.

Victor Turner, editor. Celebration: Studies in Festivity and Ritual. 318 pages,
120 black-and-white illustrations. August 23, 1982. Cloth: $25.00; paper:
$9.95.

Lawrence Wishner. Eastern Chipmunks: Secrets of Their Solitary Lives.
144 pages, 24 color and 66 black-and-white illustrations. September 30, 1982.
Cloth: $17.50.

DIRECT MAIL DIVISION

Roger Lewin. Thread of Life: The Smithsonian Looks at Evolution. 308 color
and 44 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $27.50.

TRADE BOOK REPRINTS

Esin Atil. Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks. Second printing. 1982.
256 pages, 158 color and 20 black-and-white illustrations, 1 map. Cloth:
$47.50; paper: $22.50.

Mary Anglemyer, Eleanor Seagraves, Catherine LeMaistre, compilers. A Search
for Environmental Ethics: An Initial Bibliography. Second printing. 1982.
119 pages. Cloth: $9.95.

Richard E. Blackwelder. Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico,
Central America, The West Indies, and South America. Second printing. 1982.
1,492 pages. Cloth: $29.95.

Walter Boyne. Messerschmitt Me 262: Arrow to the Future. Second printing.
Paper. 1982. 192 pages, 6 color and 136 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth:
$19.95; paper: $10.95.

James M. Goode. Capital Losses: A Cultural History of Washington’s
Destroyed Buildings. Second printing. Paper. 1982. xxiv + 517 pages, 460
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95; deluxe edition:
$100.00.

Allan A. Hodges and Carol A. Hodges, editors. Washington on Foot. Second
edition. Third printing. 1982. 202 pages, 124 black-and-white illustrations.
Paper: $4.50.

S. Dillon Ripley. The Sacred Grove: Essays on Museums. Second printing.
1982. 159 pages. Paper: $4.95.

Luis G. Lumbreras. The Peoples and Cultures of Ancient Peru. Fifth printing.
November 1981. Paper: $10.95.

416 / Smithsonian Year 1982
TRADE SALE DISTRIBUTION

Holly Edwards and Dr. Karl Signell. Patterns and Precision: The Arts and
Sciences of Islam. 56 pages, 15 color and 36 black-and-white illustrations,
1 map. June 1982. Distributed for Islam Centennial Fourteen, Washington,
D.C. Paper: $6.50.

Phillip Kopper. The National Museum of Natural History. 496 pages, 460
illustrations. Published by Harry N. Abrams, Inc., New York. Cloth: $60.00.

Brendan Gill. The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. Pub-
lished by Harry N. Abrams, Inc., New York. 160 pages, 118 color and 63
black-and-white illustrations. March 1982. Cloth: $25.00.

Russell Lynes. More Than Meets the Eye: The History and Collections of
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Distributed for Cooper-Hewitt Museum, New York.
160 pages, 37 color and 216 black-and-white illustrations. 1981. Cloth: $18.95;
paper: $10.95.

Klaus Maurice and Otto Mayr, editors. The Clockwork Universe: German
Clocks and Automata 1550-1650. Distributed for the National Museum of
American History, Washington, D.C. 332 pages, 32 color and 178 black-and-
white illustrations. Cloth: $19.95.

TRADE SALE IMPORTS

Michael Aris. Views of Medieval Bhutan: The Diary and Drawings of Samuel
Davis, 1783. 124 pages, 13 color plates and 62 black-and-white illustrations.
Published by Serindia Publications, London. April 1982. Cloth: $35.00.

Walter Boyne. Boeing B-52: A Documentary History. 160 pages, 200 black-
and-white illustrations. Published by Jane’s, London. April 1982. Cloth:
$22.50.

ANNUAL REPORTS
American Historical Association, Annual Report, 1980. viii + 198 pages.
December 1981.

Office of Folklife Programs, Annual Report, 1980. 8 pages, 3 black-and-white
illustrations. November 1981.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Annual Report, 1980. 22 pages, 2
black-and-white illustrations. December 1981.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Annual Report, 1981. 21 pages, 2
black-and-white illustrations. July 1982.

Smithsonian Year, 1981. viii + 592 pages, 71 black-and-white illustrations.
May 1982.

Smithsonian Year, 1981. Statement by the Secretary. vi + 67 pages, 26 black-
and-white illustrations. May 1982.
EXHIBITION CATALOGS

Freer Gallery of Art

Thomas Lawton. Chinese Art of the Warring States Period: Change and Con-
tinuity 480—222 B.C. 202 pages, 20 color and 170 black-and-white illustrations,
3 maps. September 1982.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Howard N. Fox. Metaphor: New Projects by Contemporary Sculptors. 75
pages, 50 black-and-white illustrations. March 1982.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 417
Frank Gettings. Raphael Soyer: Sixty-five Years of Printmaking. 87 pages,
144 black-and-white illustrations. July 1982.

Abram Lerner. Soyer Since 1960. 27 pages, 18 color illustrations. July 1982.

Michael W. Panhorst. Samuel Murray: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden Collection. 32 pages, 49 black-and-white illustrations. May 1982.

National Museum of American Art

Merry A. Foresta. A Life in Art: Alma Thomas, 1891-1978. 56 pages, 4 color
and 47 black-and-white illustrations. December 1981.

Barbara Shissler Nosanow. More Than Land or Sky: Art from Appalachia.
127 pages, 15 color and 110 black-and-white illustrations. October 27, 1981.
Recent Trends in Collecting: Twentieth-Century Painting and Sculpture from
the National Museum of American Art. 64 pages, 167 black-and-white illus-
trations. January 31, 1982.

Michael Shapiro. Cast and Recast: The Sculpture of Frederic Remington. 128
pages, 111 black-and-white illustrations. December 2, 1981.

National Portrait Gallery
James Barber and Frederick Voss. The Godlike Black Dan: A Selection of
Portraits from Life in Commemoration of the Two Hundredth Anniversary of
the Birth of Daniel Webster. 48 pages, 21 black-and-white illustrations.
June 1982.
Margaret Christman. Portraits by George Bellows. 56 pages, 15 color and
3 black-and-white illustrations. November 1981.

Frederick Voss. FDR: The Early Years. 32 pages, 36 black-and-white illustra-
tions. January 1982.

EXHIBITION CHECKLISTS

National Museum of American Art. The Paintings of Frederic Clay Bartlett
and Evelyn Fortune Bartlett. 6 pages, 7 black-and-white illustrations. Septem-
ber 1982.

. William H. Johnson: The Scandinavian Years. 6 pages, 7 black-and-
white illustrations. September 1982.

. Roosevelt's America: New Deal Paintings from the National Museum
of American Art. 6 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. March 24, 1982.

. “In Pursuit of .. .” The Washington Print Club 9th Biennial Mem-
bers’ Exhibition. 8 pages, 7 black-and-white illustrations.

National Museum of American Art and Office of Folklife Programs. Celebra-
tion: A World of Art and Ritual, Part I. 120 pages. March 15, 1982.

. Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, Part II. 101 pages. August 4,

1982.

. A Guide to Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. 40 pages, 5
black-and-white illustrations. March 1982.

BOOKS

Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies

Roy Bryce-Laporte and Dolores M. Mortimer. Female Immigration to the
United States: Caribbean, Latin American and African Experiences. xvii +
485 pages. October 1981.

418 / Smithsonian Year 1982
BOOKLETS

National Air and Space Museum. Education Services Division. 14 pages.
November 1981.

. Exploring the Planets Tour. 60 pages, 20 black-and-white illustra-
tions. January 1982.

. National Air and Space Museum Library. 14 pages, 11 black-and-
white illustrations. May 1982.

. 25 Years of Space Exploration. 23 pages, 14 black-and-white illustra-
tions. June 1982.

National Museum of African Art. Life... Afterlife: African Funerary Sculp-
ture. 15 pages, 12 black-and-white illustrations. November 1981.

National Museum of American Art. Bernice Abbott: The 20s and the 30s.
24 pages, 16 black-and-white illustrations. June 1982.

. Let’s Celebrate!: Handbook for Teachers. 40 pages, 5 black-and-white
illustrations. April 1982.

. Techniques of Bronze Casting in America, 1850-1900. 15 pages,
1 black-and-white illustration. October 1981.

National Portrait Gallery. The National Portrait Gallery. 14 pages, 1 color,
25 black-and-white illustrations. August 1982.

Office of Horticulture. Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustra-
tion. December 1981.

Office of Membership and Development. James Smithson Society Banquet.
16 pages. September 1982.

Office of Museum Programs. Museum Studies Programs in the United States
and Abroad, 1982. 111 pages. June 1982.

Office of Public Affairs. Welcome! Smithsonian Institution. 19 pages, 17
black-and-white illustrations. Issued in French, Japanese, German, and
Spanish. May 1982.

Office of Symposia and Seminars. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odys-
sey. 16 pages, 20 black-and-white illustrations. November 1981.

Radiation Biology Laboratory. Solar Radiation Measurements 1980-1981.
48 pages. September 1982.

FOLDERS

Freer Gallery of Art. The Freer Gallery of Art. Reprint. August 1982.

National Museum of American Art. Paintings and Sculpture in the Grand
Salon and Octagon Room. April 1982.

National Portrait Gallery. Catalog of American Portraits. February 1982.
Office of Public Affairs. A Guide for Disabled Visitors. November 1981.

Office of Symposia and Seminars. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odys-
sey. Program booklet. November 1981.

Visitor Information and Associates Reception Center. Smithsonian Associate
Memberships. January 1982.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 419
FLYERS

Freer Gallery of Art. Chinese Bronzes. Revised reprint. November 1981.
—. Ancient Chinese Jade. Revised reprint. January 1982.

—. Islamic Calligraphy and Illumination. Revised reprint. January 1982.
——.. Japanese Screens. Reprint. February 1982.

——. Chinese Painting. Reprint. July 1982.

———.. Islamic Ceramics. Reprint. July 1982.

. Japanese Ceramics. August 1982.

National Museum of American Art. Dear Teacher Letter. November 1981.
National Museum of American History. The Fall of Parity. February 1982.
. G. Washington: A Figure Upon the Stage. February 1982.

. PS4 Pacific Type Locomotive. December 1981.

Office of Protection Services. Fifth Annual Smithsonian Security Conference,
February 22-24, 1982. January 1982.

INVITATIONS

Freer Gallery of Art. Lecture series. The Dragon as Medium Between Heaven
and Earth: The Iconography of Chinese Art. January 1982.

. Lecture series. The Contribution of Technical Studies to the Under-
standing of Chinese Culture. January 1982.

. Lecture series. Mamluk Jewelry: Influences and Echoes. January 1982.

. Lecture series. Disposable but Indispensable: Ritual Pottery in India
and Japan. January 1982.

National Museum of American Art. Perkins Harnly: From the Index of Amer-
ican Design. October 1981.

. Good as Gold: Alternative Materials in American Jewelry. Novem-
ber 1981.

. Wednesdays at the National Museum of American Art. December
1981.

. The Inedible Renwick Birthday Cakes. January 1982.

. Recent Trends in Collecting: Twentieth-Century Painting and Sculp-
ture from the National Museum of American Art. Invitation and reply card.
January 1982.

. Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. February 1982.

. Prints + Multiples: 79th Exhibition by Artists of Chicago and Vicin-
ity. March 1982.

. Wednesdays at the National Museum of American Art. March 1982.
——.. First Annual Awards in the Visual Arts Exhibition. April 1982.

. St. Patrick’s Day Festivity and Celebration Special Viewing. April
1982.

. Some Observations on the Life and Art of William H. Johnson.
August 1982.

. A Life in Art: Alma Thomas, 1891-1978. October 1981.

420 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Office of Horticulture. Florafest III, “Fantasyland.” March 1982.
Office of Contributing Membership. A Waltz in Space. January 1982.

POSTERS

Office of Protection Services. Smithsonian Safety and Health Program.
December 1981.

Office of Symposia and Seminars. How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural
Odyssey. October 1981.

MISCELLANEOUS

National Air and Space Museum. Sky Interpretation Resource Bulletin.
May 1982.

Office of Public Affairs. Smithsonian Institution Research Reports. September
1982.

Office of Membership and Development. Smithsonian Deferred Giving Reply
Card. October 1981.

SERIES PUBLICATIONS

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

27. James R. Murie. Edited by Douglas R. Parks. “The Ceremonies of the
Pawnee: Part I: The Skiri; Part Il: The South Bands.” 497 pages, frontispiece,
41 figures, 2 tables. October 15, 1981.

28. Donald J. Ortner and Walter G. J. Putschar. “Identification of Pathologi-
cal Conditions in Human Skeletal Remains.” 479 pages, 765 figures, 14 tables.
December 28, 1981.

30. Douglas H. Ubelaker and Herman J. Viola, editors. “Plains Indians

Studies: A Collection of Essays in Honor of John C. Ewers and Waldo R.
Wedel.” 218 pages, 35 figures, 4 plates, 4 tables. September 14, 1982.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY

48. Alan P. Smith. “Growth and Population Dynamics of Espeletia
(Compositae) in the Venezuelan Andes.” 45 pages, 19 figures, 20 tables.
October 23, 1981.

50. John W. Nowicke and John J. Skvarla. “Pollen Morphology and Phylo-
genetic Relationships of the Berberidaceae.” 83 pages, 215 figures, 3 tables.
October 15, 1981.

51. Harold Robinson. “A Revision of the Tribal and Subtribal Limits of the
Heliantheae (Asteraceae).” 102 pages, 210 figures. December 21, 1981.

52. Harold Robinson, A. Michael Powell, Robert M. King, and James F.
Weedin. “Chromosome Numbers in Compositae, XII: Heliantheae.” 28 pages,
3 tables. October 30, 1981.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES
24. Ursula B. Marvin and Brian Mason, editors. “Catalog of Meteorites from

Victoria Land, Antarctica, 1978-1980.” 97 pages, frontispiece, 41 figures,
13 tables. July 29, 1982.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 421
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MARINE SCIENCES

8. Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. “Distribution of Recent Benthic
Foraminifera in the Gulf of Mexico” (in two volumes). 898 pages, 296 figures,
3 tables. December 31, 1981.

9. James N. Norris and H. William Johansen. “Articulated Coralline Algae
of the Gulf of California, Mexico, 1: Amphiroa Lamouroux.” 29 pages, 18
figures, 1 table. October 8, 1981.

10. Ernani G. Mefiez and Arthur C. Mathieson. “The Marine Algae of
Tunisia.” 59 pages, 1 figure. October 1981.

11. Daniel Jean Stanley, Patrick T. Taylor, Harrison Sheng, and Robert
Stuckenrath. “Sohm Abyssal Plain: Evaluating Proximal Sediment Prove-
nance.” 48 pages, 23 figures, 5 tables. October 23, 1981.

12. Klaus Riitzler and Ian G. Macintyre, editors. “The Atlantic Barrier Reef
Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, I: Structure and Communities.” 539
pages, frontispiece, 232 figures, 5 plates, 47 tables. June 10, 1982.

13. Christian Blanpied and Daniel Jean Stanley. “Uniform Mud (Unifite)
Deposition in the Hellenic Trench, Eastern Mediterranean.” 40 pages, 15 fig-
ures, 2 tables. December 21, 1981.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

40. David D. Gillette and Clayton E. Ray. “Glyptodonts of North America.”
255 pages, 96 figures, frontispiece, 70 tables. December 21, 1981.

41. G. Arthur Cooper. “New Brachiopods from the Southern Hemisphere and
Cryptopora from Oregon (Recent).” 43 pages, 4 figures, 7 plates. July 29, 1982.

42. Rex A. Doescher. “Living and Fossil Brachiopod Genera 1775-1979: Lists
and Bibliography.” 238 pages. November 19, 1981.

43. G. Arthur Cooper. “Brachiopoda from the Southern Indian Ocean
(Recent).” 93 pages, 30 figures, 14 plates, 1 table. December 21, 1981.

44, G. Arthur Cooper. “Brachiopods (Recent) from the Gulf of Gascogne,
France.” 35 pages, 5 figures, 3 plates. December 17, 1981.

45. Richard Cifelli. “Textural Observations on Some Living Species of
Planktonic Foraminifera.” 45 pages, 15 plates. March 18, 1982.

46. Jessica A. Harrison. “A Review of the Extinct Wolverine, Plesiogulo
(Carnivora: Mustelidae), from North America.” 27 pages, 16 figures.
December 21, 1981.

47. Robert J. Emry and Richard W. Thorington, Jr. “Descriptive and Compara-
tive Osteology of the Oldest Fossil Squirrel, Protosciurus (Rodentia:
Sciuridae).” 35 pages, 16 figures, 3 tables. July 12, 1982.

48. Storrs L. Olson, editor. “Fossil Vertebrates from the Bahamas.” 65 pages,
12 figures, 12 tables. August 5, 1982.

49. Francis M. Hueber. “Megaspores and a Palynomorph from the Lower
Potomac Group in Virginia.” 69 pages, 1 figure, 24 plates. February 22, 1982.

51. David W. Steadman and Clayton E. Ray. “The Relationships of
Megaoryzomys curioi, an Extinct Cricetine Rodent (Muroidea: Muridae) from
the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador.” 23 pages, 11 figures, 1 table. August 24,
1982.

422 / Smithsonian Year 1982
52. Daryl P. Domning, Gary S. Morgan, and Clayton E. Ray. “North American
Eocene Sea Cows (Mammalia: Sirenia).” 69 pages, 34 figures, 4 tables.
September 3, 1982.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

318. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. “The Crayfishes of Georgia.” 549 pages, 262 figures,
frontispiece, 3 tables. December 21, 1981.

319. Louis S. Kornicker. “Revision, Distribution, Ecology, and Ontogeny of
the Ostracode Subfamily Cyclasteropinae (Myodocopina: Cylindroleberidi-
dae).” 548 pages, 174 figures, 185 plates, 24 tables. December 31, 1981.

327. Marcia Little. “Social Biology of the Polistine Wasp Mischocyttarus
labiatus: Survival in a Colombian Rain Forest.” 27 pages, 5 figures, 15 tables.
October 8, 1981.

335. Julian J. Lewis and Thomas E. Bowman. “The Subterranean Asellids
(Caecidotea) of Illinois (Crustacea: Isopoda: Asellidae).” 66 pages, 32 figures.
December 10, 1981.

336. Melvin E. Sunquist. “The Social Organization of Tigers (Panthera tigris)
in Royal Chitawan National Park, Nepal.” 98 pages, frontispiece, 33 figures,
31 tables. October 28, 1981.

338. Brian Kensley. “On the Zoogeography of Southern African Decapod
Crustacea, with a Distributional Checklist of the Species.” 64 pages, 4 figures,
4 tables. October 19, 1981.

339. Roger Cressey. “Parasitic Copepods from the Gulf of Mexico and Carib-
bean Sea, I: Holobomolochus and Neobomolochus.” 24 pages, 72 figures.
October 19, 1981.

340. Louis S. Kornicker. “Angulorostrum, a New Genus of Myodocopid
Ostracoda (Philomedidae: Pseudophilomedinae).” 20 pages, 11 figures, 2
plates. October 19, 1981.

341. Donald I. Schreiweiss. “A Comparative Study of the Appendicular
Musculature of Penguins (Aves: Spenisciformes).” 46 pages, 19 figures.
April 7, 1982.

342. .Roger Cressey. “Revision of Indo-West Pacific Lizardfishes of the Genus
Synodus (Pisces: Synodontidae).” 53 pages, 44 figures, 4 tables. December 15,
1981.

343. Karl V. Krombein. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, VIII:
A Monograph of the Philanthidae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea).” 75 pages,
89 figures. December 15, 1981.

344. James G. Mead, William A. Walker, Warren J. Houck. “Biological
Observations on Mesoplodon carlhubbsi (Cetacea: Ziphiidae).” 25 pages, 11
figures, 4 tables. February 3, 1982.

345. Wayne N. Mathis. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), VI:
Review of the Tribe Dagini.” 30 pages, 89 figures. January 22, 1982.

346. Brian Kensley. “Deep-Water Atlantic Anthuridea (Crustacea: Isopoda).”
60 pages, 35 figures, 9 plates. February 9, 1982.

347. Wayne N. Mathis. “Studies of Canacidae (Diptera), I: Suprageneric

Revision of the Family with Revisions of New Tribe Dynomiellini and New
Genus Isocanace.” 29 pages, 77 figures. April 23, 1982.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 423
348. Norman D. Penny and Oliver S. Flint, Jr. “A Revision of the Genus
Chloronia (Neuroptera: Corydalidae).” 27 pages, 53 figures, frontispiece.
May 25, 1982.

349. C. Allan Child. “Deep-Sea Pyconogonida from the North and South
Atlantic Basins.” 54 pages, 15 figures. May 25, 1982.

350. Wayne N. Mathis. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), VII:
Revision of the Genus Setacera Cresson.” 57 pages, 138 figures. July 12, 1982.

351. Thomas E. Bowman, Anne C. Cohen, and Maura McManus McGuinness.
“Vertical Distribution of Themisto gaudichaudii (Amphipoda: Hyperiidea)
in Deepwater Dumpsite 106 off the Mouth of Delaware Bay.” 24 pages, 16
figures. June 16, 1982.

352. Michael D. Carleton, Don E. Wilson, Alfred L. Gardner, and Michael A.
Bogan. “Distribution and Systematics of Peromyscus (Mammalia: Rodentia)
of Nayarit, Mexico.” 46 pages, 14 figures, 8 tables. September 14, 1982.

353. W. Duane Hope. “Structure of the Head and Stoma in the Marine
Nematode Genus Deontostoma (Enoplida: Leptosomatidae).” 22 pages, 5 fig-
ures, September 7, 1982.

354. R. J. Hoage. “Social and Physical Maturation in Captive Lion Tamarins,
Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia (Primates: Callitrichidae).” 56 pages, 24 figures,
12 tables. September 9, 1982.

355. Oliver S. Flint, Jr. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXX: Larvae of
the Genera of South American Limnephilidae (Trichoptera).” 30 pages, 77
figures. July 12, 1982.

357. J. Laurens Barnard and Charline M. Barnard. “The Genus Rhepoxynius
(Crustacea: Amphipoda: Phoxocephalidae) in American Seas.” 49 pages,
6 figures. July 19, 1982.

358. Louis S. Kornicker. “A Restudy of the Amphiatlantic Ostracode Philo-
medes brenda (Baird, 1850) (Myodocopina).” 28 pages, 9 figures, 1 table.
July 23, 1982.

359. Thomas E. Bowman and Maura McManus McGuinness. “Epipelagic
Amphipods of the Family Hyperiidae from the International Indian Ocean
Expedition, 1959-1965.” 53 pages, 87 figures, 5 tables. July 12, 1982.

373. Richard P. Vari. “Systematics of the Neotropical Characoid Genus
Curimatopsis (Pisces: Characoidei).” 28 pages, 21 figures. August 27, 1982.

424 / Smithsonian Year 1982
APPENDIX 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian
Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1982

Publications are by staff members and, in some
instances, research associates and collaborators.

SCIENCE
CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Balling, J. D. “Exploring the Psychological Bay.” In Ethical Aspects of Chesa-
peake Bay Use, ed. A. H. Rooney—Char. Hampton, Va.: Citizens Program
for Chesapeake Bay, Inc., 1981.

Balling, J. D., and Falk, J. H. “Development of Visual Preference for Natural
Landscapes: The Savanna Hypothesis.” Environment and Behavior 14(1)
(1982) :5—28.

Correll, D. L. “Endangered Receiving Waters: Runoff Monitoring as a Tool
To Determine Sources and Magnitudes of Pollution.” In Application of
Results from Representative and Experimental Basins, ed. D. N. Body,
pp. 461-73. Paris: UNESCO Press, 1982.

Correll, D. L., and Ford, D. “Comparison of Land Runoff and Precipitation as
Sources of Estuarine Nitrogen.” Estuarine, Coastal Shelf Science 15(1982):
45-46.

Correll, D. L., and Wu, T. L. “Atrazine Toxicity to Submersed Vascular Plants
in Simulated Estuarine Microcosms.” Aquatic Botany 14(1982).

Falk, J. H. Children in Museums: An International Symposium, pp. 201-6.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1982.

. “The Response of Two Turf Insects, Endria inimica (Homoptera:

Ciccadelidae) and Oscinella frit (Diptera: Chloropidae) to Mowing.” En-

vironmental Entomology 11(1)(1982) :29-31.

. “Using Evaluation to Improve Exhibits.” In Proceedings of Indo-U.S.

Natural History Workshop on Exhibition Techniques and Communication

Strategies, ed. S. M. Nair. New Delhi: National Museum of Natural His-

tory, 1982.

. “The Use of Time as a Measure of Visitor Behavior and Exhibit
Effectiveness.” Journal of Museum Roundtable Reports 1(1982) :10-17.

Faust, M. A., and Sager, J. C. “Effect of Colored Light on Growth and Pigment
Composition of Prorocentrum mariae-lebouriae.” Journal of Phycology
17(1981) :14.

Faust, M. A.; Correll, D. L.; Pierce, J. W.; Klein, J. W.; and Goldberg, B.
“Photosynthetic Pigments and Light Distribution in the Rhode River
Estuary.” Estuaries 4(1981) :299.

. “Relationship between Land Use Practices and Fecal Bacteria in
Soils.” Journal of Environmental Quality 11(1982) :141—46.

Faust, M. A.; Sager, J. C.; and Meeson, B. W. “Response and Photoadaptation
of Prorocentrum mariae-lebouriae to Colored Light and Irradiance.” Journal
of Phycology 18(1982) :349-56.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 425
Faust, M. A., and Norris, K. H. “Rapid Spectrophotometric Analysis of Chlo-
rophyll Pigments in Intact Phytoplankton.” British Journal of Phycology
17(3) (1982).

Feder, M. E.; Lynch, J. F.; Shaffer, H. B.; and Wake, D. B. “Field Body Tem-
peratures of Tropical and Temperate Zone Salamanders.” Smithsonian
Herpetological Information Service Publication No. 52, 1982.

Gopol, B.; Turner, R. E.; Wetzel, R. G.; and Whigham, D. F., eds. Wetlands:
Ecology and Management, vol. 1. Jaipur, India: International Scientific
Publications, 1982.

. “Introduction.” In Wetlands: Ecology and Management, eds. B. Go-
pol, R. E. Turner, R. G. Wetzel, and D. F. Whigham, pp. vi-xvi. Jaipur,
India: International Scientific Publications, 1982.

Hines, A. H. “Coexistence in a Kelp Forest: Size, Population Dynamics, and
Resource Partitioning in a Guild of Spider Crabs (Brackyura, Majidae).”
Ecological Monographs 52(1982) :179-98.

Lynch, J. F., and Whigham, D. F. “Configuration of Forest Patches Necessary
to Maintain Bird and Plant Communities.” Maryland Power Plant Siting
Report PPRD-59, pp. 1-88, 1982.

Wake, D. B., and Lynch, J. F. “Evolutionary Relationships among Central
American Salamanders of the Bolitoglossa franklini group with a Descrip-
tion of a New Species from Guatemala.” Herpetologica 38(1982) :257—72.

Whigham, D. F.; O’Neill, J.; and McWethy, M. “Ecological Implications of
Manipulating Coastal Wetlands for Purposes of Mosquito Control.” In
Wetlands: Ecology and Management, eds., B. Gopol, R. E. Turner, R. G.
Wetzel, and D. F. Whigham, pp. 459-76. Jaipur, India: International Scien-
tific Publications, 1982.

. “Using Freshwater Wetlands for Waste Water Management in North

America.” In Wetlands: Ecology and Management, eds. B. Gopol, R. E.

Turner, R. G. Wetzel, and D. F. Whigham, pp. 506-14. Jaipur, India:

International Scientific Publications, 1982.

. An Ecological Comparison of Six Bog Sites in Anne Arundel County,

Maryland. Annapolis, Md.: Maryland Department of Natural Resources,

1982.

. The Effect of Three Marsh Management Techniques on the Ecology

of Irregularly Flooded Bay Wetlands. Vegetation and Water Quality

Studies. Annapolis, Md.: Maryland Department of Natural Resources, 1982.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Office of the Director

Boyne, Walter J. Messerschmitt Me 262: Arrow to the Future, 1980. Reprint.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Gallic Gunship.” Wings 12(3) (1982).

. “Ingenious Wings.” Air and Space 5(2)(1982).

. “B-52 Once and Future Emperor of Air Power.” Air Power 12(2)

(1982).

. “Boeing’s $40 Million Baby.” United Airlines 26(7) (1982).

“North American XB-28.” Air Line Pilot 51(2) (1982).

“Lockheed XC-35.” Air Line Pilot 51(3) (1982).

“Northrop YC-125.” Air Line Pilot 51(4)(1982).

“Curtiss Model 24 B.” Air Line Pilot 51(5) (1982).

“Nicholas Beazley NB-3.” Air Line Pilot 51(6) (1982).

“Engineering Division USD 9-A.” Air Line Pilot 51(7) (1982).

“Hall Aluminum Monoped.” Air Line Pilot 51(8) (1982).

“Martin-Baker MB-5.” Air Line Pilot 51(9)(1982).

LTT

426 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Andre, C. G. “Chemical Rings of Lunar Basins from Orbital X-ray Data.” In
Multi-ring Basins; Proceedings of the Lunar and Planetary Science, Vol. 1,
Part A, pp. 125-32. New York: Pergamon Press, 1981.

Andre, C. G., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Deformed Impact Craters on Mars.”
Reports of Planetary Geology Program—1981, pp. 399-401. NASA TM-
84211, 1981.

. “Regional Chemical Setting of the Apollo 16 Landing Site and the
Importance of the Kant Plateau.” In Proceedings of the Twelfth Lunar and
Planetary Science Conference, pp. 767-79. New York: Pergamon Press, 1981.

Andre, C. G.; Strain, P. L.; and Dove, W. [Abstract] “Additional Evidence of
Lunar Terra Volcanism.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XIII, pp. 18-19.
Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1982.

. [Abstract] “Volcanic Resurfacing of the Lunar Nearside Highlands.”
In Press Abstracts of the 13th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference,
pp. 3-5. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1982.

Arvidson, R. E.; Jacobberger, P. A.; and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Mapping Oases
and Soil Types from Landsat Multispectral Scanner Data—Kharga Depres-
sion, Western Desert of Egypt.” In Summaries, First Thematic Conference:
Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands, page 73. Ann Arbor: Envi-
ronmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1982.

Chemin, M.; Mainguet, M.; and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Eolian Dynamics in the
Western Desert of Egypt as Revealed by Landsat Data.” In Summaries,
First Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands,
page 103. Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1982.

El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Science Leads Art—Views of the Planets from Space.”
In Abstracts of Papers of the 148th National Meeting, 3-8 January 1982,
page 10. Washington, D.C.: American Association for the Advancement of
Science, 1982.

. “Egypt’s Desert of Promise.” National Geographic 161(1982) :190—221.

. [Abstract] “Desert Terrain: The View From Space.” In Summaries,

First Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands,

pp. 6-7. Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1982.

. “Techniques and Results of Remote Sensing of the Moon.” In Pro-

ceedings of the Fifteenth International Symposium on Remote Sensing of

Environment, pp. 299-311. Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute

of Michigan, 1982.

. “Sadd El-Halal (Dam at Gebel Halal, Sinai; in Arabic).” The Engi-

neers’ Magazine, Cairo, Egypt, (5)(1981) :26—27.

. [Abstract] “Genesis of Particulate Material in Terrestrial Deserts and

Applications to Mars.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XIII, pp. 199-200.

Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1982.

. “Arabian Astronomy.” The Planetary Report 11(1982) :16-18.

El-Baz, F., and Mainguet, M. [Abstract] “Dune Forms in the Great Sand Sea
and Applications to Mars.” Reports of Planetary Geology Program—1981,
pp. 244-46. NASA TM-84211, 1981.

El-Baz, F., and Manent, L. S. [Abstract] “Serrated Eolian Deposits in China’s
Northwestern Deserts and Their Comparisons to Dark Splotches on Mars.”
Reports of Planetary Geology Program—1981, pp. 241-43. NASA TM-84211,
1981.

Hamdan, A. H., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Photolineaments in the Gilf Kebir
Plateau, Southwestern Egypt.” In Summaries, First Thematic Conference:
Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands, pp. 122-23. Ann Arbor:
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 427
Manent, L. S., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Preliminary Comparison of Insel-
bergs in the Cerberus Region of Mars to Terrestrial Isolated Hills in Arid,
Humid and Glacial Terrains.” Reports of Planetary Geology Program—1981,
pp. 305-7. NASA TM-84211, 1981.

Maxwell, T. A. “Basin Tectonics on the Terrestrial Planets: Moon, Mars, and
Mercury.” NATO Advanced Study Institute, Comparative Study of the
Planets; Memorie della Italiana 52(1981) :449-53.

. [Abstract] “Particle Size Variations in Desert Surface Sediments:

Importance for Remote Sensing of Arid Regions.” In Summaries, First

Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands,

pp. 207-8. Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1982.

. “Particle Size and Spacing Variations in Desert Surface Sediments:

Importance for Remote Sensing of Arid Regions.” In Proceedings of First

Thematic Conference on Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands,

pp. 1239-48, Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michigan,

1982.

. [Abstract] “Orientations of Structural Features in the Lunae Palus-
Coprates Region of Mars: Influence of Preexisting Structure.” In Lunar and
Planetary Science XIII, pp. 477-78. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary In-
stitute, 1982.

Maxwell, T. A., and Andre, C. G. “The Balmer Basin: Regional Geology and
Geochemistry of an Ancient Lunar Impact Basin.” In Proceedings of the
Twelfth Lunar Planetary Science Conference, pp. 715-25. New York: Per-
gamon Press, 1981.

Maxwell, T. A., and Watters, T. R. [Abstract] “Ridge Orientations in the
Tharsis Province of Mars: Deviations from Tharsis-Related Trends.” Re-
ports of Planetary Geology Program—1981, pp. 380-82. NASA TM-84211,
1981.

McCord, T. B.; El-Baz, F.; and Adams, J. B. [Abstract] “The Nature and
Extent of Erosional and Depositional Features and Rock and Soil Units in
the Kharga Oasis Region, as Determined from Remote Sensing.” In Sum-
maries, First Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid
Lands, pp. 134-35. Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michi-
gan, 1982.

Strain, P. L., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Sand Distribution in the Kharga
Depression of Egypt: Observations from Landsat Images.” In Summaries,
First Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands,
pp. 101-2. Ann Arbor: Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1982.

. “Sand Distribution in the Kharga Depression of Egypt: Observations
from Landsat Images.” In Proceedings of the First Thematic Conference on
Remote Sensing of Arid and Semi-Arid Lands, pp. 765-74. Ann Arbor:
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, 1982.

Watters, T. R., and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] “Ridge-fault Intersections and
Tharsis Tectonics.” In Papers Presented to the Third International Col-
loquium on Mars, pp. 270-72. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute,
1981.

. [Abstract] “Ridge-rille Intersections in the Tharsis Province of Mars.”

Reports of Planetary Geology Program—1981, pp. 383-85. NASA TM-84211,
1981.

Department of Aeronautics

Brooks-Pazmany, K. “Piggyback Aircraft.” Air and Space 5(3) (1982).

Crouch, Tom D. “Bleriot XI: The Story of a Classic Aircraft.” Famous Air-
craft of the National Air and Space Museum, No. 5. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

428 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “91 Hours, 8 Minutes, 10 Seconds: Around the World with Howard

Hughes.” Air and Space. 5(1)(1981).

. “The Wright Brothers.” Air and Space. 5(2) (1982).

Hardesty, Von D. “Lindberghs of the North.” Air and Space 5(3) (1982).

. Red Phoenix: The Rise of Soviet Air Power, 1941-1945. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Lopez, Donald S. “Mr. Kipling’s Army.” Kipling Journal (1982).

. “Night Fighting Over Europe.” Air and Space 5(2)(1982).

——.. “With the Night Mail Revisited.” Kipling Journal (March 1982).

Mikesh, Robert C. Aircraft in Museums Around the World, Sections I and II.
Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1982.

. “B-57 Canberra Leaves the USAF, Part I.” Aviation Journal 126

(1982).

. “B-57 Canberra Leaves the USAF, Part II.” Aviation Journal 127

(1982).

. “The B-57 Retires.” Wings 12(4) (1982).

“The Emily Flying Boat—Its Past.” Aviation Journal 120(1982).

“The Emily Flying Boat—Its Present.” Aviation Journal 121(1982).

“The Emily Flying Boat—Its Future.” Aviation Journal 122(1982).

“Made in Japan, Tested in America, Part I.” Wings 12(3) (1982).

. “Made in Japan, Tested in America, Part II.” Airpower 12(4)(1982).

Spenser, Jay P. “Aerial Observation.” Air and Space 5(3)(1982).

. “Bellanca C.F.: The Emergence of the Cabin Monoplane in the

United States.” Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum,

No. 6. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Bull’s Eye.” Wings 12(3)(1982).

Wooldridge, E. T. Jet Aviation: Threshold to a New Era. Washington, D.C.:
National Air and Space Museum, 1982.

Department of Space Science and Exploration

Chamberlain, Von Del. “Interpreting the Sky.” In Interpreting the Environ-
ment, by Grant W. Sharpe, 2d ed., chapter 22. New York: John Wiley &
Sons, 1982.

. “Parks Have No Vertical Boundaries.” Park & Recreation Resources

1(1) (1982) :16—-21.

. “Fireball.” Air and Space 5(1)(1981).

. “Constellations.” Air and Space 5(2) (1982).

—. “Observatories: From Sun Watching to Orbiting Telescopes.” Air and

Space 5(3)(1982).

. [Review] The Big Missouri Winter Count, by Roberta Carkeek Che-

ney. Archaeoastronomy 4(4)(1981).

. “Counting Days and Years.” Air and Space 5(4)(1982).

. “The Skidi Pawnee Earth Lodge as an Observatory.” In Archaeoas-

tronomy in the New World, by Anthony F. Aveni, pp. 183-194. Cambridge:

Cambridge University Press, 1982.

, editor. Sky Interpretation Resource Bulletin, Vol. V (1982). Published
by the National Air and Space Museum.

DeVorkin, David H. [Review]. Oort and the Universe: A Sketch of Oort’s
Research and Person, by Hugo van Woerden; eds. Willem N. Brouw and
Henk C. van de Hulst. Isis 73 (1982) :300.

. The History of Modern Astronomy and Astrophysics: A Selected,

Annotated Bibliography. New York: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1982.

. “The Maintenance of a Scientific Institution: Otto Struve, The

Yerkes Observatory, and Its Optical Bureau during the Second World

War.” Minerva 18(4)(Winter 1980) :593-623. [Issue appeared in the spring

of 1982.]

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 429
DeVorkin, David H., and Mack, Pamela. “Pro-Seminar in Space History.”
Technology and Culture (Summer/Fall 1982).

DeVorkin, David H., and Weart, Spencer, R. “The Voice of Astronomical
History.” Sky and Telescope (February 1982) :124—27.

Hanle, Paul A. Bringing Aerodynamics to America. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT
Press, 1982.

. “Theoretical Aerodynamics at MIT, NYU, and Caltech: European
Science or American Art?” History of Science in America: News and Views
(June 1982).

Joels, Kerry M. [column] “Future of Telecommunications.” Transponder,
International Association of Satellite Users, October 1981-September 1982.

“Tomorrow’s Learning: Micro-computer in Schools, Museums, and

at Home.” Compcon ’82 Proceedings. Institute of Electrical and Electronic

Engineers, March 1982.

. [Session summary] “Social Sciences.” Space Manufacturing 4, eds.,

Grey and Hamdan. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics,

1982.

. “One Thousand Channels: A Promise, A Problem, A Parable.” Space

Manufacturing 4, 1982.

. Apollo to the Moon: A Dream of Centuries. Washington, D.C.:

National Air and Space Museum, 1982.

. “Oscar.” Air and Space 5(4)(1982).

Joels, Kerry M., and Harkins, A. “Viewpoints on Space: An On-site Delphi at
Princeton ’81.” In Space Manufacturing 4, 1982.

Kennedy, Gregory P. “Shuttle Carrier Aircraft.” Air and Space 5(4)(1982).

Needell, Allan A. “Ingenuity in Space.” Air and Space 5(2)(1982).

. “Unmanned Space Craft: 25 Years Listening and Learning.” Air and
Space 6(1)(1982).

Winter, Frank H. “Observatories in Space, 1920s Style.” The Griffith Observer
46(June 1982) :2-8.

. “Ari Shternfeld—Space Populariser.” Space Education 1 Journal of

the British Interplanetary Society (December 1981) :88-89.

. “Step Rockets: Fireworks to Spaceships.” Air and Space 5(4)k(1982).

. “Nikolai Alexeyevich Rynin (1877-1942), Soviet Astronautical Pio-

neer: An American Appreciation.” Earth—Oriented Applications of Space

Technology (1)(1982) :69-80.

. “Esther Kisk Goddard (1901-1982).” Astronautics and Aeronautics
20(9) (1982) :78.

Winter, Frank H., and van der Linden, Frank Robert [Monthly column], “Out
of the Past—An Aerospace Chronology.” Astronautics and Aeronautics
(October 1981-September 1982).

Division of Exhibits and Presentations

Callen II, Thomas H. “Sky Map.” Air and Space 5(1)(1981).

. “Soaring Stars.” Ranger Rick’s Nature Magazine (1982).

“Sky Map.” Air and Space 5(2)(1982).

“Sky Map.” Air and Space 5(3)(1982).

“Sky Map.” Air and Space 5(4)(1982).

“Sky Map.” Air and Space 6(1)(1982).

. “Albert Einstein’s Ragtime Band: Soundtrack Production at the
Albert Einstein Spacearium.” In Proceedings, Sixth Biennial Conference of
the International Planetarium Society, pp. 22-27. Vancouver, British Colum-
bia, Canada, July 1982.

Good, William A. “Our Beautiful Earth.” Air and Space 5(3)(1982).

430 / Smithsonian Year 1982
NATIONAL HUMAN STUDIES FILM CENTER

Sorenson, E. Richard. “In Quest of the Expressions of Human Kind: The
National Human Studies Film Center.” In Royal Anthropological Institute
News 50(June 1982) :12.

. In Quest of the Expressions of Humankind: the Progress of the

National Human Studies Film Center. An Occasional Paper. National

Human Studies Film Center, 1981.

. Jyapu: Industrious Productivity as Lifestyle. A Research Report Film.

A research paper to accompany the research report film, Jyapu, Industrious

Productivity as Lifestyle. National Human Studies Film Center, 1982.

Research Report Film

Sorenson, E. Richard. Jyapu: Industrious Productivity as Lifestyle. A Research
Report Film produced jointly by The Royal Nepal Academy and the Na-
tional Human Studies Film Center, Smithsonian Institution. 1982. Project
Director and Principal Investigator, E. Richard Sorenson. Film Editor and
Production Coordinator, Barbara Johnson. Research Filmers, Barbara John-
son, Ragpa Dorjee and Steven Schecter.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Department of Anthropology

Adovasio, J. M. “The Appearance of Cultigens in the Upper Ohio Valley: A
View from Meadowcroft Rockshelter.” Pennsylvania Archaeologist 51(1-2)
(1981) :63-80.

Adovasio, J. M.; Alexandrowicz, J. S.; Luffman, N.; and Taft, M. “Perishable
Industries from Westwater—Five Kiva—(42Sa14)—And Big Westwater
(42Sa6752) Ruins San Juan County, Utah: A Synopsis.” Bureau of Land
Management Cultural Resource Series, 1981.

Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Stuckenrath, R.; and Gunn, J. D. “The Meadow-
croft Papers: A Response to Dincauze.” Quarterly Review of Archaeology
2(3) (1981) :14—-15.

Adovasio, J. M.; Fry, G. F.; Gunn, J.; and Maslowski, R. “An Overview of
Prehistoric and Historic Settlement Patterns in Western Cyprus.” National
Geographic Society Research Reports 13(1981) :53—67.

Angel, J. Lawrence. “A Commentary.” In “Anemia in Ancient Times.” by
Gerald D. Hart. Blood Cells 7(1981) :493.

. “History and Development of Paleopathology.” American Journal of
Physical Anthropology 56(1981) :509-15.

Angel, J. Lawrence, and Zimmerman, M. R. “T. Aidan Cockburn, 1912-1981:
A Memorial.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology 58(1982) :121-22.

. “A New Measure of Growth Efficiency: Skull Base Height.” American
Journal of Physical Anthropology 58(3) (1982) :297—305.

Asch, Michael I., and Goddard, R. H. Ives. “Synonymy,” in the chapter
“Slavery,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook of North American In-
dians 6(1981):347—48. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press.

Burch, Ernest S., Jr. The Traditional Eskimo Hunters of Point Hope, Alaska:
1800-1875. Barrow: The North Slope Borough, 1981.

. “Sotsiodemograficheskiye korrelyaty struktury zhilischa v_ trech

beringiyskikh populyatsiyakh: opyt issledovaniya (Sociodemographic cor-

relates of dwelling structure in three Bering populations: an experimental
study.)” In Traditsionnye kultury Severnoy Sibiri i Severnoy Ameriki.

Trudy sovetskoamerikanskoy gruppy po sotrudnichestvu v oblasti izuche-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 431
niya vzaimodeystiviya aborigennykh narodov i kultur Severnoy Sibiri i
Severnoy Ameriki. Moscow, Nauka, 1981.

Collins, Henry B. “E. W. Nelson, the Man Who Buys Good-for-Nothing
Things.” In inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo, by W. Fitzhugh
and S. Kaplan, pp. 29-36. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1982.

Crocker, William. “ ‘Helping Hands’ through Life.” In Celebration: Studies in
Festivity and Ritual, ed. V. Turner, pp. 147-58. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1982.

Denniston, Glenda, and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “Synonymy,” in the chapter
“Sekani,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook of North American Indians
6(1981) :440-41. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Ewers, John C. “Artists’ Choices.” American Indian Art 7(2)(1982) :40—49.

. “Assiniboin Antelope-horn Headdresses.” American Indian Art 7(4)

(1982) :45-51.

. “The Awesome Bear in Plains Indian Art.” American Indian Art

7(3) (1982) :36—45.

. “The Image of the White Man as a Glad-hander.” American West,

The Land and Its People 19(1)(1982) :54—60, 69-71.

. “The Use of Artifacts and Pictures in the Study of Plains Indian
History, Art, and Religion.” In “The Research Potential of Anthropological
Museum Collections,” eds. A. M. Cantwell, J. B. Griffin, N. A. Rothschild.
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 376(1982) :247—-66.

Fitzhugh, William W. “A Prehistoric Caribou Fence from Williams Harbour,
Northern Labrador.” In Megaliths to Medicine Wheels: Boulder Structures
in Archeaology, Archaeological Association, Department of Archaeology,
University of Calgary, pp. 187-206. 1981.

. “Smithsonian Surveys in Central and Southern Labrador in 1981.” In

Archaeology in Newfoundland and Labrador, 1981 vol. 2, eds. J. Thomson

and C. Thomson, pp. 32-54. Division of Historic Resources, Government of

Newfoundland and Labrador. 1982.

. “Archeologists Report on Frobisher Site.” Nunatsiaq News, Octo-
ber 23, 1981. (Newspaper publication of Smithsonian Archeological Surveys
at Kodlunarn Island in 1981: Interim Field Report.)

Fitzhugh, William W., and Kaplan, Susan A. inua: spirit world of the bering
sea eskimo. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Fitzhugh, William W., and Selig, Ruth O. “The Smithsonian’s Alaska Con-
nection: 19th Century Explorers and Anthropologists.” The Alaska Journal:
A 1981 Collection, pp. 193-208, 1981.

Fowler, Don D. “Cultural Resources Management.” In Advances in Archaeo-
logical Method and Theory 5, ed. M. Schiffer, pp. 1-50. New York: Aca-
demic Press, 1982.

Fowler, Don D., and Fowler, C. S. “The Southern Paiute: A.D. 1400-1776.” In
“The Protohistoric Period in the North American Southwest, A.D. 1450-
1700,” eds. D. R. Wilcox and W. B. Masse. Arizona State University An-
thropological Research Papers 24(1981) :129-62.

. “Museum Collections and Ethnographic Reconstruction: Examples
from the Great Basin.” In “The Research Potential of Anthropological
Museum Collections,” eds. A. M. Cantwell, J. R. Griffin, and N. A. Roths-
child, Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 376(1981) :177-99.

Frolich, B., and D. W. Von Endt. “Interfacing Micro- and Large Frame Com-
puters: Conductivity Measurements in an Early Bronze Age Cemetery at
Bab-edh-Dhra, Jordan.” In Computers in Research at the Smithsonian: A
Symposium, p. 16. Washington, D.C.: Scientific Application Division, Office
of Computer Services, Smithsonian Institution, 1982.

432 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Gibson, Gordon D., Trans. and ed. The Ethnography of Southwestern Angola.
Volume 3. The Herero People, by Carlos Estermann. New York: Africana
Publishing Company.

Gillespie, Beryl C., and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “Synonymy,” in the chapters
“Yellowknife,” “Mountain Indians,” and “Beaver,” in “Subarctic,’” ed.
J. Helm. Handbook of North American Indians 6(1981) :288—-89, 336-37, 359.
W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “The Historical Phonology of Munsee.” International
Journal of American Linguistics 48(1982) :16—48.

. “Against the Linguistic Evidence Claimed for Some Alogonquian

Dialectal Relationships.” Anthropological Linguistics 23(1981) :271—297.

. “Pyrlaeus’s Nanticoke Numbers Again.” Algonquian and Iroquoian

Linguistics 6(1981) :47—49.

. “Other Subarctic Ojibwa and Algonquian Groups,” “Holikachuk,”

“Technical Alphabet,” “Synonymy” in the chapters “Territorial Groups

Before 1821: Athapaskans of the Shield and the Mackenzie Drainage,”

“Subarctic Metis,” “@hilcotin;’ “Carrier,” “Kaska;” “Tahltan,;” “Inland

Tlingit,” “Tagish,” “Han,” “Tanana,” “Koyukon,” “Ingalik,” “Kolchan,”

“Tanaina,” and Ahtna,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook of North

American Indians 6(1981) :243, 615-16, x—xi, 168, 370-71, 412, 430-31, 449—

50, 465-67, 479-80, 490-91, 511-13, 575-76, 599-600, 613-15, 622, 638-39,

661-62. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution

Press.

, linguistic ed. “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. In Handbook of North Ameri-
can Indians, 6, W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1981.

Goddard, R. H. Ives, HI, and Slobodin, Richard I. “Synonymy,” in the chapter
“Kutchin,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook of North American In-
dians 6(1981):283. W. Sturtevant, gen, ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Goddard, R. H. Ives, III, and Smith, James, G. E. “Synonymy,” in the chapter
“Chipewyan,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook of North American
Indians 6(1981):283. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithson-
ian Institution Press.

Hesse, Brian. “Archaeological Evidence for Muscovy Duck in Ecuador.” Cur-
rent Anthropology 21(1) (1980) :139—40.

. “The Association of Animal Bones with Burial Features.” In “The

Ayalan Cemetery: A Late Integration Period Burial Site on the South Coast

of Ecuador,” by Douglas H. Ubelaker. Smithsonian Contributions to An-

thropology 29(1981) :134-38 (Appendix I). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press.

. “Searching for the Origins of Pastoralism in Northern Chile.” Report

on Chilean University Life 10(1981) :9-12.

. “Animal Domestication and Oscillating Climates.” Journal of Eth-

nobiology 2(1) (1982) :1-15.

. “Bias in the Zooarcheological Record: Suggestions for Interpretation
of Bone Counts in Faunal Samples from the Plains.” In “Plains Indian
Studies: A Collection of Essays in Honor of John C. Ewers and Waldo R.
Wedel,” eds. D. H. Ubelaker and H. J. Viola. Smithsonian Contributions to
Anthropology 30(1982) :157-172. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press.

Hesse, Brian, and Wapnish, Paula. “Animal Remains from the Bab edh-Dhra
Cemetery.” In “The Southeastern Dead Sea Plain Expedition: An Interim
Report of the 1977 Expedition,” eds. W. E. Rast and R. T. Schaub. Annual
of the American Schools of Oriental Research 46(1981) :113-36. Cambridge:
American Schools of Oriental Research.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 433
Hicks, Sheila, and Sturtevant, W. C. “Junius Bird: An Appreciation.” Amer-
ican Fabrics and Fashions 126(1982) :11.

Houchins, Chang-su. “Pon O-do wa Kim Hong-do ti p’ungsok hwajip (Smith-
sonian’s Bernadou Collection Introduces Korean Genre Paintings.” Misul
Charyo 29:58-61. Seoul: National Museum of Korea.

. “Southeast Asian Ethnology Exhibit at the Smithsonian: A Critical
Review.” In the festschrift, Sok Chu-son paksa kohui minsokhak nonch’ong
(Collection of Ethnological Papers in Honor of Professor Sok Chu-son),
pp. 345-53. Seoul: Tan’guk University Press, 1982.

Kaeppler, Adrienne. “The Performing Arts of Papua, New Guinea.” The Sixth
Festival of Asian Arts, pp. 130-35. Hong Kong: The Urban Council, 1981.

. “Foreword.” In Nineteenth Century Hawaiian Chant, by Elizabeth

Tatar. Bishop Museum, Pacific Anthropological Records No. 34.

, ed. “Pacific Issue.” In Ethnomusicology 25(3)(September 1981).

Lanouette, JoAnne. “Creationism + Science.” In Anthro*Notes 4(1)(Winter
1982) :1-3, 13-14, eds. A. Kaupp, J. Lanouette, R. Selig.

Lanouette, JoAnne. “Dancing with Gibbons: A Museum-University Partner-
ship.” Museum Education Roundtable 7(3) (1982) :8—9.

Lanouette, JoAnne, and Selig, R. O. “Anthropology for Teachers: A Museum-
University Partnership.” Practicing Anthropology, Summer 1982.

Lazar, George, and Schulter-Ellis, F. P. “Intramedullary Structure of Human
Metacarpals.” In The Year Book of Orthopedics, ed. M. B. Coventry, pp.
308-9. Chicago—London: Year Book Medical Publishers, Inc., 1981.

Linn, Priscilla. “Chamula Carnival: The ‘Soul’ of Soul.” In Celebration:
Studies in Festivity and Ritual, ed. Victor Turner, pp. 190-198. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

McClellan, Catharine, and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “Synonymy,” in the chap-
ter “Tutchone,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook of North American
Indians 6(1981):504—-5. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press.

Meltzer, David J. “Ideology and Material Culture.” In Modern Material Cul-
ture Studies: The Archaeology of U.S., eds. R. A. Gould and M. B. Schiffer,
pp. 113-25. New York: Academic Press, 1981.

. “Paradigms Lost—Paradigms Found?” American Antiquity 46(1981):

622-25.

. “A Study of Style and Function in a Class of Tools.” Journal of Field

Archaeology 8(3) (1981) :313-26.

. “W. H. Holmes and Folsom Finds.” History of Anthropology News-
letter 8(1981) :6-8.

Meggers, Betty J. “Archeological and Ethnographic Evidence Compatible with
the Model of Forest Fragmentation.” In Biological Diversification in the
Tropics, ed. G. T. Prance, pp. 483-96. New York: Columbia University
Press, 1981.

. “Introdugao.” Aspectos da Arqueologia Amazénica, Série Catalogos
2:5-7. Rio de Janeiro: Instituto de Arqueologia Brasileira, 1981.

Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford. ““La Reconstruccion de la Pre-Historia
Amazonica.” Amazonia Peruana 4(7)(1981):15-29. [Translation of article
published in 1973]

. “Un método para Reconocer Comunidades Prehistéricas a Través de
la Ceramica.” Museo Arqueologico de la Serena Boletin 17(1981) :14—31.
[Retranslation of article published in 1980]

Ortner, Donald J. “A Preliminary Report on the Human Remains from the
Bab edh-Dhra Cemetery.” Annual of the American Schools of Oriental
Research 46(1981) :119-32.

Ortner, Donald J., and Hunter, S. “Hematogenous Osteomyelitis in a Pre-

434 / Smithsonian Year 1982
columbian Child’s Skeleton from Maryland.” MASCA Journal 1(1981):
236-38.

Ortner, Donald J., and Putschar, W. G. J. “Identification of Pathological Con-
ditions in Human Skeletal Remains.” Smithsonian Contributions to Anthro-
pology 28. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Parezo, Nancy J. “Economic Aspects of Navajo Sandpaintings.” In “The
Atlatl,” eds. E. Staski and J. Andresen. Occasional Papers 2(1981) :1-12.
Tucson: The University of Arizona.

. “Social Interaction and Learning in the Spread of Navajo Commercial

Sandpaintings.” In “Navajo Religion and Culture: Selected Views, Papers

in Honor of Leland C. Wyman,” eds. D. M. Bruggee and J. C. Frisbie.

Museum of New Mexico Papers in Anthropology 17(1982) :75—83. Santa Fe:

Museum of New Mexico Press.

. “Navajo Sandpaintings: The Importance of Sex Roles in Craft Pro-

duction.” American Indian Quarterly 8(1—2) (1982) :38-62.

. “Navajo Singers: Keepers of Tradition, Agents of Change.” In Hos-
teen Klah and Sandpainting Tapestries, ed. S. McGreevy, pp. 4-12. Santa
Fe: The Wheelwright Museum, 1982.

Parezo, Nancy J., and Ahlstrom, Richard V. N. Prehistoric Peoples of the
Southwest. Tucson: The University of Arizona Press, 1981.

Potter, Stephen R. A Review of Archeological Resources in Piscataway Park,
Maryland. Washington, D.C.: National Park Service, 1980.

. An Analysis of Chicacoan Settlement Patterns. Ph.D. dissertation,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. (Ann Arbor: University Micro-
films), 1982.

Savishinsky, Joel S., and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “Synonymy,” in the chapter
“Hare,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook of North American Indians
6(1981) :324-25. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Schmidt, Robert G. “High-alumina Hydrothermal Systems in Volcanic Rocks
of the Carolina Slate Belt [abs.].” Geological Society of America, Abstracts
with Programs, 1982:80.

Selig, Ruth O. “Anthropology in the Classroom: Perspectives and Prospects.”
In Teaching Anthropology to Students and Teachers: Reaching a Wider
Audience, eds. R. O. Selig and P. J. Higgins, pp. 6-20. Athens, Ga.: The
Anthropology Curriculum Project, University of Georgia, 1981.

Selig, Ruth O., and Higgins, Patricia J., eds. Teaching Anthropology to Stu-
dents and Teachers: Reaching a Wider Audience. Athens, Ga.: The Anthro-
pology Curriculum Project, University of Georgia, 1981.

Selig, Ruth O.; Kaupp, A.; and Lanouette, J., eds. Anthro*Notes, A News-
letter for Teachers 3(3)(Fall 1981); 4(1)(Winter 1982); 4(2)(Spring 1982).
Sillen, Andrew. “Postdepositional Changes in Natufian and Aurignacian

Faunal Bones from Hayonim Cace.” Paléorient VII(1981) :2.

Sillen, Andrew, and Kavanagh, Maureen. “Strontium and Paleodietary Re-
search: A Review.” Yearbook of Physical Anthropology 25(1982).

Stanford, Dennis. “A Critical Review of Archeological Evidence Relating to
the Antiquity of the Human Occupation of the New World.” In “Plains
Indian Studies: A Collection of Essays in Honor of John C. Ewers and
Waldo R. Wedel,” eds. D. Ubelaker and H. Viola. Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Anthropology 30(1982):202—218. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Stanford, Dennis, and Fulgham, T. “The Frasca Site: A Preliminary Report.”
Southwestern Lore 48(1) (1982).

Stanford, Dennis, and Emery, S. “Preliminary Report on Archeological Inves-
tigations at the Cattle Guard Site, Alamosa County, Colorado.” South-
western Lore 48(1) (1982).

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 435
Stanford, Dennis; Rancier, J.; and Hynes, G. “1981 Investigations of Lamb
Spring.” Southwestern Lore 48(2) (1982).

Stanford, Dennis, and Briolo, F. “Frank’s Site: A Study of the Folsom Occupa-
tion of Blackwater Draw, New Mexico.” El Paso Archeological Society
Special Publication for Mark Wimberly, 1982.

Stanford, Dennis, and Frison, G., eds. The Agate Basin Site Paleoindian Occu-
pation of the Northwestern High Plains. New York: Academic Press, 1982.

Stewart, T. D. “Alés Hrdlicka, 1869-1943.” American Journal of Physical
Anthropology 56(4) (1981) :347-51.

. “The Evolutionary Status of the First Americans.” American Journal

of Physical Anthropology 56(4) (1981) :461-66.

. “Reminiscences.” In “Plains Indian Studies: A Collection of Essays in
Honor of John C. Ewers and Waldo R. Wedel,” eds. D. H. Ubelaker and
H. J. Viola. Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology 30(1982) :40—46.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Streitz, J. M.; Aufderheide, A. C.; El-Najjar, M.; and Ortner, D. J. “A 1,500-
Year-Old Bladder Stone.” Journal of Urology 126(1981) :452-53.

Sturtevant, William C. [Testimony on the Human Rights of the Yanomami,
Delivered 30 June 1981 before the Inter-American Commission on Human
Rights.] Anthropology Newsletter 22(6) (1981) :23.

. “R. F. Heizer and the Handbook of North American Indians.” In

Contributions of Robert F. Heizer to California Ethnohistory, eds. W. S.

Simmons and P. McW. Bickel, pp. 1-5. Berkeley: Archaeological Research

Facility, Department of Anthropology, University of California, 1981.

. “Animals and Disease in Indian Belief.” In Indians, Animals, and the

Fur Trade: A Critique of Keepers of the Game, ed. S. Krech III, pp. 177-88.

Athens, Ga.: University of Georgia Press, 1981.

. “Quelques représentations de canots et de pirogues, a partir du XVIle

siecle.” Recherches Amérindiennes au Québec 11(4) (1981) :297—310.

. “The Ethnographical Illustrations.” In The Maps and Text of the

Boke of Idrography Presented by Jean Rotz to Henry VIII, now in the

British Library, ed. Helen Wallis, pp. 67-72. Oxford: Printed for Presenta-

tion to the Members of The Roxburghe Club, 1981.

. “Patagonian Giants and Baroness Hyde de Neuville’s Iroquois Draw-

ings.” Ethnohistory 27(4) (1982) :331—48.

, ed. “John Ridge on Cherokee Civilization in 1826.” Journal of Chero-

kee Studies 6(2)(1981) :79-91.

, gen. ed. “Subarctic,” Vol. 6, Vol. Ed., June Helm, Handbook of North
American Indians. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.

Sturtevant, William C., and Washburn, Wilcomb E. “The First Americans.”
American Fabrics and Fashions 123(1981) :60—64.

Trousdale, William. “A Person of Desperate Fortunes,” Chowkidar 2(5) (1982):
49f. London.

Ubelaker, Douglas H. “Approaches to Demographic Problems in the North-
east.” In Foundations of Northeast Archaeology, ed. D R.. Snow, pp. 175-
194. New York: Academic Press, 1981.

Ubelaker, Douglas H., and Viola, Herman J., eds. “Plains Indian Studies: A
Collection of Essays in Honor of John C. Ewers and Waldo R. Wedel.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology 30. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Editor’s Introduction.” In “Plains Indian Studies: A Collection of
Essays in Honor of John C. Ewers and Waldo R. Wedel,” eds. D. H.
Ubelaker, and H. J. Viola. Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology 30.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Van Beek, Gus W., and Van Beek, Ora. “Canaanite-Phoenician Architecture:
The Development and Distribution of Two Styles.” In Eretz-Israel 15(1981):

436 / Smithsonian Year 1982
70-77. (Y. Aharoni Memorial Volume). Jerusalem: Israel Exploration
Society.

VanStone, James W., and Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “Territorial Groups of
West-Central Alaska Before 1898,” in “Subarctic,” ed. J. Helm. Handbook
of North American Indians 6(1981) :556—-61. W. Sturtevant, gen. ed. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Viola, Herman J. “Tribal Archives Programs: Past & Present.” American
Indian Libraries Newsletter 6(Winter 1982) :5—7.

Von Endt, D. W., and B. Frolich. “Electronic Data Collection Using an Analog
to Digital Converter and a 16-Bit Microprocessor.” In Computers in Re-
search at the Smithsonian: A Symposium, p. 24.

Waselkov, Gregory A., and Potter, Stephen R. “Prehistoric Archeology of the
Chesapeake Bay: Traces of a Lost Ethic.” In Ethical Aspects of Chesapeake
Bay Use. Hampton, Virginia: Citizens Program for the Chesapeake Bay,
1981.

Wedel, Mildred Mott. “The Deer Creek Site, Oklahoma: A Wichita Village
Sometimes Called Ferdinandina, An Ethnohistorian’s View.” Oklahoma
Historical Society, Series in Anthropology 5, 1981. (Second Printing).

. “The Wichita Indians in the Arkansas River Basin.” In “Plains Indian
Studies: A Collection of Essays in Honor of John C. Ewers and Waldo R.
Wedel,” eds. D. H. Ubelaker, and H. J. Viola. Smithsonian Contributions
to Anthropology 30(1982) :118—34.

Wedel, Waldo R. “William Duncan Strong and Plains Archeology.” In “Es-
says in the History of Plains Archeology,” ed. W. Wedel. Reprints in
Anthropology 24(1982) :1-77. Lincoln, Nebraska: J & L Reprint Company.

. “Essays in the History of Plains Archeology,” Reprints in Anthro-
pology 24(1982). Lincoln, Nebraska: J & L Reprint Company.

Wertime, Theodore. “The Origin of Agriculture and Technology: Aarhus,
Denmark, November 21-25, 1978. I. Introductory Note: Whence Early Tech-
nology? East, West, or Nowhere?” Technology and Culture 22(1)(1981):
122-24.

. “Pyrotechnological Studies in Europe and the Middle East.” National
Geographic Society Research Reports 13(1981) :683-91.

Whitcomb, Donald S., and Johnson, Janet H. Quseir al-Qadim 1980: Prelimi-
nary Report. Malibu: Undena, 1982.

. “Egypt and the Spice Trade.” Archaeology 34(6)(November 1981):

16—23:

. “In the Shadow of the Pyramid: Introduction to the Exhibition.”

Field Museum of Natural History Bulletin 52(11)(November 1981) :3-6.

Department of Botany

Ayensu, E. S. “A Worldwide Role for the Healing Power of Plants.” Smith-
sonian 12(8) (1981) :86-97.

Bohlmann, F.; Abraham, W.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Diterpenes from
Koanophyllon Species.” Phytochemistry 20(8) (1981) :1903-6.

Bohlmann, F.; Abraham, W. R.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Heliangolides
and Other Constituents from Bejaranoa semistriata.” Phytochemistry 20(7)
(1981) :1639-42.

Bohlmann, F.; Adler, A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Ent-labdanes from
Mikania alvimii.”” Phytochemistry 21(1) (1982) :173-76.

. “Germacranolides from Mikania grazielae.” Phytochemistry 21(5)
(1982) :1169-70.

Bohlmann, F.; Adler, A.; Schuster, A.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robin-
son, H. “Diterpenes from Makania Species.” Phytochemistry 20(8)(1981):
1899-1902.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 437
Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Borthakur, N.; Wallmeyer, M.; Jakupovic, J.; King,
R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Diterpenes Related to Grindelic Acid and Further
Constituents from Grindela Species.” Phytochemistry 21(1)(1982) :167-72.

Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Labdane and Dehydronerolidol Derivatives from Brickellia diffusa.” Phyto-
chemistry 21(3) (1982) :691-94.

Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “A Germacranolide
and a Longipinene Derivative from Eupatoriadelphus purpureus.” Phyto-
chemistry 20(8)(1981) :2027—28.

. “Labdane and Cudesmane Derivatives from Ageratum fastigiatum.”
Phytochemistry 20(6) (1981) :1434—-35.

Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A Kolavane
Derivative from Latris scariosa.” Phytochemistry 20(6)(1981) :1439—40.

. “A Petasol Derivative from Hoehnephytum imbricatum.” Phytochem-
istry 20(5)(1981) 1157-58.

Bohlmann, F.; Bapuji, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Kolavenol Deriva-
tives from Goyazianthus tetrastichus.” Phytochemistry 21(4)(1982) :939—-41.

. “New Heliangolides from Calea oxylepis.” Phytochemistry 21(5)

(1982) :1164—66.

. “Unusual Diterpenes from Brickellia eupatoriedes.” Phytochemistry
21(1) (1982) :181-86.

Bohlmann, F.; Borthakur, N.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Dihydrodendro-
idinic Acid from Pleurocoronis pluriseta.” Phytochemistry 20(10)(1981):
2433.

. “Further Prostaglandin-like Fatty Acids from Chromolaena morii.”
Phytochemistry 21(1) (1982) :125—27.

Bohlmann, F.; Dhar, A. K.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “A
Caryophyllene Derivative from Fleischmannia pycnocephaloides.” Phyto-
chemistry 20(6) (1981) :1425—26.

. “Two Sesquiterpene Lactones with an Additional Propiolaetone Ring
from Disynaphia halimifolia.” Phytochemistry 20(5)(1981) :1077—80.

Bohlmann, F.; Dahr, A. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “A Guaianolide
from Guevaria sodiroi.” Phytochemistry 20(5)(1981) :1144—45.

Bohlmann, F.; Gupta, R. K.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Eudesmanolides and Heliangolides from Calea rotundifolia.” Phytochem-
istry 20(7) (1981) :1635-37.

. “Seco-eremophilanolides from Senecio macrotis.” Phytochemistry 20
(5) (1981) :1155-57.

Bohlmann, F.; Gupta, R. K.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M.
“Three Germacranolides and Other Constituents from Eremanthus Species.”
Phytochemistry 20(7) (1981) :1609-12.

Bohlmann, F.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Prostaglandin-
like Fatty Acid Derivative from Chromolaena morii.” Phytochemistry 20(6)
(1981) :1417-18.

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Ahmed, M.; Wallmeyer, M.; Robinson, H.; and
King, R. M. “Labdane Derivatives from Hemizonia Species.” Phytochemis-
try 20(10) (1981) :2383-87.

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Dhar, A. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Two Sesquiterpene and Three Diterpene Lactones from Acanthospermum
australe.” Phytochemistry 20(5) (1981) :1081-83.

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “New Germa-
cranolides, Guaianolides and Rearranged Guaianolides from Lasiolaena
santosii. Phytochemistry 20(7) (1981) :1613—22.

. “New Labdane Derivatives from Madia sativa.” Phytochemistry 21
(5) (1982) :1103-7.

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Schuster, A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.

438 / Smithsonian Year 1982
“Guaianolides and Homoditerpenes from Lasiolaena morii.” Phytochemistry
21(1) (1982) 161-65.

Bohlmann, F.; Kramp, W.; Grenz, M.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Diter-
penes from Baccharis Species.” Phytochemistry 20(8)(1981) :1907—13.

Bohlmann, F.; Kramp, W.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Four Guaianolides and Other Constituents from Three Kaunia Species.”
Phytochemistry 20(10)(1981) :2375—78.

Bohlmann, F.; Kramp, W.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M.
“Diterpenes from Baccharis Species.” Phytochemistry 21(2)(1982) :399—403.

Bohlmann, F.; Kramp, W.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A Norsequiter-
pene from Senecio humillimus.” Phytochemistry 20(7)(1981) :1739—40.

Bohlmann, F.; Miiller, L.; Gupta, R. K.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Hirsutinolides from Vernonia Species.” Phytochemistry 20(9)(1981):
2233-37.

Bohlmann, F.; Miiller, L.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “A Guaianolide and
Other Constituents from Lychnophora Species.” Phytochemistry 20(5)
(1981) :1149-51.

Bohlmann, F.; Singh, P.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Three
Cadinene Derivatives and a Prostaglandin-like Acid from Chromolaena
Species.” Phytochemistry 21(2) (1982) :371-74.

Bohlmann, F.; Singh, P.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “An
Epoxygermacranolide and Further Constituents from Mikania Species.”
Phytochemistry 21(3) (1982) :705—7.

Bohlmann, F.; Singh, P.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “New Guaianolides
from Pseudostifftia kingii.” Phytochemistry 21(5) (1982) :1171-72.

BohImann, F.; Singh, P.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Epi-ilicic Acid
from Alcantara ekmaniana. Phytochemistry 21(2)(1982) :456—57.

Bohlmann, F.; Suwita, A.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Trixikingolides and Germacrene Derivatives from Trixis Species.” Phyto-
chemistry 20(7)(1981) :1649-55.

Bohlmann, F.; Suwita, A.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Six Guaianolides
from Stylotrichium rotundifolium.” Phytochemistry 20(8)(1981) :1887—90.
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Fiedler, L.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A
Labdane Derivative from Chromolaena collina and a p-Hydroxyacetophe-
none Derivative from Stomatantes corumbensis.” Phytochemistry 20(5)

(1981) :1141-43.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Jakupovic, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “Erio-
lanolides, Eudesmanolides and a Rearranged Sesquiterpene from Erio-
phyllum Species.” Phytochemistry 20(9) (1981) :2239-44.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “The First Acety-
lenic Monoterpene and Other Constituents from Senecio clevelandii.”
Phytochemistry 20(10) (1981) :2425-27.

. “Furanoeremophilanes from Senecio smithii.’” Phytochemistry 20(10)

(1981) :2389-91.

. “Germaranolides, a Guaianolide with a B-lactone Ring and Further

Constituents from Graziela Species.” Phytochemistry 20(5)(1981) :1069-75.

. “Germacranolides from Stilpnopappus Species.” Phytochemistry 21

(5) (1982) :1045—48.

. “Heliangolides, and Nerolidol and p-Hydoxyacetophenone Deriva-

tives from Calea Species.” Phytochemistry 20(7) (1981) :1643—47.

. “Hirsutinolides and Other Sesquiterpene Lactones from Vernonia

Species.” Phytochemistry 21(3) (1982) :695—99.

. “Humulene Derivatives from Acritopappus prunifolius.” Phytochem-

istry 21(1)(1982) :147-50.

. “Thirteen Kolavane Derivatives from Symphyopappus Species.”

Phytochemistry 20(7) (1981) :1657-63.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 439
Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Pickard, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “New
Types of Sesquiterpene Lactones and Other Constituents from Trichogonia
Species.” Phytochemistry 20(6) (1981) :1323-—33.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A Diterpene, a
Sesquiterpene Quinone and Flavanones from Wyethia helenioides.” Phyto-
chemistry 20(9)(1981) :2245—48.

. “Germacranolides from Lychnophora Species.” Phytochemistry 21(5)

(1982) :1087-91.

. “A Humulene Derivative Including a Sesquiterpene Acid with a

Rearranged Carbon Skeleton from Lychnophora columnaris.” Phytochem-

istry 21(3) (1982) 682-85.

. “Labdane Derivatives from Planaltoa lychnophoroides.” Phytochem-

istry 21(2) (1982) :465-67.

. “Modified Eudesmanolides and Other Sesquiterpene Lactones from

Wunderlichia mirabilis and Actinoseris polymorpha.” Phytochemistry 20

(7) (1981) :1631-34.

. “Sesquiterpene Lactones from Picris echioides.” Phytochemistry 20
(8) (1981) :2029-30.

Bohlmann, F.; Ziesche, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Eudesmanolides
and Other Constituents from Dimerostemma asperatum.” Phytochemistry
20(6) (1981) :1335-38.

. “Eudesmanolides, Guaianolides, Germacranolides and Elemanolides
from Zinnia Species.” Phytochemistry 20(7) (1981) :1623—30.

Bohlmann, F.; Ziesche, J.; Robinson, H.; and King, R. M. “A Pseudoguaiano-
lide and a Hydroxygeranylnerol from Kingianthus paradoxus. Phytochemis-
try 20(5) (1981) :1146—48.

Cowan, R. S., and Stafleu, F. A. “The Origins and Early History of I.A.P.T.”
Taxon 31(3) (1982) :415-20.

. “Rose and Britton: From Brittonrosea to Cassia.” Brittonia 33(3)
(1981) :285-93.

Cuatrecasas, J. “Miscellaneous Notes on Neotropical Flora XIII.” Phytologia
49(1) (1981) :69-75.

. “Studies in Neotropical Senecioneae II. Transfers to Genus Penta-
calia of North Andean Species.” Phytologia 49(3) (1981) :241—60.

Cuatrecasas, J., and Croat, T. “Malpighiaceae: in Flora of Panama. Annals of
the Missouri Botanical Garden 67(1980) :851—-945.

Dickison, W. C.; Nowicke, J. W.; and Skvarla, J. J. “Pollen Morphology of
the Dilleniaceae and Actinidiaceae.” American Journal of Botany 69(1982):
1OS5=73:

Eyde, R. H. “Flower.” In McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Tech-
nology, 5th ed., vol. 5, pp. 478-85 & color plate. New York: McGraw-Hill
Book Co., 1982.

. “Reproductive Structures and Evolution in Ludwigia (Onagraceae).
III. Vasculature, Nectaries, Conclusions.” Annals of the Missouri Botanical
Garden 68(3)(1981) :470-503.

Fitt, W. K.; Pardy, R. L.; and Littler, M. M. “Photosynthesis, Respiration, and
Contribution to Community Productivity of the Symbiotic Sea Anemone
Anthopleura elegantissima (Brandt, 1835).” Journal of Experimental Marine
Biology and Ecology 61(1982) :213—32.

Fosberg, F. R. “An Overview of Natural Area Preservation in the World.”
Heritage Record no. 12(1981) :1-6.

. “A Preliminary Conspectus of the Genus Leptostigma (Rubiaceae).”

Acta Phytotaxonomica Geobotanica 33(1982) :73-83.

. “A Revision of the Flora of Ceylon (Sri Lanka).” Spolia Zeylanica

35(1-2) (1980) :9-14.

440 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Fosberg, F. R., and Canfield, J. “Noteworthy Micronesian Plants 3.” Micro-
nesica 16(1980) :189—200.

Fosberg, F. R., and Dassanayake, M. D., eds. A Revised Handbook to the
Flora of Ceylon, vol. III. New Delhi, India: Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt.
Ltd., 1981.

Fosberg, F. R., and Falanruw, M. “Noteworthy Micronesian Plants 4.” Micro-
nesica 16(1980) :201—10.

Fosberg, F. R.; Falanruw, M.; and Sachet, M.-H. “Additional Records of Vas-
cular Plants from the Northern Marianas 2.” Micronesica 16(1980) :211-14.

Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. “Clarification of Hygrophila triflora (Acan-
thaceae).” Baileya 21(3) (1981) :145—48.

. “Nomenclature Notes on Micronesian Ferns.” American Fern Journal

71(1981) :82-84.

. “Pavonia (Malvaceae) in Society Islands.” Bulletin du) Museum
d'Historie Naturelle, Paris, 4° ser., section B, Adansonia 3(1)(1981) :15-16.

Fosberg, F. R.; Stoddart, D. F.; Sachet, M.-H.; and Spellman, D. L. “Plants of
the Belize Cays.” Atoll Research Bulletin no. 258(1982) :1-77.

Funk, V. A. “Special Concerns in Estimating Plant Phylogenies.” In Ad-
vances in Cladistics, eds. V. A. Funk and D. R. Brooks, pp. 73-87. Bronx,
N.Y.: New York Botanical Garden, 1981.

. “Systematics of Montanoa (Asteraceae).” Memoirs of the New York
Botanical Garden 36(1982) :1—-13.

Funk, V. A., and Brooks, D. R. “A Report on the National Science Foundation
Workshop on the Theory and Application and Cladistic Methodology.”
Systematic Zoology 30(4) :491-98.

Funk, V. A., and Wagner, W. H. “A Bibliography of Botanical Cladistics.”
Brittonia 34(1) (1982) :118-24.

Hale, M. E., Jr. “Control of the Lichens on the Monuments of Quirigua.” In
“Quirigua Reports 1,” Paper number 3, eds. Robert J. Sharer and W. Ash-
more, pp. 33-38. University Museum Monograph 37. Quirigua, Guatemala,
1979.

. “A Revision of the Lichen Family Thelotremataceae in Sri Lanka.”
Bulletin of the British Museum (Natural History), Botany series 8(3)(1981):
227-332.

Hunziker, J. H.; Wulff, A. F.; and Soderstrom, T. R. “Chromosome Studies on
the Bambusoideae (Gramineae).” Brittonia 34(1982) :30—-35.

Kapraun, D. F., and Norris, J. N. “The Red Alga Polysiphonia Greville
(Rhodomelaceae) from Carrie Bow Cay, Belize,” In “The Atlantic Barrier
Reef Ecosystems at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Communities,”
eds. R. Reutzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 225-38. Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to the Marine Sciences 12. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1982.

King, R. M., and Robinson, H. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae).
CCVI. A New Genus Gardnerina.” Phytologia 49(1) (1981) :1-2.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCVII. Additional New

Combinations.” Phytologia 49(1) (1981) :3-6.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCVIII. Additions to

Badilloa and Bartlettina from Ecuador.” Phytologia 49(1) (1981) :7-9.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCX. A Second Species of
Vittetia from Brasil.” Phytologia 49(3) (1981) :281-83.

King, R. M., and Robinson, H. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae).
CCIX. Two New Species of Grazielia from Brasil.” Phytologia 49(3) (1981):
284-90.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXI. Three New Species

of Mikania from Brasil.” Phytologia 49(5) (1981) :488-95.

“Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXII. Additions to

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 441
Austroeupatorium, Flyriella, and Teixeiranthus.” Phytologia 50(5) (1982):

379-84.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXIII. A New Genus,

Prolobus, from Bahia.” Phytologia 50(5) (1982) :385—87.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXIV. New Species of

Chromolaena and Stevia from Bolivia.” Phytologia 51(3) (1982) :172-78.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXV. Additions to Austro-
eupatorium and Cronquistianthus.” Phytologia 51(3) (1982) :179-86.

Lawrey, J. D., and Hale, M. E., Jr. “Retrospective Study of Lichen Lead
Accumulation in the Northeastern United States.” The Bryologist 84(4)
(1981) :449-56.

Lellinger, D. B. “Notes on North American Ferns.” American Fern Journal
71(3) (1981) :90-94.

Little, E. L., Jr. “Distinctive Trees of the Southwest.’ American Forests
87(1981) :22—25, 33.

. “Forest Trees of Oklahoma.” Oklahoma Forestry Division Publication
no. 1, rev. ed. no. 12. Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 1981.

Littler, M. M., and Arnold, K. E. “Primary Productivity of Marine Macro-
algal Functional-form Groups from Southwestern North America.” Journal
of Phycology 18(1982) :307-11.

Macintyre, I. G.; Reutzler, K.; Norris, J. N.; and Fauchald, K. “A Submarine
Cave Near Columbus Cay, Belize: A Bizarre Cryptic Habitat.” In “The
Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystems at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize 1: Structure
and Communities,” eds. K. Reutzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 127-42.
Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences 12. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Macne, W., and Fosberg, F. R. “Sonneratiaceae.” In A Revised Handbook to
the Flora of Ceylon, vol. 3, eds. F. R. Fosberg and M. D. Dassanayake,
pp. 450-53. New Delhi, India: Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 1981.

. “Lecythidaceae.” In A Revised Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon,
vol. 3, eds. F. R. Fosberg and M. D. Dassanayake, pp. 195-201. New Delhi,
India: Amerind Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd., 1981.

Nicolson, Dan H. “Schott’s New Taxa Published in the Wiener Zeitschrift fiir
Kunst etc.” Taxon 31(1981) :549-51.

. “Speculations on the Etymology of Achimenes (Gesneriaceae).”
Baileya 21(1981) :134—37.

Nicolson, Dan H., and Sivadasan, M. “Four Frequently Confused Species of
Typhonium (Araceae).” Blumea 27 (1981) :483-97.

Norris, Daniel H., and Robinson, H. “Stoneobryum, A New Genus of Ortho-
trichaceae from South Africa and Southern Queensland.” The Bryologist
84(1) (1981) :95-99.

Norris, J. N., and Bucher, K. E. “Marine Algae and Seagrasses from Carrie
Bow Cay, Belize.” In “The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystems at Carrie Bow
Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Communities,” eds. K. Reutzler and I. G. Mac-
intyre, pp. 167-224. Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences 12.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Norris, J. N., and Fenical, W. “Chemical Defenses in Tropical Marine Algae.”
In “The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystems at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize 1:
Structure and Communities,’ eds. K. Reutzler and I. G. Macintyre,
pp. 417-32. Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences 12. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Nowicke, J. W., and Skvarla, J. J. “Pollen Morphology and the Relationships
of Circaeaster, of Kingdonia, and of Sargentodoxa to the Renunculales.”
American Journal of Botany 69(1982) :990-98.

Read, R. W. “Hohenbergia: A New Look,” Journal of the Bromeliad Society
32(3) (1982) :99-104.

442, / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “A Note on Hohenbergiopsis guatemalensis (L.B.S.) L. B. Smith and
R. W. Read.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society 32(3)(1982):109, 115.

Rice, William E.; Smith, Stephen F.; and Wasshausen, D. C. National List of
Scientific Plant Names. 2 vols. Washington, D.C.: United States Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, 1982.

Robinson, H. “Dolichopodidae.” Aquatic Biota of Tropical South America.
Part 1. Arthropoda (1981) :304-6.

. “New Species of Dimerostemma and Oyedaea from Brasil.” Phy-

tologia 49(3)(1981) :275—80.

. “A New Species of Vernonia from Brasil.” Phytologia 49(5)(1981):

496-98.

. “A Revision of the Tribal and Subtribal Limits of the Heliantheae

(Asteraceae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 51. Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

. “Six New Species of Vernonia from South America.

49(3) (1981) :261-74.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXVIII. Additions to Calea

and Ichthyothere from Brasil.” Phytologia 49(1)(1981) :10-15.

. “Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). XV. A New Species of Fer-
reyranthus.” Phytologia 51(3) (1982) :169-71.

Robinson, H.; Powell, M. A.; King, R. M.; and Weedin, J. F. “Chromosome
Numbers in Compositae, XII: Heliantheae.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Botany 52. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Shetler, S. G. Variation and Evolution of the Nearctic Harebells (Campanula
subsect. Heterophylla). Vaduz, Lichtenstein: J. Cramer, 1982.

Sivadasan, M., and Nicolson, D. H. “A New Species of Theriophonum B1.
(Araceae) from India.” Aroideana 4(1981) :64—67.

Skog, L. E. “Exploring for Gesneriads.” The Gloxinian 31(5) (1981) :10-13.

. “Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers IV. Gloxinia to Niphaea.”

Crosswords 5(2) (1981) :10-13.

. “Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers V. Opithandra to Seemannia.”

Crosswords 5(3) (1981) :5—-11; 5(4) (1982) :4-10.

. “Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers VI. Sinningia to Tydaea.”

Crosswords 6(1) (1982) :7-15.

. “Gesneria and Other Gesneriads Large and Small (Gesneria et Autres
Gesneriacees de Petite et de Grande Taille).” In Gesneriacees, Les Floralies
Internationales de Montreal Colloques Scientifiques, No. 18, pp. 41-62.
Montreal: Ministere de l’Agriculture des Pécheries et de 1’Alimentation,
Gouvernment de Quebec, Collection Etudes et dossiers de la Documenta-
tion quebecoise, 1981.

Skvarla, J. J., and Nowicke, J. W. “Pollen Fine Structure and Relationships of
Achatocarpus Triana and Phaulothamnus A. Gray.” Taxon 31(1982) :244—49.

Smith, L. B. “Xyris tillettii L. B. Smith.” In “Contribuciones a la Flora del
Cerro Marahuaca, Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela,” eds. S. S. Til-
lett and J. A. Steyermark. Ernstia No. 9(1982) :3-4.

Smith, L. B.; Wasshausen, D. C.; and Klein, R. M. “Gramineas, pt. 1.” Flora
Ilustrada Catarinense pt. 1, fasc. GRAM. Pt. 1(1981) :1-435, pl. 1-99.

Solt, M. L., and Wurdack, J. J. “Polygalaceae. Documented Chromosome
Number Reports LXXII.” Taxon 30(1981) :694.

Soderstrom, T. R. “Cryptochloa dressleri (Poaceae), a New Bambusoid Grass
from Panama.” Brittonia 34(1982) :25—28.

. “The Grass Subfamily Centostecoideae.” Taxon 30(3) (1981) :614—16.

. “New Species of Cryptochloa and Piresia (Poaceae: Bambusoideae).”

Brittonia 34(2) (1982) :199-209.

. “Observations on a Fire-Adapted Bamboo of the Brazilian Cerrado,

wt

Phytologia

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 443
Actinocladum verticillatum (Poaceae: Bambusoideae).” American Journal

of Botany 68(9) (1981) :1200-1211.

. “Olmeca, a New Genus of Bamboos with Fleshy Fruits.” American

Journal of Botany 68(1981) :1361-74.

. “Some Evolutionary Trends in the Bambusoideae.” Annals of the

Missouri Botanical Garden 68(1981) :15—47.

. “Sucrea (Poaceae: Bambusoideae), a New Genus from Brazil.” Brit-

tonia 33(2) (1981) :198-213.

. “Validation of the Generic Name Olmeca and Its Two Species
(Poaceae: Bambusoideae).” Phytologia 51(1982) :161.

Stoddart, D. R., and Fosberg, F. R. “Bird and Denis Islands, Seychelles.”
Atoll Research Bulletin no. 252(1981) :1—-55.

. “Species-Area Relationships on Small Islands: Floristic Data from

Belizean Sand Cays.” In “The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystems at Carrie

Bow Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Communities,” eds. K. Reutzler and

I. G. Macintyre, pp. 527-39. Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine

Sciences 12. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Topographic and Floristic Changes, Dry Tortugas, Florida.” Atoll
Research Bulletin no. 253(1981) :1—-76.

Stoddart, D. R.; Fosberg, F. R.; and Sachet, M.-H. “Ten Years of Change on
Glover’s Reef Cays.” Atoll Research Bulletin no. 257(1982) :1-38.

Stoddart, D. R.; Fosberg, F. R.; and Spellman, D. L. “Cays of the Belize
Reef and Lagoon.” Atoll Research Bulletin no. 256(1982) :1-76.

Taylor, P. R., and Littler, M. M. “The Roles of Compensatory Mortality,
Physical Disturbance, and Retention of Substrate in the Development and
Organization of a Sand-influenced Rocky-intertidal Community.” Ecology
63(1) (1982) :135—46.

Wurdack, J. J. “Certamen Melastomataceis XXXIII.” Phytologia 49(2)(1981):
147-58.

. “Certamen Melastomataceae XXXIV.” Phytologia 50(5) (1982) :297—308.

. “Three Species of Tibouchina (Melastomataceae) from Bahia, Brazil.”

Brittonia 33(3) (1981) :304—8.

Department of Entomology

Burns, John M. “The Winter’s Springtail.” Perspectives in Biology and
Medicine 25(1) (1981) :92.

. “Lychnuchoides frappenda from Central Mexico Joins lunus and
zweifeli in a lunus Group of Atrytonopsis (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae:
Hesperiinae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington
84(1982) :547-67.

Cartwright, Oscar L., and Spangler, Paul J. “A New Ataenius from the
Socorro Islands, Mexico (Coleoptera; Scarabaeidae; Aphodiinae).” Pro-
ceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83(4) (1981) :785-89.

Davis, Don R. “Jackh Collection of Microlepidoptera to the Smithsonian.”
Journal of the Lepidopterist Society 35(2) (1981) :160.

. “A Survey of Chilean Insect Fauna.” Report on Chilean University
Life, No. 11, Fall (1981) :11-12.

Davis, Don R., and Neilsen, E. W. “A Revision of the Neotropical Incur-
variidae Sen. Str., with the Description of Two New Genera and Two New
Species.” Steenstrupia 7(3) (1981) :25—-57.

Emerson, K. C. “Status of Five Species of Mallophaga Described by
M. A. Carriker, Jr.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washing-
ton 83(1981) :137-39.

Emerson, K. C., and Price, Roger D. “A Host-Parasite List of Mallophaga on
Mammals.” Entomological Society of America Miscellaneous Publications,
12(1) (1981) :72.

444 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “A New Species of Suricatoecus (Mallophaga: Trichodectidae) from
Fennec Fox (Fennecus zerda) from Egypt, with a key to the recognized
species.” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 54(1981) :673-77.

Erwin, Terry L. “A Synopsis of the Immature Stages of Pseudomorphini
(Coleoptera: Carabidae) with Notes on Tribal Affinities and Behavior in
Relation to Life with Ants.” Coleopterists Bulletin 35(1) (1981) :53—68.

. “Natural History of Plummers Island, Maryland. XXVI. The Ground

Beetles of a Temperate Forest Site (Coleoptera: Carabidae): An Analysis

of Fauna in Relation to Size, Habitat, Selection, Vagility, Seasonality, and

Extinction.” Bulletin of Biological Society of Washington 5(1981) :105—224.

. “Agra, Arboreal Beetles of Neotropical Forests: erythropus Group

Systematics (Carabidae).” Systematic Entomology 7(1982) :39-71.

. “Agra, Arboreal Beetles of Neotropical Forests: platyscelis Group

Systematics (Carabidae).” Systematic Entomology 7(1982) :185—210.

. “Canopy Beetles: Clarification of Heat Gain and Water Loss.”

Coleopterists Bulletin 35(3) (1982) :315—16.

. “Small Terrestrial Ground Beetles of Central America (Carabidae:
Bembidiina and Anillina).” Proceedings of the California Academy of
Sciences 42(19) (1982) :455—96.

Erwin, Terry L., and Adis, Joachim. “Amazon Inundation Forests: Their Role
as Short-term Refuses and Generators of Species Richness and Taxon
Pulses.” In Biological Diversification in the Tropics, ed. G. Prance, pp. 358—
371. New York: Columbia University Press, 1982.

Erwin, T. L., and Kavanaugh, D. H. “Systematics and Zoogeography of
Bembidion Latreille: I. The carlhi and erasum Groups of Western North
America (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Bembidiini).” Entomologica Scandinavica
Supplement 15(1981) :33-72.

Erwin, T. L., and Scott, J. C. “Seasonal and Size Patterns, Trophic Structure,
and Richness of Coleoptera in the Tropical Arboreal Ecosystem: The Fauna
of the Tree Luehea seemannii Triana and Planch in the Canal Zone of
Panama.” Coleopterists Bulletin 34(3) (1981) :305—22.

Farhang-Azad, A.; Wisseman, C. L., Jr.; and Traub, R. “Studies on Murine
Typhus Rickettsiae and Xenopsylla cheopis Fleas.” In Rickettsiae and
Rickettsial Diseases, eds. W. Burgdorfer and R. L. Anaker, pp. 363-73. New
York: Academic Press, Inc.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Trichoptera.” In Aquatic Biota of Tropical South Amer-
ica, Part 1: Arthropoda, eds. S. H. Hurlbert, G. Rodriguez, and N. D. San-
tos. San Diego, California: San Diego State University, 1981.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXVII: Anomalopsychidae, a

New Family of Trichoptera.” Proceedings of the Third International Sym-

posium on Trichoptera (1981) :75-85.

. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXXI: Five New Species from
Argentina (Trichoptera).” Entomological News 93(1982) :43—47.

Froeschner, Richard C., and Halpin, L. “Heteroptera Recently Collected in
the Ray Mountains in Alaska.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 94(2) (1981) :423-26.

Heppner, John B. “Two New Dichrorampha (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) from
Florida.” Florida Entomologist 64(1981) :271-76.

. “Revision of the New Genus Diploschizia (Lepidoptera: Glyphipteri-

gidae) for North America.” Florida Entomologist 64(1981) :309-36.

. “Neomachlotica, a New Genus of Glyphipterigidae (Lepidoptera).”

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83(1981) :479-88.

. “Acleris maccana (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae); Distribution Notes and

a New Record for Virginia.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of

Washington 83(1981) :802-3.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 445
. “The Dates of E. J. C. Esper’s Die Schmetterlinge in Abbildungen

.. « 1776—(1830). Archives of Natural History 10(1981) :251—54.

. “A New Tortyra from Cocos Island, Costa Rica (Lepidoptera: Cho-

reutidae).” Journal of Research on the Lepidoptera 19(1981) :196-98.

. “Synopsis of the Glyphipterigidae (Lepidoptera: Copromorphoidea)

of the World.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington

84(1982) :38-66.

. “A World Catalog of Genera Associated with the Glyphipterigidae

Auctorum (Lepidoptera).” Journal of the New York Entomological Society

89 (1982) :22-294.

. “Millieriinae, a New Subfamily of Choreutidae (Lepidoptera: Sesio-

idea).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 370. Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Description of a New Cydia (Tortricidae) from Southern Florida and

Cuba.” Journal of the Lepidoptera Society 35(1982) :278—280.

. “Dates of Selected Literature of Lepidoptera for the Western Hemi-
sphere Fauna.” Journal of the Lepidoptera Society 35(1982) :135-59.

Heppner, John B., and Duckworth, W. Donald. “Classification of the Super-
family Sesioidea (Lepidoptera: Ditrysia).” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology No. 314. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

. Addendum to “Classification of the Superfamily Sesioidea.” Journal
of the Lepidoptera Society 36(1982) :101-2.

Huang, Yiau-Min. “A Redescription of Aedes (Stegomyia) calceatus Edwards
and Description of a New Afrotropical Species, Aedes (Stegomyia) ledgeri
(Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 13(1) (1981) :92-113.

Huang, Yiau-Min, and Ward, R. A. “A Pictorial Key for the Identification
of the Mosquitoes Associated with Yellow Fever in Africa.” Mosquito
Systematics 13(2) (1982) :138—49.

Krombein, Karl V. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, VII: A Mono-
graph of the Philanthidae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea).” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Zoology No. 343. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1981.

Lakshminarayana, K. V. and Emerson, K. C. “Evolutionary Trend in Two
Sympatric Species of Goniocotes (Phthiraptera: Ischnocerophthirana) with
Remarks on Host Phylogeny.” Bulletin of the Zoological Society of India
1(1978) :151—-56.

. “The Smithsonian Insect Project in Sri Lanka, 1969-1975.” Spolia
Zeylanica, 35(1981) :119-35.

Mathis, Wayne N. “Proposed Use of the Plenary Powers to Grant Precedence
to the Family-group Name Ephydridae Over Hydrelliidae (Diptera).” Bulle-
tin of Zoological Nomenclature 38(3)(1981): 201-4.

. “Ephydridae.” In Aquatic Biota of Tropical South America, ed.

S. H. Hurlbert, pp. 312-16. San Diego, California: University of San Diego

Press, 1981.

. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), VI: Review of the

Tribe Dagini.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 345. Washington,

D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Studies of Canacidae (Diptera), I: Suprageneric Revision of the

Family, with Revisions of New Tribe Dynomiellini and New Genus

Isocanace.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 347. Washington,

D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), VII: Revision of the

Genus Setacera Cresson.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 350.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Canacidae of Israel, with a Review of the Palaearctic Species of the

446 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Genus Canace Haliday (Diptera).” Entomologica Scandinavica 13(1982):
57-66.

Mathis, Wayne N., and Wirth, Willis W. “Hydrellia tritici (Diptera: Ephydri-
dae), New to Hawaii.” Proceedings of the Hawaiian Entomological Society
23(3) (1981) :371—-73.

McElravy, E. P.; Resh, V. H.; Wolda, H.; and Flint, O. S., Jr. “Diversity of
Adult Trichoptera in a “Non-Seasonal” Tropical Environment.” Proceedings
of the Third International Symposium on Trichoptera (1981) :149-56.

Oniki, Yoshika, and Emerson, K. C., “A New Species of Picicola (Mallo-
phaga, Philopteridae) from the Crescent-chested Puffbird, Malacoptila
striata (Spix) (Piciformes, Bucconidae).” Revista Brasileira de Biologia
41(1981) :511-13.

Penny, Norman D., and Flint, Oliiver S., Jr. “A Revision of the Genus
Chloronia (Neuroptera:Corydalidae).” Smithsonian Contriutions to Zoology
No. 348. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Solomon, J. C., and Froeschner, R. C. “Notes on Food Resources and Behav-
ior of the Family Coreidae (Hemiptera) in a Semi-deciduous Tropical
Forest.” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 83(3)
(1981 :428-31.

Spangler, Paul J. “Sphaeriidae in Mollusca and Insecta: Comments on
Proposal to Remove the Homonymy. Z. N. (S)1892 (see Bull. Zool. Nom.,
32:60—62,201-204).” Bulletin Zoological Nomenclature 38(3) (1981) :157—61.

. “Two New Genera of Phraetic Elmid Beetles from Haiti; One Eyeless

and One with Reduced Eyes (Coleoptera: Elmidae).” Bijdragen tot de

Dierkunde (Contriutions to Zoology) (Amsterdam), 51(2) (1981) :1—-13.

. “Supplement to the Aquatic and Semiaquatic Coleoptera of Cuba
Collected by the Academies of Science of Cuba and Romania.” Resultats
des Expeditions Biospeologiques Cubano-Roumaines a Cuba 3(1981) :145-71.

Spangler, Paul J., and Brown, Harley P. “Discovery of Hydora, a hitherto
Australian—New Zealand Genus of Riffle Beetle in South America (Coleop-
tera: Elmidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington
83(4) (1981) :596—606.

Spangler, Paul J., and Huacuja, Aurea. “Deltostethus scitulus, a New Hydro-
philid Beetle from Mexico (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae: Sphaeridiinae).”
Entomological News 93(1) (1982) :1-7.

Spangler, Paul J., and Vega, Alberto. “The First Record of Hydrovatus horni
Crotch from the Antilles with Notes on Its Known Distribution and Status
(Coleoptera: Dytiscidae).” Entomological News 93(2) (1982) :37—41.

Thompson, F. C., and Mathis, Wayne N. [Book Reviews] A Catalogue of
Diptrea of the Afrotropical Region by the British Museum (Natural
History), Bulletin of the Entomological Society of America 27(3)(1981):
230-31.

Traub, R., and Jellison, W. L. “Evolutionary and Biogeographic History and
the Phylogeny of Vectors and Reservoirs as Factors in the Transmission of
Diseases from Other Animals to Man. In Rickettsiae and Rickettsial
Diseases, eds. W. Burgadorfer and R. L. Anacker, pp. 517-46. New York:
Academic Press, Inc., 1981.

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

Barnard, J. L. “The Genus Rhepoxynius (Phoxocephalidae, Amphipoda, Crus-
tacea) in American Seas.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology no. 357.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Redescription of Iphiplateia whiteleggei, a New Guinea Marine

Amphipod.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(1982):

1211-18.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 447
Barnard, J. L., and Barnard, C. M. “The Amphipoda Genera Eobrolgus and
Eyakia (Crustacea:Phoxocephalidae) in the Pacific Ocean.” Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 94(1981) :295—313.

Barnard, J. L., and Clark, J. “Huarpe escofeti, New Genus, New Species, a
Burrowing Marine Amphipod from Argentina (Crustacea, Amphipoda,
Urohaustoriidae).” Journal of Crustacean Biology 2(1982) :281—95.

Barnard, J. L., and Clark, J. “Puelche orensanzi, New Genus, New Species, a
Phoxocephalopsid Amphipod from the Shores of Argentina (Crustacea,
Amphipoda, Phoxocephalopsidae).” Journal of Crustacean Biology 2(1982):
Zool 72

Barnard, J. L., and Drummond, M. M. “Three Corophioids (Crustacea: Amphi-
poda) from Western Port, Victoria.” Proceedings of the Royal Society of
Victoria 93(1981) :31—41.

Barnard, J. L., and Karaman, G. S. “Classificatory Revisions in Gammaridean
Amphipoda (Crustacea), Part 2.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 95(1982) :167-87.

Bayer, Frederick M. “On Some Genera of Stoloniferous Octocorals (Coelen-
terata: Anthozoa), with Descriptions of New Taxa.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 94(3)1981) :878—-901.

. “Key to the Genera of Octocorallia Exclusive of Pennatulacea (Coe-

lenterata: Anthozoa), with Descriptions of New Taxa.” Proceedings of the

Biological Society of Washington (94(1981) :902—47.

. “Some New and Old Species of the Primnoid Genus Callogorgia

Gray, with a Revalidation of the Related Genus Fanellia Gray (Coelen-

terata: Anthozoa).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington

95(1) (1982) :116—-60.

. “Status of Knowledge of Octocorals of World Seas.” Semindrios de

Biologia Marinha. Academia Brasileira de Ciéncias, Rio de Janeiro, 1981:

eal,

. “Utilization and Conservation of Plexaura homomalla.” Seminarios

de Biologia Marinha. Academia Brasileira de Ciéncias, Rio de Janeiro, 1982:

LEA,

. “Recent Advances in Research on Octocorals.” Semindarios de Biologia

Marinha. Academia Brasileira de Ciéncias, Rio de Janeiro, 1981:19-28.

. “Bibliography of Octocorallia 1469-1977.” Semindrios de Biologia
Marinha. Academia Brasileira de Ciéncias, Rio de Taneiro, 1981:29-102.
Black, J. J.; Harshbarger, J.; Zeigel, R. F.; and Bock, F. G. “Tumors in Fish
from a Copper Contaminated Lake.” Proceedings of the Seventy-second
Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research and
Seventieth Annual Meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology

22(1982) :134.

Bowman, T. E. “Calasellus longus, a New Genus and Species of Troglobitic
Asellid from Shaver Lake, California (Crustacea: Isopoda: Asellidae).” Pro-
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(3)1982) :866—72.

. “Cephalocarida” and “Mystacocarida.” In Synopsis and Classification

of Living Organisms, vol. 2, ed. Sybil P. Parker, pp. 174 and 202. New

York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1982.

. “Speocirolana pubens and S. endica, New Troglobitic Isopod Crus-

taceans from Mexico (Flabellifera: Cirolanidae).” Association for Mexican

Cave Studies Bulletin 8(1982) :13—23.

. “Three New Stenasellid Isopods from Mexico (Crustacea: Asellota).”
Association for Mexican Cave Studies Bulletin 8(1982) :25—38.

Bowman, T. E., and Abele, Lawrence G. “Classification of the Recent Crus-
tacea.” In Biology of the Crustacea, ed. Dorothy E. Bliss, vol. 1, Chap. 1,
pp. 1-27. New York: Academic Press, 1982.

Bowman, T. E.; Bruce, Neil, L.; and Standing, Jon D. “Recent Introduction

448 / Smithsonian Year 1982
of the Cirolanid Isopod Crustacean Cirolana arcuata into San Francisco
Bay.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 1(4)(1981) :545—-57.

Bowman, T. E.; Cohen, Anne C.; and McGuinness, Maura McManus. “Verti-
cal Distribution of Themisto gaudichaudii (Amphidopa: Hyperiidea) in
Deepwater Dumpsite 106 off the Mouth of Delaware Bay.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology no. 351. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1982.

Bowman, T. E., and McGuinness, Maura McManus. “Epipelagic Amphipods
from the International Indian Ocean Expedition, 1959-1965.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology no. 359. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1982.

Bruce, Niel L., and Bowman, T. E. “The Status of Cirolana parva Hansen,
1890 (Crustacea: Isopoda: Cirolanidae) with Notes on Its Distribution.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 95(2)(1982) :325-33.

Cairns, S. D. “Antarctic and Subantarctic Scleractinia.” Antarctic Research
Series 34(1982) :1-74.

. “Stony Corals of Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.” In Smithsonian Contribu-

tions to Zoology no. 12, pp. 271-302. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Insti-

tution Press, 1982.

. “A New Subfamily of Operculate Stylasterine from the Subantarctic.”
Journal of Natural History 16(1)71-81.

Cavanaugh, Colleen M.; Gardiner, Stephen L.; Jones, Meredith L.; Jannasch,
Holgar W.; and Waterbury, John B. “Prokaryotic Cells in the Hydrothermal
Vent Tube Worm Riftia pachyptila Jones: Possible Chemautotrophic Sym-
bionts.” Science 213(1981) :340—41.

Child, C. A. “Deep-Sea Pycnogonida from the North and South Atlantic
Basins.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology no. 349. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Pycnogonida from Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.” In “The Atlantic Bar-

rier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, 1: Structure and Commu-

nities,” pp. 355-80. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology no. 12. Wash-

ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Pycnogonida of the Western Pacific Islands I. The Marshall Islands.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 95(2)(1982) :270-81.
Child, C. A., and Nakamura, K. “A Gynandromorph of the Japanese Pycnogo-
nid Anoplodactylus gestiens (Ortmann).” Proceedings of the Biological

Society of Washington 95(2)(1982) :289-92.

Cohen, Anne C. “Ostracoda.” In Synopsis and Classification of Living Orga-
nisms, ed. S. P. Parker, pp. 181-202. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.,
1982.

Cressey, R. “Revision of Indo-West Pacific Lizardfishes of the Genus Synodus
(Pisces: Synodontidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 342.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

. “A New Genus of Bomolochid Copepod from Indo-West Pacific
Nemipterid Fishes.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
95(2) (1981) :503-12.

Dawe, C. J.; Harshsbarger, J. C.; Kondo, S.; Sugimura, T.; and Takayama, S.,
eds. Phyletic Approaches to Cancer: Proceedings of the Eleventh Interna-
tional Symposium of the Princess Takamatsu Cancer Research Fund, Tokyo,
1980. Tokyo: Japan Scientific Societies Press, 1981.

Deiss, William A., and Manning, Raymond B. “The Fate of the Invertebrate
Collections of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition.” In History in the
Service of Systematics, eds. Alwyne Wheeler and James H. Price, pp. 79-85.
London: Society for the Bibliography of Natural History, 1981.

Fauchald, Kristian. “Two New Species of Onuphis from Uruguay.” Proceed-
ings of the Biological Society of Washington 95(1) (1982) :203-9.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 449
. “Some Species of Onuphis (Onuphidae: Polychaeta) from the Atlan-
tic Ocean.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 95(2)
(1982) :237-49.

. “Revision of Onuphis, Nothria, and Paradiopatra (Polychaeta: Onu-
phidae) Based upon Type-material.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology
No. 356. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Harshberger, John C. “Closing Remarks.” In Phyletic Approaches to Cancer:
Proceedings of the Eleventh International Symposium of the Princess Taka-
matsu Cancer Research Fund, Toyko, 1980, eds. C. J. Dawe, J. C. Harsh-
barger, S. Kondo, T. Sugimura, and S. Takayama, pp. 385-89. Tokyo:
Japan Scientific Societies Press, 1981.

. “Epizootiology of Leukemia and Lymphoma in Poikilotherms.” In
Advances in Comparative Leukemia Research, 1981, eds. D. S. Yohn and
J. R. Blakeslee, pp. 39-47. New York: Elsevier-North Holland, 1982.

Harshbarger, J. C.; Charles, A. M.; and Spero, P. M. “Collection and Analysis
of Neoplasms in Sub-Homeothermic Animals from a Phyletic Point of
View.” In Phyletic Approaches to Cancer: Proceedings of the Eleventh
International Symposium of the Princess Takamatsu Cancer Research Fund,
Tokyo, 1980, eds. C. J. Dawe, J. C. Harshbarger, S. Kondo, T. Sugimura,
and S. Takayama, pp. 575-84. Tokyo: Japan Scientific Societies Press, 1981.

Hart, C. W., Jr., and Manning, Raymond B. “The Cavernicolous Caridean
Shrimps of Bermuda (Alpheidae, Hippolytidae, and Atyidae).” Journal of
Crustacean Biology 1(3)(1981) :441-56.

Higgins, Robert P. “Kinorhyncha.” In Synopsis and Classification of Living
Organisms, vol. 1, ed. Sybil P. Parker, pp. 873-77. New York: McGraw-Hill
Book Company, 1981.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. “The Crayfishes of Georgia.” Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Zoology No. 318. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1981.

. “A New Crayfish (Decapoda: Cambaridae) from the State of Puebla,
Mexico, with New Locality Records for Procambarus (Villalobosus) xochit-
lanae and Entocytherid Ostracod Symbionts.” Association for Mexican
Cave Studies Bulletin, 8:39-44; Texas Memorial Museum Bulletin 28(1981):
39-44. Austin, Texas: The Speleo Press.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Grubbs, Andrew G. “Description of a New Trog-
lobitic Crayfish from Mexico and a List of Mexican Crayfishes Reported
Since the Publication of the Villalobos Monograph (1955)(Decapoda, Cam-
baridae).” Association for Mexican Cave Studies Bulletin, 8:45-50; Texas
Memorial Museum Bulletin 28(1981):45-50. Austin, Texas: The Speleo
Press.

Hoover, K. L.; Harshbarger, J. C.; Lee, C. W.; Banfield, W.; and Chang, S. C.
“Intranuclear Inclusion Bodies within Neurons of Spinal and Cranial Gan-
glia in Three Cyprinodont Species.” Cell and Tissue Research 218(1981):
529-36.

Hope, W. D. “Structure of Head and Stoma in the Marine Nematode Genus
Deontostoma (Enoplida: Leptosomatidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology No. 353. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Hope, W. D., and Gardiner, S. L. “Fine Structure of a Proprioceptor in the
Body Wall of the Marine Nematode Deontostoma californicum Steiner and
Albin, 1933 (Enoplida: Leptosomatidae).” Cell and Tissue Research 225
(1982) :1-10.

Houbrick, Richard S. “Systematic Position of the Genus Glyptozaria Iredale
(Prosobranchia: Gastropoda).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 94(3) (1981) :838—47.

. “What is Diastoma? Systematic Position of the Diastomatidae.” Bul-

letin of the American Malacological Union, Inc. (1981) :31.

450 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Jones, Meredith L. “Riftia pachyptila Jones: Observations on the Vestimenti-
feran Worm from the Galapagos Rift.” Science 213(1981) :333-36.

. “Magelonidae.” In Sedentariate and Archiannelid Polychaetes of
British Columbia and Washington, eds. K. D. Hobson and K. Banse, pp.
46-48. Canadian Bulletin of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 209, 1981.

Karaman, G. S., and Barnard, J. L. “The Synonymization of Triodos K. H.
Barnard with Ampelisca Kroyer (Crustacea, Amphipoda).” Annals of the
South African Museum 84(1981) :255—64.

Kenk, Roman. “Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America. XIII.
Phagocata hamptonae, New Species, from Nevada.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 95(1) (1982) :161—66.

Kensley, B. “A New Genus and Species of Interstitial Isopod from Curcao,
West Indies (Crustacea: Isopoda: Paranthuridae).” Bijdragen tot de Dier-
kunde 51(1981) :131-34.

. “On the Zoogeography of Southern African Decapod Crustacea, with

a Checklist of the Species.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 338.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

. “A New Genus and Species of Asellote Isopod from the Great Barrier

Reef, Australia (Crustacea: Isopoda: Pleurocopidae).” Journal of Crusta-

cean Biology 2(1982) :255—60.

. “Deep-Water Atlantic Anthuridea (Crustacea: Isopoda).” Smithsonian

Contributions to Zoology No. 346. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-

tion Press, 1982.

. “Anthuridea (Crustacea: Isopoda) of Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.” In
The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrier Bow Cay, Belize 1: Struc-
ture and Communities, ed. K. Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 321-54.
Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Kornicker, Louis S. “Revision, Distribution, Ecology, and Ontogeny of the
Ostracode Subfamily Cyclasteropinae (Myodocopina: Cylindroleberididae).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 319. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1981.

. “Range Extension and Supplementary Description of Bathyconchoe-

cia deeveyae (Ostracoda: Halocyprididae).” Proceedings of the Biological

Society of Washington 94(4) (1981) :1237—43.

. “Angulorostrum, a New Genus of Myodocopid Ostracoda (Philo-

medidae: Pseudophilomedinae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology

No. 340. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

. “A New Bathyal Myodocopine Ostracode from New Zealand and a

Key to Developmental Stages of Sarsiellidae.” New Zealand Journal of

Marine and Freshwater Research 15(1981) :385—90.

. “A Restudy of the Amphiatlantic Ostracode Philomedes brenda

(Baird, 1850) (Myodocopina).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology

No. 358. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. [Review] Fossil and Recent Ostracods, eds. R. H. Bate, E. Robinson,
and L. M. Sheppard. Halsted [Wiley] New York. Science 217(4561) (1982):
724—25.

Kornicker, Louis S., and Cohen, Anne C. “Relative Position of the Left and
Right Lamellae of the Furca in the Order Myodocopida (Crustacea: Ostra-
coda).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 94(3) (1981):
739-44,

Lewis, Julian J., and Bowman, Thomas E. “The Subterranean Asellids of
Illinois (Crustacea: Isopoda: Asellidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology No. 335. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Lewis, S. M., and Kensley, B. “Notes on the Ecology and Behavior of

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 451
Pseudamphithoides incurvaria (Just) (Crustacea, Amphipoda, Ampithoi-
dae).” Journal of Natural History 16(1982) :267—74.

Macintyre, I. G., Riitzler, K., Norris, J. N., and Fauchald, K. “A Submarine
Cave near Columbus Cay, a Bizarre Cryptic Habitat.” In The Atlantic
Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Com-
munities, eds. K. Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 127-41. Smithsonian
Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1982.

Manning, Raymond B. “First Record of Kempina zanzibarica (CHOPRA
1939) from the Red Sea, with Notes on Lenisquilla gilesi (KEMP 1911)
(Crustacea: Stomatopoda).” Senckenbergiana biologica 61(3/4) (1981) :297—
303.

Manning, Raymond B. “West African Brachyuran Crabs.” National Geo-
graphic Society Research Reports 13(1981) :431-34.

. “Stomatopods.” In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery

Purposes. Eastern Central Atlantic Fishing Areas 34, 47 (in part), eds.

W. Fisher, G. Bianchi, and W. B. Scott, 9 pages. Ottawa: Department of

Fisheries & Oceans Canada, 1981.

. “Hoplocarida.” In Synopsis and Classification of Living Organisms,
ed. Sybil P. Parker, pp. 237-41. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company,
1982.

Manning, Raymond B., and Camp, David K. “A Review of the Platysquilla
Complex (Crustacea, Stomatopoda, Nannosquillidae), with the Designation
of Two New Genera.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
84(2) (1981) :591-97.

Manning, Raymond B., and Hart, C. W., Jr. “Gonodactylus lightbourni, a
New Stomatopod Crustacean from Bermuda.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 94(3) (1981): 708-12.

Manning, Raymond B., and Lewinsohn, Ch. “Selection of a Neotype for
Cancer falcatus Forskal, 1775 (Stomatopoda).” Crustaceana 41(3)(1981):
314-16.

Manning, Raymond B., and Reaka, Marjorie L. “Gonodactylus siamensis, a
New Stomatopod Crustacean from Thailand.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 94(2) (1981) :190—200.

Nakamura, K., and Child, C. A. “Three New Species of Pycnogonida from
Sagami Bay, Japan.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
95(2) (1982) :282-88.

Pawson, David L. “Holothuroidea.” In Synopsis and Classification of Living
Organisms, ed. Sybil P. Parker, pp. 813-18. New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc.,
1982.

Pawson, David L., and Gust, Cynthia. “Holothuria (Platyperona) rowei, a
New Sea Cucumber from Florida.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 94(3) (1981) :873-77.

Pérez Farfante, Isabel. Review of “El Mar de Puerto Rico. Una Introduccién
a las Pesquerias de la Isla.” By José A. Suarez Caabro. Editorial Universi-
taria, Universidad de Puerto Rico. Ciencia Interamericana 22(1—2) (1982) :68.

Pérez Farfante, I., and Ivanov, B. G. “Mesopenaeus mariae, a New Species
of Shrimp (Penaeoidea: Solenoceridae), the First Record of the Genus in
the Indo—West Pacific.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washing-
ton 2(2) (1982) :303-13.

Pettibone, Marian H. “Annelida and Polychaeta.” In Synopsis and Classifica-
tion of Living Organisms, ed. S. P. Parker, vol. 2, pp. 1-43. New York:
McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1982.

Reaka, Marjorie L., and Manning, Raymond B. “The Behavior of Stomatopod
Crustacea, and Its Relationship to Rates of Evolution.” Journal of Crusta-
cean Biology 1(3) (1981) :309-27.

452 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Rehder, Harald A. “A New Species of Volutocorbis (Volutidae) from Soma-
lia.” The Nautilis 95(4) (1981) :169-70.

. “A Note on Colubraria soverbii (Reeve) and a Comment on Noto-
peplum translucidum?”. Hawaiian Shell News 30(5) (1982):5.

Roper, C. F. E. “Cephalopods of the Southern Ocean Region: Potential
Resources and Bibliography.” In Biological Investigations of Marine Ant-
arctic Systems and Stocks. Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research,
BIOMASS 2(1981) :99-105.

Roper, C. F. E., and Boss, K. J. “The Giant Squid.” Scientific American,
246 (4) (1982) :82-90.

Roper, C. F. E., and Sweeney, M. J. “Eastern Central Atlantic Cephalopods.”
In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Purposes; Food and Agri-
cultural Organization of the United Nations, vol. 6, 92 pages.

Rosewater, Joseph. “Malacological Journey into Cuba.” The Nautilus 95(4)
(1981) 159-62.

. “A New Species of Hippopus (Bivalvia: Tridacnidae).” The Nautilus

96 (1) (1982) :3-6.

. “A New Species of the Genus Echininus (Mollusca: Littorinidae;
Echinininae) with a Review of the Subfamily.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington 95(1) (1982) :67—80.

Rosewater, Joseph and Kadolsky, Dietrich. “Rectifications in the Nomencla-
ture of Some Indo-Pacific Littorinidae—II.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 95(4) (1981) :1233—36.

Riitzler, K. “An Unusual Bluegreen Alga Symbiotic with two New Species
of Ulosa (Porifera: Hymeniacidonidae) from Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.”
Marine Ecology 2(1982) :35—40.

Riitzler, K., Archibald, P., and Santavy—Robertson, D. “A New Species of
Lyngbya emend. Bourelly (Cyanophyta, Oscillatoriaceae) Cause of Black
Band Disease of Tropical Reef Corals.” [Abstract] International Phycologi-
cal Congress, St. John’s Newfoundland, August 1982.

Riitzler, K., and Bromley, R. G. “Cliona rhodensis, New Species (Porifera:
Hadromerida) from the Mediterranean.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 94(1981) :1219-25.

Riitzler, K., and Ferraris, J. D. “Terrestrial Environment and Climate.” In
The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize 1: Structure
and Communities, eds. K. Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 77-91. Smith-
sonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Riitzler, G., and Macintyre, I. G., eds. The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at
Carrie Bow Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Communities. Smithsonian Con-
tributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1982.

. “Introduction.” In The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow

Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Communities, eds. K. Riitzler and I. G. Mac-

intyre, pp. 1-7. Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Habitat Distribution and Community Structure of the Barrier Reef
Complex near Carrie Bow Cay.” In The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at
Carrie Bow Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Communities, eds. K. Riitzler and
I. G. Macintyre, pp. 9-45. Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
No. 12. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Williams, A. B., and Chace, F. A., Jr. “A New Caridean Shrimp of the Family
Bresilidae from Thermal Vents of the Galapagos Rift.” Journal of Crusta-
cean Biology 2(1) (February 1982) :136—47.

Wittenberg, Jonathan B., Morris, Roger J., Gibson, Quentin H., and Jones,
Meredith L. “Hemoglobin Kinetics of the Galapagos Rift Vent Tube Worm

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 453
Riftia pachyptila Jones (Pogonophora: Vestimentifera).” Science 213(1981):

344-46,

. “Oxygen Binding by Hemoglobin of the Galapagos Rift Vent Worm
Riftia pachyptila Jones (Pogonophora: Vestimentifera).” Biochemica et
Biophysica Acta 670(1981) :255-59.

Zibrowius, H., and Cairns, S. D. “Remarks on the Stylasterine Larva of the
West Indies, with the Description of a New Species. Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 95(1) :210-21.

Department of Mineral Science

Batiza, R.; Simkin, T.; Lonsdale, P.; and Vanko, D. [Abstract] “Petrology of
Young Volcanoes Near the East Pacific Rise at 20°48’N. Studied by
Submersible.” EOS 63(18) (1982) :472:

Clarke, R. S., Jr. [Book review] ‘Brazilian Stone Meteorites.” by Celso B
Gomes and Klaus Keil.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 45(1981) :2296

. “Description of Iron Meteorites” and “Overview of Antarctic Irons.”

In “Catalog of Meteorites from Victoria Land, Antarctica 1978-1980,” eds.

U. B. Marvin and B. Mason. Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sci-

ences No. 24. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Meteoritic Metal from Antarctica.” Antarctic Journal 16(5) (1981):
64-65.

Clarke, R. S., Jr.; Jarosewich, E.; and Almohandis, A. A. “Composition and
Metallography of Two Recently Recovered Wabar Meteorite Specimens.”
Meteoritics 16(1981) :303.

Dunn, P. J. “Akrochordite, a Second Occurrence: Sterling Hill, New Jersey.”
Mineralogical Record 44(1981) :235—36.

. [Book review] “A Manual of New Mineral Names.” American Min-

eralogist 66(1981) :440.

. “Copper Acetate Hydrate with Native Copper.” Mineralogical Record

12(1981) :49.

. “Holdenite from Sterling Hill and New Chemical Data.” Mineralogi-

cal Record 12(1981) :373-75.

. “Magnesium-Chlorophoenicite Redefined and New Data on Chloro-

phoenicite.” Canadian Mineralogist 19(1981) :333-36.

. “Ogdensburgite, a New Calcium Zinc Ferric-Iron Arsenate Mineral

from Sterling Hill, New Jersey. Mineralogical Record 12(1981) :369-70.

. “Sterlinghillite, a New Hydrated Manganese Arsenate Mineral from
Ogdensburg, New Jersey.” American Mineralogist 66(1981) :182-84.

Dunn, P. J., and Bentley, R. E. “Mineral Fraud.” Mineralogical Record
12(1981) :194.

Dunn, P. J.; Bentley, R. E.; and Wilson, W. E. “Mineral Fakes.” Mineralogical
Record 12(1981) :197-219.

Dunn, P. J., and Leavens, P. B. “Sjégrenite on Pyroaurite from Sterling Hill,
New Jersey.” Mineralogical Record 12(1981) :371-72.

Dunn, P. J.; Leavens, P. B.; Norberg, J. A.; and Ramik, R. A. “Bannisterite:
New Chemical Data and Empirical Formulae.” American Mineralogist
66(1981) :1063-67.

Dunn, P. J.; Peacor, D. R.; Nelen, J. A.; and Norberg, J. A. “Crystal-Chemical
Data for Schallerite, Caryopilite and Friedelite from Franklin and Sterling
Hill, New Jersey.” American Mineralogist 66(1981) :1054-62.

Fleischer, M. “Memorial to Sterling Brown Hendicks, 1902-1981.” Geological
Society of America Memorial Volume, 1982.

Fleischer, M., and Schaeffer, C. “Ford-Fleischer File of Mineralogical Refer-
ences.” U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report, no. 81-1174, 1981.

Fleischer, M, and Schaeffer, C. “Ford-Fleischer Files of Mineralogical Refer-
ences.” U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report, no. 85-1169, 1981.

454 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Fiske, R. S., and Shepard, J. B. “Deformation Studies on Soufriere, St. Vin-
cent, between 1977 and 1981.” Science 216(1982) :1125—26.

Fiske, R. S., and Sigurdsson, H. “Soufriere Volcano, St. Vincent: Observations
of its 1979 Eruption from the Ground, Aircraft, and Satellites.” Science
216 (1982) :1105-6.

Fredriksson, K. [Extended abstract] “Chondrule Compositions in Different
Type Chondrites.” Lunar and Planetary Science XII, Pt. 1(1982) :233-34.

. [Abstract] “Elemental Correlation Anomalies in Individual Chon-

drules from Chondrites of Different Types. Seventh Symposium on Ant-

arctic Meteorites, National Inst. of Polar Research (1982) :40.

. [Abstract] “The Chondritic ‘Regolith’: Survivors and Creations.”
Workshop on Comparisons between Lunar Breccias and Soils and their
Meteoritic Analogs, Lunar Science Institute, Houston, Texas (1981).

Fredriksson, K.; Jarosewich, E.; Beauchamp, R.; and Kerridge, J. [Abstract]
“Sulphate Veins, Carbonates, Limonite and Magnetite: Evidence on the
Late Geochemistry of the C—1 Regoliths.” Meteoritics 15(1980) :291—292.

Fredriksson, K.; Mason, B.; Beauchamp, R.; and Kurat, G. [Abstract] “Car-
bonates and Magnetites in the Renazzo Chondrite.” Meteoritics 16(1981):
316.

Fredriksson, K.; Miller, J.; and Nelen, J. “The Tambakwatu Chondrite.”
Meteoritics 16(1981) :77—-81.

Fredriksson, K., and Peretsman, G. S. “Glangang and Selakopi: Two New
Paired(?) Indonesian Chondrites.” Meteoritics 17 (1982) :77—86.

Fredriksson, K.; Reid, C. G. R.; and Fredriksson, B. J. “Grier(b), A ‘Mono-
mict,’ Brecciated Chondrite.” Meteoritics 16(1981) :129-37.

Keller, P.; Hess, H.; Dunn, P. J.; and Newbury, D. “O’Danielite, NaZnsH2
(AsO,)s, a New Mineral from Tsumeb, Namibia.” Neues Jahnbuch fur
Mineralogie (1981) :155-60.

Keller, P.; Hess, H.; and Dunn, P. J. “Bartelkeite, PbFe**GesOs, a New Ger-
manium Mineral from Tsumeb, Nambia.” Chemie der Erde 40(1981) :201—06.

. “Jamesit, PbeZn2Fe**;Ox, ein neues Mineral von Tsumeb.” Chemie der

Erde 40(1981) :105-9.

. “Otjisumeite, PbGe:Os, ein neues Mineral aus Tsumeb, Namibia.”
Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie (1981) :49-55.

Keller, P.; Paar, W. H.; and Dunn, P. J. “Lammerite, Cus(AsOs)2, ein neues
Mineral von Laurani, Bolivien.” Tschermaks Min. Petr. Mitt. 28(1981):
157-64.

King, E. A.; Jarosewich, E.; and Daugherty, F. W. “Tierra Blanka: An Un-
usual Achondrite from West Texas.” Meteoritics 16(1981) :229-37.

Lonsdale, P.; Batiza, R.; Simkin, T.; and Vanko, D. [Abstract] “Submersible
Study of Active Hydrothermal Vents and Massive Sulphide Deposits on
Young Off-Ridge Volcanoes Near the East Pacific Rise at 20°48’N.” EOS
63(18) (1982) :472.

Marvin, Ursula B., and Mason, Brian, eds. “Catalog of Meteorites from Vic-
toria Land, Antarctica, 1978-1980.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth
Sciences No. 24(1982). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1982.

Mason, Brian. “Descriptions of Antarctic Meteorites.
Newsletter 4(2)(1981); 5(1)(1982).

Mason, Brian, and Clarke, R. S., Jr. [Abstract] “Characterization of the
1980-81 Victoria Land Meteorite Collections.” Seventh Symposium on
Antarctic Meteorites, Tokyo, Japan, 1982.

McClelland, L., and Simkin, T. “Volcanology: Review of 1981.” Geotimes 27
(2) (1982) :57-59.

Melson, W. G. “Composition of Coexisting Oxides in the March, 1982 Erup-

fA

Antarctic Meteorite

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 455
tion of Mount St. Helens.” U.S. Geological Survey Bulletin on Mt. St.

Helens, 1982.

. [Abstract] “Geochemical, Petrologic, and Gas Emission Studies as
Volcanic Prediction Methods: Some Latest Developments Being Applied to
Cascade Volcanoes.” Volcano Hazards Workshop, California Department
of Conservation, 1981.

Melson, W. G., and Hopson, C. A. “Preeruption Temperatures and Oxygen
Fugacities in the 1980 Eruptive Sequence. U.S. Geological Survey Profession
Paper 1250, 1980 Eruptions of Mt. St. Helens, pp. 641-648.

Rambaldi, E. R.; Fredriksson, B. J.; and Fredriksson, K. “Primitive Ultrafine
Matrix in Ordinary Chondrites.” Earth and Planetary Science Letter 56
(1981) :107—25.

Reid, C. G. R., and Fredriksson, K. “The Madiun, Indonesia, Chondrite.”
Meteoritics 17(1981) :27—30.

Roberts, A. C.; Ansell, H. G.; and Dunn, P. J. “Comancheite, a New Mercury
Oxychloride-Bromide from Terlingua, Texas.” Canadian Mineralogist 19
(1981) :393-96.

Robinson, P. T.; Melson, W. G.; and O’Hearn. [Abstract] “Volcanic Glass
from the Troodos Complex, Cyprus.’”” EOS 62(1981) :1087.

Rona, P. A.; Bostrom, K. L.; Widenfalk, E. G.; and Melson, W. G. [Abstract]
“Preliminary Reconnaisance of the Carlsberg Ridge, Northwestern Indian
Ocean for Hydrothermal Mineralization.” EOS 62(1981) :914.

Simkin, T., and Siebert, L. [Abstract] “Arc Volcanism in Space and Time:
A Look at the Global Historic Record.” Arc Volcanism Symposium, Inter-
national Association of Volcanology, Tokyo, 1981, pp. 342-43.

. [Abstract] “Explosive Eruptions in Space and Time: A Look at the

Holocene Record.” EOS 62(45) (1981) :1081.

. “Holocene Volcanoes.” In Plate—Tectonic Map of the Circum—Pacific

Region (SW, and Antarctic Quadrants). Tulsa, Oklahoma: American Asso-

ciation of Petroleum Geologists, 1981-2.

. [Abstract] “Large Historic Explosive Eruptions: How Much Warn-
ing?” EOS 63(18) (1982) :459.

Sturman, B. D.; Mandarino, J. A.; Mrose, M. E.; and Dunn, P. J. ““Gormanite,
Fe**sAls(PO:)s(OH)«®2H2O, the Ferrous Analogue of Souzalite, and New
Data for Souzalite.” Canadian Mineralogist 19(1981) :381—87.

Sturman, B. D.; Peacor, D. R.; and Dunn, P. J. “Wicksite, a New Mineral
from Northeastern Yukon Territory.” Canadian Mineralogist 19(1981):
377-80.

Sturman, B. D.; Rouse, R. C.; and Dunn, P. J. “Parascholzite, a New Mineral
from Hagendorf, Bavaria, and its Relationship to Scholzite.” American
Mineralogist 66(1981) :843—51.

Department of Paleobiology

Adey, W. H. [Project Interim Report] A Resource Assessment of Gouldsboro
Bay, Maine, submitted to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Marine Sanctuary Program, 47 pages. Washington, D.C.: Marine
Systems Laboratory, Smithsonian Institution, 1982.

Adey, W. H.; Townsend, R. A.; and Boykins, W. T., Jr. “The Crustose Coral-
line Algae of the Hawaiian Islands.” Smithsonian Contributions to the
Marine Sciences No. 15. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1982.

Anastasakis, G. C., and Stanley, D. J. [Abstract] “Mediterranean Sapropels:
Their Diversity and Difficulties in Correlation.” International Workshop on
Fine—Grained Sediments. Halifax, Nova Scotia: August 1982.

Behrensmeyer, A. K. “Vertebrate Paleoecology in a Recent East African Eco-
system.” In Communities of the Past, eds. Jane Gray, A. J. Boucot, and

456 / Smithsonian Year 1982
W. B.N. Berry, pp. 591-616. Stroudsburg: Dowden, Hutchinson, and Ross,
Inc., 1981.

. “The Geological Context of Human Evolution.” Annual Reviews of
Earth and Planetary Sciences No. 10 (1982) :39-60.

. [Book Review] Quaternary Palaeoecology, eds. H. J. B. Birks and
H. H. Birks. American Journal of Physical Anthropology, 58(1) (1982) :119-
20.

. [Abstract] “Patterns of Natural Bone Distribution on Recent and

Pleistocene Land Surfaces: Implications for Archeological Site Formation.”

Fourth International Conference on Archaeozoology, Abstracts of Papers.

London: April 1982.

. [Abstract] “Time Sampling in the Vertebrate Fossil Record.” Journal

of Paleontology vol. 56, supplement to number 2, North American Paleon-

tological Association III, Abstracts of Papers (1982) :3.

. “Time Sampling Intervals in the Vertebrate Fossil Record.” Third

North American Paleontological Convention, Proceedings Volume I, com-

piled and edited by Bernard Mamet and M. J. Copeland, pp. 41-45. Mon-

treal, Quebec: Département de Géologie, Université de Montréal, and Geo-

logical Survey of Canada, 1982.

. “Time Resolution in Fluvial Vertebrate Assemblages.” Paleobiology
8(3) (1982) :211-27.

Behrensmeyer, A. K., and Boaz, D. D. “Late Pleistocene Geology and Paleon-
tology of Amboseli National Park, Kenya.” In Palaeocology of Africa, vol.
13, eds. J. A. Coetzee and E. M. van Zinderen Bakker, Sr., pp. 175-88.
Rotterdam: A. A. Balkema, 1981.

Behrensmeyer, A. K., and Tauxe, L. “Isochronous Fluvial Systems in the Mio-
cene of Northern Pakistan.” Sedimentology 29(3) (1982) :331—52.

Benson, R. H. “The Odds on ‘Ode’ in Ostracode, or the Omicron and Omega
of Chancy Spelling.” Journal of Paleontology 55(6) (1981) :1200—1206.

. “Comparative Transformation of Shape in a Rapidly Evolving Series

of Structural Morphotypes of the Ostracod Bradleya.” In Fossil and Recent

Ostracods, eds. R. H. Bate, E. Robinson, and L. M. Sheppard, pp. 147-64.

British Micropalaeontological Society Series. Chichester, England: Ellis

Horwood Limited, 1982.

. “From Conversations with Peter: Reminiscences of the Philosophy of
P. C. Sylvester—Bradley.” In Fossil and Recent Ostracods, eds. R. H. Bate,
E. Robinson, and L. M. Sheppard, pp. 480-86. British Micropalaeontological
Society Series. Chichester, England: Ellis Horwood Limited, 1982.

Blackwelder, B. W.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Pilkey, O. H. “Geology of Conti-
nental Shelf, Onslow Bay, North Carolina, as Revealed by Submarine Out-
crops.” American Association of Petroleum Geologists Bulletin 66(1)(1982):
44-56.

Blanpied, Christian, and Stanley, D. J. “Uniform Mud (Unifite) Deposition in
the Hellenic Trench, Eastern Mediterranean.” Smithsonian Contributions to
the Marine Sciences No. 13. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1981.

Boardman, R. S. “Coloniality and the Origin of Post—Triassic Tubular Bryo-
zoans.” In Lophophorates, Notes for a Short Course, ed. T. W. Broadhead,
pp. 70-75. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Studies in Geology 5, 1981.

Brawley, S. H., and Adey, W. H. “Coralliophila abbreviata: A Significant
Corallivore!” Bulletin of Marine Science 32(2) (1982) :595—99.

Cheetham, A. H. and Thomsen, Erik. [Abstract] “Morphology and Strength
of Some Tertiary Arborescent Cheilostome Bryozoans.” In Recent and
Fossil Bryozoa, eds. G. P. Larwood and Claus Nielsen, p. 310. Fredens-
borg, Denmark: Olsen and Olsen, 1981.

. “Functional Morphology of Arborescent Animals: Strength and

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 457
Design of Cheilostome Bryozoan Skeletons.” Paleobiology 7(3)(1981):
355-83.

Cifelli, Richard. “The Relationship of Globigerinoides bisphericus Todd 1954
to Praeorbulina sicana (de Stefani) 1952.” Journal of Foraminiferal Research
11(4) (1981) :262-67.

. “Early Occurrences and some Phylogenetic Implications of Spiny,

Honeycomb Textured Planktonic Foraminifera.” Journal of Foraminiferal

Research 12(2) (1982) :105-15.

. “Textural Observations on Some Living Species of Planktonic Fora-
minifera.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology No. 45. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Cuffy, R. J., and Cheetham, A. H. [Abstract] “Reconstruction of Bryozoan
Colonies from Measurements of Branch Fragments.” Geological Society of
America Abstracts with Programs, Northeastern and Southeastern Com-
bined Section Meetings 14(1—2) (1982) :13.

Culver, S. J., and Buzas, M. A. “Recent Benthic Foraminiferal Provinces on
the Atlantic Continental Margins of North America.” Journal of Fora-
miniferal Research 11(3) (1981) :217—40.

. “Distribution of Recent Benthic Foraminifera in the Gulf of Mexico.”

Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 8, vols. I and II.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

. Distribution of Recent Benthic Foraminifera in the Caribbean Area.”

Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 14. Washington,

D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Recent Benthic Foraminiferal Provinces between Newfoundland and

Yucatan.” Geological Society of America Bulletin 93(3) (1982) :269-77.

. “Distribution of Selected Recent Benthic Foraminiferal Genera in the
Western North Atlantic.” In Microfossils from Recent and Fossil Shelf
Seas, eds. J. W. Neale and M. D. Brasier, pp. 336-49. British Micro-
palaeontological Society Series. Chichester, England: Ellis Horwood Limited,
1982.

Domning, D. P.; Morgan, G. S.; and Ray, C. E. “North American Eocene
Sea Cows (Mammalia: Sirenia).” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiol-
ogy No 52. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Emry, R. J.; Archibald, J. D.; and Smith, C. C. “A Mammalian Molar from
the Late Cretaceous of Northern Mississippi.” Journal of Paleontology
55(5) (1981) :953-56.

Emry, R. J., and Storer, J. E. “The Hornless Protoceratid Pseudoprotoceras
(Tylopoda: Artiodactyla) in the Early Oligocene of Saskatchewan and
Wyoming.” Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 1(1) (1981) :101—10.

Emry, R. J., and Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Descriptive and Comparative Osteol-
ogy of the Oldest Fossil Squirrel, Protosciurus (Rodentia: Sciuridae).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology No. 47. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Freeland, G. L.; Stanley, D. J.; Swift, D. J. P.; and Lambert, D. N. “fhe
Hudson Shelf Valley: Its Role in Shelf Sediment Transport.” Marine
Geology 42(1/4) (1981) :392—427.

Gillette, D. D., and Ray, C. E. “Glyptodonts of North America.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Paleobiology No. 40. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1981.

Grant, R. E. “Living Habits of Ancient Articulate Brachiopods.” In Lopho-
phorates, Notes for a Short Course, edited by T. W. Broadhead, pp. 127—
40. Knoxville, University of Tennessee Studies in Geology 5, 1981.

Graus, R. R., and Macintyre, I. G. “Variation in Growth Forms of the Reef
Coral Montastrea annularis (Ellis and Solander): A Quantitative Evalua-
tion of Growth Response to Light Distribution Using Computer Simula-

458 / Smithsonian Year 1982
tion.” In The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, 1:
Structure and Communities; Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine
Sciences No. 12, eds. Klaus Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 441-64.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Griffith, P. C.; Norris, J. N.; and Adey, W. H. [Abstract] “Computer-Assisted
Measurements of Coral Reef Community Metabolism.” Symposium: Com-
puters in Research at the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.: Office
of Computer Services, Smithsonian Institution, 1982.

Hueber, F. M. “Megaspores and a Palynomorph from the Lower Potomac
Group in Virginia.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology No. 49.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. [Abstract] “Taeniocrada dubia Kr. and W: Its Conducting Strand of

Helically Strengthened Tubes.” Botanical Society of America, Miscella-

neous Publication No. 162 (1982) :58—-59.

. [Abstract] “Enigmatic Plants from the Devonian.” Journal of Paleon-
tology vol. 56, supplement to number 2, North American Paleontological
Association III, Abstracts of Papers (1982) :13.

Hueber, F. M., and Banks, H. P. [Abstract] “Devonian Floras of Gondwana-
land.” XIII International Botanical Congress, Abstracts, collated and pro-
duced by D. J. Carr, page 202. Sidney, Australia: Australian Academy of
Science, 1981.

Kier, P. M. “Rapid Evolution in Echinoids.” Palaeontology 25(1)(1982) :1-9.

Krishtalka, Leonard; Emry, R. J.; Storer, J. E.; and Sutton, J. F. “Oligocene
Multituberculates (Mammalia: Allotheria): Youngest Known Record.”
Journal of Paleontology 56(3) (1982) :791-94.

Macintyre, I. G. “Distribution of Submarine Cements in a Modern Caribbean
Fringing Reef, Galeta Point.” In Diagenesis of Carbonate Rocks: Cement-
Porosity Relationships, eds. G. M. Friedman and S. A. Alie, pp. 221-36.
Tulsa, Oklahoma: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists,
Reprint Series No. 10, 1981.

Macintyre, I. G.; Riitzler, Klaus; Norris, J. N.; and Fauchald, K. “A Sub-
marine Cave Near Columbus Cay, Belize: A Bizarre Cryptic Habitat.” In
The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, 1: Struc-
ture and Communities; Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
No. 12, eds. Klaus Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 127-41. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

May, J. A.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Perkins, R. D. “Distribution of Microborers
within Planted Substrates along a Barrier Reef Transect, Carrie Bow Cay,
Belize.” In The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize,
1: Structure and Communities; Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine
Sciences No. 12, eds. Klaus Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 93-107. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Nichols, M. M.; Cronin, L. E.; Cronin, W. B.; Gross, M. G.; Melson, B. W.;
Pierce, J. W.; and Ulanowicz, R. E. “Response to Freshwater Inflow in the
Rappanhanock Estuary, Virginia: Operation Hi-Flow 78.” CRC Publica-
tion 95, 46 pages. Baltimore: Chesapeake Research Consortium, Johns
Hopkins University, 1981 [1982].

Pierce, J. W.; Correll, D. L.; Faust, M. A.; Klein, W. H.; and Goldber, B.
“Spectral Quality of Underwater Light in a Turbid Estuary, Rhode River,
Maryland, U.S.A.” In Symposium on the Dynamics of Turbid Coastal
Environments, Proceedings, pp. 100-101. Halifax, Nova Scotia: Bedford
Institute of Oceanography 1982.

Pierce, J. W., and Graus, R. R. “Uses and Misuses of the Q-Scale: Discus-
sion.” Journal of Sedimentary Petrology 51(4) (1981) :1348-50.

Pierce, J. W.; Tucci, S.; and Fierro, G. “Assessing Variations in Suspensates,

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 459
Ligurian Sea (Northwestern Mediterranean).” Geo-Marine Letters 1(2)
(1981) :149-54.

Ray, C. E. “Catawba’s Wandering Walrus: Case of the Peripatetic Pinniped
Solved.” Whalebones, The Quarterly Newsletter of the North Carolina
State Museum of Natural History No. 13 (1981):3.

. “Guest Editorial.” In Marine Mammal Information, December,

pp. 1-3. Corvallis, Oregon: Oregon State University Sea Grant College

Program, 1981.

. [Open letter] “The Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology and the SVP.”
Society of Vertebrate Paleontology News Bulletin No. 125 (1982) :5-7.

Rice, M. E., and Macintyre, I. G. “Distribution of Sipuncula in the Coral
Reef Community, Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.” In The Atlantic Barrier Reef
Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, 1: Structure and Communities;
Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12, eds. Klaus
Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 311-20. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1982.

Riitzler, Klaus, and I. G. Macintyre, eds. The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosys-
tem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, 1: Structures and Communities; Smith-
sonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “Habitat Distribution and Community Structure of the Barrier Reef
Complex at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.” In The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosys-
tem at Carrier Bow Cay, Belize, 1: Structure and Communities; Smith-
sonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 12, eds. Klaus Riitzler
and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 9-45. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1982.

Shinn, E. A.; Hudson, J. H.; Halley, R. B.; Lidz, B.; and Macintyre, I. G.
“Geology and Sediment Accumulation Rates at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.”
In The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, 1: Struc-
ture and Communities; Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
No. 12, eds. Klaus Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 63-75. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Siegel, A. F., and Benson, R. H. “A Robust Comparison of Biological Shapes.”
Biometrics 38(2) (1982) :341-50.

Siegel, F. R., and Pierce, J. W. “Suspensates and Bottom Sediments in the
Chilean Archipelago.” Modern Geology 7(4) (1981) :217-19.

Stanley, D. J. “Pelagian Bloc Morphology—Physiology and Relation between
Land and Offshore Relief Features: A Summary.” In Verbatim Record,
22 September 1981, pp. 53-67. The Hague: International Court of Justice,
1981.

. “Unifites: Structureless Muds of Gravity Flow Origin in Mediter-

ranean Basins.” Geo-Marine Letters 1(2) (1981) :77-83.

. [Abstract] “Contrasting Recent Sedimentation Patterns on Passive

and Active Margins: Some Predictive Models.” Third Joint Oceanographic

Assembly. Halifax, Nova Scotia: August, 1982.

. [Abstract] “Outer Shelf-to-Slope Bypassing.” Third Joint Oceano-

graphic Assembly. Halifax, Nova Scotia: August, 1982.

. [Abstract] “Fine Parallel Laminated Deep-Sea Muds and Coupled
Gravity Flow—Hemipelagic Settling in the Mediterranean.” International
Workshop on Fine-Grained Sediments. Halifax, Nova Scotia: August, 1982.

Stanley, D. J., and Taylor, P. T. “Volcanogenic Sediment and Proximal versus
Distal Provenance in Abyssal Plains.” Marine Geology 43(1/2)(1981):
M29-M38.

Stanley, D. J.; Taylor, P. T.; Sheng, Harrison; and Stuckenrath, Robert.
“Sohm Abyssal Plain: Evaluating Proximal Sediment Provenance.” Smith-

460 / Smithsonian Year 1982
sonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences No. 11. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Steadman, D. D., and Ray, C. E. “The Relationships of Megaoryzomys curioi,
an Extinct Cricetine Rodent (Muroidea: Muridae) from the Galapagos
Islands, Ecuador.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology No. 51.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Towe, K. M. “Environmental Conditions Surrounding the Origin and Early
Archean Evolution of Life: A Hypothesis.” Precambrian Research 16(1-2)
(1981) :1-10.

. “Biochemical Keys to the Emergence of Complex Life.” In Life in

the Universe, ed. J. Billingham, pp. 297-306. Cambridge, Massachussets:

MIT Press, 1981.

. “Structural Distinction between Ferritin and Iron-Dextran (Imferon).”

The Journal of Biological Chemistry 256(18) (1981) :9377—78.

. [Abstract] “The Early Archean Environment: Oxygen as a Neces-

sary Risk?” In Development and Interactions of Precambrian Lithosphere,

Biosphere, and Atmosphere, page 38. Mexico City: Joint Meeting of Inter-

national Geological Correlation Programme Projects 157 and 160, Janu-

ary 11-14, 1982.

. “Anomalous “C-depletion in Precambrian Organic Carbon.” Nature

295(5845) (1982) :171.

. [Book Review] “Silicon and Siliceous Structures in Biological Sys-
tems,” eds. T. L. Simpson and B. E. Volcani. Science, 216(4552) (1982) :1310.

Waller, T. R., and Macintyre, I. G. “Larval Settlement Behavior and Shell
Morphology of Malleus caneanus (d’Orbigny) (Mollusca: Bivalvia).” In
The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow Bay, Belize, 1: Struc-
ture and Communities; Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
No. 12, eds. Klaus Riitzler and I. G. Macintyre, pp. 489-97. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Department of Vertebrate Zoology

Ali, S., and Ripley, S. D. Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan, vol.
III, 2d ed. Bombay, London, and New York: Oxford University Press, 1981.

Bentz, Gregory Dean, and Zusi, Richard L. “The Humeroulnar Pulley and
Its Evolution in Hummingbirds.” The Wilson Bulletin 94(1) (1982) :71-73.

Emry, R. J., and Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Descriptive and Comparative Osteol-
ogy of the Oldest Fossil Squirrel, Protosciurus (Rodentia: Sciuridae).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology No. 47. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Feduccia, Alan, and Olson, Storrs L. “Morphological Similarities Between the
Menurae and Rhinocryptidae, Relict Passerine Birds of the Southern
Hemisphere.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 366. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Fink, William L., and Weitzman, Stanley H. “Relationships of the Stomiiform
Fishes (Teleostei), with a Description of Diplophos.” Bulletin of the
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University, 150(2) (1982) :31-93.

Froehlich, J. W.; Thorington, R. W., Jr.; and Otis, J. S. “The Demography of
Howler Monkeys (Alouatta palliata) on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.”
International Journal of Primatology 2(3) (1981) :207—36.

Gomon, Janet R. “Parapercis diplospilus (Pisces: Mugiloididae), a New
Species from the Philippine Islands.” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington 93(4) (1981) :989-96.

Gomon, Janet R., and Taylor, William R. “Plotosus nkunga, a New Species
of Catfish from South Africa, with a Redescription of Plotosus limbatus
Valenciennes and Key to the Species of Plotosus (Siluriformes: Plotosi-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 461
dae).” The J. L. B. Smith Institute of Ichthyology, Special Publication,
vol. 22, 1982.

Handley, C. O., Jr. “Brewer’s Blackbird in Eastern West Virginia.” Redstart
48(2) (1981) :62-63.

—. “Deletion of Sorex cinereus fontinalis from Taxa Known to Occur
in Virginia.” Journal of Mammalogy 63(2) (1982) :319.

Heyer, W. Ronald, and Maxson, Linda R. “Distributions, Relationships, and
Zoogeography of Lowland Frogs: The Leptodactylus Complex in South
America, with Special Reference to Amazonia.” In Biological Diversifica-
tion in the Tropics, ed. G. T. Prance (1982) :375-88.

. “Neotropical Frog Biogeography: Paradigms and Problems.” Ameri-
can Zoologist 22(2) (1982) :397—410.

Houde, Peter, and Olson, Storrs L. ““Paleognathous Carinate Birds from the
Early Tertiary of North America.” Science, 214(4526) (1981) :1236-37.

Irish, Frances J., and Zug, George R. “Biography and Bibliography of
James A. Peters.” Smithsonian Herpetological Information Service 51(1982):
Uae

Jordan, Richard H., and Olson, Storrs L. “First Record of the Great Auk
(Pinguinus impennis) from Labrador.” Auk 99(1) (1982) :167—-168.

Karnella, Susan J., and Lachner, Ernest A. “Three New Species of the Eviota
epiphanes Group Having Vertical Trunk Bars.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington 94(1) (1981) :264—75.

Maxon, Linda R., and Heyer, W. Ronald. “Leptodactylid Frogs and the
Brasilian Shield: An Old and Continuing Adaptive Relationship.” Bio-
tropica 14(1) (1982): 10-15.

Mead, J. G. “First Record of Mesoplodon hectori from the Northern Hemi-
sphere and a Description of the Adult Male.” Journal of Mammalogy
62(2) (1981) :430—32.

Mead, J. G.; Walker, W. A.; and Houck, W. J. “Biological Observations on
Mesoplodon carlhubbsi.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology No. 344.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Olsen, E. C., and Mead, J. G. “The Vale Formation (Lower Permian), Its
Vertebrates and Paleoecology.” Texas Memorial Museum, Bulletin 29, 1982.

Olson, Storrs L. “The Generic Allocation of Ibis pagana Milne-Edwards, with
a Review of Fossil Ibises (Aves: Threskiornithidae).” Journal of Vertebrate
Paleontology 1(2) (1981) :165-70.

. “Fossil Birds of the Bahamas.” Bahamas Naturalist 6(1) (1982) :33-37.

Olson, Storrs, L., ed. “Fossil Vertebrates from the Bahamas.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Paleobiology 48(1982) :1—65.

. “Natural History of Vertebrates on the Brazilian Islands of the Mid-

South Atlantic.” National Geographic Society Research Reports 13(1982):

481-92.

. “The Distribution of Fused Phalanges the Inner Toe in the Accipi-

tridae.” Bulletin of the British Ornithologists’ Club 102(1) (1982) :8-12.

. “A New Species of Palm Swift (Tachornis: Apodidae) from the
Pleistocene of Puerto Rico.” Auk 99(2) (1982) :230-35.

Olson, Storrs, L., and Hilgartner, William B. ‘Fossil and Subfossil Birds from
the Bahamas.” In Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology No. 48. ed.
Storrs L. Olson, pp. 22-56. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1982.

Olson, Storrs L., and James, Helen F. “Fossil Birds from the Hawaiian
Islands: Evidence for Wholesale Extinction by Man Before Western Con-
tact.” Science 217 (1982) :633.

Olson, Storrs L., and McKitrick, Mary C. “A New Genus and Species of
Emberizine Finch from Pleistocene Cave Deposits in Puerto Rico (Aves:
Passeriformes).” Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 1(3—4) (1982) :279-83.

462 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Olson, Storrs L., and Pregill, Gregory K. “A Brief Introduction to the Pale-
ontology of Bahaman Vertebrates.” In “Fossil Vertebrates from the Ba-
hamas,” ed. Storrs L. Olson, pp. 1-7. Smithsonian Contributions to Paleo-
biology No. 48. Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Otis, J. S.; Froehlich, J. W.; and Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Seasonal and Age-
related Differential Mortality by Sex in the Mantled Howler Monkey,
Alouatta palliata.” International Journal of Primatology 2(3) (1981) :197—205.

Perrin, W. F.; Mitchell, E. D.; Mead, J. G.; Caldwell, D. K.; and van Bree,
P. J. H. “Stenella clymene, a Rediscovered Tropical Dolphin of the
Atlantic.” Journal of Mammalogy 62(3) (1981) :583-98.

Pregill, Gregory K., and Olson, Storrs L. “Zoogeography of West Indian
Vertebrates in Relation to Pleistocene Climatic Cycles.” Annual Review of
Ecology and Systematics 12(1981) :75—-98.

Ripley, S. D. “The Potential of Captive Breeding to Save Endangered Bird
Species.” Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Ornithological Con-
gress, Berlin, (West) Germany, II (1980) :923—26.

. “Avian Relicts of Sri Lanka.” Spolia Zeylanica 35(I and II) (1980):

197-202.

. “Occurrence of Dicrurus paradiseus lophorhinus (Vieillot) in Goa

(India)—A Comment.” Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society

78(1) (1981) :168-69.

. “Extension of Range of Brown Wood Owl, Strix leptogrammica.”

Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 78(2) (1981) :378.

. “Possible Interspecific Hybrids between Columba livia and C. rupes-

tris.” Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 78(3) (1981) :599—600.

. “Observations on the Biogeography of the Tibetan Plateau and

Adjacent Himalayan Range as Represented by Birds.” Proceedings of

Symposium on Qinghai-Xizang (Tibet) Plateau, Beijing, China, II (1981):

989-97.

. “Xizang—Observations during a Scientific Excursion 3-15 June

1980.” Proceedings of Symposium on Qinghai-Xizang (Tibet) Plateau, Bei-

jing, China, II (1981) :2103—4.

. A Synopsis of the Birds of India and Pakistan, 2d ed., 652 pp. Bom-
bay Natural History Society, 1982.

Roth, V. L., and Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Relative Brain Size among African
Squirrels.” Journal of Mammalogy 63(1) (1981) :168—73.

Ruckdeschel, Carol, and Zug, George R. “Mortality of Sea Turtles Caretta
caretta in Coastal Waters of Georgia.” Biological Conservation 22(1) (1982):
o-9:

Springer, Victor G. “Notes on Blenniid Fishes of the Tribe Omobranchini,
with Descriptions of Two New Species.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 94(3) (1981) :699-707.

Thorington, R. W., Jr. [Review] Evoluntionary Biology of the New World
Monkeys and Continental Drift, eds. R. L. Ciochon and A. B. Chiarelli.
Plenum Press. Journal of Mammalogy 63(1) (1982) :184—-85.

. “Collecting and Marking Specimens; Identifying Individual Primates
by Artificial Marking Techniques; and Habitat Use.” In Techniques for the
Study of Primate Population Ecology, pp. 26-31, 117-127, 128-134. Wash-
ington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1981.

Vari, Richard P. “Hemiodopsis ocellata, a New Hemiodontid Characoid Fish
(Pisces: Characoidea) from Western Surinam.” Proceedings of the Biologi-
cal Society of Washington 95(1) (1982) :188—93.

Vari, Richard P., and Gery, Jacques. “Nannocharax maculicauda, a New
Species of African Characoid Fish (Characoidea: Distichodontidae) with
Comments on the Genus Hemigrammocharax.” Proceedings of Biological
Society of Washington 94(4) (1981) :1075-84.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 463
Watson, George E. “The Non-Chicken Bird Remains.” In Excavations at
Carthage, Conducted by the University of Michigan, ed. J. H. Humphrey,
vol. 6, pp. 220-30. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Kelsey Museum, University of
Michigan, 1981.

. [Review] Audubon’s Birds of America, the Audubon Society's Baby
Elephant Folio, by R. T. Peterson and V. M. Peterson. Smithsonian Maga-
zine March (1982) :152-54.

Weitzman, Stanley H. [Review] Basic Structure and Evolution of Vertebrates,
by Erik Jarvik. Systematic Zoology 30(4) (1981) :80-81.

. “Los Peces y la Ecologia del Amazonas.” The Fishes and the Forest,
Explorations in Amazonian Natural History, por Michael Goulding. Berke-
ley: University of California Press, 1980. Man and Fisheries on an Amazon
Frontier, por Michael Goulding. LaHaya-Boston-London: Dr. W. Junk Pub.,
1981. Man, Fishes and the Amazon, por Nigel J. H. Smith. New York:
Columbia University Press, 1981. Américas 30(4) (1982) :60:61.

Weitzman, Stanley H., and Weitzman, Marilyn. “Biogeography and Evolu-
tionary Diversification in Neotropical Freshwater Fishes, with Comments on
the Refugium Theory.” In Biological Diversification in the Tropics, ed.
G. T. Prance, pp. 403-33. New York: Columbia University Press, 1982.

Zug, George R. “Comments on the Proposed Conservation of Rana spheno-
cephala Cope, 1886. Z.N.(S.) 2141.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature
39(2) (1982) :80-82.

. “1980 Marine Turtle Stranding Survey, Cumberland Island, Georgia.”
SEAN Bulletin 6(2) (1981) :20—-21.

Zusi, Richard L. “Infraspecific Geographic Variation and the Subspecies
Concept.” The Auk 99(3) (1982) :606-8.

Zusi, Richard L., and Bridge, David. “One the Slit Pupil of the Black Skimmer
(Rynchops niger). Journal of Field Ornithology 52(4) (1981) :338—40.

Zusi, Richard L., and Bentz, Gregory Dean. “Variation of a Muscle in Hum-
mingbirds and Swifts and Its Systematic Implications.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 95(2) (1982) :412—20.

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center

Ferrari, F. 1981. Oithona wellershausi, New Species, and O. spinulosa Lind-
berg 1950 (Copepoda:Cyclopoida:Oithonidae) from the mouth of the Pearl
River, China. Proceedings, Biological Society of Washington 94(4) :1244—-57.

Hendler, G., and Franz, D. R. The Biology of a Brooding Seastar, Leptasterias
tenera, in Block Island Sound. Biological Bulletin 162(1982) :273-89.

Hendler, G., and Meyer, D. L. Ophiuroids flagrante delicto and Notes on the
Spawning Behavior of Other Echinoderms in Their Natural Habitat.
Bulletin of Marine Science 32(1982) :600-7.

An Association of a Polychaete, Branchiosyllis exilis, with an
Ophiuroid, Ophiocoma echinata, in Panama. Bulletin of Marine Science
32(1982).

Knapp, Leslie W. “Percophididae. Duckbills.” and “Platycephalidae. Flat-
heads.” In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Purposes. Eastern
Central Atlantic Fishing Area 34, ed. Walther Fischer, 1981.

Landrum, B. J. Antarctic Biological Collections. Antarctic Journal of the U.S.,
1981 Review, 16(5) (1982) :231.

Menez, E. G., and Mathieson, A. “The Marine Algae of Tunisia.” Smithsonian
Contributions to the Marine Sciences no. 10. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1981.

Handbook of North American Indians

Scherer, Joanna C. “Repository Sources of Subarctic Photographs.” Arctic
Anthropology 18(2) :1-16.

464 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “Historical Photographs of the Subarctic: A Resource for Future
Research.” Arctic Anthropology 18(2) :59-65.

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port

Buzas, M. A. “Regulation of Foraminiferal Densities by Predation in the
Indian River, Florida.” Journal of Foraminiferal Research 12(1) (1982) :66—71.
Factor, Jan Robert. “Unusually Complex Basement Membranes in the Midgut
of Two Decapod Crustaceans, The Stone Crab (Menippe mercenaria) and
the Lobster (Homarus americanus).” Anatomical Record 200(1981) :253-58.

. “Development and Metamorphosis of the Feeding Apparatus of the
Stone Crab, Menippe mercenaria (Brachyura: Xanthidae).” Journal of
Morphology 172(3) (1982) :299-312.

Houbrick, Richard S. “Anatomy of Diastoma melanioides (Reeve, 1849) with
Remarks on the Systematic Position of the Family Diastomatidae (Proso-
branchia: Gastropoda).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washing-
fon 94(2) (1981) :598-621.

. “Anatomy, Biology and Systematics of Campanile symbolicum with
Reference to Adaptive Radiation of the Cerithracea (Gastropoda: Proso-
branchia).” Malacologia, 21(1—2) (1981) :263-89.

Mikkelsen, Paula M. “Studies on Euphasiacean Crustaceans from the Indian
River Region of Florida. I. Systematics of the Stylocheiron longicorne
Species-group, with Emphasis on Reproductive Morphology.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 94(4)(1981) :1174—1204.

Pawson, D. L., and Miller, J. E. “Western Atlantic Sea Cucumbers of the
Genus Thyone, with Description of Two New Species (Echinodermata:
Holothuroidea).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
92(2) (1981) :391—403.

Pilger, John F. “The Ultrastructure of the Tentacles of Themiste lageniformis
(Sipuncula).” Zoomorphology 100(1982) :143-56.

Reed, C. G., and Woollacott, R. M. “Mechanisms of Rapid Morphogenetic
Movements in the Metamorphosis of the Bryozoan Bugula neritina (Cheilo-
stomata, Cellularioidea). I. Attachment to the Substratum.” Journal of
Morphology 172(1982) :335—48.

Reed, John K.; Gore, Robert H.; Scotto, Liberta E.; and Wilson, Kim A.
“Community Composition, Structure, Areal and Trophic Relationships of
Decapods Associated with Shallow- and Deep-Water Oculina varicosa
Coral Reefs: Studies on Decapod Crustacea from the Indian River Region of
Florida, XXIV.” Bulletin of Marine Science 32(3)(1982) :761-86.

Rice, M. E. “Sipuncula.” In Synopsis and Classification of Living Organisms,
ed. S. P. Parker, pp. 67-69. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1982.

Rice, M. E., and Macintyre, I. E. “Distribution of Sipuncula in the Coral
Reef Community. In The Atlantic Barrier Reef Ecosystem at Carrie Bow
Cay, Belize 1: Structure and Communities, ed. K. Riitzler and I. G. Mac-
intyre, pp. 311-20. Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
No. 12. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Scotto, Liberta E., and Gore, Robert H. “Studies on Decapod Crustacea from
the Indian River Region of Florida XXIII. The Zoeal Stages of the Coral
Gall-forming Crab Troglocarcinus corallicola Verrill, 1908 (Brachyura:
Hapalocarcinidae) Cultured in the laboratory with a Consideration of
the Systematic Position of the Family.” Journal of Crustaean Biology
1(4) (1981) :486-505.

Severin, K. P., and Eraskian, M. G. “Laboratory Experiments on the Vertical
Movement of Quinqueloculina impressa (Reuss) through Sand.” Foramini-
feral Research 11(1981) :133—36.

Stevcic, Zdravko, and Gore, Robert H. “Are the Oxyrhyncha a Natural
Group?” Thalassia Jugoslavica 17(1)(1981) :1—-16.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 465
Van Dover, C. L.; Factor, J. R.; and Gore, R. H. “Developmental Patterns of
Larval Scaphognathites: An Aid to the Classification of Anomuran and
Brachyuran Crustacea.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 2(1)(1982) :48-53.

Winston, J. E., and Eiseman, N. J. “Bryozoan-Algal Associations in Coastal
and Continental Shelf Waters of Eastern Florida.” Florida Scientist
43(1980) :65—74.

Winston, Judith E. “Marine Bryozoans of the Indian River Area (Florida).”
Bulletin of American Museum of Natural History 173(2)(1982) :100-176.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Animal Health and Pathology

Bush, R. M. “Diagnostic Avian Laparoscopy.” Recent Advances in the Study
of Raptor Diseases (1981) :97—100.

. “Avian Fracture Repair Using External Fixation.” Recent Advances in
the Study of Raptor Diseases (1981) :83-93.

Bush, R. M.; Povey, R.; and Koonse, Howard. “Antibody Response to an
Inactivated Vaccine for Rhinotracheitis, Caliciviral Disease, and Panleu-
kopenia in Nondomestic Felids.” Journal of the American Veterinary Asso-
ciation 179(1) (1980) :1203-5.

Bush, R. M.; Custer, R. S.; Whitla, J. C.; and Smith, E. E. “Hematologic
Values of Captive Golden Lion Tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia): Varia-
tions with Sex, Age, and Health Status.” Laboratory Animal Science
32(3) (1982) :294-97.

Bush, R. M.; Locke, D.; Neal, L. A.; Carpenter, J. W. “Gentamicin Tissue
Concentration in Various Avian Species Following Recommended Dosage
Therapy.” American Journal of Veterinary Research 42(12)(1981) :2114—16.

Janssen, D. L., and Bush, R. M. “The Microcomputer as an Aid to Medical
Records Management.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Asso-
ciation, Wildlife Issue 181(1982).

Janssen, D. L.; Hammock, M. K.; Davis, D. O.; and Bush, R. M. “Cranial
Computed Tomography in the Evaluation of Neurologic Disorders in Two
Nonhuman Primates.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Asso-
ciation 179(11) (1981) :1245—46.

Loomis, M. R.; O’Neill, T.; Bush, R. M.; and Montali, R. J. “Fatal Herpes-
virus Infection in Patas Monkeys and a Black and White Colobus Monkey.”
Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 179(11)(1981):
1236-39.

Mann, P. C.; Bush, R. M.; Janssen, D. L.; Frank, E. S.; and Montali, R. J.
“Clinicopathologic Correlations of Tuberculosis in Large Zoo Animals.”
Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 179(11)(1981):
2S —20%

Mann, P. C.; Montali, R. J.; and Bush, R. M. [Abstract] “Tuberculous
Osteomyelitis in Captive Marsupials.” Laboratory Investigation 46(51A)
(1982).

Montali, R. J.; Bush, R. M.; Strandberg, J.; Janssen, D. L.; Boness, D. J.; and
Whitla, J. C. “Cyclic Dermatitis Associated with Fusarium sp. Infection in
Pinnipeds.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 179(11)
(1981) :1198-1202.

Montali, R. J., and Mann, P. C. “Selected Diseases of Zoo Animals.” Training
Aid Issue (C. L. Davis Foundation) X1(1981) :1-17.

Montali, R. J.; Mann, P. C.; Jones, D. M.; Griner, L. A.; Kuen, G. R.;
Narushima, E.; and Bush, R. M. “Leiomyomas in the Genital Tract of
Large Zoo Mammals.” Sonderdruck aus Verhandlungsbericht des XXIV,
International Symposiums uber die Erkrankugen der Zootiere, Veszprem
1982:117-122.

466 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Randolph, J.; Bush, R. M.; Abramowitz, M.; Kleiman, D.; and Montali, R. J.
“Surgical Correction of Familial Diaphragmatic Hernia of Morgagni in the
Golden Lion Tamarin.” Journal of Pediatric Surgery 16(3)(1981) :396—400.

Robinson, P. T.; and Bush, R. M. “Clinical and Pathologic Aspects of Pul-
monary Acariasis in Douc Langur and Proboscis Monkeys.” Der Zoologi-
sche Garten N. F., Jena 51(1981) :161-69.

Wunee 1: E.; Chakraborty, P. K.; ‘Gambre, “R. ‘C.;’ Howard, J; G.;) and
Bush, R. M. “Laparoscopic Evaluation of the Reproductive Organs and
Abdominal Cavity Content of the Lowland Gorilla.” American Journal of
Primatology 2(1982) :29-42.

Zoological Research

Berger, J. “The Role of Risks in Mammalian Combat: Zebra and Onager
Fights.” Zeitschrift Fur Tierpsychologie 56(4) (1981) :297—304.

Biben, M. “Object Play and Social Treatment of Prey in Bush Dogs and
Crab-eating Foxes.” Behaviour 79(1982) :201-11.

Biben, M. “Ontogeny of Social Behaviour Related to Feeding in the Crab-
eating Fox (Cerdocyonthous) and the Bush Dog (Speothos venaticus).”
Journal of Zoology (London) 196(1982) :207-16.

Bonney, R. C.; Wood, D. J.; and Kleiman, D. G. “Endocrine Correlates of
Behavioral Estrus in the Female Giant Panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca)
and Associated Hormonal Changes in the Males.” Journal of Reproduction
and Fertility 64(1982) :209-15.

Brady, C. A. “The Vocal Repertoires of the Bush Dog (Speothos venaticus),
Crab-eating Fox (Cerdocyon thous), and Maned Wolf (Chrysocyon
brachyurus).” Animal Behaviour 29(1981) :649-69.

Brownell, R. L., Jr., and Ralls, K., eds. ““The West Indian Manatee in Florida.”
Proceedings of a Workshop Held in Orlando, Florida, March 27-29, 1978.
Florida Department of Natural Resources, 1981.

Davidar, P. “Similarity Between Flowers and Fruits in some Flower-pecker
Pollinated Mistletoes.” Biotropica 1982.

Dierenfeld, E. S.; Hintz, H. F.; Robertson, J. B.; Van Soest, P. J.; and
Oftedal, O. T. “Utilization of Bamboo by the Giant Panda.” American
Institute of Nutrition (1982) :636—41.

Dittus, W. “Primate Population Analysis.” In Techniques for the Study of
Primate Population Ecology. Primate Subcommittee on Conservation of
Natural Populations, National Research Council. Washington, D.C.:
National Academy Press, 1981.

. “Aging, Sexing, and Identifying Individual Primates Under Natural
Conditions.” In Techniques for the Study of Primate Population Ecology.
Primate Subcommittee on Conservation of Natural Populations, National
Research Council. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press, 1981.

Eisenberg, J. F. “Behavioral Adaptations of Higher Vertebrates to Tropical
Forests.” In Tropical Rain Forest Ecosystems, Ecosystems of the World,
ed. F. B. Golley, 14A, pp. 267-78, Amsterdam: Elsevier Scientific Publishing
Company, 1982.

. “Review of Tenrecidea.” In Mammal Species of the World, by Asso-
ciation for Systematics Collections, pp. 58-62. Lawrence, Kansas: Allen
Press, 1982.

Farabaugh, S. M. “The Ecological and Social Significance of Duetting.” In
Evolutionary and Ecological Aspects of Acoustic Communication in Birds,
eds. D. E. Kroodsma and E. H. Miller. New York: Academic Press, 1982.

Frank, S.; Gilbert, S.; and Tomassoni, P. “Rearing Ruddy Ducks, Oxyura
jamaicensis, at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.” Interna-
tional Zoo Yearbook 21(1982) :97-100.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 467
Frankenberg, E. “Vocal Behavior of the Mediterranean House Gecko, Hemi-
dactylus turcicus.” Copeia, 1982.

. “Social Behaviour of the Parthenogenetic Indo-Pacific Gecko, Hemi-
dactylus garnotii.” Zeitschrift Fur Tierpsychologie 1982.

Frankenberg, E., and Marcellini, D. L. “Vocalizations of Colonizing House
Geckos, Genus Hemidactylus.” Proceedings of the Zoological Society of
Israel. Israel Journal of Zoology 1982.

Frazier, J. “Crying ‘Wolf’ at La Escobilla.” Marine Turtle Newsletter 21(1982):
Toe

Frazier, J., and Salas, S. “Ecuador Closes Commercial Fishery.” Marine Turtle
Newsletter 20(1982) :5-6.

Frazier, J. “Introduction to Sea Turtle Hunts throughout the World, Com-
piled by J. Sternberg.” Washington, D.C.: Center for Environmental
Education, 1982.

Frazier, J., and Peters, G. “The Call of the Aldabra Tortoise (Geochelone
gigantea) (Reptilia, Testudinidae). ““Amphibia—Reptilia (2) (1981) :165-79.

Gilbert, S.; Tomassoni, P.; and Kramer, P. “History of Captive Management
and Breeding of Bald Eagles, Haliaetus leucocephalus, at the National
Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.” International Zoo Yearbook (21)
(1982) :101-8.

Gradwohl, J., and Greenberg, R. “The Effect of a Single Species of Avian
Predator on Arthropods of Aerial Leaf Litter.” Ecology 63(2) (1982) :581—83.

Green, K. M. “Preliminary Observations on the Ecology and Behavior of
Presbytis pileatus in Bangladesh.” International Journal of Primatology
2(2) (1981).

. “Digital Processing of Landsat Data with a Micro-Computer System.

Its Role in Environmental and Natural Resource Education at the Under-

graduate Level.” CORSE 81, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-

tration, 1981.

, Contributor. Techniques for the Study of Primate Population
Ecology. Primate Subcommittee on Conservation of Natural Populations,
National Research Council. Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press,
LOSI

Greenwell, G.; Emerick, C.; and Biben, M. “Inbreeding Depression in
Mandarin Ducks: A Preliminary Report on Some Continuing Experiments.”
Aviculture Magazine 88(2) (1982).

Hand, J. L. “Sociobiological Implications of Unusual Sexual Behaviors of
Gulls: The Genotype/Behavioral Phenotype Problem.” Ethology and
Sociobiology 2(1981) :135-45.

Hoage, R. J. “The Integration of Captive and Field Research among
Nonhuman Primates with Special Reference to Marmoset and Tamarin
Monkeys.” In Anthropological Careers: Perspectives on Research, Employ-
ment and Training, ed. R. H. Landman. Washington, D.C.: Anthropological
Society of Washington, 1982.

. [Review] The Doomsday Book of Animals: A Natural History of

Vanished Species, by David Day. Viking Press (1981). In SciQuest,

American Chemical Society, 1982.

. [Abstract] “Play Behavior in Young Captive Lion Tamarins.” IX
Congress of the International Primatological Society, Atlanta, Georgia,
1982, International Journal of Primatology 3(3) (1982) :296.

Kinzey, W. G., and Robinson, J. G. “Intergroup Loud Calls Serve Different
Roles in Two Species of Callicebus.” American Journal of Physical
Anthropology 54(1981) :240.

Koontz, F. W., and Seidensticker, J. “Establishing the Location of Radio-
Tagged Animals Using a Programmable Calculator.” Resource Evaluation
1:(1982).

468 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Kranz, K., principal reviewer. “Dorcatragus,” “Madoqua,” “Neotragus,”
“Oreotragus,” “Ourebia,” “Raphicerus,” “Mazama,” and “Pudu.” In
Mammal Species of the World, by Association for Systematics Collections.
Lawrence, Kan.: Allen Press, 1982.

Laurie, A., and Seidensticker, J. “A Very Special Bear.” Animal Kingdom
84(1) (1981) :20-25.

Lumpkin, S.; Kessel, K.; Zenone, P. G.; and Erickson, C. J. “Proximity
Between the Sexes in Ring Doves. Social Bonds or Surveillance.” Animal
Behaviour 30(1982) :506—13.

. “Avoidance of Cuckoldry in Birds: The Role of the Female.” Animal
Behaviour 29(1981) :303-4.

McDade, L. A., and Davidar, P. “Seed Set in Pavonia dasypetala (Malvaceae)
related to Pollination Visits and Pollination Intensity.” Ecology 1982.

Mace, G., and Eisenberg, J. F. “Competition, Niche Specialization and the
Evolution of Brain Size in the Genus Peromyscus.” Biological Journal of
the Linnean Society 17(3) (1982) :243-57.

Marcellini, D. L. “Preliminary Observations on Endogeneous Heat Produc-
tion After Feeding in Python molurus.” Journal of Herpetology 16(1982):
92-95.

Marcellini, D. L. “Courtship and Aggressive Behavior of the Streak Lizard,
Gonatodes vittatus in Captivity.” Herpetologica 37(1982) :250—56.

Morton, E. S., and Gonzales, H. “Vocal Behavior of Torreornis inexpectata.”
Wilson Bulletin 94(3) (1982).

Peters, G. “Das Schnurren der Katzen (Felidae). (Purring in the Felidae).”
Saugetierkundliche Mitteilungen 29(1981) :30—37.

Ralls, K., and Ballou, J. “Effects of Inbreeding on Juvenile Mortality in
Some Small Mammal Species.” Laboratory of Animal Science 16(1982):
159-66.

Roberts, M. “The Fire Fox.” Animal Kingdom 85(1) (1982) :20-27.

Robinson, J. G. “Vocal Regulation of Inter- and Intragroup Spacing During
Boundary Encounters in the Titi Monkey, Callicebus moloch.” Primates
22(1981) :161-72.

. “Spatial Structure in Foraging Groups of Wedge-Capped Capuchin
Monkeys, Cebus nigrivittatus.” Animal Behaviour 29(1981) :1036—56.
Ryan, M. J.; Tuttle, D.; and Taft, L. K. “The Costs and Benefits from
Chorusing Behavior.” Behaviour Ecology and Sociobiology 8(1981) :273-78.
Seidensticker, J. [Abstract] “Black Bear Dispersal and Wildlife Research at
the National Zoological Park’s Conservation and Research Center.” Sixth
Shenandoah Research Symposium, Shenandoah National Park, 1981.

. “A Peaceable Kingdom.” Animal Kingdom 85(3) (1982) :38—43.

Sekulic, R. “Social Structure of the Sable Antelope in the Shimba Hills
National Reserve, Kenya.” Research Reports, National Geographic Society,
1974 projects.

. “The Significance of Howling in the Red Howler Monkey, Alouatta

seniculus.” Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Zoology, University of Mary-

land, 1981.

. “Conservation of the Sable Antelope, Hippotragus niger rooselvelti,
in the Shimba Hills, Kenya.” African Journal of Ecology 19(1981) :153—65.

Shoshani, J., and Eisenberg, J. F. “Elephas maximus.” Mammalian Species,
American Society of Mammalogists, 182(1982) :1-8.

Taft, L. K. “Reproduction and Development of the Big Fruit Bat, Artibeus
jamaicensis, (Chiroptera: Phyllostomidae).” Master of Science thesis,
George Mason University, Fairfax, Virginia, 1981.

Tasse, J. “Maternal and Paternal Care in the Rock Cavy, Kerodon rupestris,
a South American Hystricomorph Rodent.” Master of Science thesis,
George Washington University, Washington, D.C., 1981.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 469
Tuttle, M. D.; Taft, L. K.; and Ryan, M. J. “Acoustical Location of Calling
Frogs by Philander Opossums.” Biotropica 13(3) (1981) :233—34.

Wilson, S. C. “Contact-Promoting Behavior, Social Development, and
Relationship with Parents in Sibling Juvenile Degus, Octodon degus.”
Developmental Psychobiology 15(3) (1982) :257—68.

. “Parent-Young Contact in Prairie and Meadow Voles.” Journal of

Mammalogy 63(2) (1982) :300—305.

. “The Development of Social Behaviour Between Siblings and Non-
Siblings of the Voles (Microtus ochrogaster and Microtus pennsylvani-
cus).” Animal Behaviour 30(1982) :426-37.

Wheeler, J.; Ayorinde, F.; Wemmer; and Murtaugh, J. “Volatile Components
of the Occipital Gland Secretion of the Bactrian Camel.” Journal of
Chemical Ecology 8(1) (1982) :177—-84.

Mishra, H.; Wemmer, C.; Leyrat, J. C.; and Maskey, R. M. “On Chemical
Immobilization and Capture of Rhinoceros in Nepal.” In Wild is Beautiful,
eds. T. C. Majupuria and S. Devi, Gwalior, India, 1981.

Wemmer, C., and Wilson, D. E. “Structure and Function of Hair Crests and
Capes in African Carnivora.” In Behavior and Ecology of Mammals, eds.
J. F. Eisenberg and D. G. Kleiman, American Society of Mammalogy,
Special Publication No. 7, Washington, D.C., 1982.

OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION

Ayensu, Edward, S., and Whitfield, M. D., eds. The Rhythms of Life. New
York: Crown Publishers, 1982.

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Ben-Tal, Y., and Cleland, C. F. “Uptake and Metabolism of [“C] Salicylic
Acid in Lemna gibba G3.” Plant Physiology 70(1982) :291-96.

Buchanan, C., and Goldberg, B. “The Action Spectrum of Daphnia magna
(Crustacea) Phototaxis in a Simulated Natural Environment.” Photochem-
istry Photobiology 34(1981): 711-17.

Cleland, C. F., and Ben-Tal, Y. “Influence of Giving Salicylic Acid for
Different Time Periods on Flowering and Growth in the Longday Plant
Lemna gibba G3.” Plant Physiology 70(1982) :287—90.

Cleland, C. F.; Tanaka, O.; and Feldman, L. J. “Influence of Plant Growth
Substances and Salicylic Acid on Flowering and Growth in the Lemnaceae
(Duckweeds).” Aquatic Botany 13(1982) :3-20.

Deitzer, G. F.; Hayes, R. G.; and Jabben, M. “Phase Shift in the Circadian
Rhythm of Floral Promotion by Far Red Energy in Hordeum vulgare L.”
Plant Physiology 69(1982) :597—601.

DeJong, T. M.; Drake, B. G.; and Pearcy, R. M. “Gas Exchange Responses of
Chesapeake Bay Tidal Marsh Species Under Field and Laboratory Condi-
tions.” Oecologia 52(1982) :5-11.

Drake, B. G., and Read, M. “Carbon Dioxide Assimilation, Photosynthetic
Efficiency, and Respiration of a Chesapeake Bay Salt Marsh.” Journal of
Ecology 69(1981) :405—23.

Gantt, E. “Rapporteur’s Summary: Plastids and Their Precursors.” In On the
Origins of Chloroplasts, ed. J. A. Schiff, pp. 107-13. New York: Elsevier/
North Holland, 1982.

Gantt, E.; Canaani, O.; Lipschultz, C. A.; and Redlinger, T. “Structure of
Phycobilisomes and Their Relationship to Photosystem II.” In Photo-
synthesis III. Structure and Molecular Organization of the Photosynthetic
Apparatus, ed. G. Akoyunoglou, pp. 143-53. Balaban International Science
Services, 1981.

470 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Goldberg, B. “Radiometric Measurements in the UVB Region of Daylight.”
In The Role of Solar Ultraviolet Radiation in Marine Ecosystems, ed.
J. Calkins, (NATO Conference Series IV-Marine Science) 7(1982) :121-29.

Harding, R. W., and Turner, R. V. “Photoregulation of the Carotenoid
Biosynthetic Pathway in Albino and White Collar Mutants of Neurospora
crassa.” Plant Physiology 68(1981) :745—49.

Redlinger, T., and Gantt, E. “Identification of a 95,000 MW Polypeptide
Common to Both Phycobilisomes and Thylakoid Membranes in Porphyri-
dium cruentum.” In Photosynthesis III. Structure and Molecular Organiza-
tion of the Photosynthetic Apparatus, ed. G. Akoyunoglou, pp. 257-62,
Balaban International Science Services, 1981.

Redlinger, T., and Gantt, E. “Phycobilisome Structure of Porphyridium
cruentum.” Plant Physiology 68(1981) :1375-79.

Rowan, D. E.; Pewe, T. L.; Pewe, R. H.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Holocene Gla-
cial Geology of the Svea Lowland, Spitsbergen, Svalbard.” Geografiska
Annaler 64-A(1—2) (1982) :35—51.

Stanley, D. J.; Taylor, P. T.; Sheng, H.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Sohm Abyssal
Plain: Evaluating Proximal Sediment Provenance.” Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to the Marine Sciences no. 11, pp. 1-48. Smithsonian Institution Press,
1981.

Tanaka, O., and Cleland, C. F. “Influence of Ammonium on the Ability of
Salicylic Acid to Induce Flowering in the Short Day Plant Lemna paucosi-
tata 6746.” Plant Cell Physiology 22(1981) :597—602.

Turitzin, S. N., and Drake, B. G. “Canopy Structure and the Photosynthetic
Efficiency of a Cs Grass Community.” Photosynthesis IV. Photosynthesis
and Productivity, Photosynthesis and Environment, ed. G. Akoyunoglou,
pp. 73-80, 1981.

Whitaker, B. D., and Shropshire, W., Jr. “Spectral Sensitivity in the Blue and
Near Ultraviolet for Light-induced Carotene Synthesis in Phycomyces
Mycelia.” Experimental Mycology 5(1981) :243-52.

Yamamoto, K. T., and Smith, W. O., Jr. “A Re-evaluation of the Mole Frac-
tion of Ptr at the Red-light-induced Photostationary State of Undegraded
Rye Phytochrome.” Plant & Cell Physiology 22(1981) :1159-64.

Yamamoto, K. T., and Smith, W. O., Jr. “Effect of Neutral Salts on Spectral
Characteristics of Undegraded Phytochrome Partially Purified from Etio-
lated Pea Shoots. Plant & Cell Physiology 22(1981) :1149-58.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Aaronson, M.; Huchra, J.; Mould, J.; Schechter, P. L.; and Tully, R. B. “The
Velocity Field in the Local Supercluster.” Astrophysical Journal 258(1982):
64-76.

Allison, A. C.; Guberman, S. L.; and Dalgarno, A. “Photoabsorption into the
*TIu State of Ox.” Journal of Geophysical Research 87(1982) :923-25.

Avrett, E. H. “Reference Model Atmosphere Calculation: The Sunspot Sun-
spot Model.” In The Physics of Sunspots, eds. L. E. Cram and J. H. Thomas,
pp. 235-55. Sunspot, New Mexico: Sacramento Peak Observatory, 1981.

Avrett, E. H.; Loeser, R.; and Pinto, P. A. [Abstract] “Radiative Transfer in
Quasar Emission Line Clouds.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 13(1981) :788.

Ayres, T. R.; Linsky, J. L.; Vaiana, G. S.; Golub, L.; and Rosner, R. “The Cool
Half of the HR Diagram in X-Rays.” Astrophysical Journal 250(1981):

293—99.

Baliunas, S. L. “Stellar Activity Measured at Ca II H and K” (Invited Review).
In Second Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the
Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 2,
pp. 31-40, 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 471
Baliunas, S. L., and Dupree, A. K. “Ultraviolet and Optical Spectrum Studies
of Lambda Andromedae: Evidence for Atmospheric Inhomogeneities.”
Astrophysical Journal 252(1982) :668—80.

Baliunas, S. L.; Hartmann, L.; and Dupree, A. K. “IUE Ultraviolet and
Optical Chromospheric Studies of Late-Type Giants in the Hyades Cluster.”
In The Universe at Ultraviolet Wavelengths—The First Two Years of IUE,
NASA Conference Publication 2171, ed. R. D. Chapman, p. 235. Washing-
ton, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1981.

Bayfield, J. E.; Gardner, L. D.; Gulkok, Y. Z.; and Sharma, S. D. “Spectro-
scopic Study of Nonresonant Photon Absorption by Highly Excited Hydro-
gen Atoms in a Strong Microwave Field.” Physical Review A 24(1981) :138.

Beers, T. C.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “Galaxy Clusters with Multiple
Components. I. The Dynamics of Abell 98.” Astrophysical Journal 257
(1982) :23-32.

Beers, T.; Huchra, J.; and Geller, M. [Abstract] “Dynamical Studies of the
Galaxy Cluster A115.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
13(1982) :798.

Bergeron, J.; Maccacaro, T.; and Perola, C. “Far UV Study on the Non-
Thermal Activity in the Narrow Line Galaxies NGC 4507 and NGC 5506.”
Astronomy and Astrophysics 97(1981) :94.

Bienstock, S.; Heil, T. G.; Bottcher, C.; and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer
of C* Ions in Atomic Hydrogen.” Physical Review A 25(1982) :2850—52.
Black, J. H.; Porter, A.; and Dalgarno, A. “The Emission Spectrum of Hz from
Associative Detachment and Ultraviolet Pumping.” Astrophysical Journal

249 (1981) :138—44.

Blair, W. P. “Supernova Remnants in M31.” In Supernovae, eds. M. J. Rees
and R. J. Stoneham, p. 475. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Com-
pany, 1982.

Blair, W. P., and Kirshner, R. P. “The Optical Spectrum of the Unusual
Supernova Remnant G109.1-1.0.” Nature 291(1981) :132.

Blair, W. P.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Chevalier, R. A. “Abundance Gradients in
M31: Comparison of Results from Supernova Remnants and H II Regions.”
Astrophysical Journal 254(1982) :50.

. “Supernova Remnants in M31.” Astrophysical Journal 247(1981) :879.
[Abstract] “Supernova Remnants and Abundance Gradients in
M31.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :518.

Blair, W. P.; Raymond, J. C.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Winkler, P. F. [Abstract]
“X-Ray Optical and UV Observations of the Supernova Remnant in
NGC 4449.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981):794.

Blair, W. P.; Stencel, R.; Feibelman, W.; and Michalitsianos, A. [Abstract]
“Moderate Resolution McGraw-Hill Scanner Observations of Symbiotic
and Related Stars.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 12
(1981) :869.

Blair, W. P.; Stencel, R. E.; Shaviv, G.; and Feibelman, W. A. “HM Sagittea:
Symbiotic Cousin of the RS CVn Stars?” Astronomy and Astrophysics
99(1981) :73.

Bookbinder, J.; Avni, Y.; Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. F. “Stellar
Contributions to the Diffuse Soft X-Ray Background.” In Second Cam-
bridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 201-6, 1982.

Bothun, G. D. “The Evolution of Disk Galaxies and the SO Problem,
Revisited.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series (September) (1982):
39-54.

Bothun, G. D.; Romanishin, W.; Margon, B.; Schommer, R. A.; and Cha-
nan, G. A. “Detection of Neutral Hydrogen Emission and Optical Nebu-

472 / Smithsonian Year 1982
losity in the Low Redshift QSO 0351+4026.” Astrophyical Journal 257
(1982) :40-46.

Bothun, G. D., and Schommer, R. “The Zwicky Magnitude Scale: How
Reliable Is It in the Estimation of Blue Luminosity.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters) 255(1982) :L23.

Bothun, G. D.; Schommer, R.; and Sullivan, W. “Spiral Galaxies in Clusters
III. Gas Rich Galaxies in the Pegasus I Cluster of Galaxies.” Astrophysical
Journal 87 (1982) :725.

.“Spiral Galaxies in Clusters IV. The H I and Color Properties of
Spirals in Nine Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal 87(1982):731.

Bothun, G. D.; Stauffer, J.; and Schommer, R. “The Peculiar Galaxy IC
1182.” Astrophysical Journal 247 (1981) :42.

Boynton, P. E.; Radford, S. J. E.; Schommer, R. A.; and Murray, S. S.
“X-Ray Observations of Abell 2218 and Implications for the Sunyaev-
Zel'dovich Effect.” Astrophysical Journal 257(1982) :473-86.

Canuto, V. M.; Levine, J. S.; Augustsson, T. R.; Imhoff, C. L.; and Giam-
papa, M. S. “Ultraviolet Radiation from the Young Sun and the Levels
of Oxygen and Ozone in the Prebiological Paleoatmosphere.” In Advances
in Ultraviolet Astronomy: Four Years of IUE Research, NASA Conference
Publication 2238, eds. Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, and R. D. Chapman, pp.
293-96. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, 1982.

Cassinelli, J. P.; Waldron, W. L.; Sanders, W. T.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.;
Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S. “X-Ray Emission from Of Stars and OB
Supergiants.” Astrophysical Journal 250(1981) :677.

Chaffee, F. H., and Latham, D. W. “An Image Stacker for High Resolution
Spectroscopy on the Multiple Mirror Telescope.” Publications of the
Astronomical Society of the Pacific 94(1982) :386.

Chaffee, F. H., and White, R. E. [Abstract] “A Survey of Interstellar K I
Absorption Lines. I. Observations.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 13(1981) :509.

Chappell, J. H.; Kish, J. C.; Simpson, G. A.; and Webber, W. R. “Fragmen-
tation of Fe Nuclei in Carbon, Hydrogen, and CH2 Targets. I. Individual
Charge Changing and Total Cross Sections.” In Proceedings of the Seven-
teenth International Conference on Cosmic Rays (Paris, France), pp. 173—
76. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

. “Fragmentation of Fe Nuclei in Carbon, Hydrogen and CH2 Targets.
II. Isotopic Cross Sections.” In Proceedings of the Seventeenth Interna-
tional Conference on Cosmic Rays (Paris, France), pp. 177-80. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

Cornell, J., and Lightman, A. P., eds. Revealing the Universe: Prediction and
Proof in Astronomy. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press, 1982.

Cowie, L. L., and Rybicki, G. B. “The Structure and Evolution of Galacto-
detonation Waves: Some Analytic Results in Sequential Star Formation
Models of Spiral Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 260(1982):504—-11.

Craig, M. A. B.; Oxford, K. J.; Turver, K. E.; and Weekes, T. C. “The
Arrival Direction of Energetic Cosmic Rays Measured with a Fast Timing
Cherenkov Light Technique. In Proceedings of the Seventeenth Interna-
tional Conference on Cosmic Rays (Paris, France) 1, 3. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

Dalgarno, A. “Chemical Processes in the Shocked Interstellar Gas.” Philo-
sophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London A 303(1981) :513—22.

. “Applications of Atomic Collisions Physics to Astrophysics.” In

Physics of Electronic and Atomic Collision, Proc. XVV ICPEAC, ed.

S. Datz, pp. 1-17. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 473
Dalgarno, A., and Sternberg, A. “Electron Temperatures of Astrophysical
Plasmas.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 257(1982):L87—L90.

. “The Excitation of the Triplet Lines of O* in Nebulae.” Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 200(1982) :77P—80P.

Danaher, S.; Fegan, D. J.; Porter, N. A.; and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma Ray
Observations of Cygnus X-3 at Energies of 10” eV.” Philosophical Trans-
actions of the Royal Society of London A 301(1981) :493.

. “Observations of Cygnus X-3, M87, 3C273 at Energies Greater than

10” eV.” In Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Conference on

Cosmic Rays (Paris, France), 1, 34. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publish-

ing Company, 1981.

. “The Atmospheric Cherenkov Technique in Searches for Exploding
Primordial Black Holes.” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society
of London A 301(1981) :173.

Danaher, S.; Fegan, D. J.; Porter, N. A.; Weekes, T. C.; and Cole, T.
“Possible Applications of Large Solar Arrays in Astronomy and Astro-
physics.” Solar Energy 28(1982) :335.

Davis, M.; Lecar, M.; Pryor, C.; and Witten, E. “The Formation of Galaxies
from Massive Neutrinos.” Astrophysical Journal 250(1981) :423-31.

Dickel, J. R.; Murray, S. S.; Morris, J.; and Wells, D. C. “A Multiwavelength
Comparison of Casseiopeia A and Tycho’s Supernova.” Astrophysical
Journal 257 (1982) :145—50.

Doxsey, R. E.; McClintock, J. E.; Petro, L.; Remillard, R.; and Schwartz, D. A.
[Abstract] “Tentative Identification of the Flaring X-Ray Source H0323+
02.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :558.

Doyle, J. G., and Raymond, J. C. “New Ionization Fractions for the Li- and
He-Like Ionization Stages of Ca and Fe.” Monthly Notices of the Royal
Astronomical Society 196(1981) :907.

Dupree, A. K. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” In Proceedings of IAU Collo-
quium No. 59, Effects of Mass Loss on Stellar Evolution, eds. C. Chiosi
and R. Stalio, pp. 87-110. Boston, Massachusetts: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1981.

. “Review of Ultraviolet Astronomy.” In Transactions of IAU XVIIA,

part 3(1981) :175.

. “Stellar Activity” (Invited Review). In Second Cambridge Workshop

on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical

Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 3-15, 1982.

. “The Astrophysical Interest of EUV Observations of Extra-Solar

Objects.” Space Science Reviews 29(1981) :479-87.

Dupree, A. K., and Preston, S. “IUE Ultraviolet Observations of W UMa
Stars.” In The Universe at Ultraviolet Wavelengths—The First Two Years
of IUE, NASA Conference Publications 2171, ed. R. D. Chapman, p. 333.
Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1981.

Edwards, S.; Hartmann, L.; and Avrett, E. ““Alfven Wave-Driven Winds as a
Source of Mass Loss from T Tauri Stars.” In Second Cambridge Workshop
on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 191-98, 1982.

Elvis, M. “Einstein HRI Observations of Active Galactic Nuclei” (Invited
Talk). In Astronomical Society of New York News Letter, ed. A. G. Davis
Phillips, volume 1, number 8. New York: Colgate University, 1981.

. “Extra-Solar Astronomy with a 2.4 m Normal Incidence X-Ray
Telescope at 0.1 Arcsec Resolution.” In High Resolution Soft X-Ray Optics,
SPIE volume 316, ed. E. Spiller, pp. 144-48. Bellingham, Washington:
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1981.

Elvis, M.; Briel, U.; and Henry, J. P. [Abstract] “Extended Soft X-Ray

474 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Emission from NGC 4151.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
13(1981) :850. Z

Elvis, M., and Fabbiano, G. “X-Ray and UV Spectra of Two Quasars.” In
Advances in Ultraviolet Astronomy: Four Years of IUE Research, NASA
Conference Publication 2238, eds. Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, and R. D. Chap-
man, pp. 205-8. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, 1982.

Elvis, M.; Schreier, E. J.; Tonry, J.; Davis, M.; and Huchra, J. P. “Two Opti-
cally Dull Galaxies with Strong Nuclear X-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical
Journal 246(1981) :20-27.

Elvis, M., and Van Speybroeck, L. “The Nuclear X-Ray Source in M81.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 257(1982) :L51—L56.

Fabbiano, G. [Abstract] “X-Ray Observations of AM Her in Its Low State.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :632.

Fabbiano, G.; Feigelson, E.; and Zamorani, G. “X-Ray Observations of
Peculiar Galaxies with the Einstein Observatory.” Astrophysical Journal
256(1982) :397.

Fabbiano, G., and Panagia, N. “IUE and Einstein Observations of NGC 5204.”
In Advances in Ultraviolet Astronomy: Four Years of IUE Research, NASA
Conference Publication 2238, eds. Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, and R. D. Chap-
man, pp. 145-49. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, 1982.

Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; Miller, L.; Longair, M.; Elvis, M.; and
Schreier, E. J. [Abstract] “X-Ray Observation of a Complete Sample of
3CR Radio Galaxies.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
13(1982) :849.

Fabbiano, G., and Van Speybroeck, L. [Abstract] “X-Ray Observations of
Late Type Galaxies with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Astronomical Society 13(1981) :550.

Fabricant, D. and Gorenstein, P. [Abstract] “X-Ray Observations of A2256 at
Large Radial Distance.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
13(1981) :550.

Fanti, C.; Fanti, R.; Feretti, L.; Ficarra, A.; Gioia, I. M.; Giovannini, G.;
Gregorini, L.; Mantovani, F.; Marano, G.; Padrielli, L.; Parma, P;.
Tomasi, P.; and Vettolani, G. “Radio and Optical Observations of 9 Nearby
Abell Clusters: A262, A437, A569, A576, A779, A1213, A1228, A2162,
A2666.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 105(1982) :200.

Feigelson, E.; Maccacaro, T.; and Zamorani, G. “VLA Observations of a
Complete Sample of Faint Extragalactic X-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical
Journal 255(1982) :392.

Feigelson, E. D.; Schreier, E. J.; Delvaille, J. P.; Giacconi, R.; Grindlay, J. E.;
and Lightman, A. P. “The X-Ray Structure of Centaurus A.” Astrophysical
Journal 251(1981) :31.

Fesen, R. A.; Blair, W. P.; and Gull, T. R. “Sharpless 216: A Curious
Emission-Line Nebula.” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :131.

Fesen, R. A.; Blair, W. P.; and Kirshner, R. P. “Optical Spectrophotometry
of the Cygnus Loop.” In Supernovae, eds. M. J. Rees and R. J. Stoneham,
p. 495. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1982.

Fesen, R. A.; Blair, W. P.; Kirshner, R. P.; Gull, T. R.; and Parker, R. A. R.
“The Optical Emission from the Supernova Remnant CTA 1.” Astro-
physical Journal 247(1981) :148.

Field, G. B. (Chair) “Astronomy and Astrophysics for the 1980's.” Report of
the Astronomy Survey Committee, volume 1. Washington, D.C.: National
Academy of Sciences, National Research Council, 1982.

. “Astronomy and Astrophysics for the 1980's.” Physics Today 35(4)

(1982) :46-52.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 475
. “Astronomy and Astrophysics for the 80s.” Astronautics and Aero-

nautics (April) (1982) :44—51.

. [Abstract] “Magnetic Helicity: Twisted Fields in MHD.” Bulletin of

the American Astronomical Society 13(4) (1981) :910.

. “Some Unanswered Questions in Astronomy.” Mercury XI(2) (1982):

42-47.

. “Some Unanswered Questions in Astronomy.” In Revealing the Uni-
verse: Prediction and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. Lightman,
pp. 207-32. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

Fireman, E. L.; Andrews, H. R.; Ball, G. C.; Brown, R. M.; and Mil-
ton, J. C. D. [Abstract] ““C Terrestrial Ages of Antarctic Meteorites with
Counters and with a Van de Graaff Accelerator.” Lunar and Planetary
Science XIII, Part 1 (1982): 219-21.

Fireman, E. L., and Norris, T. L. “Carbon-14 Ages of Allan Hills Meteorites
and Ice.” Proceedings of the Lunar and Planetary Science Conference
12B(1981) :285-87.

. “Gas in Allan Hills and Byrd Core Ice.” Antarctic Journal of the
United States XVI(1981) :90-92.

Fireman, E. L., and Stoenner, R. W. “Carbon and Carbon-14 in Lunar Soil
14163.” Proceedings of the Lunar and Planetary Science Conference 12B
(1981) : 559-65.

Fouquet, J. E., and Reid, M. J. “VLBI Observations of the 4 Ground-State OH
Masers in W3(OH) and Sgr B2.” Astronomical Journal 87(1982) :691.

Franklin, F. “The Material Ingredients and Structure.” In Revealing the Uni-
verse: Prediction and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Light-
man, pp. 65-81. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

Franklin, F. A.; Colombo, G.; and Cook, A. “A Possible Link Between the
Rotation of Saturn and Its Ring Structure.” Nature 295(1982) :128—30.

Garay, G.; Reid, M. J.; and Moran, J. M. [Abstract] “Recombination Line
Observation of Compact H II Regions with the VLA.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :853.

Garcia-Barreto, J. A.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Moran, J. M.; and Burke, B. F. “A
Search for High Velocity Water Masers in Regions of Star Formation.”
Revista Mexicana de Astronomia y Astrofisicia 5(1981) :87—91.

Gardner, L. D. [Abstract] “Experimental Measurements on the Photodetach-
ment of Atomic and Molecular Negative Ions.” In Electronic and Atomic
Collisions, Abstracts of Contributed Papers to the Twelfth International
Conference on the Physics of Electronic and Atomic Collisions, ed. S. Datz,
p. 52. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company, 1982.

Geller, M.; Beers, T.; and Huchra, J. [Abstract] “The History of A98.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1982) :86.

Geller, M. J., and Huchra, J. P. “Group of Galaxies. I. Nearby Groups.”
Astrophysical Journal 257 (1982) :423-37.

Giacconi, R.; Gorenstein, P.; Murray, S. S.; Schreier, E.; Seward, F.; Tanan-
baum, H.; Tucker, W. H.; and Van Speybroeck, L. ‘The Einstein Observa-
tory and Future X-Ray Telescopes.” In Telescopes of the 1980's, eds.
G. Burbidge and A. Hewitt, pp. 195-278. Palo Alto, Calif.: Annual
Reviews, Inc., 1981.

Giampapa, M. S. “High Resolution Line Profiles of Active Chromosphere M
Dwarf Stars.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 46(1981) :159.

Giampapa, M. S.; Africano, J. L.; Klimke, A.; Parks, J.; Quigley, R. J.; Robin-
son, R. D.; and Worden, S. P. “A Pre-Flare Diminution of the Quiescent
Flux of EQ Pegasi.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 252(1982) :L39-L42.

Giampapa, M. S.; Bornmann, P. L.; Ayres, T. R.; Linsky, J. L.; and
Worden, S. P. “The Mg II h and k Lines in a Sample of dMe and DM
Stars.” In The Universe at Ultraviolet Wavelengths: The First Two Years

476 / Smithsonian Year 1982
of IUE, NASA Conference Publication 2171, ed. R. D. Chapman, pp. 279-86.
Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1981.

Giampapa, M. S.; Calvet, N.; Imhoff, C. L.; and Kuhi, L. V. “IUE Observa-
tions of Pre-Main Sequence Stars. I. Mg II and Ca II Resonance Line Fluxes
for T Tauri Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 251(1981) :113.

Giampapa, M. S.; Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; Vaiana, G. S.; Linsky, J. L.; and
Worden, S. P. “A Heating Mechanism for the Chromospheres of M Dwarf
Stars.” In Second Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and
the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 392,
vol. 1, pp. 73-82, 1982.

Giampapa, M. S., and Imhoff, C. L. “The Ultraviolet Variability of the T
Tauri Star RW Aurigae.” In The Universe at Ultraviolet Wavelengths:
The First Two Years of IUE, NASA Conference Publication 2171, ed.
R. D. Chapman, pp. 185-92. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, 1981.

Giampapa, M. S.; Worden, S. P.; and Linsky, J. L. “Stellar Model Chromo-
spheres. XIII. M Dwarf Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 258(1982) :740-60.

Gingerich, O. “Archaeoastronomers Convene in Oxford.” Sky and Telescope
63(1982) :7-10.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook) “An Astrolabe from Lahore.” Sky and

Telescope 63(1982) :358—60.

. [Abstract] “Astronomical Paper Instruments in the Dissemination of

Science.” Proceedings of the Sixteenth International Congress of Historical

Science, Bucharest, B. Symposia (1981) :335-38.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook) “A Search for Russell’s Original Diagram.”

Sky and Telescope 64(1982) :36—37.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook) “Dreyer and Tycho’s World System.” Sky

and Telescope 64(1982) :136—40.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook) “Early Textbooks with Moving Parts.”

Antares, Journal of Bradford Astronomical Society 6(1) (1982) :11-19.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook) “Eighteenth-Century Eclipse Paths.” Sky

and Telescope 62(1981) :324-27.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook) “Fake Astrolabes.” Sky and Telescope

63 (1982) :465-68.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook) “Piccolomini’s Star Atlas.” Sky and Tele-

scope 62(1981) :532-34.

- “Citation Classic of the Month: The Harvard—Smithsonian Reference

Atmosphere.” Current Contents 21(26) (1981) :18.

. “Commentary on Ellegard’s ‘Stone Age Science in Britain?’ ’” Current

Anthropology 22(1981) :117-18.

. “Memoir of a Flick Fixer.” Harvard Magazine 84(1981) :8-9.

. “Summary: Archaeoastronomy in the Tropics.” In Ethnoastronomy

and Archaeoastronomy in the American Tropics, eds. A. Aveni and

G. Urton, pp. 333-36. New York: New York Academy of Science, 1982.

. “Summary Reflections on the Conference on Ethnoastronomy and

Archaeoastronomy of the Tropics.” Archaeoastronomy Bulletin 4(2)(1981):

sie

. “The Censorship of Copernicus’ De revolutionibus.” Annali dell’
Istituto e Museo di Storia Della Scienza di Firenze, anno VI, fas. 2(1981):
44-61.

. “The Galileo Affair.” Scientific American (August) (1982) :132-43.

. [Abstract] “The Galileo Affair in Contemporary Perspective” (Invited
Lecture). Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :821.

. “The Historical Tension between Astronomical Theory and Observa-
tion.” In Revealing the Universe: Prediction and Proof in Astronomy, eds.
J. Cornell and A. Lightman, pp. 1-14. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 477
. “Transdisciplinary Intersections: Astronomy and Three Early English
Poets.” In New Dimensions for Teaching and Learning: Interdisciplinary
Teaching, ed. A. White, pp. 67-75. San Francisco, Calif.: Jossey—Bass, 1981.

Gioia, I. M.; Danziger, J.; Griffiths, R. E.; Maccacaro, T.; and Stocke, J.
[Abstract] “The Einstein Observatory Medium Sensitivity Survey.” Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :644.

Gioia, I. M.; Geller, M. J.; Huchra, J.; Maccacaro, T.; Steiner, J; and Stocke, J.
“Abell 2069: An X-Ray Cluster with Multiple Subcondensations.” Astro-
physical Journal (Letters) 255(1982) :L17.

Gioia, I. M.; Gregorini, L.; and Vettolani, G. ““A Complete Sample of Spiral
and Irregular Galaxies Detected at 408 MHz: The Radio Luminosity Func-
tion and Other Properties.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 96(1981) :58.

Giommi, P.; Avni, Y.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Stocke, J.; and Zamo-
rani, G. [Abstract] “On the Redshift and Luminosity Distribution of X-Ray
Selected QSOs.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982):
632.

Giuffrida, T. S.; Greenfield, P. E.; Burke, B. F.; Haschick, A. D.; Moran, J. M.;
Rydbeck, O. E. H.; Ronnang, B. O.; Baath, L.; Yngvesson, K. S.; Matve-
yenko, L. I.; Kostenko, V. I.; Kogan, L. R.; and Moiseev, I. G. “Pis’ma
Astron. Zh.” Soviet Astronomical Letter 7(1981) :358-65.

Golub, L. “Solar Activity—the Sun as an X-Ray Star.” In Cool Stars, Stellar
Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Re-
port No. 392, vol. 1, pp. 39-52, 1982.

Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Pallavicini, R.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S.
“Einstein Detection of X-Rays from the Alpha Cen System.” Astrophysical
Journal 253(1982) :242-47.

Golub, L.; Noci, G.; Poletto, G.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Active Region Coronal
Evolution.” Astrophysical Journal 259(1982) :359-65.

Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; Vaiana, G. S.; and Zombeck, M. V. “Solar Corona at
High Resolution.” In High Resolution Soft X-Ray Optics, SPIE vol. 16, ed.
E. Spiller, pp. 149-56. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical
Instrumentation Engineers, 1981.

Gorenstein, P. “High Throughput X-Ray Studies of Stellar Coronae with a
LAMAR Facility.” In Second Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar
Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Re-
port No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 247-52, 1982.

. “X-Rays Associated with High Energy Particles” (Invited Paper). In
Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Conference on Cosmic Rays
(Paris, France) 12, pp. 99-117. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1981.

Green, D. W. E.; Marsden, B. G.; Whipple, F. L.; Meisel, D. D.; Morris, C. S.;
Roemer, E.; Sekanina, Z.; and Spinrad, H. “Letter to the Editor.” Sky and
Telescope 62(1981) :552.

Griffiths, R. E.; Huchra, J.; and Davis, M. [Abstract] “X-Ray Observations of
Emission-Line Galaxies with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :849.

Griffiths, R. E.; Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I. M.; Stocke, J.; Liebert, J.; Dan-
ziger, J.; and Lub, J. [Abstract] “The Optical Identification Content of the
Medium-Sensitivity X-Ray Survey with the Einstein Observatory. Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :659.

Griffiths, R. E.; Maccacaro, T.; Murray, S. S.; and Giacconi, R. “Optical Iden-
tification of X-Ray Sources in the Einstein Observatory Medium and Deep
X-Ray Surveys.” Space Science Reviews 30(1981) :67.

Griffiths, R. E.; Maccacaro, T.; Murray, S. S.; and Giacconi, R. E. “Optical
Identification of X-Ray Sources in the Einstein Observatory Medium and
Deep X-Ray Surveys.” In X-Ray Astronomy, Proceedings of the XV ESLAB

478 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Symposium, ed. E. Andersen, pp. 67-73. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Pub-
lishing Company, 1981.

Griffiths, R. E.; Polucci, G.; Mak, A.; Murray, S. S.; and Schwartz, D. A.
“Single Photon X-Ray Imaging with CCDs.” In SPIE Proceedings, Sym-
posium 290, pp. 62-68. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical
Instrumentation Engineers, 1981.

Grindlay, J.; Band, D.; Seward, F.; Leahy, D.; and Weisskopf, M. [Abstract]
“X-Ray Variability of $5433.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 13(1982) :834.

Grindlay, J., and Hartmann, L. [Abstract] “IUE Observations of Globular
Cluster X-Ray Sources.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13
(1981) :559.

Grossi, M. D.; “New Technology for ELF Radiators: A Review of Airborne,
Rocket-Borne and Spaceborne ELF Antennas.” In Proceedings of NATO-
AGARD 29th Symposium of the EM Wave Propagation Panel on Medium,
Long and Very Long Wave Propagation at Frequencies < 3,000 kHz, ed.
J. S. Belrose, AGARD Conference Series, vol. 305, pp. 41-1 to 41-32.
Neuilly sur Sein, France: AGARD, 1982.

Habbal, S. R., and Leer, E. “Electron Heating by Fast-Mode MHD Waves in
the Solar Wind Emanating from Coronal Holes.” Astrophysical Journal 253
(1982) :318-22.

Hartmann, L. W. “IUE Observations of the HZ Herculis System.” In Galactic
X-Ray Sources, eds. P. W. Sanford, P. Laskarides, and J. Salton, p. 149.
Chichester, England: Wiley, 1982.

. “Line Profiles of T Tauri Stars: Clues to the Nature of the Mass

Flow.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 48(1982) :109.

. “Observations and Theory of Mass Loss in Late-Type Stars.” In Solar

Phenomena in Stars and Stellar Systems, eds. R. M. Bonnet and A. K. Du-

pree, p. 331. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

. “Significance of Stellar Observations for Solar Astronomy and Vice

Versa.” In Solar Instrumentation—What’s Next, ed. R. B. Dunn, p. 170.

California: Sacramento Peak Observatory, 1981.

. “Stellar Spots—Physical Implications.” In Solar Phenomena in Stars

and Stellar Systems, eds. R. M. Bonnet and A. K. Dupree, p. 487. Dordrecht,

Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

. “Ultraviolet Observations of X-Ray Globular Clusters.” In Galactic
X-Ray Sources, eds. P. W. Sanford, P. Laskarides, and J. Salton, p. 355.
Chichester, England: Wiley, 1982.

Hartmann, L., and Avrett, E. H. “Predictions of Wave-Driven Wind Models.”
In Second Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the
Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 1,
pp. 127-31, 1982.

Hartmann, L. W.; Bopp, B.; Dussault, M.; Noah, P. V.; and Klimke, A.
“Evidence for a Starspot Cycle on BD +26°730.” Astrophysical Journal
249(1981) :662.

Hartmann, L. W.; Dupree, A. K.; and Raymond, J. C. “Ultraviolet Observa-
tions of Stellar Chromospheric Activity.” Astrophysical Journal 252(1982):
214-29.

Hartmann, L.; Edwards, S.; and Avrett, E. H. [Abstract] “Theoretical Models
for T Tauri Mass Loss.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
13(1981) :856.

Hartmann, L., and MacGregor, K. B. “Protostellar Mass and Angular Momen-
tum Loss.” Astrophysical Journal 259(1982) :180—92.

. “Wave-Driven Winds from Cool Stars. I. Some Effects of Magnetic

Field Geometry.” Astrophysical Journal 257(1982) :264-68.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 479
Hartquist, T. W.; Black, J. H.; and Dalgarno, A. “Warm Hydrogen at High
Galactic Latitudes.” Astrophysical Journal 259(1982) :591-94.

Henry, J. P.; Spiller, E.; and Weisskopf, M. “Imaging Performance of a Nor-
mal Incidence X-Ray Telescope Measured at 0.18 keV.” In High Resolution
Soft X-Ray Optics, SPIE vol. 316, ed. E. Spiller, pp. 166-68. Bellingham,
Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1981.

Herbig, G., and Soderblom, D. R. “The Diffuse Interstellar Bands. V. High
Resolution Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 252(1982) :610-15.

Hers, J., and Marsden, B. G. “IAU Commission 6.” In Reports on Astronomy
1982, vol. XVIIIA, ed. P. A. Wayman, pp. 19-20. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1982.

Huchra, J. “The Cosmic Calendar.” In Revealing the Universe: Prediction and
Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Lightman, pp. 193-203. Cam-
bridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

Huchra, J.; Geller, M. J.; Hunter, D.; and Gallagher, J. “Markarian 36: A
Young Galaxy!?.” In Advances in Ultraviolet Astronomy: Four Years of
IUE Research, NASA Publication 2238, eds. Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, and
R. D. Chapman, pp. 151-55. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, 1982.

Huchra, J.; Stauffer, J.; and van Speybroeck, L. “The Dynamics and Metal-
licity of the M31 Globular Cluster System.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
259(1982) :L57—L62.

Hummer, D. G., and Rybicki, G. B. “A Unified Treatment of Escape Proba-
bilities in Static and Moving Media: I. Plane Geometry.” Astrophysical
Journal 254(1981) :767-79.

Imhoff, C. L., and Giampapa, M. S. “Chromospheres and Coronae in the T
Tauri Stars.” In Advances in Ultraviolet Astronomy: Four Years of IUE
Research, NASA Publication No. 2238, eds. Y. Kondo, J. M. Mead, and
R. D. Chapman, pp. 456-59. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, 1982.

. “Far Ultraviolet and X-Ray Evidence Concerning the Chromospheres
and Coronae of the T Tauri Stars.” In The Second Workshop on Cool
Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Special Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 175-80, 1982.

Jaffe, D. T., and Fazio, G. G. “Star Formation in the M17SW Giant Molecular
Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 257(1982) :L77—L83.

Jaffe, D. T.; Stier, M. T.; and Fazio, G. G. “A High Resolution Far-Infrared
Survey of a Section of the Galactic Plane: I. Nature of the Sources.” Astro-
physical Journal 252(1982) :601.

Jones, L A..; Finken, K. H.; Danor, A.; Kallne, E.; Singer, S.; Lindemuth, I. R.;
Brownell, J. H.; and Oliphant, T. A. “A Laser-Initiated, Gas-Embedded
Z-Pinch: Experiment and Computation.” Applied Physics Letters 38(1981):
522-24.

Kahler, S.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Liller, W.; Seward, F.; Vaiana, G.;
Lovell, B.; Davis, R. J.; Spencer, R. E.; Whitehouse, D. R.; Feldman, P. A.;
Viner, M. R.; Leslie, B.; Kahn, S. M.; Mason, K. O.; Davis, M. M.;
Crannell, C. J.; Hobbs, R. W.; Schneeberger, T. J.; Worden, Sige
Schommer, R. A.; Vogt, S. S.; Pettersen, B. R.; Coleman, G. D.; Kar-
pen, J. T.; Giampapa, M. S.; Hege, E. K.; Pazzani, V.; Rodono, M.;
Romeo, G.; and Chugainov, P. F. “Coordinated X-Ray, Optical, and Radio
Observations of Flaring Activity on YZ Canis Minoris.” Astrophysical
Journal 252(1982) :239—49.

Kahn, S. M. “Low Energy X-Ray Line Emission from IC443.” Astrophysical
Journal 246(1981) :L121.

Kahn, S. M.; Charles, P. A.; Bowyer, S.; and Blissett, R. J. “Soft X-Ray
Spectral Variations in Scorpius X-1.” Astrophysical Journal 250(1981) :733.

480 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Kahn, S. M.; Seward, F. D.; Chlebowski, T.; and Dijkstra, J. [Abstract] “The
Einstein Objective Grating X-Ray Spectrum of the Crab Nebula.” Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :865.

Kalata, K. “A Computer Controlled Television Detector for Light, X-Rays,
and Particles.” IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science NS-28(1982) :852.
Kalkofen, W. “Is Energy Conserved at the Foot of the Solar Chromo-
sphere?.” In Second Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems,
and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report

No. 392, vol. 1, pp. 59-66, 1982.

Kallne, E. “Applications of Gratings in the Low Energy Region.” In Low
Energy X-Ray Diagnostics, AIP Conference Proceedings No. 75, eds.
D. T. Attwood and B. L. Henke, pp. 97-100. New York: American Insti-
tute of Physics, 1981.

Kallne, E.; Delvaille, J. P.; Schnopper, H. W.; Taylor, P. O.; and Rice, J. E.
“High Resolution X-Ray Spectra from the Alcator Tokamak.” In Inner
Shell and X-Ray Physics of Atoms and Solids, eds. D. J. Fabian, H. Klein-
popper and L. M. Watson, pp. 871-74. New York: Plenum Press, 1981.

Kallne, E., and Jones, L. A. “Reply to Note on Stark Broadening of Ionized
Nitrogen Lines.” Journal of Quantitative Spectroscopy and Radiative
Transfer 25(1981) :393.

Kallne, J.; Altemus, R.; Gugelot, P.; McCarthy, J.; Minehart, R.; Orpha-
nos, L.; Gram, P.; Hoistad, B.; Morris, C.; Wadlinger, E.; and Perdrisat, C.
[Abstract] “Pion Absorption in **He and the Role of the +N Reso-
nances.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society 26(1981):25.

Kallne, J.; Bolger, J. E.; Devereaux, M. J.; and Verbeck, S. L. “Study of the
8He(7n)°H and ‘He(z,n)°H at Tz; = 50 to 295 MeV.” Physical Review C
24(1981) :1102.

Kallne, J.; Davis, J.; McCarthy, J. S.; Minehart, R. C.; Whitney, R. R.;
Boudrie, R. L.; McClelland, J. B.; and Stetz, A. W. “Elastic + “He
Scattering.” Physics Letters 103B(1981) :13.

Kallne, J.; Davis, J.; Minehart, R. C.; Whitney, R. R.; Boudrie, R. L.;
McClelland, J. B.; and Stetz, A. W. “The (7*,p) Reactions and Nuclear pp
and pn Correlations.” Journal of Physics G 7(1981) :L287.

Kallne, J.; Kallne, E.; and Rice, J. E. [Abstract] “High Resolution X-Ray
Measurements of Impurity Radiation from the Alcator C Tokamak.”
Bulletin of the American Physical Society 26(1981) :886.

—. [Abstract] “Plasma Diagnostics of Alcator C Using High Resolution
X-Ray Spectra.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society 26(1981):976.

Kallne, J.; Orphanos, L.; Altemus, R.; Gugelot, P. C.; McCarty, J. S.; Mine-
hart, R. M.; Gram, P. A. M.; Hoistad, B.; Morris, C. L.; Wadlinger, E. A.;
and Perdrisat, C. “Pion Single Charge Exchange Scattering on “He at 285,
425, and 525 MeV.” Physical Review (Rapid Communications) C 25(1982):
1098.

Kallne, J., and Whitney, R. R. “Manifestations of Pion-Nucleon Scattering
in Nuclear Pion Absorption.” Physics Letters 107B(1981) :23.

Kimble, R. A.; Kahn, S. M.; and Bowyer, S. “Discovery of a Large Ampli-
tude Photometric Wave in the RS CVn Binary BD+61° 1211 (= DM UMa)
and Constraints on Starspot Models for the Observed Variations.” Astro-
physical Journal 251(1981) :585.

Kirby, K.; Uzer, T.; Allison, A. C.; and Dalgarno, A. “Dissociative Photo-
ionization of He at 26.9 and 30.5 eV.” Journal of Chemical Physics 75(1981):
2820-25.

Koch, D.; Fazio, G. G.; Traub, W. A.; Rieke, G. H.; Gautier, T. N.; Hoffman,
W. F.; Low, F. J.; Poteet, W.; Young, E. T.; Urban, E. W.; and Katz, L.
“Infrared Telescope on Spacelab 2.” Optical Engineering 21(1982) :141—47.

Kohl, J. L.; Lafyatis, G. P.; and Parkinson, W. H. [Abstract] “Ion Beam

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 481
Measurements of Electron Excitation Coefficients.” Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society 13(1981) :911.

Kohl, J. L., and Weiser, H. “Shuttle Contamination Effects on UV Corona-
graph Observations.” In Shuttle Optical Environment, SPIE volume 287,
eds. E. R. Miller and G. G. Fazio, pp. 35-46. Bellingham, Washington:
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1981.

Kohl, J. L., and Withbroe, G. L. “EUV Spectroscopic Plasma Diagnostics
for the Solar Wind Acceleration Region.” Astrophysical Journal 256(1982):
263-70.

Kohl, J. L.; Withbroe, G. L.; Weiser, H.; MacQueen, R. M.; and Munro, R. H.
“Coronagraphic Measurements of the Solar Wind Acceleration Region.”
E@S Transactions of the American Geophysical Union 62(1981) :376.

. “The Spacelab Lyman Alpha and White Light Coronagraph Pro-
gram.” Space Science Review 29(1981) :419.

Kurucz, R. L. [Abstract] “An Improved Theoretical Solar Photospheric
Model.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :888.

Kwong, H. S.; Smith, P. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Laser-Excitation Technique
for the Measurement of Absolute Transition Probabilities of Weak
Atomic Lines.” Physical Review A 25(1982) :2619.

Kylafis, N. D., and Lamb, D. Q. “X and UV Radiation from Accreting
Nonmagnetic and Weakly Magnetic Degenerate Dwarfs. II.” Astrophysical
Journal Supplement Series 48(1982) :239-72.

. “X-Ray Emission from White Dwarf.” In Galactic X-Ray Sources,
eds. P. W. Sanford, P. Laskarides, and J. Salton, pp. 229-30. Chichester,
England: Wiley, 1982.

Lafyatis, G. P., and Kohl, J. L. [Abstract] “Cross-Section Measurement for
Electron Impact Excitation of C*.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 26(1981) :1313.

Lamb, D. Q. “Neutron Stars, a Review of Pulsars.” Science 215(1982) :1091—92.

. “Surface and Magnetospheric Physics of Neutron Stars and Gamma-
Ray Bursts.” In Gamma Ray Transients and Related Astrophysical Phe-
nomena, AIP Conference Proceedings No. 77, eds. R. E. Lingenfelter,
H. S. Hudson, and D. M. Worrall, pp. 249-72. New York: American Insti-
tute of Physics, 1982.

Lamb, D. Q.; Latimer, J. M.; Pethick, C. J.; and Ravenhall, D. G. “Physical
Properties of Hot Dense Matter: The Bulk Equilibrium Approximation.”
Nuclear Physics A 360(1981) :459-82.

Lawrence, A., and Elvis, M. “Obscuration and the Various Kinds of Seyfert
Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 256(1982) :410.

. [Abstract] “The Nature of the Obscuring Region in Seyfert Galaxies.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981):531.

Leahy, D.; Darbro, W.; Elsner, R. F.; Naranan, S.; Weisskopf, M. C.;
Sutherland, R. G.; Ghosh, P.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Kahn, S. M. [Abstract]
“Search for Periodic Pulsation in Four Globular Cluster X-Ray Sources.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :866.

Lecar, M., and Katz, J. “Stability of the Grand Micro-Canonical Ensemble.”
Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :983-86.

Lester, J. B.; Lane, M. C.; and Kurucz, R. L. “A Study of Convective Model
Stellar Atmospheres using a Modified Mixing Length Theory.” Astro-
physical Journal 260(1982) :272-85.

Lightman, A. P. “Are There People after Science?” Smithsonian Magazine,
November (1981).

. “Is the Earth Round or Flat?” Science 82(March) (1982).

—.. “Origins.” Science 82(1982) :18-19.

. “Relativistic Plasmas: Pair Processes and Equilibria.” Astrophysical

Journal 253(1983) :842.

482 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “Science on the Right Side of the Brain.” Science 82(1982) :28—30.

. “The Equivalence Principle as a Foundation for Gravitational The-

ories.” In After Einstein: Proceedings of the Einstein Centenary Conference

at Memphis State University, eds. P. Barker and C. G. Shugart, pp. 57-65.

Memphis, Tenn.: Memphis State University Press, 1981.

. “The Institute of Astronomy.” Science 82(1982) :22—24.

. “Time Travel and Papa Joe’s Pipe.” Smithsonian Magazine, October

(1981).

. “Too Much from Too Little?” In Revealing the Universe: Prediction
and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Lightman, pp. 131-45.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

Lightman, A. P., and Band, D. L. “Relativistic Thermal Plasmas: Radiation
Mechanisms.” Astrophysical Journal 251(1981) :713.

Lightman, A. P.; Lamb, D. Q.; and Rybicki, G. B. “Comptonization by Cold
Electrons.” Astrophysical Journal 248(1981) :738—50.

Linsky, J. L.; Bornmann, P. L.; Carpenter, K. G.; Wing, R.; Giampapa, M. S.;
Worden, S. P.; and Hege, E. K. “Outer Atmospheres of Cool Stars.” XII.
A Survey of IUE Ultraviolet Emission Line Spectra of Cool Dwarf Stars.”
Astrophysical Journal 260(1982) :670—94.

Lombardi, G. G.; Cardon, B. L.; and Kurucz, R. L. “Measurements of the
Absolute Oscillator Strengths and Total Line Widths of the Neutral Alumi-
num (Al I) Autoionizing Multiple 3s°3p°P — 3s3p*’P at 176 nm.” Astro-
physical Journal 248(1981) :1202-8.

Lombardi, G. G.; Smith, P. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Measurement of the
Absolute Photoionization Cross Section of the 3p*P® Term of Neutral
Magnesium.” Physical Review A 24(1981) :326.

London, R. A., and Flannery, B. P. “Hydrodynamics of X-Ray Induced
Stellar Winds.” Astrophysical Journal 258(1982) :260-69.

Maccacaro, T.; Danziger, J.; Giommi, P.; Griffiths, R. E.; Liebert, J.; Lub, J.;
Stocke, J.; and Stockman, H. [Abstract] “On the Space Density of BL Lac
Objects.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :650.

Maccacaro, T.; Feigelson, E.; Fener, M.; Giacconi, R.; Gioia, I. M.; Grif-
fiths, R.; Murray, S.; Zamorani, G.; Stocke, J.; and Liebert, J. “A Medium
Sensitivity Survey Using the Einstein Observatory: The Log N-—Log S
Relation for Extragalactic X-Ray Sources.” Space Science Review 30(1981):
Zo:

Maccacaro, T.; Feigelson, E.; Fener, M.; Giacconi, R.; Griffiths, R.; Mur-
ray, S.; Zamorani, G.; Stocke, J.; and Liebert, J. “A Medium-Sensitivity
X-Ray Survey Using the Einstein Observatory: The Log N—Log S Relation
for Extragalactic X-Ray Sources. Astrophysical Journal 253(1982) :504—11.

Maccacaro, T.; Feigelson, E. D.; Giacconi, R.; Gioia, I. M.; Griffiths, R. E.;
Liebert, J.; Murray, S. S.; Stocke, J.; and Zamorani, G. “The Einstein
Observatory Medium Sensitivity Survey.” In X-Ray Astronomy, Proceed-
ings of the XV ESLAB Symposium, ed. D. Andersen, pp. 75-80. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

Maccacaro, T., and Perola, G. C. “X-Ray Observations of NGC 7582 and the
Grus Quartet with the Einstein Observatory.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 246(1981) :L11.

Maccacaro, T.; Perola, G. C.; and Elvis, M. “X-Ray Observations of Time
Variability and Photoelectric Cut-Off in Four Narrow Emission Line
Galaxies.” Space Science Review 30(1981) :61.

. “X-Ray Observations with the Einstein Observatory of Emission
Line Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 257 (1982) :47-55.

MacDonald, A.; Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; and Van Speybroeck, L.
[Abstract] “X-Ray Images of Late-Type Galaxies.” Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Astronomical Society 14(1982) :659.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 483
Madejski, G.; Schwartz, D. A.; and Ku, W. H. -M. [Abstract] “Can Relativ-
istic Beaming Reconcile the Einstein Observatory X-Ray Data with the
Synchrotron Self-Compton Predictions in Compact Extragalactic Sources?”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :822.

Marsden, B. G. Catalogue of Cometary Orbits, 4th ed. (International Astro-
nomical Union Central Bureau for Telegrams and Minor Planet Center,
Cambridge, Mass.), 1982.

[Abstract] “Identifications of Minor Planets.” Bulletin of the

American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :580-81.

. “Magnetic Tape of Observations of Minor Planets.” Minor Planet

Center 229(1981) :184 entries.

. “Magnetic Tape of Observations of Minor Planets and Comets.”

2d edition, Minor Planet Center 266(1982).

, ed. and contributor. [AU Circulars, Nos. 3641-3727, 1982.

. Minor Planet Circulars, Nos. 6221-7166, 1982.

Marsden, B. G., and Bardwell, C. M. Catalogue of Discoveries and Identifi-
cations of Minor Planets (Minor Planet Center, Cambridge, Mass.), 1982.

. Catalogue of Orbits of Unnumbered Minor Planets (Minor Planet
Center, Cambridge, Mass.), 1982.

Marsden, B. G., and Roemer, R. “Basic Information and References.” In [AU
Colloquium No. 61 (1982) :707-33.

Marshall, H.; Tananbaum, H.; Avni, Y.; Zamorani, G.; Braccesi, A.; Zitelli, J.;
and Huchra, J. [Abstract] “The QSO Number Density and Contribution
to the 2 Kev X-Ray Background.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 13(1982) :848.

Martin, C.; Basri, G.; Lampton, M.; and Kahn, S. [Abstract] “Evidence for
Photospheric Soft X-Ray Emission from Sirius B.” Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society 14(1982) :810.

Marvin, U. B., ed. Antarctic Meteorites: An International Resource for
Scientific Research. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1981.

. “The Search for Antarctic Meteorites.” Sky and Telescope 2(5) (1981):
423-27.

Marvin, U. B., and Mason, B., eds. “Catalog of Meteorites from Victoria
Land, Antarctica.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences No. 24.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Mason, K.; Spinrad, H.; Bowyer, S.; Reichert, G.; and Stauffer, J. “Optical
Spectrophotometry of the Suspected X-Ray Cluster of Galaxies E 1455+
2232.’ Astronomical Journal 86(1981) :803.

Matilsky, T.; Schrader, C.; and Tananbaum, H. “Evidence for 200 Second
Variability in the X-Ray Flux of the Quasar 1525+227.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters) 258(1982) :L1-L6.

McBreen, B.; Fazio, G. G.; and Jaffe, D. T. “High Resolution Far-Infrared
Observations of the Evolved H II Region M16.” Astrophysical Journal
254(1982) :126.

McMillan, S. L. W.; Lightman, A. P.; and Cohn, H. “Luminosity Evolution
of Quasars and Active Galaxies: Theoretical Models of the Evolving Mass
Supply Rate.” Astrophysical Journal 251(1981) :436.

Melnick, G. J.; Russell, R. W.; Gull, G. E.; and Harwit, M. “Far-Infrared
Emission Line and Continuum Observations of NGC 7027.” Astrophysical
Journal 243(1981) :170.

Mewe, R.; Gronenschild, E. H. B. M.; Westergaard, N. J.; Heise, J.;
Seward, F. D.; Chlebowski, T.; Kuin, N. P. M.; Brinkman, A. C.,;
Dijkstra, J. H.; and Schnopper, H. W. “X-Ray Spectrum of Capella and
Its Relation to Coronal Structure and Ultraviolet Emission.” Astrophysical
Journal 260(1982) :233-39.

Miller, E. R., and Fazio, G. G., eds. Shuttle Optical Environment, SPIE

484 / Smithsonian Year 1982
volume 287. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instru-
mentation Engineers, 1981.

Moran, J. M. “Maser Actions in Nature.” In CRC Handbook on Laser
Science and Technology, Lasers in All Media, vol. 1, ed. M. J. Weber.
Boca Raton, Fla.: CRC Press, 1981.

. [Abstract] “Statistical Properties of the Radiation Fields from H2O
Masers.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :508.

Moran, J. M.; Garay, G.; and Reid, M. J. [Abstract] “A Compact Radio
Source Associated with the Becklin-Neugebauer Object.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :852.

Mould, J.; Balick, B.; Bothun, G. D.; and Aaronson, M. “The Peculiar Disk
Galaxy U7576.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 260(1982):L37—L40.

Mundt, R., and Giampapa, M. S. “Observations of Rapid Line Profile Vari-
ability in the Spectra of T Tauri Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 255(1982):
156.

Munro, R. H.; Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; and Withbroe, G. L. [Abstract]
“Coronal Outflow Velocities: 1980 Rocket Measurements.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 13(1982) :912.

Murray, S. S. “The Einstein Observatory—An X-Ray Eye in the Sky.”
Science Year. Chicago: World Book, 1981.

Naranan, S.; Darbro, W.; Elsner, R. F.; Leahy, D.; Weisskopf, M. C.;
Sutherland, P. G.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Kahn, S. M. [Abstract] “A Study
of Pulsing X-Ray Sources.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
14(1982) :866.

Noyes, R. W. “A Matter of Degrees.” In Revealing the Universe: Prediction
and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Lightman, pp. 85-100.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

. “Solar Activity.” In The Twentieth Century Encyclopedia. Rome:

Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana, 1981.

. “The Growth and Decay of Magnetic Activity in Lower Main

Sequence Stars.” In Second Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar

Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special

Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 41-48, 1982.

. “The Sun as a Star.” In Solar Phenomena in Stars and Stellar Sys-
tems, Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Study Institute, eds. R. M. Bon-
net and A. K. Dupree, pp. 1-32. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1981.

Noyes, R. W., and Rosner, R. “Ring Around the Sun.” The Sciences 32(1981):
15-16.

Olive, K. A. “The Quark-Hadron Transition in Heavy Ion Collisions and the
Equation of State of Dense Nuclear Matter.” In Proceedings of the Inter-
national Workshop on the Gross Properties of Nuclei and Nuclear Excita-
tions X, ed. H. Feldmeier, pp. 123-25. Hirschegg, Austria: Institut fur
Kernphysik Technische Hochschule Darmstadt, 1982.

. “The Quark-Hadron Transition in Systems with Net Baryon Num-

ber.” Nuclear Physics B 198(1982) :461-73.

. “The Thermodynamics of the Quark-Hadron Phase Transition in the
Early Universe.” Nuclear Physics B 190[FS3] (1981) :483-503.

Olive, K. A., and Schramm, D. N. “OB Associations and the Nonuniversality
of the Cosmic Abundances: Implications for Cosmic Rays and Meteorites.”
Astrophysical Journal 257 (1982) :276-82.

Olive, K. A.; Schramm, D. N.; Steigman, G.; Turner, M. S.; and Yang, J.
“Big Bang Nucleosynthesis as a Probe of Cosmology and Particle Physics.”
Astrophysical Journal 246(1981) :557—68.

Olive, K. A., and Turner, M. S. “Comment on the Consistency of the

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 485
Standard Model of Primordial Nucleosynthesis.” Physics Review Letters

46(1981) :516.

. “Cosmological Bounds on the Masses of Stable Right-Handed Neu-
trinos.” Physical Review D 25(1982) :213-16.

Orphanos, L.; Altemus, R.; Gugelot, P.; Kallne, J.; McCarthy, J.; Mine-
hart, R.; Gram, P.; Hoistad, B.; Morris, C.; Wadlinger, E.; and Perdrisat, C.
[Abstract] “Pion Single Charge Exchange in *He at 285, 425, 525 MeV.”
Bulletin of the American Physical Society 26(1981) :25.

Orphanos, L.; Kallne, J.; Altemus, R.; Gugelot, P. C.; McCarthy, J. S.; Mine-
hart, R. M.; Gram, P. A. M.; Hoistad, B.; Morris, C. L.; Wadlinger, E. A.;
and Perdrisat, C. “The (77,n) Reaction in **He and aN Resonances.” Physi-
cal Review Letters 46(1981) :1562.

Owocki, S. P., and Scudder, J. D. “The Ionization State of a Gas with a Non-
Maxwellian Electron Distribution.” In Second Cambridge Workshop on
Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-
servatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 1, pp. 107-12, 1982.

Pallavicini, R.; Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. ““Chromospheric Emis-
sion, Stellar Rotation, and X-Ray Coronae.” In Second Cambridge Work-
shop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 77-86, 1982.

Palumbo, G. G. C.; Maccacaro, T.; Marano, B.; Panagia, N.; Vettolani, G.:
and Zamorani, G. “A Study of M100 in X-Rays and at Other Frequencies.”
Space Science Reviews 30(1981) :143.

Palumbo, G. G. C.; Maccacaro, T.; Panagia, N.; Vettolani, G.; and Zamo-
rani, G. “Observations of M100 with the Einstein Observatory Shortly
After the Explosion of Its Fourth Supernova SN 1979c.” Astrophysical
Journal 247 (1981) :484.

Patterson, J. “Distinguishing between a White Dwarf and a Neutron Star in
an X-Ray Binary.” Nature 292(1981) :810.

. [Abstract] “DQ Herculis and the Seven Dwarfs.” Bulletin of the

American Astronomical Society 12(1981) :840.

. “Rapid Oscillations in Cataclysmic Variables. VI. Periodicities in
Erupting Dwarf Novae.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 45(1981):
OILZs

Patterson, J.; McGraw, J. T.; Coleman, L.; and Africano, J. “A Photometric
Study of the Dwarf Nova WZ Sagittae in Outburst.” Astrophysical Journal
248 (1981) :1067.

Patterson, J., and Price, C. “AM Herculis at Minimum: The Enchanted
Forest.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 93(1981):71.

. “Rapid Oscillations in Cataclysmic Variables, V. H2252-035, a Single-
Sideband X-Ray and Optical Pulsar.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 243
(1981) :L83.

Patterson, J.; Schwartz, D. A.; Bradt, H.; Remillard, R.; McHardy, I. L.;
Pye, J. P.; Williams, G.; Fesen, R. A.; and Szkody, P. [Abstract] “Identi-
fication of the Bright X-Ray Source 3A1148+719 with the Cataclysmic
Variable YY Draconis.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
14(1982) :618.

Patterson, J.; Williams, G.; and Hiltner, W. A. “The Amazing X-Ray Light
Curve of 2A0311-227.” Astrophysical Journal 245(1981) :618.

Peres, G.; Rosner, R.; Serio, S.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Coronal Closed Struc-
tures: IV. Hydrodynamical Stability and Response to Heating Perturba-
tions.” Astrophysical Journal 252(1982) :791-99.

Perola, G. C.; Boksenberg, A.; Bromage, G. E.; Clavel, J.; Elvis, M.;
Elvius, A.; Gondhalekar, P. M.; Lind, J.; Lloyd, C.; Penston, M. V.;
Pettini, M.; Snijders, M. A. J.; Tanzi, E. G.; Tarenghi, M.; Ulrich, M. H.;
and Warwick, R. S. “Detailed Observations of NGC 4151 with IUE. II.

486 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Variability of the Continuum from 1978 February to 1980 May, Including
X-Ray and Optical Observations.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society 200(1982) :293—312.

. “Ultraviolet and X-Ray Observations of NGC 4151.” Space Science
Reviews 30(1981) :119—22.

Preskill, J., and Weinberg, S. “ ‘Decoupling’ Constraints on Massless Com-
posite Particles.” Physical Review D 24(1981) :1059.

Press, W. H. “A Tale of Two Theories.” In Revealing the Universe: Pre-
diction and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Lightman, pp.
175-91. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

. “Galaxies May Be Single Particle Fluctuations from an Early False-
Vacuum Era.” In Cosmology and Particles, Proceedings of the Moriond
Astrophysics Meeting 1981, eds. J. Audouze et al. Dreux, France: Editions
Frontiéres, 1981.

Press, W. H., and Davis, M. “How to Identify and Weigh Virialized Clusters
of Galaxies in a Complete Redshift Catalog.” Astrophysical Journal 259
(1982) :449-73.

Press, W. H., and Rybicki, G. B. “Enhancement of Passive Diffusion and
Suppression of Heat Flux in a Fluid with Time-Varying Shear.” Astro-
physical Journal 248(1981) :751.

Raghunathan, V.; Perdrisat, C. F.; Altemus, R.; Gugelot, P. C.; Kallne, J.;
McCarthy, J.; Minehart, R.; Orphanos, L.; Gram, P. A. M.; Hoistad, B.;
Morris, C.; and Wadlinger, E. [Abstract] “Study of Break-Up of ‘He by
m at Energies 285-575 MeV.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society
26(1981) :25.

. [Abstract] “Many-Body Final States of m + He.” Bulletin of the
American Physical Society 26(1981) :565.

Raymond, J. C. “Ultraviolet Spectra of the X-Ray Transient A0538-66.”
Astrophysical Journal 258(1982) :240—44.

Raymond, J. C., and Doyle, J. G. “The Energy Balance in Coronal Holes and
Average Quiet Sun Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 247 (1981) :686.

Raymond, J. C., and Foukal, P. “The Thermal Structure of Solar Coronal
Loops and Implications for Physical Models of Coronae.” Astrophysical
Journal 253(1981) :323.

Raymond, J. C., and Rosner, R. “Models of Transition Region and Coronal
Plasma in Solar Loop ‘Loop’ Structures.” In Second Cambridge Workshop
on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 1, pp. 15-22, 1982.

Reid, M. J.; Schmitt, J.; Owen, F. N.; Booth, R. S.; Wilkinson, P. N.; Shaffer,
D. B.; Johnston, K. J.; and Hardee, P. F. “VLBI Observations of M87.” In
Extragalactic Radio Sources, eds. D. Heeschen and C. Wade. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

Roberge, W., and Dalgarno, A. ‘“Collision-Induced Dissociation of Hz and CO
Molecules.” Astrophysical Journal 255(1982) :176-80.

. “The Formation and Destruction of HeH* in Astrophysical Plasmas.”
Astrophysical Journal 255(1982) :489-96.

Rodriguez, L. F.; Torrelles, J. M.; and Moran, J. M. “Radio Continuum and
Carbon Monoxide Observations of V645 Cygni (GL2789).” Astronomical
Journal 86(1981) :1245-49.

Roemer, E.; Marsden, B. G.; Kresak, L.; Kozai, Y.; and Taylor, G. E. “IAU
Commission 20.” In Reports on Astronomy 1982, ed. P. A. Wayman, vol.
XVIII A, pp. 195-210. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1982.

Rogers, A. E. E., and Moran, J. M. “Coherence Limits for Very Long Baseline
Interferometry.” IEEE Transactions on Instruments and Methods IM-30
(1981) :283-86.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 487
Rosen, W. A.; Foukal, P. V.; Kurucz, R. L.; and Pierce, A. K. “Variations in
the Photospheric Limb Darkening as a Diagnostic of Changes in Solar
Luminosity.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 253(1982) :L89-L93.

Rosner, R.; Avni, Y.; Bookbinder, J.; Giacconi, R.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R.
Jr.; Maxson, C. W.; Topka, K.; and Vaiana, G. S. “The Stellar Contribution
to the Galactic Soft X-Ray Background.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
249(1981) :L5-L9.

Russell, R. W.; Melnick, G.; Smyers, S. D.; Kurtz, N. T.; Gosnell, T. R.; Har-
wit, M.; and Werner, M. “Giant [C II] Haloes Around H II Regions.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 250(1981) :L35.

Schechter, P.; Aaronson, M.; Huchra, J.; Mould, J.; and Tully, R. B. [Ab-
stract] “The Velocity Field of the Local Supercluster.” Bulletin of the Amer-
ican Astronomical Society 13(1982) :799.

Schneps, M. H.; Haschick, A. D.; Wright, E. L.; and Barrett, A. H. “The
Stellar Wind Bubble NGC 2359. I: CO, VLA and Optical Observations.”
Astrophysical Journal 243(1981) :184—96.

Schneps, M. H.; Lane, A. P.; Downes, D.; Moran, J. M.; Genzel, R.; and Reid,
M. J. “Proper Motions and Distances of HzO Maser Sources. III. W51-
NORTH.” Astrophysical Journal 249(1981) :124—33.

Schommer, R.; Sullivan, W.; and Bothun, G. D. “Spiral Galaxies in Clusters
II. Neutral Hydrogen Observations in Cancer, Pegasus I and Hercules.”
Astronomical Journal 86(1981) :943.

Schramm, D. N., and Olive, K. A. “Quark-Hadron Phase Transition in the
Early Universe and Tests with Heavy Ion Physics.” In Proceedings of the
International Workshop on the Gross Properties of Nuclei and Nuclear
Excitations IX, ed. H. Feldmeier, pp. 6-8. Hirschegg, Austria: Institut fur
Kernphysik Technische Hochschule Darmstadt, 1981.

Schwartz, D. A.; Ferrara, A.; Garcia, M.; Patterson, J.; Steiner, J.; Doxsey,
R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; McClintock, J.; Remillard, R.; McHardy, I.; Rye,
J. P.; Warwick, R. S.; and Watson, M. [Abstract] “Discovery of Two X-Ray
Emitting Be Stars with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :834.

Schwartz, D. A.; Garcia, M.; Patterson, J.; Ralph, E.; Roberts, W.; Doxsey, R.;
Johnston, M. D.; Wood, K.; Meekins, J.; Yentis, D.; Bleach, R.; and Mc-
Clintock, J. [Abstract] “Precise Locations of HEAO-1 X-Ray Sources.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :558.

Schwartz, D. A.; Garcia, M.; Ralph, E.; Doxsey, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; Law-
rence, A.; McHardy, I. M.; and Pye, J. P. “Identification of the Fast, High
Galactic Latitude Transient A0000+28 with the RS CVn Systems HD-
224085.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 196(1981):
95-100.

Schwartz, D. A.; Madejski, G.; and Ku, W. H.-M. “X-Ray Emission from
BL Lac Objects: Comparison to the Synchrotron Self-Compton Models.” In
Extragalactic Radio Sources, IAU Smyposium No. 97, eds. D. S. Heeschen
and C. M. Wade, p. 383. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Com-
pany, 1982.

Schwartz, D. A.; Patterson, J.; Bradt, H.; Remillard, R.; Mushotzky, R. F.;
and Johnston, M. D. [Abstract] “Discovery of a Rich Cluster of Galaxies
in Triangulum Australe Identified with the Bright X-Ray Source 4U1631-
64.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 14(1982) :660.

Schwarz, J.; Stewart, G,; and Fabian, A. C. [Abstract] “Limits to Gas Tem-
perature Variations in the Central Regions of the Centaurus Cluster of
Galaxies.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :869.

Seward, F. D., and Harnden, F. R., Jr. “A New Fast Pulsar in the Supernova
Remnant MSH15-5(2).” Astrophysical Journal Letters) 256(1982) :L45—-L47.

Smith, P. L.; Black, J. H.; and Oppenheimer, M. “Ultraviolet Absorption

488 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Studies of HO and Other Species in Comet Comae with Satellite Telescope

Spectrometers.” Icarus 47(1981) :441.

. “Ultraviolet Absorption Studies of HxO and Other Species in Comet
Comae with Satellite Telescope Spectrometers.” Icarus 47(1981) :441.

Smith, P. L.; Lombardi, G. G.; Cardon, B. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Vacuum
Ultraviolet Mach-Zehnder Interferometer with CaF2 Optics.” Applied Optics
20(1981) :647—49.

Soderblom, D. R. “Rotation in G and K Dwarfs.” In Second Cambridge Work-
shop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 197-98, 1982.

Spinrad, H.; Stauffer, J.; and Butcher, H. “Spectroscopy and Photometry of
3C427.1 and 3C13: Distant Radio Galaxies with z > 1.0 uw.” Astrophysical
Journal 244(1981) :382.

Stacey, G.; Kuttz, N.; Smyers, S.; Harwit, M.; Russell, R.; and Melnick, G.
“The Mass of Hot, Shocked CO in Orion: First Observations of the
J] = 17 > 16 Transition at 153 Microns.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
257 (1982) :L37.

Steiner, J.; Grindlay, J.; and Maccacaro, T. “Discovery of Two Active Galac-
tic Nuclei in Clusters of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 259(1982) :482-85.

Steiner, J. E.; Schwartz, D. A.; Jablonski, F. J.; Busko, D. C.; Pye, J. P.;
McHardy, I. M.; and Watson, M. G. “Identification of 4U1849-31 with
V1223 Sgr and Discovery of Optical Pulsations.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 249(1981) :L21—-L24.

Stencel, R. E.; Worden, S. P.; and Giampapa, M. S. “UV Chromospheric and
Circumstellar Diagnostic Features Among F Supergiant Stars.” In The Uni-
verse at Ultraviolet Wavelengths: The First Two Years of IUE, NASA Con-
ference Publication 2171, ed. R. D. Chapman, pp. 311-16. Washington, D.C.:
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1981.

Sulkanen, M. E.; Brasure, L. W.; and Patterson, J. “Accretion Disk Radii in
Cataclysmic Variables.” Astrophysical Journal 244(1981) :579.

Stier, M. T.; Jaffe, D. T.; Fazio, G. G.; Roberge, W. G.; Thum, C.; and Wil-
son, T. L. “A High Resolution Far-Infrared Survey of a Section of the
Galactic Plane: II. Far-Infrared, CO, and Radio Continuum Results.” Astro-
physical Journal Supplement Series 48(1982) :127—43.

Stocke, J.; Liebert, J.; Maccacaro, T.; Griffiths, R. E.; and Steiner, J. “Dis-
covery of a Narrow Line Quasar.” Astrophysical Journal 252(1982) :69-74.

Sugimoto, D.; Lamb, D. Q.; and Schramm, D., eds. Fundamental Problems in
the Theory of Stellar Evolution, Proceedings [AU Symposium No. 93. New
York: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

Sullivan, W.; Bothun, G. D.; and Schommer, R. “Spiral Galaxies in Clusters.
I. Neutral Hydrogen Observations in Abell 1367, Coma and Zwicky 74-23.”
Astrophysical Journal 86(1981) :919.

Szkody, P.; Crosa, L.; Bothun, G. D.; Downes, R.; and Schommer, R. “The
Cataclysmic Variable X794 Aql.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 249(1981):
Lé1.

Tananbaum, H. “The Farthest and the Brightest.” In Revealing the Universe:
Prediction and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Lightman,
pp. 115-45. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1981.

. “X-Ray Astronomy with the Einstein Observatory.” Uhuru Memorial
Symposium, Journal of Washington Academy of Science 71(1981) :1.

Tananbaum, H., and Marshall, H. “X-Ray and Optical Observations of Qua-
sars.” In Extragalactic Radio Sources, eds. D. S. Heeschen and C. M. Wade,
pp. 269-77. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

Tatchyn, R.; Lindau, I.; Hecht, M.; Kallne, E.; Spiller, E.; Barlett, R.; Kallne,
J.; Diikstra, J. H.; Hawryluck, A.; and Bachrach, R. Z. “High Quality
Fraunhofer Diffraction Spectra taken at SSRL in the Soft X-Ray Range.”

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 489
In Low Energy X-Ray Diagnostics, AIP Conference Proceedings No. 75, eds.
D. T. Attwood and B. L. Henke, pp. 297-300. New York: American Insti-
tute of Physics, 1981.

Taylor, G. J., and Marvin, U. B. “How, When and Where Did the Apollo 16
Breccias and Melt Rocks Form?” Lunar and Planetary Institute Technical
Report No. 81-01, pp. 9-12. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute,
1981.

Topka, K.; Avni, Y.; Golub, L.; Gorenstein, P.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Rosner, R.;
and Vaiana, G. S. “A Magnitude Limited Stellar X-Ray Survey and the
F Star X-Ray Luminosity Function.” Astrophysical Journal 259(1982):
677-92.

Torrelles,; J; M.; Rodriguez, L. E-; Ganto; J.; Moran, J. M.; Ho, P) i. Py sand
Marcaide, J. [Abstract] “Ammonia Observations of Regions with Bipolar
Mass Outflow.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1981):
854.

Traub, W. A., and Chance, K. V. “Stratospheric HF and HCl Observations.”
Geophysical Research Letters 8(1981) :1075—77.

Trinchieri, G., and Fabbiano, G. [Abstract] “X-Ray Maps of Peculiar Galax-
ies.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1982) :299.

Tucker, W. H. “Creative Violence.” Science Digest (March) (1981) :12.

. “Dinosaur Mystery.” Science Digest (May)(1981) :14.

——.. “Reflections from Indra’s Web.” Griffith Observer (July) (1981) :8.

———. “Supershells.” Omni (1982) :124.

——.. “The Magellanic Clouds.” Astronomy (October) (1981) :42.

. “The Matter of the Missing Mass.” Mercury (July) (1981) :107.

. “The Missing Mass Mystery.” Science Digest (September) (1981) :12.

. “The Origin of Cosmic Rays.” Mercury XI (1)(1982) :34.

Tucker, W. H., and Tucker, K. “Much Ado About Nothing.” Science Digest
(June) (1981) :19.

Turver, K. E., and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma Rays Above 100 GeV.” Philosophi-
cal Transactions of the Royal Society of London A 301(1981) :493.

Vaiana, G. S.; Golub, L.; Maxson, C. W.; Rosner, R.; and Zombeck, M. V.
“STCOEX: The Stellar X-Ray Coronal Explorer.” In Second Cambridge
Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 2, pp. 253-60, 1982.

van Riper, K. A., and Lamb, D. Q. “Neutron Star Evolution and Results from
the Einstein X-Ray Observatory.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 244(1981):
L13-L17.

Vaughan, A. H.; Baliunas, S. L.; Middelkeep, F.; Hartmann, L. W.; Mihalas,
D.; Noyes, R. W.; and Preston, G. W. “Stellar Rotation in Lower Main-
Sequence Stars Measured from Time Variations in H and K Emission-Line
Fluxes. I. Initial Results.” Astrophysical Journal 250(1981) :276-83.

Vessot, R. F. C. “Rockets, Clocks, and Gravity.” In Revealing the Universe:
Prediction and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Lightman,
pp. 31-46. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

Watson, W. C.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Seward, F. [Abstract] “The X-Ray Lobes
of SS433.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1982) :834.
Weast, G. J.; Durisen, R. H.; Imamura, J. N.; Kylafis, N. D.; and Lamb, D. Q.
“Effects of Nuclear Burning on X-Ray and UV Emission from Accreting
Degenerate Dwarfs.” In Fundamental Problems in the Theory of Stellar
Evolution, Proceedings of [AU Symposium No. 93, eds. D. Sugimoto, D. Q.
Lamb, and P. Schramm, p. 234. New York: D. Reidel Publishing Company,

1981.

Weekes, T. C. “CCD Photometry of Edge-On Spirals in the Ursa Major and
Cancer Clusters.” Astronomical Journal 86(1981) :1415.

. “A Fast Large Aperture Camera for Very High Energy Gamma Ray

490 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Astronomy.” In Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Conference
on Cosmic Rays (Paris, France), 8, 34. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Pub-
lishing Company, 1981.

. “Cosmic Ray Effects*in Charge Coupled Devices.” In Proceedings of
the Seventeenth International Conference on Cosmic Rays (Paris, France),
8, 206. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1981.

Weekes, T. C.; Danaher, S.; Fegan, D. J.; and Porter, N. A. “Correlation
between X-Ray and High Energy Gamma-Ray Emission from Cygnus X-3.”
Astronomy and Astrophysics 104(1981) :L4.

Weekes, T. C., and Geary, J. C. “Observations of Cygnus X-3 in the I-Band.”
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 94(1982) :708-12.
Weekes, T. C.; Murphy, H. P.; Schild, R.; Gursky, H.; Geary, J.; and Stephen-
son, T. “More Absorption Toward Cygnus X-3.” Publications of the Astro-

nomical Society of the Pacific 93(1981) :474.

Weinberg, S. “Color and Electroweak Forces as a Source of Quark and Lepton
Mass.” Physical Letters 102B(1981) :401.

. “Conference Summary.” In Second Workshop on Grand Unification,

pp. 297-316. Boston, Mass.: Birkhauser, 1981.

. “The Decay of the Proton.” Scientific American 244(1981) :64.

. “The Ultimate Structure of Matter.” In Proceedings of the Celebra-
tion of the 50th Anniversary of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, LBL-
13613(1981).

Weiser, H.; Kohl, J. L.; Munro, R. H.; and Withbroe, G. L. [Abstract] ‘“Re-
sults of Ly-Alpha Coronagraphic Observations Following the 1980 Eclipse.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 13(1982) :913.

Weisskopf, M. C.; Darbo, W. A.; Elsner, R. F.; Leahy, D.; Naranan, S.;
Sutherland, R. G.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Kahn, S. M. [Abstract] “Micro-
second Time Resolution Observations of Cygnus X-1.” Bulletin of the
Astronomical Society 13(1982) :866—67.

Whipple, F. L. “On Observing Comets for Nuclear Rotation.” In Modern
Observational Techniques for Comets, NASA/JPL, pp. 191-201. Greenbelt,
Md.: Goddard Space Flight Center, 1981.

. Orbiting the Sun: Planets and Satellites of the Solar System, 383 pp.

Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1981.

. “Rotation of Comet Nuclei.” In Comets: Gases, Ices, Grains and

Plasma, Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 61, ed. L. L. Wilkening,

pp. 227-50. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press, 1982.

—. ‘The Material Ingredients and Structure.” In Revealing the Universe:

Prediction and Proof in Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and A. P. Lightman,

pp. 49-63. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

. “The Nature of Comets.” In Comets and the Origin of Life, ed.

C. Ponnamperuma, pp. 1-20. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing

Company, 1982.

. “Triumphs in Space.” Harvard Magazine 84(1) (1981).

White, R. E.; Smith, C.; and Chaffee, F. H. [Abstract] “A Survey of Inter-
stellar Potassium Absorption. II. Abundances and Velocities.” Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society 13(1981) :537.

Whitney, C. A. “Whitney's Star Finder, 3d ed. New York: Alfred Knopf,
1981.

Wilson, A. S.; Wood, K.; Ward, M. J.; Griffiths, R. E.; and Mushotzky, R.
“NGC 10683B—A Possible X-Ray Emitting Seyfert Galaxy.” Astronomical
Journal 86(1981) :1289-93.

Winkler, P. F.; Canizares, C. R.; Clark, G. W.; Markert, T. H.; Kalata, K.;
and Schnopper, H. W. “A Survey of X-Ray Line Emission from the Super-
nova Remnant Puppis A.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 246(1981) :L27.

Withbroe, G. L. “Activity and Outer Atmosphere of the Sun” (Invited Lecture

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 491
Series). In Activity and Outer Atmospheres of the Sun and Stars, eds.
F. Praderie, D. Spicer, and G. Withbroe, pp. 1-88. Sauverny, Switzerland:
Observatoire de Geneve, 1981.

. “Mechanical Heating in the Chromosphere and Transition Region—

Transition Region Heating.” In The Sun as a Star, NASA/CNRS Series on

Nonthermal Stellar Atmospheres, NASA SP-450, p. 321. Washington, D.C.:

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1981.

. “Physics of Static Loop Structures” (Invited Chapter VIII of Solar
Active Regions). In Monograph from Skylab Workshop III, ed. F. Q. Orrall,
pp. 199-212. Boulder, Colo.: Colorado Associated University Press, 1981.

Withbroe, G. L.; Kohl, J. L.; Munro, R. H.; and Weiser, H. “1980 Corona-
graphic Measurements in the Solar Wind Acceleration Region.” In Second
Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No. 392, vol. 1, pp. 99-
106, 1982.

Withbroe, G. L.; Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; and Munro, R. H. “Coronagraphic
Measurements of Proton Temperature from 1.5 to 3.5 Solar Radii.” E@S
Transactions of the American Geophysical Union 62(1981) :376.

Withbroe, G. L.; Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; Noci, G.; and Munro, R. H. “Analy-
sis of Coronal H I Lyman Alpha Measurements from a Rocket Flight on
13 April 1979.” Astrophysical Journal 254(1981) :361.

Wood, J. A. “Long-Playing Records.” Natural History 90(4) (1981) :56—61.

. “Meteorites.” In The New Solar System, eds. J. K. Beatty, B. O’Leary,

and A. Chaiken, pp. 187-96. Cambridge, Mass.: Sky Publication Corpora-

tion and Cambridge University Press, 1981.

. “The Interstellar Dust as a Precursor of Ca, Al-Rich Inclusions in
Carbonaceous Chondrites.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters 56(1981):
32-44,

Zombeck, M. V. Handbook of Space Astronomy and Astrophysics. Cam-
bridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1982.

. “Stellar X-Ray Astronomy with the Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics
Facility.” In Second Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems,
and the Sun, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report No.
392, vol. 2, pp. 237-46, 1982.

Zombeck, M. V.; Braeuninger, H.; Ondrusch, A.; and Predehl, P. “High
Resolution X-Ray Scattering Measurements.” In High Resolution Soft
X-Ray Optics, SPIE vol. 316, ed. E. Spiller, pp. 174-86. Bellingham, Wash.:
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1981.

Zombeck, M. V.; Wyman, C. C.; and Weisskopf, M. C. “High Resolution
X-Ray Scattering Measurements for the Advanced X-Ray Facility (AXAF).”
Optical Engineering 21(1982) :63.

Zutavern, F.; Franch, C.; Atom, T.; Schnatterly, S.; and Kallne, E. “A Fast,
Soft X-Ray Spectrograph.” In Inner Shell and X-Ray Physics of Atoms and
Solids, eds. D. J. Fabian, H. Kleinpoppen, and L. M. Watson, pp. 913-16.
New York: Plenum Press, 1981.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Abrams, Peter. “Shell Fighting and Competition between Two Hermit Crab
Species in Panama.” Oecologia 51(1) (1981) :84—90.

Aiello, Annette. “Life History of Antaeotricha sp. (Lepidoptera: Oecophori-
dae: Stenomatinae) in Panama.” Psyche 88(1—2) (1981) :163—68.

. “Life History of Dismorphia amphiona beroe (Lepidoptera: Pieridae:
Dismorphiinae) in Panama. Psyche 87 (3—4) (1980) :171-75.

Andrews, Robin M. “Spatial Variation in Egg Mortality of the Lizard Anolis
limifrons. Herpetologica 38(1) (1982) :165-71.

Angehr, George Richard. “The Role of Interference Competition in the

492 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Organization of a Guild of Panamanian Hummingbirds.” Ph.D. disserta-
tion, University of Colorado, 1980.

Arrocha, Clotilde. “Estudio Preliminar de la Flora de Musgos Corticolas de
la Isla de Barro Colorado.” Thesis, University of Panama, 1981.

Barclay, R. M. R.; Fenton, M. B.; Tuttle, M. D.; and Ryan, M. J. “Echo-
location Calls Produced by Trachops cirrhosus (Chiroptera: Phyllostomati-
dae) while Hunting for Frogs.” Canadian Journal of Zoology 59(5)(1981):
750-53.

Bertness, Mark D. “Seasonality in Tropical Hermit Crab Reproduction in
the Bay of Panama.” Biotropica 13(4) (1981) :292-300.

Bertness, Mark D.; Garrity, Stephen D.; and Levings, Sally C. “Predation
Pressure and Gastropod Foraging: A Tropical-temperate Comparison.”
Evolution 35(5) (1981) :995—1007.

Best, Robin C.; Montgomery, G. Gene; and Yamakoshi, Megumi. “Avaliacao
de Tecnicas de Radio-rastreamento e Marcacao do Peixe-bio da Amazonia,
Trichechus inunguis (Mammalia: Sirenia).” Acta Amazonica 11(2)(1981):
247-54.

Bricefio M., Jorge “Ictiofauna del Lago Alajuela y sus Afluentes. I. Inven-
tario y Consideraciones Preliminares sobre las Relaciones Interespecificas
del Pez Sargento (Cichla ocellaris).”” ConCiencia 8(2) (1981) :15—-19.

Brokaw, Nicholas V. L. “The Definition of Treefall Gap and Its Effect on
Measures of Forest Dynamics.” Biotropica 14(2) (1982) :158-60.

Bucher, Theresa L.; Ryan, Michael J.; and Bartholomew, George A. “Oxygen
Consumption during Resting, Calling, and Nest Building in the Frog
Physalaemus pustulosus.” Physiological Zoology 55(1) (1982) :10—22.

Caldwell, Roy L. “Interspecfic Chemically Mediated Recognition in Two Com-
peting Stomatopods.” Marine Behaviour and Physiology 8(3) (1982) :189-97.

Carlisle, Tamsie Ruth. “The Evolution of Parental Care Patterns: A Syn-
thesis and a Study of the Breeding Ecology of a Cichlid Fish, Aequidens
coeruleopunctatus.” Ph.D. dissertation, University of California at Santa
Barbara.

Castillo Larrahondo, Jose A. “El Mimetismo de las Telaranas Artificiales;
Un Estudio Comparativo con las Telaranas Naturales de Metazygia gregalis
(Araneae: Araneidae).” Thesis, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia,
1981.

Clark, Milton. “Instinto Paternal y Comportamiento Sexual de Centrolenella
flieschmanni; (Anura, Centrolenidae).” Thesis, University of Panama, 1981.

Chadab-Crepet, Ruth, and Rettenmeyer, Carl W. “Comparative Behavior of
Social Wasps when Attacked by Army Ants or Other Predators and
Parasites.” In The Biology of Social Insects, eds. Michael D. Breed,
Charles D. Michener, and Howard E. Evans, pp. 270-274. Boulder, Colo.:
Westview Press, 1982.

Chadab, Ruth, and Rettenmeyer, Carl W. “Observations on Swarm Emigra-
tions and Dragging Behavior by Social Wasps (Hymenoptera: Vespidae).
Psyche 86(4) (1979) :347-52.

De Alba, Georgina y Maria Elena Leon. “Se Estudia en Panama Biologia
Reprductiva de la Iguana.” La Estrella de Panama, suplemento Istmo,
Domingo, 18 de abril de 1982.

De Steven, Diane. “Predispersal Seed Predation in a Tropical Shrub (Mabea
occidentalis, Euphorbiaceae). Biotropica 13(2) (1981) :146—50.

Dressler, Robert L. “Dos Nuevas Especies Atractivas de Oerstedella de Pan-
ama con Notas sobre el Genero.” Orquidea (Mex.) 8(2) (1982) :343-50.

. “Maxillaria insolita a New Species from Panama.” Orquideologia

14(3) (1981) :206-8.

. “Maxillaria insolita, Especie Nueva Panamena.” Orquideologia 14(3)

(1981) :203-6.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 493
. “Two Attractive New Oerstedella Species from Panama with Notes
on the Genus.” Orquidea (Mex.) 8(2) (1982) :350—54.

Dugan, Beverly A.; Rand, A. Stanley; Burghardt, Gordon M.; and Bock,
Brian C. “Interactions between Nesting Crocodiles and Iguanas.” Journat
of Herpetology 15(4) (1981) :409-14.

Eberhard, William. ‘“Bettle Horn Dimorphism: Making the Best of a Baa
Lot.” The American Naturalist 119(3) (1982) :420—26.

Eberhard, William G. “The Natural History and Behavior of the Bolas
Spider Mastophora dizzydeani Sp. N. (Areneidae).” Psyche 87(3—4) (1980):
143-69.

. “The Natural History of Doryphora sp. (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae}

and the Function of Its Sternal Horn.” Annals of the Entomological Society

of America 74(5) (1981) :445—48.

. “The Single Line Web of Phoroncidia studo Levi (Araneae: Theri-:
diidae): A Prey Attractant?” The Journal of Arachnology 9(2)(1981):
229-32.

Feekes, Francisca. “Song Mimesis within Colonies of Cacicus c. cela (Icteri-
dae, Aves). A Colonial Password?” Zeitschrift fur Tierpsychologie 58(2)
(1982) :119-52.

Franks, Nigel Rigby. “The Evolutionary Ecology of the Army Ant Eciton
burchelli on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Ph.D. dissertation, Univer-
sity of Leeds, 1980.

Franks, Nigel R. “A New Method for Censusing Animal Populations: The
Number of Eciton burchelli Army Ant Colonies on Barro Colorado Island,
Panama.” Oecologia 52(2) (1982) :266—68.

. “Social Insects in the Aftermath of Swarm Raids of the Army Ant
Eciton burchelli.” In The Biology of Social Insects, eds. Michael D. Breed,
Charles D. Michener, and Howard E. Evans, pp. 275-79. Boulder, Colo.:
Westview Press, 1982.

Fritz, Gary; Rand, A. Stanley; and dePamphilis, Claude W. “The Aposemati-
cally Colored Frog Dendrobates pumilio, is Distasteful to the Large, Preda-
tory Ant Paraponera clavata.” Biotropica 13(2) (1981) :158-59.

Froehlich, J. W.; Thorington, R. W., Jr.; and Otis, J. S. “The Demography
of Howler Monkeys (Alouatta palliata) on Barro Colorado, Panama.”
International Journal of Primatology 2(3) (1981) :207—36.

Garrity, Stephen D., and Levings, Sally C. “A Predator-prey Interaction
between Two Physically and Biologically Constrained Tropical Rocky
Shore Gastropods: Direct, Indirect and Community Effects.” Ecological
Monographs 51(3) (1981) :267—86.

Gasteazoro Brid, Gilberto, and Justine Aragon, Gustavo A. “Observaciones
sobre la Biologia de Cichla ocellaris (Perciformes: Cichlidae) en el Lago
Alajuela.” Thesis, University of Panama, 1980.

Glynn, P. W. “Coral Communities and Their Modifications Relative to Past
and Prospective Central American Seaways.” Advances in Marine Biology
19(1982) :91-132.

Gonzalez Gutierrez, Rigoberto; Munoz Aguirre, Belermina; and Soto Vega,
Dionisio. “Estudio de las Poblaciones de Insectos Actuaticos en Aguas
Loticas del Rio Frijoles, Parque Nacional Soberania.” Thesis, University
of Panama, 1981.

Gradwohl, Judy Ann. “Search Behavior of the Checker-Throated Antwren
Foraging in Aerial Leaf Litter.” Thesis (Master of Arts in Zoology), Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley, 1981.

Gradwohl, Judy Ann, and Greenberg, Russell. “The Effect of a Single Species
of Avian Predator on the Arthropods of Aerial Leaf Litter.” Ecology 63(2)
(1982) :581-83.

Graham, Jeffrey B., and Baird, Troy A. “The Transition to Air Breathing in

494 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Fishes. I. Environmental Effects on the Facultative Air Breathing of
Ancistrus chagresi and Hypostomus plecostomus (Loricariidae).” Journal
of Experimental Biology 96(1982) :53-67.

Greenberg, Russell. “The Abundance and Seasonality of Forest Canopy Birds
on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Biotropica 13(4) (1981) :241-51.

. “Frugivory in Some Migrant Tropical Forest Wood Warblers.” Bio-
tropica 13(3) (1981) :215—23.

Hahn, D. Caldwell. Asynchronous Hatching in the Laughing Gull: Cutting
Losses by Reducing Rivalry.” Animal Behaviour 29(2) (1981) :421-27.

Hay, Mark E. “The Functioning Morphology of Turf-Forming Seaweeds:
Persistence in Stressful Marine Habitats.’’ Ecology 62(3) (1981) :739-50.
Highsmith, Raymond C. “Passive Colonization and Asexual Colony Multi-
plication in the Massive Coral Porites lutea Milne & Haime.” Journal of

Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 47(1) (1980) :55—67.

Highsmith, Raymond C. “Reproduction by Fragmentation in Corals.” Marine
Ecology—Progress Series 7(2) (1982) :207—26.

Howden, H. F., and Young, O. P. “Panamanian Scarabaeinae: Taxonomy,
Distribution, and Habits (Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae).” Contributions of the
American Entomological Institute 18(1) (1981) :1—204.

Howe, Henry F. “Dispersal of a Neotropical Nutmeg (Virola sebifera) by
Birds.” The Auk 8(1) (1981) :88—98.

. Monkey Dispersal and Waste of a Neotropical Fruit.” Ecology 6(4)
(1980) :944-59.

Howe, Henry F., and Richter, Wayne M. “Effects of Seed Size on Seedling
Size in Virola surinamensis: A within and between Tree Analysis.” Oceol-
ogia 53(3) (1982) :347-51.

Howe, Henry F., and Vande Kerckhove, Gayle A. “Removal of Wild Nutmeg
(Virola surinamensis) Crops by Birds.” Ecology 62(4) (1981) :1093-106.

Jaeger, Robert G., and Hailman, Jack P. “Activity of Neotropical Frogs in
Relation to Ambient Light.” Biotropica 13(1) (1981) :59-65.

Karr, James R. “Avian Extinction on Barro Colorado Island, Panama: A
Reassessment.” The American Naturalist 119(2) (1982) :220—39.

Lamas, Gerardo; Silberglied, Robert E.; and Aiello, Annette. ‘Papilio fatima
Fabricius, 1793 (Insecta, Lepidoptera): Request for Conservation under
the Plenary Powers. Z.N. (S.) 2351.” Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature
39(1) (1982) :61-63.

Lasker, Howard R. “Phenotypic Variation in the Coral Montastrea cavernosa
and Its Effects on Colony Energetics.” The Biological Bulletin 160(2) (1981):
292-302.

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr., and Lawton, Robert O. “Why Are Elfin Forests
Stunted?” Federations Museums Journal 26 (part 1) New Series 26(part 1)
(1981) :21-31.

Lessios, H. A. “Divergence in Allopatry: Molecular and Morphological
Differentiation between Sea Urchins Separated by the Isthmus of Panama.”
Evolution 35(4) (1981) :618—34.

Levings, Sally C., and Franks, Nigel R. “Patterns of Nest Dispersion in a
Tropical Ground Ant Community.” Ecology 63(2) (1982) :338-344.

Litte, Marcia. “Social Biology of the Polistine Wasp Mischocyttarus labiatus:
Survival in a Colombia Rain Forest.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoo-
ology No. 327. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Lubin, Yeal D., and Montgomery, G. Gene. “Defenses of Nasutitermes Ter-
nites (Isoptera, Termitidae) against Tamandua Anteaters (Edentata,
Mymecophagidae).” Biotropica 13(1) (1981) :66—76.

Lubin, Yael, and Robinson, Michael. “Dispersal by Swarming in a Social
Spider.” Science 216(4543) (1982) :319-21.

McElravy, E. P.; Resh, V. H.; Wolda, H.; and Flint, O. S., Jr. “Diversity and

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 495
Adult Trichoptera in a ‘Non-seasonal’ Tropical Environment.” Proceedings
of the Third International Symposium on Trichoptera, ed. G. P. Moretti,
series Entomologica, 20. The Hague: Dr. W. Junk Pub., 1981.

Menge, Bruce A., and Lubchenco, Jane. “Community Organization in Tem-
perate and Tropical Rocky Intertidal Habitats: Prey Refuges in Relation to
Consumer Pressure Gradients.” Ecological Monographs 51(4) (1981) :429—50.

Mielke, Wolfgang. “Interstitielle Ectinosomatidae (Copepoda) von Panama.”
Mikrofauna des Meeresbodens 85(1981) :1—45.

. “Einige Laophontidae (Copepoda, Harpacticoida) von Panama.”
Crustaceana 42(1)(1982) :1-11.

Milton, Katharine. “Estimates of Parameters for Free-ranging Ateles geof-
froyi.” Primates 22(4) (1981) :574—-79.

Milton, Katharine; Windsor, Donald M.; Morrison, Douglas W.; and Estribi,
Miguel A. ‘Fruiting Phenologies of Two Neotropical Ficus Species.” Ecol-
ogy 63(3) (1982) :752-62.

Milton, Katharine, and Dintzis, Frederick R. ““Nitrogen-to-protein Conversion
Factors for Tropical Plant Samples.” Biotropica 13(3) (1981) :177—81.

Montgomery, G. Gene. “Creacion de un Refugio Nacional Panameno para
Aves Marinas en las Islas de Taboga y de Urabe.” Revista Medica de
Panama (1982) :105-20.

Montgomery, G. Gene; Best, Robin C.; and Yamakoshi, Megumi. “A Radio-
tracking Study of the Amazonian Manatee Trichecus inunguis (Mammalia:
Sirenia).”” Biotropica 13(2) (1981) :81—85.

Moodie, G. Eric E., and Power, Mary. “The Reproductive Biology of an
Armoured Catfish, Loricaria uracantha, from Central America.” Environ-
mental Biology of Fishes 7(2) (1982) :143-48.

Morgan, K. R., and Bartholomew, G. A. “Homeothermic Response to Reduced
Ambient Temperature in Scarab Beetles.” Science 216(4553) (1982) :1409-10.

Mosley, Dayra E. “La Vida Secreta del Higo.” La Estrella de Panama, supple-
mento Istmo, Domingo, 21 de marzo de 1982.

Moynihan, M. “Spatial Parameters and Interspecific Social Relations: Some
Differences between Birds and Fishes.” Journal of Theoretical Biology
95(2) (1982) :253-62.

. “Why Is Lying about Intentions Rare during Some Kinds of Con-
tests?” Journal of Theoretical Biology 97(1)(1982) :7—12.

Moynihan, Martin, and Rodaniche, Arcadio F. “The Behavior and Natural
History of the Caribbean Reef Squid Sepioteuthis sepioidea.” Advances in
Ethology, supplement to Journal of Comparative Ethology 25(1982).

Otis, Jeffrey S.; Froehlich, Jeffrey W.; and Thorington, Richard W., Jr. “Sea-
sonal and Age-related Differential Mortality by Sex in the Mantled Howler
Monkey, Alouatta palliata.” International Journal of Primatology 2(3)
(1981) :197—205.

Pressley, Peter H. “Pair Formation and Joint Territoriality in a Simultaneous
Hermaphrodite: The Coral Reef Fish Serranus tigrinus.” Zeitschrift fur
Tierpsychologie 56(1) (1981) :33—46.

Quintero, Diomedes. “The Amblypygid Genus Phrynus in the Americas
(Amblypygi, Phrynidae).” Journal of Arachnology 9(1981) :117-66.

Ramirez, Albaida C., and Serrano, Nely Ester. “Investigaciones sobre el
Comportamiento Alimenticio de Dos Especies de Bathygobius Bleeker en
el Pacifico de Panama.” Thesis, University of Panama, 1981.

Rand, A. Stanley. “Clutch and Egg Size in Brazilian Iguanid Lizards.
Herpetologica 38(1) (1982) :171—78.

Rand, A. Stanley, and Ryan, Michael J. “The Adaptive Significance of a
Complex Vocal Repertoire in a Neotropical Frog.” Zeitschrift fur Tierpsy-
chologie 57(3—4) (1981) :209-14.

Robbins, Robert K., and Small, Gordon B., Jr. “Wind Dispersal of Pana-

au

496 / Smithsonian Year 1982
manian Hairstreak Butterflies (Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae) and Its Evolu-
tionary Significance.” Biotropica 13(4) (1981) :308-15.

Roberts, Tyson R. “The Bornean Gastromyzontinae Fish Genera Gastromyzon
and Glaniopsis (Cypriniformes, Homalopteridae), with Descriptions of New
Species.” Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences 42(20)(1982):
497-524.

Roberts, Tyson R. “Sundasalangidae, a New Family of Minute Freshwater
Salmoniform Fishes from Southeast Asia.” Proceedings of the California
Academy of Sciences 42(9) (1981) :295-302.

Robertson, D. R. “The Social and Mating Systems of Two Labrid Fishes,
Halichoeres maculipinna and H. garnoti, off the Caribbean coast of
Panama.” Marine Biology 64(3) (1981) :327—40.

Robertson, D. Ross. “Fish Feces as Fish Food on a Pacific Coral Reef.”
Marine Ecology—Progress 7(3) (1982) :253—65.

Robertson, D. Ross, and Justines, Gustavo. “Protogynous Hermaphroditism
and Gonochorism in Four Caribbean Reef Gobies.” Environmental Biology
of Fishes 7(2) (1982) :137—42.

Robertson, D. R., and Allen, G. R. “Stegastes mellis (Emery et Burgess, 1974),
le juvenile de la Demoiselle caraibe Stegastes diencaeus (Jordan et Rutter,
1898).” Rev. fr. Aquariol 7(4) (1980) :109-12.

Robinson, Michael H. “Courtship and Mating Behavior in Spiders.” Annual
Review of Entomology 27 (1982) :1—20.

Robinson, Michael Hill. “The Ecology and Biogeography of Spiders in Papua
New Guinea.” Monographiae Biologicae 42(1982) :557—81.

Robinson, Michael H. “A Stick Is a Stick and Not Worth Eating: On the
Definition of Mimicry.” Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 16(1)
(1981) :15-20.

Robles, Carlos D., and Cubit, John. “Influence of Biotic Factors in an Upper
Intertidal Community: Dipteran Larvae Grazing on Algae.” Ecology 62(6)
(1981) :1536—47.

Roubik, David W. “Comparative Foraging Behavior of Apis mellifera and
Trigona corvina (Hymenoptera: Apidae) on Baltimora recta (Compositae).”
Revista de Biologia Tropical 29(2) (1981) :177-83.

. “Ecological Impact of Africanized Honeybees on Native Neotropical

Pollinators.” Social Insects in the Tropics 1:233-45.

. “The Ecological Impact of Nectar-robbing Bees and Pollinating Hum-

mingbirds on a Tropical Shrub.” Ecology 63(2) (1982) :354—60.

-. “Obligate Necrophagy in a Social Bee.” Science 217 (1982).

Roubik, David W., and Wheeler, Quentin D. “Flightless Beetles and Sting-
less Bees: Phoresy of Scotocryptine Beetles (Leiodidae) on Their Meli-
ponine Hosts (Apidae). Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society
55(1) (1982) :125-35.

Roubik, David W.; Ackerman, James D.; Copenhaver, Christine; and Smith,
Brian H. “Stratum, Tree, and Flower Selection by Tropical Bees: Implica-
tions for the Reproductive Biology of Outcrossing Cochlospermum viti-
folium in Panama.” Ecology 63(3) (1982) :712—20.

Rubinoff, Ira. “Bosques Tropicales para el Futuro.” La Estrella de Panama,
Suplemento Istmo, 20 de diciembre de 1981:12-13, 1981.

Rubinoff, Ira, and Smythe, Nicholas. “A Jungle Kept for Study.” New Scien-
tist 95(1319) (1982) :495-99.

Ryan, Michael J.; Tuttle, Merlin D.; and Rand, A. Stanley. “Bat Predation and
Sexual Advertisement in a Neotropical Anuran.” The American Naturalist
119(1) (1982) :136-39.

Ryan, Michael J.; Tuttle, Merlin D.; and Taft, Lucinda K. “The Cost and
Benefits of Frog Chorusing Behavior.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology
8(4) (1981) :273-78.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 497
Schad, Rebeca C.; Montgomery, Gene; and Chancellor, Deborah. “La Distri-
bucion y Frecuencia del Manati en el Lago Gatun y en el Canal de Pan-
ama.” ConCiencia 8(2)(1981) :1—4.

Schemske, Douglas W. “The Evolutionary Significance of Extrafloral Nectar
Production by Costus woodsoni (Zingibereaeae): An Experimental Analysis
of Ant Protection.” Journal of Ecology 68(3) (1980) :959-67.

Schemske, Douglas W. “Floral Convergence and Pollinator Sharing in Two
Bee-Pollinated Tropical Herbs.” Ecology 62(4)(1981) :946-54.

Schemske, Douglas W., and Brokaw, Nicholas. “Treefalls and the Distribu-
tion of Understory Birds in a Tropical Forest.” Ecology 62(4)(1981) :938—45.

Sebens, Kenneth P. “Intertidal Distribution of Zoanthids on the Caribbean
Coast of Panama: Effects of Predation and Desiccation.” Bulletin of Marine
Science 32(1) (1982) :316-35.

Smith, Alan P. “Growth and Population Dynamics of Espeletia (Compositae)
in the Venezuelan Andes.” Smithsonian Contributions to Botany No. 48.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Smith, Neal Griffith. ““Lesser Blackbacked Gull in Panama.” American Birds
36(3) (1982) :336—37.

Smythe, Nicholas. “Rendimiento Sostenido de Proteina Proveniente de los
Bosques Neotropicales: Una Alternativa a la Deforestacion.” Revista Medi-
ca de Panama 6(1981) :56—64.

Steiner, Kim E. ““Nectarivory and Potential Pollination by a Neotropical Mar-
supial.” Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 68(4)(1981) :505—13.

Thorne, Barbara L. “Differences in Nest Architecture between the Neotropical
Arboreal Termites (Nasutitermes corniger and Nasutitermes ephratae (Iso-
ptera: Termitidae).” Psyche 87(3—4) (1980) :235—43.

. “Multiple Primary Queens in Termites: Phyletic Distribution, Eco-

logical Context, and a Comparison to Polygyny in Hymenoptera.” In The

Biology of Social Insects, eds. Michael D. Breed, Charles D. Michener, and

Howard E. Evans, pp. 206-11. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1982.

. “Polygyny in Termites: Multiple Primary Queens in Colonies of

Nasutitermes corniger (Motschuls) (Isoptera: Termitidae).” Insectes Sociaux

(29) (1) (1982) :102-17.

. “Reproductive Plasticity in the Neotropical Termite, Nasutitermes
corniger. Social Insects in the Tropics (1) (1982) :21-29.

Toft, Catherine A. “Feeding Ecology of Panamanian Litter Anurans: Patterns
in Diet and Foraging Mode.” Journal of Herpetology 15(2):139-44.

Troyer, Katherine Elizabeth. “Behavioral and Physiological Adaptations for
Herbivory in a Neotropical Lizard, Iguana iguana.” Ph.D. dissertation,
University of California, Davis, 1982.

. “Transfer of Fermentative Microbes between Generations in a Herbi-
vorous Lizard.” Science (216) (4545) :540—42.

Tuttle, Merlin D.; Taft, Lucinda K.; and Ryan, Michael J. “Acoustical Loca-
tion of Calling Frogs by Philander opossums. Biotropica 13(3) :233-34.

. “Bat Predation and the Evolution of Frog Vocalizations in the Neo-
tropics.” Science 214(4521) (1981) :677—78.

Ventocilla, Jorge Luis. “Estudio de la Ecologia y Dinamica de Poblacion de
Micocerotermes arboreus Emerson (Amitermitinae; Isoptera). Thesis, Uni-
versity of Panama, 1981.

Wellington, Gerard W. “An Experimental Analysis of the Effects of Light and
Zooplankton on Coral Zonation.” Oecologia 52(3) (1982) :311—20.

Wells, Kentwood D., and Greer, Beverly J. “Vocal Responses of Conspecific
Calls in a Neotropical Hylid Frog, Hyla ebraccata.” Copeia 1981(3) :615-24.

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Introduction” to chapter VI. In The Biology of
Social Insects, eds. Michael D. Breed, Charles D. Michener, and Howard E.
Evans, pp. 185-86. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1982.

498 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “The Nature and Evolution of Swarming in Tropical Social Wasps
(Vespidae, Polistinae, Polybiini).” In Social Insects in the Tropics, ed.
Pierre Jaisson, pp. 97-128. Paris: University Paris Nord, 1982.

Wolda, Henk. [Review] Insect Diversity. BioScience 30(3)(1980) :182.

. “Long-term Ecdlogical Studies with Light-traps: Their Practical and

Scientific Value.” Uttar Pradesh Journal of Zoology 1(1&2)(1981) :1-5.

. “Similarity Indices, Sample Size and Diversity.” Ocecologia 50(3)
(1981) :296-302.

Wolda, Henk, and Fisk, Frank W. “Seasonality of Tropical Insects II. Blattaria
in Panama.” Journal of Animal Ecology 50(1981) :827-38.

Young, Orrey P. “Copulation-interrupting Behavior between Females within
a Howler Monkey Troop.” Primates 22(1) (1981) :135-36.

Zaret, Thomas M. “The Effect of Prey Motion on Planktivore Choice.” In
Evolution and Ecology of Zooplankton Communities, ed. Charles Kerfoot,
pp. 594-603, 1980.

. Predation and Freshwater Communities. New Haven, Conn.: Yale

University Press, 1980.

. “The Stability/Diversity Controversy: A Test of Hypotheses.” Ecology

63(3) (1982) :721-31.

HISTORY AND ART

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Dee, Elaine Evans. “City Dwellings & Country Houses,” The Connoisseur
January 1982.

Dee, Elaine Evans, ed. Architectural Drawings in the Collection of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, by John Harris. New York, September 1982.

. Columns in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, by William

MacDonald. New York, May 1982.

. Fashion Plates in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, by
Joan Harting. New York, September 1982.

McFadden, David Revere. “Spheres of Influence: Robert Adam and The
Decorative Arts.” The Connoisseur January 1982.

. “Silver in the Collection of the Minneapolis Institute of Art.” Apollo
Magazine September 1982.

McFadden, David Revere, ed. Scandinavian Modern 1880-1980. New York:
Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1982.

. Buttons in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, by Carl
Dauterman. New York, September 1982.

Sonday, Milton. Lace in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New
York, September 1982.

Taylor, Lisa. “Notes from the Director.” Cooper-Hewitt Newsletter, Fall,
Winter, Spring, and Summer, 1982.

. [Foreword] Nineteenth-Century Landscape Drawings in the Collec-

tion of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, May 1982.

. [Foreword] Columns in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
New York, May 1982.

. [Foreword] Buttons in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
New York, June 1982.

. [Foreword] Lace in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
New York, September 1982.

. [Foreword] Fashion Plates in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum. New York, September 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 499
. [Foreword] Architectural Drawings in the Collection of the Cooper-

Hewitt Museum. New York, September 1982.

. [Foreword] Scandinavian Modern 1880-1980. New York: Harry N.

Abrams, 1982.

. [Foreword] City Dwellings and Country Houses: Robert Adam and
His Style. New York, January 1982.

Taylor, Lisa, ed. Cities. New York. Cooper-Hewitt Museum/Rizzoli, 1982.

FREER! GALLERY JOE VA

Atil, Esin. “Turkish Contribution to Islamic Art.” The New York Times,
Supplement on Turkey, December 13, 1981, p. 13.

. “Chinese Ceramics in Near Eastern Collections.” International Sym-
posium on Chinese Ceramics, pp. 41-55. Seattle, Wash.: Seattle Art Mu-
seum, 1981.

Chase, W. Thomas, III, and Zycherman, Lynda A. “Choosing Dental Plasters
for Use in the Conservation Workshop.” Journal of the American Institute
for Conservation XXI, I (Fall, 1981) :65—-67.

Cort, Louise Allison. “Looking at White Dew.” Studio Potter 10(2)(June
1982) :45-51,

. “Gen’ya’s Devil Bucket.” Chanoyu Quarterly 30(1982) :31—40.

. “The Grand Kitano Tea Gathering.” Chanoyu Quarterly 31(1982):

15—44,

. [Review] Shino and Oribe Kiln Sites. Orientations 13(April 1982):
ol—53:

Fu, Shen C. Y. Masterpieces of Chinese Calligraphy in American and Euro-
pean Collections, vols. 2, 3, and 4. Tokyo, 1982.

Lawton, Thomas. Chinese Art of the Warring States Period: Change and
Continuity, 480-222 B.C., exhibition catalogue. Washington, D.C.: Freer
Gallery of Art, 1982.

Murray, Julia K. “Highlights of Chinese Painting Newly Acquired by the
Freer Gallery of Art.” Orientations, January 1982.

. “Representations of Hariti, the Mother of Demons, and the Theme of
‘Raising the Alms-bowl’ in Chinese Painting.” Artibus Asiae, XLIII (3/4)
(1982).

Shimizu, Yoshiaki. “Seasons and Places in Yamato Landscape and Poetry.”
Ars Orientalis XII(1981) :1-14.

. “Some Elementary Problems of the Japanese Narrative, Hiko-hoho-
demi no Mikoto.” Studia Artium Orientalis et Occidentalis 1(1982) :29-41.

Shimizu, Yoshiaki, and Nelson, Suzan E. “Genji”: The World of a Prince,
exhibition catalogue in conjunction with the International Symposium
“The World of Genji: Prospective on the Genji monogatari,” Bloomington,
Indiana, 1982.

Yonemura, Ann. “Japanese Ceramics,” gallery leaflet. Washington, D.C.: The
Freer Gallery of Art, 1982.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Fox, Howard N. Metaphor: New Projects by Contemporary Sculptors. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, 1982.

. 4 Imagists. Laurel, Md.: Montpelier Cultural Arts Center, 1982.

. Brian Kavanagh. Washington, D.C.: Washington Project for the
Arts, 1982.

Gettings, Frank. Raphael Soyer, Sixty-five Years of Printmaking. Washing-

500 / Smithsonian Year 1982
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, 1982.

Lawrence, Sidney. “The Sculpture Garden: A Place for All Seasons.” Smith-
sonian News Service, September 1982.

Lerner, Abram. “Joseph Hirshhorn.” Art News 80(December 1981) :133-34.

. [Foreword] Metaphor: New Projects by Contemorary Sculptors, by

Howard N. Fox. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1982.

. [Foreword] Ralphael Soyer, Sixty-five Years of Printmaking, by

Frank Gettings. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1982.

. Soyer Since 1960. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press

for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1982.

. [Foreword] David Smith: Painter, Sculptor, Draftsman. New York:
George Braziller in association with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, 1982.

McCabe, Cynthia Jaffee. “Hans Richter ‘Stalingrad (Sieg im Osten)’.” In
Hans Richter, Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany: Akademie der Kunste,
1982.

McClintic, Miranda. David Smith: Painter, Sculptor, Draftsman. New York:
George Braziller in association with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, 1982.

Millard, Charles. “Edward Hopper.” Hudson Review (Autumn 1981) :390—96.

. “Arshile Gorky.” Hudson Review (Spring 1982) :105—11.

Rosenzweig, Phyllis. “Richard Nonas.” Get Out Stay Away Come Back: An
Exhibition by Richard Nonas [Amherst, University of Massachusetts at
Amherst]. New York: Oil & Steel Gallery, 1982.

. [Review] Big Science, by Laurie Anderson. Washington Review of
the Arts, Fall 1982.

Shannon, Joseph. “Proximate Vision,” [essay on Avigdor Arikha]. Art in
America 70(May 1982) :101-5.

Weil, Stephen E. “Introduction: Some Thoughts on ‘Art Law’.” Dickinson
Law Review 85(4) (Summer 1981) :555—63.

. “MGR: A Conspectus of Museum Management.” Museum News
60(6) (July-August 1982) :22-27.

Zilczer, Judith. Five Distinguished Alumni: The W.P.A. Federal Art Project
[An Exhibition Honoring the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Centennial]. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. “John Quinn and Modern Art Collectors in America, 1913-1924.”

The American Art Journal 14(1) (Winter 1982) :56—71.

. “Eakins Letter Provides More Evidence on the Portrait of Frank

Hamilton Cushing.” The American Art Journal 14(1) (Winter 1982) :74-76.

. De Stijl: 1917-1931, Visions of Utopia [exhibition handout]. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1982.
. The Ephemeral Is Eternal, by Michel Seuphor [Play program]. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Division of Performing Arts, 1982.

. “The Drawings of Ibram Lassaw.” Drawing 4 (July/August, 1982):
29-32.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Field, Cynthia. “Historic Structures: New Tax Treatment for Old Buildings.”
Eton Journal 2(2)(September—October 1981) :12-13.

. “Montgomery C. Meigs.” In MacMillan’s Encyclopedia of Architects,

ed. Adolf Placzek. New York: Free Press, 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 501
Reingold, Nathan, and Reingold, Ida H., eds. Science in America: A Docu-
mentary History, 1900-1939. Chicago and London: The University of Chi-
cago Press, 1981.

. “Science, Scientists, and Historians of Science.” History of Science
19 (1981) :274-87.

Rothenberg, Marc. “Organization and Control: Professionals and Amateurs
in American Astronomy, 1899-1918.” Social Studies of Science 11(1981):
305-25.

Stine, Jeffrey K., and Robinson, Michael C., co-compilers. U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers and Environmental Matters: A Preliminary Bibliography.
Washington, D.C.: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 1982.

. “Russell G. Cone,” and “Eugene J. Houdry.” In Dictionary of Ameri-

can Biography, Supplement Seven, 1961-1965, ed. John A. Garraty. New

York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1981.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Breeskin, Adelyn D. Introductory essay in W. H. Johnson: The Scandinavian
Years. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. Anne Goldthwaite: A Catalogue Raisonne of the Graphic Work.
Montgomery, Alabama: Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts, 1982.

Decatur, Raylene. [Review] Don Reitz. American Ceramics, Winter 1982.

Eldredge, Charles C. “Claude Buck and the Introspectives.” In The Shape of
the Past: Studies in Honor of Franklin D. Murphy. Los Angeles: University
of California, 1981.

. “Who Pours the Tea?” Art Journal, Fall 1981. College Art Associa-

tion of America.

. Charles Walter Stetson: Color and Fantasy. Lawrence, Kan.: Spencer
Museum of Art, 1982.

Eirk, Katherine G., and Wiebold, William. “Objects of Affection: The Con-
servation of Portrait Miniatures.” The American Institute for Conserva-
tion of Historic and Artistic Works Reprints. Washington, D.C.: A.I.C.,
1982.

Fink, Lois M. “A Review of the Diary of George A. Lucas.” Princeton, 1979.
In Revue d’art canadienne (RACAR), VII (Oct. 1981).

. “Joshua C. Taylor and the National Museum of American Art.” Art

Ink, November 1981.

. “American Participation at the Paris Salons, 1870-1900.” Papers of
the 24th International Congress of the History of Art, vol. VII, Salons,
Galleries, Museums and Their Influence in the Development of 19th and
20th Century Art. Bologna: International Committee on the History of Art,
1982.

Flint, Janet A. Foreword and catalogue of the exhibition. “In Pursuit of .. .’
The Washington Print Club 9th Biennial Members’ Exhibition. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Foresta, Merry A. Introductory essay in Man Ray: Publications and Transfor-
mations. New York: Zabriskie Gallery, 1982.

. Essay, acknowledgements, and catalogue of the exhibition. A Life

in Art: Alma Thomas, 1891-1978. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-

tion Press, 1981.

. Annotations in Recent Trends in Collecting: Twentieth-Century
Painting and Sculpture. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1982.

Gurney, George. Techniques of Bronze Casting in America, 1850-1900,
excerpted from Cast and Recast: The Sculpture of Frederic Remington.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

ty

502 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. Foreword in Cast and Recast: The Sculpture of Frederic Remington.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Hartigan, Lynda Roscoe. Essay in Perkins Harnly: From the Index of
American Design. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American Art,
1981.

. Essay in The Studio: Sculpture by Yuri Schwebler. Yonkers, N.Y.:

The Hudson River Museum, 1981.

. Essay in Herk Van Tongeren. Trenton, N.J.: New Jersey State

Museum, 1982.

. Annotations in Recent Trends in Collecting: Twentieth-Century
Painting and Sculpture. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1982.

Herman, Lloyd E. Essay in Good as Gold: Alternative Materials in American
Jewelry. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, 1981.

. Essay in Washington Craft Forms: An Historical Perspective 1950-

1980. Olympia, Wash.: The State Capitol Museum, 1982.

. Juror’s statement in Image/Afterimage. Columbus, Ohio: Ohio

Designer Craftsmen, 1982.

. Juror’s statement in Fine/Function: A Mastery of Craft. Lafayette,

La.: The Lafayette Natural History Museum, 1982.

. “A Master Craftsman’s Home.” Museum, 1982.

Lewton, Jean L. “Cultural Crusader.” Notes (January/February 1982). [Divi-
sion of Performing Arts, Smithsonian Institution.]

Mecklenburg, Virginia M. Essay in Roosevelt's America: New Deal Paintings
from the National Museum of American Art. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1982.

. Essay in Perkins Harnly: From the Index of American Design.

Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American Art, 1981.

. Contribution to Franklin Delano Roosevelt: The Intimate Presidency.

Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1982.

. Annotations in Recent Trends in Collecting: Twentieth Century
Painting and Sculpture from the National Museum of American Art.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Nosanow, Barbara Shissler. Essay in Berenice Abbott: The 20s and the 30s.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

Rand, Harry. Introductory essay in John Grabach. New York: Graham Gal-
lery, 1981.

. Recent Trends in Collecting: Twentieth-Century Painting and Sculp-

ture. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

. Essay in Awards in the Visual Arts. Winston-Salem, N.C.: South-
eastern Center for Contemporary Art, 1982.

. “Recent Painting: A Rambling Contemplation.” Arts Magazine,
April 1982.

. “AVA 1.” Arts Quarterly, Spring 1982.

. [Review] Claes Oldenburg: Monumental Sculpture. Leonardo, Paris,
Spring 1982.

. Untitled poem. Washington Review, August 1982.

Truettner, William H. “George Catlin’s Indian Gallery.” Connaissance des
Arts 24(January 1982).

. [Review] Witnesses to a Vanishing America, by Lee Clark Mitchell.

Pacific Historian XXVI(1) (Spring 1982).

. “The Art of History: American Exploration and Discovery Scenes,
1840-1860.” American Art Journal XIV(1) (Winter 1982).

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 503
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Department of Social and Cultural History

Fesperman, John T. Flentrop in America. Raleigh, N.C.: Sunbury Press, 1982.

. “Early Organs in Mexico.” Reprint. Newsletter of Comite Interna-
tional des Musees et Collections d’Instruments de Musique (Nurnberg,
Germany) VIII (1980) :86—87.

Harris, Elizabeth. The Mechanical Artist. Washington, D.C.: National
Museum of American History, 1981.

Harris, Karyn. “Some Recent Advances in the Storage and Display of
Costumes in the United States.” In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Conservation and Restoration of Textiles, Como, 1980,
pp. 38-45. Milan: CISST, 1981.

Hoover, Cynthia Adams. “The Steinways and Their Pianos in the Nine-
teenth Century.” Journal of the American Musical Instrument Society
VII(1982) :47-89.

Klapthor, Margaret B. First Ladies Cookbook. New York: Parents’ Magazine,
1982.

Klapthor, Margaret B., and Morrison, Howard A. G. Washington, A Figure
Upon the Stage. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.
Kulik, Gary. ‘Black Workers and Technological Change in the Birmingham
Iron Industry, 1881-1931.” In Southern Workers and Their Union, 1880-
1975, by Merl E. Reed et al. Selected Papers, The Second Southern Labor

History Conference. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1981.

. “A Factory System of Wood: Cultural and Technological Change
in the Building of the First Cotton Mills.” In Material Culture of the
Wooden Age, ed. Brooke Hindle, pp. 300-335. Tarrytown, N.Y.: Sleepy
Hollow Press, 1981.

Kulik, Gary; Parks, Roger; and Penn, Theodore Z. The New England Mill
Village, 1790-1860. Documents in American Industrial History, vol. II.
Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 1982.

Serio, Anne Marie. A Preliminary Check List of the Preston R. Bassett
Collection of Lighting Devices. Washington, D.C.: The National Museum
of American History, 1981. (duplicated)

Department of the History of Science and Technology

Berkebile, Don H. “Wooden Roads.” In Material Culture of the Wooden Age,
ed. Brooke Hindle, pp. 129-58. Tarrytown, N.Y.: Sleepy Hollow Press,
1931"

Davis, Audrey B. “The Development of Anesthesia.” American Scientist
(September—October) (1982) :522—28.

. “Life Insurance and the Physical Examination: A Chapter in the

Rise of American Medical Technology.” The Bulletin of the History of

Medicine 55:392—406.

. Medicine and Its Technology: An Introduction to the History of

Medical Instruments. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1981.

. “The Rise of the Vitamin-Medicinal as Illustrated by Vitamin D.”
Pharmacy in History 24(1981) :59-72.

Finn, Bernard S., ed. Development of Submarine Cable Communications,
2 vols. New York: Arno Press, 1980.

Furlong, William R., and McCandless, Byron. So Proudly We Hail: The
History of the United States Flag, ed. Harold D. Langley. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Kondratas, Ramunas. “Death Helped Write the Biologies Law.” FDA Con-
sumer 16(1982) :23—25.

504 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “Medical Sciences at the University of Vilnius in the Beginning of
the Nineteenth Century.” In Vilnians Universitetatus 1579-1979, ed.
B. Vaskelis, pp. 213-22. Chicago: Institute of Lithuanian Studies, 1981.

Langley, Harold D. “Robert Y. Hayne and the Navy.” South Carolina
Historical Magazine 82(October 1981) :311-30.

. “Flags in Editorial Comment.” Naval Aviation (NAVA) News
(August 1981) :2-3.

Merzbach, Uta C. “On an Early Version of Gauss’s Disquisitiones Arith-
meticae.” In Mathematical Perspectives, ed. J. W. Dauben. New York:
Academic Press, 1981.

Molella, Arthur P., and Bruton, Elsa M. FDR: The Intimate Presidency.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Communication, and the Mass Media in the
1930s. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History, 1982.

Multhauf, Robert P. “Potash.” In Material Culture of the Wooden Age, ed.
Brooke Hindle, pp. 227-40. Tarrytown, N.Y.: Sleepy Hollow Press, 1981.

Post, Robert C. “Steel Ropes into the Howling Wilderness: First Cable Cars
in Los Angeles.” Railroad History 146(Spring 1982) :55—-59.

Post, Robert C., ed. Railroad History 146. Boston: Railway and Locomotive
Historical Society, Inc., 1982.

. Technology and Culture 23(1982). Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1982. Published for the Society for the History of Technology.
Post, Robert C., and Mayr, Otto, eds. Yankee Enterprise: The Rise of the
American System of Manufactures. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Insti-

tution Press, 1982.

Sharrer, G. Terry. “Of Keys and Curates.” Corona 2(1981) :21-27.

. “Naval Stores, 1781-1881.” In Material Culture of the Wooden Age,
ed. Brooke Hindle, pp. 241-70. Tarrytown, N.Y.: Sleepy Hollow Press,
1982.

Warner, Deborah Jean. “Perfect in Her Place: Women Astronomers in the
U.S.” Conspectus of History I(vii) (1981) :12—22.

White, John H., Jr. “Col. John: Not Really a Great Inventor? A Reap-
praisal of the Work and Talent of John Stevens III.” The Stevens Indi-
cator, 99(1)(Winter 1982) :4—9.

. “The Greenback Raid.” Railroad History 146(Spring 1982) :41—46.

. “The Last of the Insiders Remains an Outsider.” Shoreliner 12(3)

(1981) :36-39.

—, “Railroads: Wood to Burn.” In Material Culture of the Wooden Age,

ed Brooke Hindle, pp. 184-224. Tarrytown, N.Y.: Sleepy Hollow Press,

1981.

. “Safety with a Bang: The Railway Torpedo.” Technology and

Culture 23(2) 195-201.

. “Three Orphans.” Newsletter, Society for Industrial Archaelogy

(Winter 1982) :10.

National Numismatic Collections
Herbert, R. J. “A Late Ilkhanid Hoard.” Hamdard Islamicus V(1)(Spring
1982).
National Philatelic Collections

Newman, Lowell S. “Covers from the Kearsarge.” Journal of the Society of

Philatelic Americans 44(12) :843—46.

Norby, Reidar. “A Swede almost Beat Sir Rowland Hill.” Stamp Collection
(June 1982) :12-13.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 505
Norby, Reidar, and Engstrom, Victor E., eds. Danish West Indies Mails,
1754-1917, vol. 2, The Postal Emissions. Washington, D.C.: Scandinavian
Philatelic Printing and Publishing Company, 1981.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Barber, James G., and Voss, Frederick S$. The Godlike Black Dan: A Selec-
tion of Portraits from Life in Commemoration of the Two Hundredth
Anniversary of the Birth of Daniel Webster. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1982.

Christman, Margaret C. S. Portraits by George Bellows. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

Fern, Alan. [Introduction] “The American Print.” In American Graphics
1860-1940 [exhibition catalogue]. Philadelphia: Philadelphia Museum of
Art, 1982.

. [Review] A History of the Nonesuch Press, by John Dreyfus. Fine
Print 8(3) (July 1982) :87—89.

Henderson, Amy. [Review] Alexander Hamilton, by Jacob Cooke. History:
Reviews of New Books (August 1982).

. [Review] American Literature and the Universe of Force, by Ronald
Martin. History: Reviews of New Books (September 1982).

Miles, Ellen G. Essays on portraits by James Peale, Thomas Sully, George
Peter Alexander Healy, and Christian Gullager for The Preston Morton
Collection of American Art (catalogue), Santa Barbara Museum of Art,
1981.

. “The Life and Art of James Barry.” History: Reviews of New
Books (May/June 1982) :186.

Miller, Lillian B. [Review] The Collected Papers of Charles Willson Peale
and His Family: A Guide and Index to the Microfiche Edition, ed. Lillian
B. Miller. (Millwood, New York: Kraus Microform, 1980); Early American
Literature XVI(Winter 1981/82).

. [Introductory essay] George Washington: An American Icon, by
Wendy Wick. The Barra Foundation, Inc., 1982.

Pachter, Marc. “A Historian ... is a Historian . . . is a Historian: The
Museum and Public History.” Humanities (October 1981).

Stapp, William F. [Review] The American Daguerreotype, by Floyd and
Marion Rinhart. Picturescope 30(1) (Spring 1982) :37—38.

Stewart, Robert G. “Robert Edge Pine in America 1784-1788.” Antiques CXX
(5) (November 1981) :1166-71.

Voss, Frederick S. FDR: The Early Years. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1982.

Westmoreland, Rosamond, and Roberts, Barbara. 18th Century American
Painted Furniture: Three Treatments. Washington, D.C.: A.I.C. Preprints,
1981.

Wick, Wendy C. George Washington, An American Icon: The Eighteenth-
Century Graphic Portraits. Washington, D.C.: SITES and the National
Portrait Gallery, 1982. Distributed by the University Press of Virginia.

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “The First Americans,” [chapter written with William
C. Sturtevant in 1976]. Reprinted in American Fabrics and Fashions
Magazine 123(Summer 1981) :60—64. Doric Publishing Co., Inc., New York
and Paris.

. Gli Indiani D’ America [Italian translation of The Indian in America,

506 / Smithsonian Year 1982

published by Harper & Row, New York, 1975] Editori Riuniti, Rome, Italy,
1981, 313 pp.

. “Das Russell-Tribunal: Wer spricht fiir die indianischen Stamme?”
[German translation of “The Russell Tribunal—Who Speaks for Indian
Tribes?”] Amedian, News from Native America (Berichte aus dem india-
nischen Amerika), 9(6/81) (December 1981) :14—15.

. “A Bad Way to Pick Juries,” Op-Ed page, The Washington Post,
May 8, 1982.

. “Whither Architecture? Some Outside Views,” AIA [American
Institute of Architects] Journal 71 (6)(mid-May 1982) :207—8, 259, 261.

. “Representative Institutions among Contemporary American Indian
Tribal Societies,” Parliaments, Estates and Representation (1)(June 1982):
89-91.

. “Postscript.” Celebration: Studies in Festivity and Ritual, ed. Victor
Turner, pp. 297-99, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1982.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Checklist to the exhibition, Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. (In
two volumes). Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press (1982).
Rinzler, Ralph. “Folklore and Folk Art: The Origins of Two Movements.”

Washington Antiques Show: (1981) :37-39.

. [Preface] Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press (1982).

Rinzler, Ralph, and Seitel, Peter. [Preface] Celebration: Studies in Festivity
and Ritual, ed. Victor Turner. Smithsonian Institution (1982).

Seitel, Peter, ed. Fairs and Festivals: A Smithsonian Guide to Celebrations in
Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press (1982).

Turner, Victor, ed. Celebration: Studies in Festivity and Ritual. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press (1982).

Vennum, Thomas Jr., ed. 1982 Festival of American Folklife Program Book.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution (1982).

wa Makuna, Kazadi. ‘“The Origin of Zaire Modern Music: Result of Socio-
Economic Process.” Jazz Forschung (13) (1981) :139-50.

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Conservation Analytical Laboratory. Future Directions in Archaeometry—A
Round Table. January 1, 1982.

Organ, Robert M. “Science for the Conservator.” Journal of the American
Institute for Conservation 20(1) (1981) :41—44.

. “Appendix 1.” Technical Examination of the Classical Bronze Horse

from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, ed. K. C. Lefferts, pp. 22-24;

Journal of the American Institute for Conservation 21(1) (1981) :1—42.

. “Errors of Presentation.” In “Conservation—A Challenge to the
Profession.” Museum, UNESCO 34(1) (1982) :51-52.

Sayre, E.; Harbottle, G.; Stoenner, R.; Washburn, W.; Olin, J. S.; and
Fitzhugh, W.; “The Carbon-14 Dating of an Iron Bloom Associated with
the Voyages of Sir Martin Frobisher.” In Nuclear and Chemical Dating
Techniques, ed. Lloyd A. Currie. ACS Symposium Series 176, pp. 441-51.
Washington, D.C.: American Chemical Society, 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 507
OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Borowski, Elena. Conservation Bookbinding. Technical Booklet CBV-90.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, OMP, 1982.

Borowski, Elena; Adrosko, Rita J.; and Vann, Lois M. Mounting of Flat
Textiles for Exhibition. Technical Booklet MTS-3. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution, OMP, 1975, revised 1976.

Borowski, Elena; Clapp, Ann F.; and Erik, Katherine G. The Cleaning of
Prints, Drawings and Manuscripts: Dry Methods. Technical Booklet
CPS-4. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, OMP, 1975, revised
1977.

Borowski, Elena, and Dirks, Katherine. Wet Cleaning Antique Cotton, Linen
and Wool. Technical Books WCS-1. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution, OMP, 1974, revised 1978.

Borowski, Elena; Eirk, Katherine G.; and McMillan, Eleanor. The Hinging
and Mounting of Paper Objects. Technical Booklet HMS-—6. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, OMP, 1974, revised 1976.

Borowski, Elena; Harris, Karen; and Coffee, Barbara. The Protective Lining
of a Wooden Storage Drawer for Textiles and Costumes. Technical Book-
let LDS—2. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, OMP, 1974, revised
1976.

Borowski, Elena, and McMillan, Eleanor. Curatorial Examination of Paper
Objects. Technical Booklet EPS—5. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion, OMP, 1975, revised 1976.

Borowski, Elena, and others. Cleaning, Mending and Reconstruction of Pot-
tery. Technical Booklet MPS-7. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion, OMP, 1975, revised 1981.

Crow, Eleanor. Museum Careers. Technical Booklet CAV-88. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1981.

Crow, Eleanor, and Andrews, Patrice. The Care of East Asian Paintings.
Technical Booklet EAS—15. Washington, D.C.: OMP, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1982.

Forrest, Kelly; Hyltoft, John; and Nugent, Maria; eds. The Rare Book Box.
Technical Booklet RBS—12. Washington, D.C.: OMP, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1979.

Glaser, Jane R. [Review] Career Opportunities in Art Museums, Zoos and
Other Interesting Places, by U.S. Department of Labor. Museum News
60(4) (March/April, 1982) :68—70.

Johnson, Richard K.; Crow, Eleanor; and Borowski, Elena, eds. Protecting
Objects on Exhibition. Technical Booklet POS-10. Washington, D.C.:
OMP, Smithsonian Institution, 1978, revised 1981.

Johnson, Richard K., and Eirk, Katherine G. The Removal of Pressure Sensi-
tive Tape from Flat Paper. Technical Booklet RTV—81. Washington, D.C.:
OMP, Smithsonian Institution, 1977.

Office of Museum Programs. Native American Museums and Related Issues.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1982.

. Museum Studies Programs in the United States and Abroad. Wash-

ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1982.

. Proceedings of the Office of Museum Programs’ “Children in

Museums” International Symposium, October 28-31, 1979. Harpers Ferry,

West Virginia: Degen Associates, 1982.

. Smithsonian Institution Catalogue of Audiovisual Programs. [A staff
reference list] Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1982

Organ, Robert M., and Borowski, Elena, eds. The Hygrothermograph.
Technical Booklet HTS—8. Washington, D.C.: OMP, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1977.

508 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Organ, Robert M.; Borowski, Elena; and Crow, Eleanor, eds. The Treatment
of Corroded Metal Artifacts. Washington, D.C.: OMP, Smithsonian
Institution, 1977.

Schneider, Jenny, and Forrest, Kelly, eds. Storage in a Swiss Museum.
Technical Booklet SSS—11. OMP, Smithsonian Institution, 1979. 22p.

Audiovisuals

The Care of Asian Paintings (slides). A discussion of preventive care
techniques in the storage and exhibition of hand scrolls, hanging scrolls
and screens. This program was produced in collaboration with the
Freer Gallery of Art.

Tribal Archives (slides). This program was developed to assist Native
Americans to preserve the records of their heritage. It included a descrip-
tion of what an archives is, an explanation of what an archives can do
for a community and information on how to establish one. Native Ameri-
can archives are used to illustrate the concepts involved. The program
was produced in collaboration with the Native American Museums
Program and a grant from the Native American Archives Project.

Protecting Cultural Property: Staff Participation and Perimeters of Protection
(video). A program on perimeters of protection, a concept in physical
security for cultural property. The program also deals with the contribu-
tion each staff member makes to the system.

Protecting Cultural Property on Exhibit, in Storage and in Transit. (video).
An overview of security and safety procedures which any cultural insti-
tution can employ to protect both people and property.

Millimeter Bookbinding (video). A detailed demonstration of a bookbinding
technique developed in Denmark in the 1940s and adapted for book
conservation by John Hyltoft, Book Conservator of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries. The Women’s Committee of the Institution provided
a grant for the production.

Communication (video). An information presentation demonstrating how
staff, including guards, can assist hearing impaired museum visitors. The
Film Unit of the Office of Exhibits Central and the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education collaborated in this production.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Bearman, David, and Lytle, Richard H. “Towards National Information Sys-
tems: A Standard Format for Archival Information Exchange.” Archivaria
(Winter 1980).

Deiss, William A., and Manning, Raymond S. “The Fate of the Invertebrate
Collections of the North Pacific Exploring Expedition, 1853-1856.” History
in the Service of Systematics, eds. Alwyne Wheeler and James H. Price.
London: Society for the Bibliography of Natural History, 1981.

Henson, Pamela M. “Mary Agnes Chase.” In Dictionary of American
Biorgaphy, Supplement Seven. New York: American Council of Learned
Societies, 1982.

. “President’s Column.” Oral History in the Mid-Atlantic Region
Newsletter 5(1-3).

Lytle, Richard H. “An Archival and Information Services Program for the
American Association for the Advancement of Science.” AAAS, Publica-
tion 82-R-3 (July 1982).

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 509
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Bedini, Silvio A. Declaration of Independence Desk: Relic of Revolution.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1981.

. Early American Surveyors: Mapping the Wilderness.” Professional

Surveyor II(2) (March—April 1982) :16-18, 35-36.

. “Jefferson: Man of Science.” Frontiers, the Annual of the Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia III(1981-1982).

Goodwin, Jack. “Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1979).”
Technology and Culture 22(April 1981) :374—-84.

. “Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1980). Tech-

nology and Culture 23(April 1982) :282-340.

Levin, Amy E. [Literature Review] SWIC: Significant Issues of Wide Con-
cern III(2)(August 1982). (Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council)

Linn, Mary Jane. [Review] AACR 2 Goes Public (Tucson, 1982). In Museums,
Arts and Humanities Division (SLA) Bulletin XII(2) (Spring 1982).

Preslock, Karen. “A Conservation Information Source.” AIC Newsletter 7(4)
(August 1982).

Rosenfeld, Mary A. “Dance.” In Magazines for Libraries 4th ed., pp. 30-304.
New York: R. R. Bowker, 1982.

Schallert, Ruth. “Suggestion” (Note on numbering of multi-volumed flora
projects) Taxon 30(4) (November 1981) :874.

Stanley, Janet L. “Africa.” In: Magazines for Libraries, pp. 41-49. New York:
R. R. Bowker, 1982.

. “African Art: Collector's Bibliography.” Primitive Art Newsletter

5(8) (1982).

. [Review] The Africans: An Ethnological Account, by Harold K.

Schneider. Africa Today 29(1) (1982).

. [Solanke, Jolayemi, pseud.] ‘Internal African Migrations and Growth

of Cultures” and “Traditional Social and Political Institutions.” In African

History and Culture, ed. Richard Olaniyan, pp. 13-26, 27-37. Lagos, Long-

man Nigeria: Harlow, Essex, Longman Group, 1982.

. “Malawiana Bonanza.” [Reviews of Malawi by Robert B. Boeder,

and Historical Dictionary of Malawi, by Cynthia A. Crosby] (Africa

Today 28(3) (1981) :77-78.

. [Review] Asking for Toruble: Autobiography of a Banned Journalist,

by Donald Woods. Library Journal (July 1981).

. [Review] The Development of Information: An African Approach,

ed. R. W. Thairu (Iairobi: Kenya Library Association, 1979) African Book

Publishing Record 7(4) (1981).

. [Review] For Spirits and Kings: African Art from the Paul and Ruth

Tishman Collection. Library Journal (April 1, 1982).

. [Review] Masks of Black Africa, by Ladislas Segy. Africana Journal

11(1980) :358.

. [Review] Nigerian Literature: A Bibliography of Criticism, 1952-1976,

by Claudia Baldwin. Africana Journal 12(1) (1981) :78-79.

. [Review] Yoruba: Sculpture of West Africa, by William Fagg and
John Pemberton. Library Journal (June 1, 1982).

Toney, Stephen. “A Cost Database for Branch Library Resource Allocation
and Performance Evaluation.” College and Research Libraries (July 1981):
STS Nos

. “Telefacsimile Experiment at the Smithsonian Libraries.” Association

of Research Libraries Office of Management Studies, SPEC Kit #82, Docu-

ment Delivery Systems in ARL Libraries (March 1982) :9-10.

510 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Wells, Ellen B. “Correspondence of Felix Vogeli with His Publisher, Anselin,
1833, 1836; an Annotated Translation with Introduction, Notes and Check-
list.” Historia Medicinae Veterinariae WVI(2)(1981):42-47; VI(3)(1981) :62-
65; VII(1) (1982) ;20-23.

. “Horses.” Magazines for Libraries, 4th ed. New York: R. R. Bowker,

1982.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION
SERVICE PUBLICATIONS

BOOKS AND EXHIBITION CATALOGUES

Boer, Susan Dudnick. Treasure of the Quicksilver Galleons. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

Goodman, Deborah Lerme. The Magic Shuttle. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

Hobbs, Susan. Lithographs of James McNeill Whistler. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

Novak, Barbara; Hobbs, Susan; and McClelland, Donald. American Impres-
sionism. Manila, Philippines: U.S. International Communication Agency,
1982.

Teahan, John. Irish Silver. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Travel-
ing Exhibition Service, 1982.

Wick, Wendy C. George Washington, An American Icon: The Eighteenth-
Century Graphic Portraits. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

BOOKLETS

American Impressionism. Manila, Philippines: U.S. International Communica-
tion Agency, 1982.

Lerme, Deborah, and Menkes, Diana. George Washington, An American
Icon: The Eighteenth-Century Graphic Portraits. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

Matthews, Sandra, and Wong Fu, Marilyn. China From Within. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

Of Time and Place: American Figurative Art from the Corcoran Gallery,
Curriculum Guide. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, 1981.

SITES Publications, 1982. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Travel-
ing Exhibition Service, 1982.

Stevens, Andrea, editor. Siteline, nos. 12, 13, 14. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1981-82.

Traditional Crafts of Saudi Arabia. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

The Vanishing Race and Other Illusions: A New Look at the Work of
Edward Curtis, Walking Tour. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, 1982.

POSTERS

American Impressionism.

America’s Space Truck: The Space Shuttle.
Contemporary Art from the Netherlands.
inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo.
Korean Drawing Now.

Traditional Crafts of Saudi Arabia.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 511
PUBLI@GSSERVIGE

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Closter, Harold. “The Smithsonionization of Country Music.” Notes on the
Arts (September—October 1981).

. “Patsy Montana—The Cowboy’s Sweetheart.” Cattle Records, LP 25,
West Germany (record jacket essay).

Flint, Richard. “George Hunzinger: Patent Furniture Maker.” In Nineteenth
Century Furniture: Innovation, Revival and Reform, edited by the editors
of Art & Antiques, with an introduction by Mary Jean Madigan, pp. 124—
131. New York: Art & Antiques, 1982.

. “Meet Me In Dreamland: The Early Development of Amusement

Parks in America.” In Victorian Resorts and Hotels, ed. Richard Guy Wil-

son, pp. 97-107. Philadelphia: The Victorian Society in America, 1982.

. “From the Midway to the Museum: The Collection, Care, and Exhi-

bition of Popular Entertainment Artifacts.” In Preservation Management

for Performing Arts Collections, conference sponsored by the Theatre Li-

brary Association, Washington, D.C., April 28—May 1, 1982.

. “The Circus and the Development of Advertising in Nineteenth Cen-

tury America.” In The Circus in America, symposium sponsored by the

Institute for American Values, Nichols College, Dudley, Massachusetts,

September 19-20, 1982.

. “The Circus.” Continuing education program, Pennsylvania State
University, State College, Pennsylvania, June 6-11, 1982.

Kriegsman, Sali Ann. Modern Dance in America: The Bennington Years,
Boston: G. K. Hall and Company, 1981.

. “Aboriginal Artists of Australia.” Washington Dance Review (Octo-

ber—November 1981).

. “Terpsichore in Jazz Shoes.” Washington Dance Review (December

1981—January 1982).

. “Dance in America: The One and the Many.” Notes on the Arts

(May-June 1982).

. Contributing critic on dance for Ballet News, The International Mag-
azine of Dance, a monthly publication of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.

Morris, James R. Performance edition of script and score of Rose-Marie by
Rudolf Friml, Herbert Stothart, Otto Harbach, and Oscar Hammerstein
2nd, American Musical Theater presentation, October 15-18, 1981.

. Script, musical selection, and stage direction for Rendezvous with the

‘30s, American Musical Theater presentation, May 27-30, 1982.

. “Vintage Handel.” Notes on the Arts (January—February 1982).

—. “New Notions of Jazz.” Notes on the Arts (March—April 1982).

. “Thomson on the Arts.” Notes on the Arts (May—June 1982).

Taylor, J. R. [Record annotation] Bill Kirchner: What It Is To Be Frank,
Seabreeze Records.

Williams, Martin. TV: The Casual Art, Oxford University Press, 1982.

Records

Handel: Messiah.

Handel: Eight Sonatas for Diverse Instruments.

Handel Treasury.

Twentieth Century Consort/Vol. II.

Naughty Marietta.

Art Tatum: Pieces of Eight.

An Experiment in Modern Music: Paul Whiteman at Aeolian Hall.

512 / Smithsonian Year 1982
OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Wilton S. Dillon. “On Gifts and Violence.” In International Violence, ed.
Tunde Adeniran, University of Ibadan, and Yonah Alexander, Center for
Strategic and International Studies (Georgetown) and Institute for Studies
in International Terrorism (SUNY). New York: Praeger Publishers.

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS

Here at the Smithsonian . . . 15 2—21/2-minute features.

The following is a complete listing of Here at the Smithsonian . . . features,
which contain material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or
other personnel:

At Home with the Apes. A look at the National Zoo’s new Ape House. (NzpP)
March 22, 1982.

A Facelift for Old Planes. A visit to the National Air and Space Museum’s
workshops at Silver Hill. (Nasm) March 22, 1982.

The Rebirth of Dinosaurs. A behind-the-scenes look at the remodeling of the
Dinosaur Hall. (NMNH) March 22, 1982.

Hooray for Amelia. A tribute to Amelia Earhart on the fiftieth anniversary of
her Atlantic crossing. (NASM) May 10, 1982.

The Woolly Mammoth of Washington. Smithsonian scientists dig for mam-
moth bones in a Washington suburb. (NMNH) May 10, 1982.

How Does Your Sculpture Grow? The care and conservation of the Sculpture
Garden. (HmMsG) May 10, 1982.

Diplomats in Buckskins. The story of nineteenth-century Indian delegations
that visited Washington. (NMNH) May 10, 1982.

Hooray for the Red, White and Blue. A tribute to the Star Spangled Banner.
(NMAH) June 28, 1982.

A Festival of Animals. Celebrating the animal in African Art. (NMafa)
June 28, 1982.

What Lives in Your Lawn? A family explores the ecosystem of their lawn as
part of the Smithsonian Family Learning Project. (cBces) June 28, 1982.

Celebrations ‘Round the World. A visit to the Celebration exhibition at the
Renwick Gallery. (NMAA) June 28, 1982.

Horse Races on the Mall. Highlights from the 1982 Festival of American Folk-
life. (oAMERS) August 23, 1982.

Living with the Eskimos. A look at the exhibition inua: spirit world of the
bering sea eskimos. (NMNH) August 23, 1982.

A Modern Noah’s Ark. Preserving endangered animals at the Conservation
and Research Center at Front Royal, Virginia. (NzP) August 23, 1982.

Rephael Soyer: An Art of Real Life. The artist speaks at an exhibition of his
work. (HmsG) August 23, 1982.

Smithsonian Galaxy, 104 21/2-minute features.

Radio Smithsonian, 52 half-hour programs.

The partial listing of Radio Smithsonian segments, which follows, contains

material based on research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel:

Riding the Rails. Celebrates the first run in 54 years of the Smithsonian’s
John Bull, the world’s oldest operating steam locomotive. (NMAH) October 4,
1981.

The Jet Age. Sir Frank Whittle and Dr. Hans von Ohain simultaneously
developed the first jet engines in the early days of World War II. They
meet and reminisce at the opening of the new Jet Age Gallery. (NASM)
October 18, 1981.

Images of Labor. The history of the American labor movement is told by

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 513
people who helped make it—organizers, troubadors, union leaders, and
workers. (NMAH) October 25, 1981.

R. B. Kitaj—The Voice of the Artist. R. B. Kitaj talks about the process
behind his unusual paintings. (HmsG) November 1, 1981.

Deepsea Discoveries. Adventures on the Alvin deepsea submersible. (NMNH)
November 1, 1981.

Nature’s Navigators. An exploration of bird migration. (NMNH) November 8,
1981.

The Golden Age of Animation. Filmmaker and animator John Canemaker
traces the development of film animation. (c-H) November 8, 1981.

OK, Orville, But You Gotta Fly In It First! A visit to the Paul Garber facility
in Silver Hill, Maryland. (Nasm) November 15, 1981.

What's in the Attic? A look at the Smithsonian inventory. November 22, 1981.

Symphony in Black. The radio premier of a major work by Duke Ellington,
recorded in concert at the Smithsonian under the direction of Gunther
Schuller. (ppA) November 29, 1981.

The Portrait Gallery Caper. A host of nineteenth-century rogues meet their
match—the Pinkertons. (NpG) December 6, 1981.

The Lost World of Tibet. Sound portraits and interviews with native Tibetans
who have fled their country. (NMNH) December 6, 1981.

Art from Appalachia. Appalachian artists survey the remarkable range of art
in their homeland. (NMAA) December 20, 1981.

Author in Exile. Ariel Dorfman, Chilean novelist and social commentator,
describes his life as a political exile from his country. (wwics) December 27,
1981.

Dinosaur! The story of the making of the new Dinosaur Hall. (NmMNH) Janu-
ary 3, 1982.

A Garden for All Seasons. Abram Lerner takes us through the museum’s
Sculpture Garden. (HMsG) January 10, 1982.

And Then There Were None. Animal species in danger of extinction and
efforts being made to save them. (NzpP) January 17, 1982.

Cast and Recast: The Sculpture of Frederic Remington. A tour of the exhibi-
tion. (NMAA) January 17, 1982.

Do We Have A Future? Dr. Rene Dubos and Dr. James Neel address the
question in a Smithsonian symposium entitled, “How Humans Adapt: A
Biocultural Oddysey.” (oss) January 31, 1982.

Goodbye Bauhaus. The widening gap between theory and practice in archi-
tecture. (RAP) January 31, 1982.

Secrets of the Sphynx. Smithsonian scientist Farouk El-Baz believes the forms
of the ancient monuments of Egypt are elaborations of natural desert for-
mations. (NASM) February 7, 1982.

Alma Thomas—A Life in Art. An appreciation of the work and life of Alma
Thomas, by some of the people who knew her best. (NMAA) February 7,
1982.

Life... After Life. An exploration of the ceremonial uses of African funerary
sculpture. (NMAfa) February 7, 1982.

At Home Abroad. From the Smithsonian Collections of Recordings, a hilari-
ous musical review, hosted by Martin Williams. (pra) February 14, 1982.
George Washington's Greatest Hits. The life, times, and music of our first

president, on his two-hundred-fiftieth birthday. (MAH) February 21, 1982.

Spirit of Life. Spiritual beings depicted in the religious ceremonies of the
Hopi Indians. (NMNH) February 21, 1982.

Whines, Growls, and Wherefores. Parallels between animal—and human—
communications. (Nzp) February 28, 1982.

Pan-Pacific Pop. The way a single popular song can be expressed in many
different styles by many different cultures. (NMNH) February 28, 1982.

514 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Wild Blue Yonder. Flying with the pilots who blazed new trails in aviation.
(NASM) February 28, 1982.

Stories for Grownups. Master storyteller Jay O’Callahan plies his trade before
an audience at the Smithsonian’s Discovery Theatre. (ppA) March 7, 1982.

Notes on the Lute. Lutenist Howard Bass performs pieces that illustrate the
use and evolution of his instrument. (NMAH) March 7, 1982.

FDR Remembered. Mentories of our thirty-second president, evoked in exhi-
bitions and presentations. (ANM, WWICS, NMAH) March 14, 1982.

Healing Powers of Plants. The use of herbal medicines in many cultures.
(NMNH) March 14, 1982.

Metaphor. A look at an exhibition of large-scale sculpture. (HmsG) March 21,
1982.

Living Portraits. Famous personalities, folk cultures, and works of art are
brought to life using poetry, song, and prose. (NPG) March 28, 1982.

Celebrations at the Renwick. The art and ritual celebration. (nMAA) April 4,
1982.

Here’s to the Dot and Dash. Reflections on Morse and his invention of the
telegraph. (NMAH) April 4, 1982.

Helicopter Champs. The U.S. Helicopter Team, winners of the World Heli-
copter Championships, bring the trophy to the Smithsonian. (NAsm) April 4,
1982.

Beverly Bubbles. Beverly Sills talks about her life and career. (NMAH) April 11,
1982.

Americans in Paris. A view of ourselves through the eyes of other nations is
provided by European specialists in American studies at a conference
where a new exhibition of American Impressionist paintings premiers in
Europe. (NPG, s1TES) April 18, 1982.

Grooms on Grooms. American artist Red Grooms talks about his art. (HMSG)
April 18, 1982.

House of Hiss. The new Reptile House. (Nzp) April 25, 1982.

Lost Cities. The splendors of ancient metropolises through archeological finds
in Mexico, Egypt, and the Mediterranean. (NMNH) April 25, 1982.

The Race That Wasn’t. Images of the American Indian by Edward Curtis.
(sires) April 25, 1982.

Biograffiti. John Burns and his poems about the natural world. (NMNH) May 2,
1982.

To See Beyond the Stars. The telescope planned for the Space Shuttle. (NASM)
May 2, 1982.

The Lady and the Spider. Ann Moreton, founder and president of the National
Arachnid Society, provides unique insights into the lives of her eight-legged
friends. (NzPp) May 9, 1982.

First Ladies of the Air. Memories of aviation’s great female pilots. (NASM)
May 9, 1982.

The Left Hand Man. Art Tatum on a new release in the Smithsonian Jazz
recordings series, hosted by Martin Williams. (ppa) May 16, 1982.

Darwin to DNA. Dr. G. Ledyard Stebbins explores the impact of new research
on Darwin’s theories. (NMNH) May 23, 1982.

Byline: Nellie Bly. The pioneering newswoman is brought to life. (NPG)
May 23, 1982.

African Diaspora Part I. Smithsonian Fellow Joseph Harris discusses the dis-
semination of the African peoples throughout the world. (wwics) May 30,
1982.

NN3SI. A visit to the Smithsonian’s ham radio station. (NMAH) May 30, 1982.

The Stranger Among Us. How Africans depicted their attitudes toward Euro-
pean and Asian traders and colonists in startling displays of sculpture.
(NMAfA) June 6, 1982.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 515
African Diaspora Part II. Smithsonian Fellow Joseph Harris discusses the dis-
semination of African peoples throughout the world. (wwics) June 6, 1982.

They're a Grand Old Flag. The difference between “Old Glory” and “The
Star Spangled Banner.” (NMAH) June 13, 1982.

The Melting Pot Revisited. Dr. John Thomas, author and Woodrow Wilson
Center Scholar, looks at regionalism in America. (wwics) June 13, 1982.
Poetry In Motion. Performances from the Barney House and the National

Portrait Gallery, adapted for radio. (BH, NPG) June 20, 1982.

Angle, Line & Color. A major exhibition of De Stijl. (Hmsc) June 20, 1982.

America In Space. On the twenty-fifth anniversary of the U.S. space program,
an examination of its past, present, and future by the men and women who
have made it happen. (NAsM) June 27, 1982.

The Bugs of Summer. The director of the Smithsonian’s Insect Zoo offers
some delicious insect recipes. (NMNH) July 4, 1982.

It’s All Just Lines On Paper, Folks. Prominent cartoonists visit the Smith-
sonian and examine their lives and work. (RAP) July 4, 1982.

Solar Challenger. Exploring the first aircraft to make a solar-powered flight
from Paris to London, with the plane’s designer, Dr. Paul B. MacCready.
(NASM) July 11, 1982.

Happy Birthday, Pinocchio. The venerable puppet is 200 years old, and the
Smithsonian’s Discovery Theater is contributing to the celebrations with a
Pinocchio puppet show. (pra) July 11, 1982.

A Portrait of Mathew Brady. A review of the life and work of this seminal
figure in early American photography. (Npc) August 1, 1982.

The Birth of the Twang. From the Smithsonian Collection of recordings, an
exploration of the origins of country music. (DPA) August 15, 1982.

Along the Ancient Silk Routes. Carol Bier, Smithsonian Fellow at the Freer
Gallery of Art, takes listeners on a journey back in time. (FREER) August 22,
1982.

The 1982 Festival of American Folklife. Highlights from the annual celebra-
tion on the Mall. (oAMERS) September 5, 1982.

Lawn Life. Smithsonian lawn expert John Falk guides a family through a

microtour of their own lawn with the help of the family vacuum cleaner.
(cBcES) September 12, 1982.

Whale Watching. It’s growing as a hobby in New England, and, as a result,
reports Dr. James Mead of the National Museum of Natural History, our
knowledge of whale habits is growing, too. (NMNH) September 12, 1982.

Endangered Languages. The death of America’s native languages. (NMNH)
September 12, 1982.

Berenice Abbott Speaks. On the occasion of an exhibition of her photographs.
(NMAA) September 19, 1982.

inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo. Singers and dancers from Alaska
bring out an isolated American culture. (NMNH) September 26, 1982.

Vodun! A look at the ritual of “Voodoo” from the Renwick Celebrations
exhibition. (NMAA) September 26, 1982.

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Associate. Janet W. Solinger, publisher/executive editor, and
Helen A. Marvel, editor.

Solinger, Janet W. “Trends and Triumphs in Adult Jewish Education.” In
Factoring for Success in Adult Jewish Education [published by Academy
for Jewish Studies Without Walls] (Fall 1982).

516 / Smithsonian Year 1982
. “The Resident Associate Program: A Different Species of Continuing
Education.” Continuum (Fall 1981).

. Introduction to the catalogue of the “Contemporary Art of Egypt”
exhibition by the Cultural and Educational Bureau of the Embassy of Egypt
at the Arts Club of Washington, February 7-19, 1982.

Posters and Prints

California Cakes. Poster reproduction of original painting by Wayne Thiebaud
(commissioned to commemorate the Renwick Gallery’s Tenth Birthday,
January 1982), Smithsonian Institution.

Self-Portrait (Know Thyself). Original Lithograph by Raphael Soyer (com-
missioned in conjunction with the concurrent Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden exhibitions, Raphael Soyer: 65 Years of Printmaking and
Soyer Since 1960.

PUBLIC INFORMATION

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Office of Public Affairs. Smithsonian Institution—Welcome. 12 pages, 14
black-and-white illustrations. September 1982.

. Smithsonian Institution—Research Reports. Three times per year.

8 pages.

. Smithsonian Institution—Yesterday and Today. 98 pages, 18 black-

and-white illustrations. September 1982.

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

RIF Bulletin. A technical publication that addresses local programs’ requests
for information on how to recruit and train volunteers, how to motivate
youngsters to read, and how to involve parents in reading activities. The
Bulletin is printed and distributed three times a year.

RIF Newsletter. Another thrice-yearly publication, the Newsletter reports on
RIF activities nationwide. Distributed to the public as well as to RIF
projects, the Newsletter reaches 20,000 people throughout the United States
and offshore territories.

RIF Book of Ideas/Reading Motivation Activities. The third in a series of
booklets, this collection of model reading motivation activities was com-
piled from field-tested ideas submitted by RIF’s local programs. The activi-
ties are suitable for use in the classroom or other settings that serve young
people.

RIF Brochure. A flyer to be used by local programs in soliciting community
support and recruiting volunteers.

Profiles. Descriptions of the 340 publishers and distributors who work with
RIF. The profiles list special discounts and services RIF has obtained for
the projects.

RIF also completed production of a short documentary film on how reading
problems blight lives and lower economic productivity. The film explores
ways in which parents, citizens, business, and industry can work with RIF
to combat these problems.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Ayres, Linda. “An American Perspective: Nineteenth-Century Art from the
Collection of Jo Ann and Julian Ganz, Jr., Figure and Genre Paintings.”
The Magazine Antiques, CXXI(1) (January 1982) :265-69.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 517
Ayres, Linda, contributor. An American Perspective: Nineteenth-Century Art
from the Collection of Jo Ann and Julian Ganz, Jr. Washington, D.C.:
National Gallery of Art; and Hanover, N.H.: University Press of New
England, 1981.

, contributor. Bellows: The Boxing Pictures. Washington, D.C.: Na-
tional Gallery of Art, 1982.

Backlund, Caroline H. Reviews of Christie’s Pictorial Archive, and Leonard's
Index of Art Auctions. ARLIS/NA Newsletter, October 1981.

. “From the Chair” (column). Art Documentation, 1982.

Bohlin, Diane DeGrazia. Review of Renovation and Counter-Reformation
Vasari and Duke Cosimo in Sta Maria Novella and Sta Croce 1565-1577.
Renaissance Quarterly, XXXIII(2)(Summer 1980) :257—60.

. “Agnes Mongan, Connoisseur of Old Master Drawings.” In Women
as Interpreters of the Visual Arts, 1820-1979, pp. 411-34. Westport, 1981.

Brown, David Alan. “A Print Source for Parmigianino at Fontanellato.” In
Per A.E. Popham, pp. 45-53. Parma: Consigli Arte, 1981.

Carmean, E. A., Jr. “Les peintures noires de Jackson Pollock et le projet
d’eglise de Tony Smith.” In Jackson Pollock. Paris: Centre Georges Pompi-
dou, 1982.

. “Pollock: Tableaux Classique.” In L’Atelier de Jackson Pollock.

Paris: Macula, 1982.

“The Church Project: Pollock’s Passion Themes.” Art in America,

70(Summer 1982) :110—22.

. “Braque, le collage et le cubisme tardif.” In Georges Braque: les

papiers colles. Paris: Centre Georges Pompidou, 1982.

. “La National Gallery of Art di Washington.” In I] Publico Dell’Arte:

Critica 1. Florence: Sansomi, 1982.

. “Bellows: The Boxing Paintings.” In Bellows: The Boxing Pictures.
Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1982.

Carmean, E. A., Jr., contributor. The Morton G. Neumann Family Collection:
Picasso Prints and Drawings, III. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of
Art, 1981.

Chotner, Deborah, contributor. Bellows: The Boxing Pictures. Washington,
D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1981.

Clark, H. Nichols B. “A Taste for the Netherlands: The Impact of Seven-
teenth-Century Dutch and Flemish Genre Painting on American Art 1800-
1860.” The American Art Journal XIV(2) (Spring 1982) :23—28.

. “A Fresh Look at the Art of Francis W. Edmonds: Dutch Sources
and American Meanings.” The American Art Journal X1V(3)(Summer 1982):
73-94,

Collins, Jane. “Qyx Conquers AACR2.” Art Documentation vol. 1 (February
1982) :20.

. “Planning for Retrospective Conversion.” Art Documentation vol. 1
(Summer 1982) :92-94.

Doumato, Lamia. Eleanor Raymond (monograph). Monticello, IIl.: Vance
Bibliographies, September 1982.

. Peter Eisenman (monograph). Monticello, Ill.: Vance Bibliographies,

July 1982.

. Women Architectural Critics (monograph), Monticello, Ill.: Vance
Bibliographies, March 1982.

. Denise Scott Brown (monograph). Monticello, Ill.: Vance Bibliog-
raphies, April 1982.

. Robert Mills (monograph). Monticello, Ill.: Vance Bibliographies,
February 1982.

. Reviews for Choice and ARLIS/NA Newsletter..

518 / Smithsonian Year 1982
, contributor. Review, American Reference Books Annual. Littleton,

Colorado: Libraries Unlimited, 1982.

. co-author. “Reference and Subject Headings: A Survey.” Art Docu-
mentation vol. 1 (Summer 1982) :103—5.

Edelstein, J. M. “Looking Across at the Silvretta.” In Conjunctions: I-A
Festschrift in honor of James Laughlin, Winter 1981—82-103-4.

. [Review] The Chimera Broadsides. In Fine Print, vol. XIII, no. 3
(July 1982) :103.

Fine, Ruth E. Lessing J. Rosenwald: Tribute to a Collector. Washington, D.C.:
National Gallery of Art, 1982.

. The Janus Press 1975—80. Burlington, Vt. The University of Vermont

Robert Hull Fleming Museum, 1982.

. “Drawings in the Rosenwald Collection.” Drawing, vol. IV, no. 3
(September—October 1982) :49-55.

Grasselli, Margaret Morgan [Review]. “Watteau Drawings in the British
Museum.” Master Drawings XIX(3) (Autumn 1981) :310-12.

. Eighteenth-Century Drawings from the Collection of Mrs. Gertrude
Laughlin Chanler. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1982.

Grier, Margot E. “Art Serials Union List: A Production Report.” Art Docu-
mentation 1(3/4) (Summer 1982) :109-10.

Hand, John. “Futurism in America: 1909-14.” Art Journal 41(Winter 1981):
337-42.

Lewis, Douglas. “Jacopo Sansovino, Sculptor of Venice.” In Titian, His
World and His Legacy: The Bampton Lectures in America, ed. David
Rosand, pp. 133-90. New York: Columbia University Press, 1982.

. “Patterns of Preference: Patronage of Sixteenth-Century Architects
by the Venetian Patriciate.” In Patronage in the Renaissance, eds. Guy
Fitch Lytle and Stephen Orgel, pp. 354-80. Princeton: Princeton University
Press, 1981.

Luchs, Alison, translator. The World of the Florentine Renaissance Artist by
Martin Wackernagel (first published as Der Lebensraum des Kunstlers in
der florentinischen Renaissance, Leipzig: E. A. Seemann, 1938). Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1981.

Mann, Donna C. “Erastus Salisbury Field: Folk Artist of the Nineteenth
Century.” Antique Market 1(8)(November 1981) :10—12.

Nicholson, Catherine. “Some Watermarks Found on Claude’s Prints and
Drawings.” In Claude Lorrain: 1600-1642, by Diane Russell, pp. 438-49.
New York: George Braziller, 1982.

Parkhurst, Charles, and Feller, Robert L. “Who Invented the Color Wheel?”
Color Research and Application 7(3) (Fall 1982) :217-30.

Robison, Andrew. Picasso: The Bull. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of
Art, 1982.

Russell, H. Diane. Claude Lorrain 1600-1682. Washington, D.C.: National
Gallery of Art, 1982.

Simpson, Marianna S. “The Art of the Mamluk Period in Egypt and Syria.”
Orientations (October 1981) :12:35.

“The Narrative Structure of a Medieval Iranian Beaker.” Ars
Orientalis 12(1981) :15—-24.

Thompson, Dodge. “The Public Work of William Rush, A Case Study in
the Origins of American Sculpture.” In William Rush, American Sculptor
(exhibition catalogue). Philadelphia: Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts,
1982.

von Rebhan, Anne. “A Profile of the National Gallery’s Slide Library.” Inter-
national Bulletin for Photographic Documentation of the Visual Arts 9(8)
(Summer 1982) :4.

Wheelock, Arthur K., Jr. Jan Vermeer. New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1981.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 519
. “Le Mauritshuis en Voyage.” Connaissance des Arts, nos. 365/366

(1982) 56-63.

, ed. Dutch Figure Drawings from the Seventeenth Century, by Peter
Schatborn. The Hague, 1981.

Wilmerding, John, contributor. An American Perspective: Nineteenth-Century
Art from the Collection of Jo Ann and Julian Ganz, Jr. Washington, D.C:
National Gallery of Art, and Hanover, N.H.: University Press of New
England, 1981.

. “An American perspective: Nineteenth-Century Art from the Collec-

tion of Jo Ann and Julian Ganz, Jr., Still-life paintings.” The Magazine

Antiques CXXI(1)(January 1982) :270—-74.

. Winslow Homer: The Charles Shipman Payson Collection (exhibition

catalogue). New York: Coe Kerr Galleries, 1981.

, contributor. Bellows: The Boxing Pictures (exhibition catalogue).

Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1982.

520 / Smithsonian Year 1982
APPENDIX 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1982

OEFICE OF THE SECRETARY

MESO EOCRE PAR Vernccc cinco cerieite cis nis S. DILLON RIPLEY
EXeCUELV.e DASSIStAME cap aeie ake cious Ou iene James M. Hobbins
BAAR TaLPASSISEANES © a. c arayaicn ster ei vrale.e oars Joseph Coudon
Administrative Assistant

MEGITESOGNAENCE)) 0c ee os sane aeisne Mary Lynne McElroy
Administrative Assistant

SAPPOINEMEIS) ss. cs cee te we ces Mary Lee Nissley
Supervisor, Secretary’s Files .......... Betty J. Edwards

MOEFIGCE OF THE UNDER. SECRETARY
mhe tinder Secretary, 22505 os esses Phillip S. Hughes

OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT
TOQ-THE SECRETARY

Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Richard H. Howland
Curator, Smithsonian Institution

EePRUR RO, Nene os ese ee 8 bs James M. Goode
Honorary Research Associate ......... Paul H. Oehser

BEFICE. OF AUDITS

Ti caeicc te Re ee a Chris S. Peratino
mssistant, Directors 2/2244. als.citees <0 ose Benedict T. Maltagliati
Patrick J. Stanton
SCIENCE
Assistant Secretary for Science ........ David Challinor
Executive Omicen «75 20 acces ais asad do's Harold J. Michaelson
Rrocraml Mandgens.n ec essere te ns « Ross B. Simons
Administrative Assistant ............- Rita Jordan

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

DITECEOT ts Se A a Aen Scheels J. Kevin Sullivan
Associate Director for Education

erOS Tams) pss tern ciate emis wee John H. Falk
Associate Director for Science

TORT AIS 2 5) ocr te Moses «cos bis David L. Correll
Administrative © fficer in ssseeeess ees Donald L. Wilhelm
Facies Manager 25 J \:issieis, 76 bors oa John Rynarzewski

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 521
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Acting Directori2is WeWwinsase waeeen eee:
Deputy Directories was aire tte ce tos cathe
Chief, Audiovisual Research ........
Administrative Officer ©...2.5.2.....5.:
Budget vAnalystys. sneha. cts is ieee
Registrar
Technical Information Specialist ....
iheaters Managers acs eeoe
Operations/Technical Manager ....
Program) Coordinators. -s.0scne 0457
Chief, Public Affairs and Museum
Services
Museum Program Analyst ..........
Public Information Specialist .......
Special Events Assistant ............
BuildingyManagerte acc ce sce tac
Chief, Production Operations Division .
Chief, Preservation, Restoration
and Storage ly 1ome ctr eas cs
Supervisory Museum Specialist ......

CC

Chairman, Aeronautics Department .
Historian) Emeritusiee scree cece
Special Advisor for Technology .....
Gurators Sursancsae crs on eira eeu ore

Associate: Guratorseee eee

Acting Research Director, Center for
Earth and Planetary Studies ........
Geologist
Geologist

Chairman, Space Science and
Exploration Department ............
Gurators sa) seeusiniencds een eve suse

Ce

Ce

Ce

Semel leilejielieie|eielelie! eejie)ie

Chief, Education Services Division .....
Curriculum) G@oordinator sss see e ee
Docent and Tour Program Manager ..
Editor\-Aurjand Spaces sreasie 3) ers

Chief, Exhibits and Presentations
Division
Exhibits Program Manager ..........
Editor
Chief, Design Unity sacri hie ciel
GhiefipAudiovisualaUniteeeeeeee eee
Ghief) Presentations Uniteeeeens ooo

Ce

CC

522 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Walter J. Boyne
Walter J. Boyne
Hernan Otano

M. Antoinette Smith
Wendy A. Stephens
Robin A. Schroffel
Karl P. Suthard
Ronald E. Wagaman
Ralph T. Johnston
B. Ashley Ball

Rita C. Bobowski
Helen C. McMahon
June B. Chocheles
Sharon McCoy
Claude D. Russell

Edward B. Chalkley

Walter R. Roderick
Alfred J. Bachmeier
Donald S. Lopez
Paul E. Garber
Howard S. Wolko
Tom D. Crouch
Robert C. Mikesh
C. Glen Sweeting
Edmund T. Wooldridge, Jr.
Von D. Hardesty
Claudia M. Oakes
Dominick A. Pisano

Ted Maxwell
Ted Maxwell
Priscilla Strain

Paul A. Hanle

Kerry M. Joels

Louis R. Purnell
David H. DeVorkin
Allan A. Needell

Von Del Chamberlain
Frank H. Winter

Janet K. Wolfe

Mary Anne Thompson
Patricia Johnston
Linda S. DuBro

Richard D. Crawford
Patricia A. Woodside
Edna W. Owens
Lucius E. Lomax
Richard Wakefield
Thomas H. Callen II
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN

BEECEO DM NS Sree esis SK AN Ace yaieai ates os Richard S. Fiske
PUSSOCI Ate MITCCEON cia ware ate a a spain eie «5 os James F. Mello
Administrative Officer sc... 5.0.00... Sherrill Berger
National Human Studies Film Center

PRIRECLOR IN series.) ceils ss ce sins eae a 6 E. Richard Sorenson
Special Assistant for

International Programs ............. L. Douglas Heck
Program: Coordinator’ <0 2/<ai6 saispeaice's ss Marcia J. MacNaughton
Researen: Film Specialists oc... o.0 so Ragpa L. Dorjee

M. Michael Maloney
Mathias Maradol
Steven Schecter

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scholars

Dirk A. Ballendorf Richard Loving
Lain S. Bangdel Tashi Rabgies
Dhundiraj Bhandari Luding Khen Rinpoche
William H. Crocker Tirtha B. Shrestha
T. Wayne Dye Hubert L. Smith
Reginald L. Jackson Gyatsho Tshering
M. K. JayaSinhji Jhala Paul Vollrath

Human Studies Film Archives
DIGS Cy ao ae Si SS a Herman Viola
masistant Director esi tas. Ohos veces « Pamela Wintle

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

EG Ty 2 tal re a ease Sea Richard S. Fiske
SRO GEAe MITCCLOL: 2.252 o.0c)s.</aleis 2 ele one « James F. Mello
Deputy Director for Research ......... Terry L. Erwin
Special Assistant to the Director ...... Catherine J. Kerby
Special Assistant to the Associate

EPEC YE al nega ae as aia ea ea Jerome A. Conlon
Miniter EUitO mmm aren prem cei eitc aene Thomas R. Harney
mamimistrative Officer so... .. 2s scien os Charles A. Ossola
Administrative Assistant ............. Mary Rakow Tanner
BirdeewANalyst Sis accc0 ders chee ona. Claretta Jackson Niles
Management Analyst 2.0.5 .<......... John C. Townsend, Jr.
epistrat Stidsccnieeins ooo seca tates Margaret A. Santiago
Beuddanie: Nana ger aco teieiee » oie yea: aa 0s Edward McCoy
Supervisory Information and Education

Nes as yar sank Bscktys ahaieeasiaicia Joan C. Madden

Information Systems Manager,

Automatic Data Processing Program . TT. Gary Gautier
Chref Office of Exhibits <-te%20.4...2- Eugene F. Behlen
Assistant Chief, Office of Exhibits ..... William F. Haase
Supervisory Museum Specialist,

Scanning Electron Microscope

abotaronyeio (cera iecas bars asce ieee’ es Walter R. Brown
Anthropology
RET icaAU ANY ANN te Sa ee ge sh sere Shares sb axe Douglas T. Ubelaker

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 523
Administrative Assistant’............. Clara Ann Simmons

GollectionsiManagernis sacs nee aaece U. Vincent Wilcox
Conservation Laboratory, Supervisor ... Carolyn L. Rose
ustrator) Supervisors -eie-tlemeael George R. Lewis
Processing Laboratory, Supervisor ..... George E. Phebus
Research) Ghemist “cis gaia ho soi eleis! cals David Von Endt
Public Information Specialist ......... Ruth O. Selig
Curator, National Anthropological

ATCHINESH ear iMret Can ee aie ra Seskels Herman J. Viola
Curator, Research Institute on

Immigration and Ethnic Studies .... Roy S. Bryce-Laporte

LATIN AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY

Curaton yee ya eon nace aaa baie Robert M. Laughlin
Associate) EGuraton aanacermacie sine cen William H. Crocker
EXPOEES Cir lerct teksten sbencreeusteaal cretebe/ ayatcter at Betty Meggers

NORTH AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY

GUratOrs eo Se ee cy sreter aire vee wslelte a) sletssexece William W. Fitzhugh
Bruce D. Smith
Dennis J. Stanford
William C. Sturtevant

Wesociater@uratonee ne oneninonenor William L. Merrill

OLD WORLD ANTHROPOLOGY

Guratorshssercvckecie ovate he Leer ee eee Gordon D. Gibson
William B. Trousdale
Gus Van Beek

Associate: Curators)... sfs% os Satewtele ie Adrienne Kaeppler
Paul M. Taylor

PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY

CuratOrseyyc cero lees ee awl ee es J. Lawrence Angel
Donald J. Ortner
Douglas H. Ubelaker

Associates Curator ccc iitissnaeeis ee ets Lucile E. St. Hoyme*
LNGUISTICS
Gurator) 25 cse aus sewn BAe olea sales R. H. Ives Goddard III
RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS
James Adovasio (Archeology) Ellis C. Coleman (Archeology)
John P. Albanese (Geology) Henry B. Collins (Archeology)
Kathleen J. Bragdon (Ethnology) John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology)
Larry D. Banks (Geology) Donald Fowler (Archeology)
Sara Bisel (Physical Anthropology) Gary Haynes (Archeology)
Alison S. Brooks (Archeology) Brian Hesse (Archeology)
Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Ethnology) Eugene Knez (Ethnology)
Margaret C. Caldwell (Physical Richard T. Koritzer (Physical
Anthropology) Anthropology)
Claire M. Cassidy (Physical JoAnne Lanouette (Office of
Anthropology) Educational Programs)

* Retired July 16, 1982.

524 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Paulina Ledergerber (Archeology) F. Schulter-Ellis (Physical

Charles M. Love (Archeology) Anthropology)
David Meltzer (Archeology) Shirley J. Schwarz (Archeology)
Stephen Potter (Archeology) T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Walter Putschar (Physical Anthropology)
Anthropology) Mildred Mott Wedel (Archeology
Saul H. Risenberg (Ethnology) and Ethnohistory)
Scott L. Rolston (Physical Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)
Anthropology) Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)?
Robert G. Schmidt (Geology) Melinda A. Zeder
Botany
(oD PRE SAS 25 aie eee geet ne Mark M. Littler
Administrative Assistant ............. Nella F. Lloyd
Collections: Manager 0.2.0) 3605500 eae George F. Russell
EATHIMSTM EI CATRIGES) © ci alt cs Sieus aie w'5 4.008: spare 's0'8 Richard S. Cowan

Mason E. Hale, Jr.

PHANEROGAMS

CLTRROIS, ca ho Oe Ieee ee Dan H. Nicolson
Robert W. Read
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Dieter C. Wasshausen
John J. Wurdack

ASSOCIAteNGUTAtOLS: <1. icone cc cles sia creroe Robert B. Faden
Vicki A. Funk
Marie-Héléne Sachet
Laurence E. Skog

FERNS

PISRGCIALCSCUTALOL 6.056 sic cies een eeca David B. Lellinger
GRASSES

CIENTS Gero'ote Nat DrSIStG DRE CR Ra ae aes Thomas R. Soderstrom
CRYPTOGAMS

ERECT & 5 GSS CRG OTOP Oe Harold E. Robinson

PNSSOCIALS WCUTALOR Se ccjcigc cic ies aves cicte James N. Norris
PALYNOLOGY

. COLELLO ES tr a ee Joan W. Nowicke

PLANT ANATOMY

MSUEAEOLS If ores ce esos Sais Sek hk Che Sees Edward S. Ayensu
Richard H. Eyde

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Katina Bucher (Algae) James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)

José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical
South America) Island Plants)

Arthur Lyon Dahl (Algae) Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)

Paul E. Desautels (Orchids) Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)

* Deceased April, 1982.

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 525
LeRoy H. Harvey (Grasses)

Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. (Rubiaceae)
Aimlee D. Laderman (Limnology)
James D. Lawrey (Lichens)

Paul A. Lentz (Fungi)

Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology)
Diane S. Littler (Marine Algae)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams)

Entomology

@hainmantere sae toe aly reotelneine ti oes
Gollections Manager martcin side is. ee
Senitony SClentas te am iee chore Sei

NEUROPTEROIDS AND DIPTERA

GtrratOnsy eters oe Me eee ode Meee e ie ai atla

LEPIDOPTERA

G@uratorsi son co ee cee iC ees

COLEOPTERA

Gur atORsy ies cae Aces oh OT eae

HEMIPTERA AND HYMENOPTERA

GirabOnsiee eer io caren tee ete rane

MYRIAPODA AND ARCHNIDA

Graton eye ee eRe Reese Poe

Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae)
Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams)
Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae)
Edith E. B. Scott (Bryophyta)
Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)
Egbert H. Walker

(East Asian Flora)

Wayne N. Mathis
Gary F. Hevel
Karl V. Krombein

Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Wayne N. Mathis

John M. Burns
Don R. Davis
W. Donald Duckworth

Terry L. Erwin
Paul J. Spangler

Richard C. Froeschner
Karl V. Krombein

Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Annette Aiello (Lepidoptera)
Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera)
Edward W. Baker (Mites)

S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera)

S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera)
Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera)
Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera)
Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)
J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera)
Carlton M. Clifford (Ticks)

Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka)
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)

Jokn H. Fales (Lepidoptera)
Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera)
Richard H. Foote (Diptera)

John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)
Raymond J. Gagne (Diptera)
Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera)

E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera)
Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera)

526 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Thomas Henry (Hemiptera)
John L. Herring (Hemiptera)
Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera)
Harry Hoogstraal

(Medical Entomology)
W. L. Jellison (Mites, Ticks)
James E. Keirans (Ticks)
John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera)
Lloyd Knutson (Diptera)
James P. Kramer (Homoptera)
Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera)
Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera)
Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera)
Carl F. W. Muesebeck

(Hymenoptera)
David F. Nickle (Orthoptera)
Paul A. Opler (Lepidoptera)
Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera)
Robert W. Poole (Noctuidae)
George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera)
Mary Livingston Ripley (General F. Christian Thompson (Diptera)

Entomology) Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera)
Louise M. Russell (Homoptera) Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)
Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera) Hayo H. W. Velthuis
Jay C. Shaffer (Microlepidoptera) (Hymenoptera)

Sunthorn Sirivanakarn (Mosquitoes) Ronald A. Ward (Medical
Robert L. Smiley (Mites) Entomology)
David R. Smith (Hymenoptera) Richard E. White (Coleoptera)
Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera) Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera)
George C. Steyskal (Diptera) Willis W. Wirth (Diptera)
Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera) David Woolridge (Coleoptera)
Invertebrate Zoology
IRIAN each a5 We ste caida sre ne is Clyde F. E. Roper
MERE OOLOSISE Ls 20's 6.008 osc ceed Ss Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
Collections Manager. j...c%). ceaccis es. sss Roland H. Brown
CRUSTACEA
GNTALOLS: ois 5 ccd reteto as tlre Sa 6 sake J. Laurens Barnard

Thomas E. Bowman
Roger F. Cressey
Charles W. Hart, Jr.
Louis S. Kornicker
Raymond B. Manning

PIRRPETARG “CUTALOL 52.5.0 sparc o's dieses ve) doy 2 Brian F. Kensley
ECHINODERMS
RENEE peor 6h a Sid wines o 3.0/4) os cs ie he Frederick M. Bayer

David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler

MOLLUSKS
ESTES are Richard S. Houbrick
Clyde F. E. Roper
Joseph Rosewater
WORMS
(ine Tons, 6 See iC ere weenie Robert P. Higgins
W. Duane Hope
Meredith L. Jones
Mary E. Rice
PASSUCIALCMCUTALOP 2s oe oc Seas oie ese seis Kristian Fauchald
REGISTRY OF TUMORS IN LOWER ANIMALS
[DiEISU ieee wis QEa ot ae eae eee John Harshbarger
Lv iregel si (el (a | i oe ra Sing Chen Chang
Histotechnologic Specialist ........... Linda Cullen
Ramsewnt, SDCCIAMUSE oc vic 2 eo eso s.6 8 3s Phyllis Spero
Biological Research Assistant ......... Michael Calabrese
Re PS ARE AY SSISEAIIE «ace! a sclecn.o,6 wie © dee 0" Marilyn Slatick

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

S. Stillman Berry Stephen D. Cairns
J. Bruce Bredin Fenner A. Chace, Jr.®

* Emeritus Zoologist, retired.

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 527
Steven Chambers

Hillary Boyle Cressey
Stephen L. Gardiner

Lipke B. Holthuis

Roman Kenk

J. Ralph Lichtenfels

Patsy McLaughlin

Charles G. Messing

Isabel Perez-Farfante (Canet)

Mineral Sciences

METEORITES

G@aratorsee ian aes ee eaters

GeochemiStsiencnna conor onan

MINERALOGY

PETROLOGY AND VOLCANOLOGY

@uratorsene yes cts Cte ile aie orareaeee

PHYSICAL SCIENCES LABORATORY

@hemi'sts.) ae enon eRe ey ee eens

SCIENTIFIC EVENT ALERT NETWORK

Museum: Specialist sep re sass scar
Museumpliechnictanunannnennrnrncene

Richard E. Petit

Marian Pettibone
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
Harald A. Rehder

I. G. Sohn

Geerart J. Vermeij

Gilbert L. Voss

Austin B. Williams

David K. Young

Daniel E. Appleman
Elizabeth E. Greene

Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Brian H. Mason
Kurt Fredriksson
Robert F. Fudali

Paul E. Desautels
John S. White, Jr.

Richard S. Fiske
William G. Melson
Tom Simkin

Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen

Lindsay R. McClelland
Shirley L. Maina

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites)
William C. Buell IV (Volcanology)
Cathy Busby-Spera (Petrology)
Gary R. Byerly (Petrology)
Suzanne P. DeAtley (Petrology and
Volcanology)
Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites)
Donald Elthon (Petrology)

John Filson (Petrology and Volcanology)

Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy)
Paleobiology

Ghainmaniai yy is ce hottest excianes

* Through September 13, 1982.
° Appointed September 13, 1982.

528 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Martin Flower (Petrology and
Volcanology)

Edward Henderson (Meteorites)

Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)

Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy)

Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology and
Volcanology)

Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology and
Volcanology)

John J. Trelawney (Mineralogy)

Martin A. Buzas *
Ian G. Macintyre °
G. Arthur Cooper
C. Lewis Gazin
Collections’ Manageria.m.crisicie +. «
Collections Management, Supervisor .
ADP Paleobiology Inventory,

PRIRIEG ESOL. +.i2/saei ae ele eiwioe => <8
Paleobiological Information

PRPREIAISt ls eis siesteeieie's dalseiee.s s/s
ScientitreslustratOneseasie icine ee osc
Vertebrate Paleontology Preparation

Paboratory, /SUPEFVisOr 2.6.66. .6..60.
SOMOW SOMITE ga4 eos ou HOM Oban Odyo
Senior Scientist and Geological

MICEOROPEADNET cos 6s. ce cics cimio ne ween
BRCRARAPHSE Ss (tec jain <toeaa fe: 85% fo ais 6a Si esi,

CHOEVXOECS: SE lrorcee cee eit eRe OTR, a aN O NG eta

ASsSoclatem Curator warn ooe oe ooeerionee

Frederick J. Collier
Jann W. M. Thompson

Timothy M. Collins

Raymond T. Rye II
Lawrence B. Isham

Arnold D. Lewis
Porter M. Kier

Daniel J. Stanley

Ian G. Macintyre
Kenneth M. Towe
Walter H. Adey
Richard H. Benson
Richard S. Boardman
Martin A. Buzas
Alan H. Cheetham
Richard Cifelli
Robert J. Emry
Richard E. Grant

Leo J. Hickey °
Nicholas Hotton III
Francis M. Hueber
Jack W. Pierce
Clayton E. Ray
Thomas R. Waller
Anna K. Behrensmeyer

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Patricia Adey
Arthur J. Boucot
Sankar Chatterjee
Anthony G. Coates
Josephine W. Cooper
Steven J. Culver
Daryl P. Domning
Raymond Douglass
J. Thomas Dutry, Jr.
Ralph E. Eshelman
Jerzy A. Federowski
Robert M. Finks
Frank A. Garcia
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Richard Graus
David Govoni

Peter J. Harmatuk
Jessica A. Harrison
Bruce N. Haugh
Joseph E. Hazel
Mark Hay

S. Taseer Hussain
Ralph W. Imlay

° Resigned July 31, 1982.

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 529

Jeremy B. C. Jackson
Zofia Kielan-Jaworowskia
Carl F. Koch

Harry S. Ladd

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman
Venka V. Macintyre
Andrés Maldonado
Sergius H. Mamay
James F. Mello
Robert B. Neuman
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Edward J. Petuch
Thomas F. Phelen
John Pojeta, Jr.

Roy H. Reinhart
Charles A. Repenning
Bruce Runnegar
William J. Sando
Vincent P. Schneider
Edith E. B. Scott
Frederick R. Siegel
Elwyn L. Simons
Judith E. Skog

Roberta K. Smith-Evernden
Norman F. Sohl

I. Gregory Sohn

Donald Spoon

George D. Stanley, Jr.
Steven M. Stanley

Vertebrate Zoology

@hatnmiant aay ccneiverers rom ovsssel oleae cer
Collections Manager ...........---

FISHES

(Qivetrord: epee omens oe BOSSE con

iAssistant,Guraton cee ciclo

REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS

Curators) oan ccs ie eee ere ars

BIRDS

GUratOrss Wirvosc ecient exeucks hercnenecavens

NERCSENS (CUREIOI? aocaccos00000000

MAMMALS

(Gite lorie or Hoe Oe oO GOO EO oo eno

Assistants Gurator sce ceeericee

SECRETARY'S RESEARCH LABORATORY

Administrative Specialist ..........
Executive Assistant (ICBP) ........

Robert S. Steneck
Margaret Ruth Todd
Arthur D. Watt
Ronald R. West

Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Druid Wilson

Ellis P. Yochelson

George R. Zug
J. Phillip Angle

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman
Richard P. Vari

W. Ronald Heyer
George R. Zug

Storrs L. Olson
George E. Watson
Richard L. Zusi
Paul Slud

Charles O. Handley, Jr.
James G. Mead

Richard W. Thorington, Jr.
Michael D. Carleton

Adele Y. Issa
Roger Pasquier

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

John W. Aldrich (Birds)

John S. Ash (Birds)

Richard C. Banks (Birds)
John C. Barber (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)
Michael A. Bogan (Mammals)
Heraldo Britski (Fishes)

Robert L. Brownell, Jr. (Mammals)
Howard W. Campbell (Reptiles and

Amphibians)
Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)
Louise H. Emmons (Mammals)
Robert K. Enders (Mammals)
Carl H. Ernst (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

530 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Alan Feduccia (Birds)

Sara V. Fink (Fishes)

William L. Fink (Fishes)

John G. Frazier (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

Herbert Friedmann (Birds)

Thomas H. Fritts (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

Jeffery Froehlich (Mammals)

Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)

Michael Goulding (Fishes)

Martha B. Hays (Birds)

Richard Highton (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

George J. Jacobs (Reptiles and
Amphibians)
Frances C. James (Birds)

Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)

Warren B. King (Birds)

Gordon L. Kirkland (Mammals)

E. V. Komarek (Mammals)

Irving L. Kornfield (Fishes)

William H. Krueger (Fishes)

Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)

Francisco Mago-Leecia (Fishes)

Joe T. Marshall (Birds)

Linda R. Maxson (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

Roy W. McDiarmid (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

Naercio Menezes (Fishes)

Kenneth I. Miyata (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)

Douglas W. Morrison (Mammals)

Ralph S. Palmer (Birds)

Lynne R. Parenti (Fishes)

William F. Perrin (Mammals)

Allan R. Phillips (Birds)

Ronald H. Pine (Mammals)

Handbook of North American Indians

General Editor
Production Manager
Management Services Assistant
Anthropologist
Linguist
Librarian

© (ee 6)/)\0)_© 6) '» \0)'0. |e, 0:10) 6,)0 «

Bilwl=) Shalini se] =) sie) wai ale) e) ele)e:'ee)\6.6

aie ie] \s) lee) © jolie) ee (© ip. (oe) 81m =) 0!» (Bj 0 19:8 a) 2! 'e

© ia [eae \e\e).6 elles fe) s 0) 6 \6).6 6) 010).0 0 06,6 6 ¢

Gregory K. Pregill (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

John E. Randall (Fishes)

Randall R. Reeves (Mammals)

S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)

C. Brian Robbins (Mammals)

Rudolfo Ruibal (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

Norman J. Scott, Jr. (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

William F. Smith-Vaniz (Fishes)

David W. Steadman (Birds)

Stephen G. Tilley (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

James C. Tyler (Fishes)

Richard J. Wassersug (Reptiles and
Amphibians)

Marilyn Weitzman (Fishes)

John S. Weske (Birds)

Ralph M. Wetzel (Mammals)

Claudia F. Wilds (Birds)

E. O. Wiley (Fishes)

James D. Williams (Fishes)

Don E. Wilson (Mammals)

William C. Sturtevant
Diane Della-Loggia
Melvina Jackson
Joanna C. Scherer

R. H. Ives Goddard
Lorraine H. Jacoby

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center

Director
Administrative Assistant
Marine Biologists

ee

ed

Sie 0 0) #0) 6.0 e)\8 |= ve 0.6 014, 8,6

Leslie W. Knapp
Patricia Buckley
Frank D. Ferrari
Gordon Hendler
Betty Landrum
Ernani Menez

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port

Administrative Officer
Scientist-In-Residence
Carcinologist

Chici dO) OCD OO Oe ORO oO
eos e eee eee eee ete

ed

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director
Assistant Director for Animal Programs
Assistant Director for Support Programs
Special Assistant to the Director

ee

“Resigned August 21, 1982.

June J. Jones
Mary E. Rice
Robert H. Gore

Theodore H. Reed
John F. Eisenberg *
Gaetano G. Calise, Jr.
Robert J. Hoage

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 531
Executive Assistant, Animal Programs Jaren G. Horsley

Registrar, Animal Programs .......... Judith Block
Chief, Office of Management Services .. Vincent J. Doyle
Chief; @fficevof Education: o. 12. -..... Judith White
Curators:
Department of Herpetology ........ Dale L. Marcellini *
Department of Mammalogy ........ Edwin Gould
Department of Ornithology ........ Eugene S. Morton

Department of Zoological Research

Scientist-in-Chargey cc -iisejieiters = = +16 oe Devra G. Kleiman

SCIENCES take dy te ecu iel tetetetetere = aires oe Eugene S. Morton
Katherine S. Ralls
John C. Seidensticker

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS
(ZOOLOGICAL RESEARCH):

Associatein Ecology «,. meee. ase . §. Dillon Ripley
Gollaborator is.00 1h sce tc ses asia Kenhelm W. Stott
Wolfgang Dittus Charles McDougal
Richard Estes Jeffrey A. McNeely
Richard Faust Edgardo Mondolfi
John Frazier Nancy Muckenhirn
Sheri Gish Walter Poduschka
Kenneth M. Green John Robinson
James G. Hallett Rasanayagam Rudran
Paul Leyhausen Melvin Sunquist
Susan Lumpkin Susan Wilson

Department of Animal Health

Veterinarian-in-Charge ............... R. Mitchell Bush
Associates Veterinanrianmn scents Donald L. Janssen °®

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES (ANIMAL HEALTH):

Michael D. Abramowitz John Knight

Max J. Appel Seth A. Koch
Kenneth C. Bovée Howard Koonse
Leland Carmichael Douglas W. McKay
James W. Carpenter Stephen J. O’Brien
M. Kathryn Hammock U. S. Seal

A. Everette James, Jr. David E. Wildt

Department of Pathology
Pathologist-in-Charge .......-..--.+-- Richard J. Montali

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES (PATHOLOGY) :

Curt Bartz Bruce Smith
Chris Gardiner John Strandberg
Sidney Jones Bernard Zook

® Appointed Acting Assistant Director for Animal Programs June 16, 1982.
® Resigned July 2, 1982

532 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Department of Conservation, Front Royal, Virginia

EatOT-1N-CNargeyiinis. du sine <isie Sse ee 0 Christen M. Wemmer
BACIMEV IMAMABES ion 6 dies dio0 deacons en ss John N. Williams
Chief, Office of Construction

Pia PEDT CIE Sra Iai ohet ohn is levee moo scat. wore Donald Muddiman

Chief, Office of Graphics and Exhibits Robert L. Mulcahy

Chief, Office of Facilities Management Emanuel Petrella

Chief, Office of Police, Health & Safety Samuel L. Middleton, Jr.

Executive Director, Friends of the
INationalleZOorentitiacisiccle seca cele Sabin Robbins

OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION

MBER Sob hi cots Seek an Aadeues Edward S. Ayensu
IAMS ATOLR A dei ildn 6 Skxtehe 3 besten wings Robert A. DeFilipps
Program Aidministrator . ....i606 0 ees dei Marsha Cox

OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS

RRA, 55 2.c ois ai Sad «asm wre csee Rona Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
PUSHIN FANIECIOITECEON 3.5 6615 a5 04s! oles: xine +) sees Roberta W. Rubinoff
Womumistrative. Officer’. <%;<,0.06 02s e525 Catherine F. Harris
Academic Programs Specialist ......... Edith McRee Whiteman
Grants Program Specialists ........... Francine C. Berkowitz

Betty J. Wingfield
ECOPES MANARET cores cvcee sos bess ale Grace Murphy

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

DOSS GT is ae a ear William H. Klein
IAGSISEATIEMIDITCCLOL. sites ss oe can aa ee W. Shropshire, Jr.
mericwitdtal EMgINeer 5.0.5 6... << Need rs John Sager
PEMPOPOIOPASE 2.0. is es ee be wk Robert Stuckenrath
SE es 5 A a eee ee hs eee Maurice Margulies
RSIEENSIGE Seg 3 6h, Khare Eis cus ase «or Rarer Elisabeth Gantt
SEUSS) Re a oe Be Roy W. Harding, Jr.
ENP ICIS ee e IE Uhr ies ap wR Bernard Goldberg
Plante Pnysiologiste foi wc a S2e asa es Charles F. Cleland

Gerald Deitzer
Bert G. Drake
William O. Smith

AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Agricultural Meteorologist ........... Tadeusz Gorski
BIOCHEM IStSMey.ch ye Ene eee ose Jenny Clement-Metral
Nicholas M. Shaw
WAGEIORISE: oo ts Tee kacicag eeitee 6:0 o,e/s Elizabeth Moore-Landecker
BY SICIS Barer ini ake ed ielercitnos areiecieic John Kibe
BlAGE Physiologists; si seis Seuioee natda oa Rita Khanna
Kaori Ohki
Thomas Redlinger
Hugo Vogel

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 533
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Directory es erietere ts «i
Deputy Director ......

Arthur Allison
Yoram Avni
Eugene H. Avrett
Sallie Baliunas
William Blair
Gregory Bothun
Paul Brockman
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederic Chaffee
Kelley Chance
John H. Chappell
Lim Cheung
Giuseppe Colombo
Allan F. Cook
David L. Cooper
Alexander Dalgarno
Robert Davis
Warren Davis

John P. Delavaille
Andrea K. Dupree
Martin S. Elvis
Giuseppina Fabbiano
Daniel G. Fabricant
Giovanni G. Fazio
Edward L. Fireman
William R. Forman
Jane L. Fox

Fred A. Franklin
Larry Gardner
John C. Geary
Riccardo Giacconi
Mark Giampapa
Owen Gingerich
Isabella Gioia
Paolo Giommi
Leon Golub

Paul Gorenstein
Richard E. Griffiths

eee eee eee ese eee

eee eee ec e eee eee

Mario Grossi
Shadia Habbal

F. R. Harnden, Jr.
Daniel E. Harris
Lee W. Hartmann
John P. Huchra

Christine Jones-Forman

Steven Kahn
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Elizabeth Kallne

Jan Kallne

Kate Kirby

David Koch

John L. Kohl
Yoshihide Kozai
Robert L. Kurucz
Don Lamb

David W. Latham
Myron Lecar

Alan P. Lightman
Tommaso Maccacaro
Richard E. McCrosky
Brian G. Marsden
Ursula B. Marvin
Edward M. Mattison
Gary Melnick

Peter Meszaros
James M. Moran
Stephen S. Murray
Thomas Norris
Robert W. Noyes
Keith Olive

Michael Oppenheimer
Costas Papaliolios
William H. Parkinson
Joseph O. Patterson
Michael R. Pearlman

George B. Field
John G. Gregory

Harrison E. Radford
John C. Raymond
Mark Reid
Micheline C. Roufosse
George B. Rybicki
Rudolph E. Schild
Matthew Schneps
Ethan J. Schreier
Daniel A. Schwartz
Joseph Schwarz
Frederick D. Seward
David Soderblom
Graeme Smith

John Stauffer
Robert Stefanik

J. E. Steiner

Luigi Stella

Harvey D. Tananbaum
Saul Teukolsky
Wesley A. Traub
Ginervra Trinchieri
Wallace H. Tucker
Giuseppe S. Vaiana
Leon P. VanSpeybroeck
Robert F. C. Vessot
George A. Victor
Yuli Vladimirsky
Trevor C. Weekes
Steven Weinberg
Fred L. Whipple
Charles A. Whitney
Steven Willner
George L. Withbroe
John A. Wood

Fred Young

Gianni Zamorani
Martin V. Zombeck

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Director .2ico<scc 05s
Deputy Director ~.)-)..--
Special Assistant to Director .........
Deputy Special Assistant to Director ..
Senior Scientists ......

Executive Officer .....

re ey

ee ee eee eee ee toe

i?

Ce ee

Ira Rubinoff

Michael H. Robinson
Adela Gomez

Elena Lombardo
Martin Moynihan

A. Stanley Rand

Superintendent, Barro Colorado

Nature Monument

Facilities Manager ....

CC er

eee ee ee eee eee oe

534 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Frank Morris

Gilberto Ocafia
Ramon Ely
Head, Office of Conservation and
Environmental Education
Educational Coordinator

Nicholas Smythe
Georgina de Alba
Carmen Sucre

avavjeve) avelie) ese exe ts 6) 6)»

meme! ee) 0) a0) 'e) elle fe \« (6) eve) aa) ee

Budget Assistant

Scientific Staff

John Cubit

Robert L. Dressler

Mary Jane West
Eberhard

William G. Eberhard

Peter W. Glynn

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

Annette Aiello
Robin Andrews
Carlos Arellano
Charles Bennett, Jr.
Jose Ignacio Borrero
Nicholas Brokaw
Gordon M. Burghardt
Richard Cooke
Mireya Correa

Luis D’Croz

Kerry Ann Dressler

Stephen P. Hubbell
Egbert G. Leigh, Jr.
Harilaos A. Lessios
Olga F. Linares

G. Gene Montgomery
D. Ross Robertson

Nathan Gale
Pedro Galindo
Judy Gradwohl
Jeffrey B. Graham
Deborah Caldwell Hahn
Leslie Johnson
Ross Kiester

Jane Lubchenco
Yael Lubin

Ernst Mayr

Bruce Menge

Arcadio F. Rodaniche
David W. Roubik
Alan P. Smith

Neal G. Smith
Donald M. Windsor
Hindrik Wolda

Anthony Ranere
Tyson Roberts
Barbara Robinson
Gordon B. Small
W. John Smith
Henry Stockwell
Alastair M. Stuart
Paulo E. Vanzolini
Fritz Vollrath

S. Joseph Wright

Robin Foster Katharine Milton

HISTORY AND ART

Assistant Secretary
Special Assistants

Charles Blitzer

Dean Anderson
Susan Hamilton
Patricia DuVall

ONO OOO Oe OO itary

CCC Ca Cy Ie COC iC aC EC)

Administrative Officer

Dla) ejlaelelel climes «6

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

New York (Administrative Center)

William E. Woolfenden
Susan A. Hamilton

pl alie) 26 e [alee ae efele. a efela 6/6) =) eee a 0X6

Washington (Processing Center)

Senior Curator
Administrative Officer
Curator of Manuscripts
Assistant Curator of Manuscripts ....

w) wl eis a (oie).e/ aya weer ee) \e) is! ie! 1a) le 28 10

Garnett McCoy
Richard J. Nicastro
Arthur Breton
Judy E. Throm

siisi'e) (seals iat [se s6\ (0. leva

PREC EMICREOL 150 2 oe ob ens ng uid 8s Buck Pennington
New York Area Center

PRECANPICCION eo + ole nen «oth William McNaught
Boston Area Center

Area tPinectOren cease ceo eee Robert Brown

Detroit Area Center

Area Director Dennis Barrie

Sem www) S S66 we 16) Oe 6 (0i2; 0: 8) o

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 535
San Francisco Area Center

ATe an DIneClOr ma aia eed

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

DD ITE CLON eadeisy «sey cleile ela sven taropeioneterchete somes
AssistanitaDinectOn aie seeistlsie icici craic
Curator of Drawings and Prints .......
Curator of Decorative Arts ...........
GCuratoriofmextiless -an cies eee
Registrar
Maibraniany, Wrencerneirc ttre testeaccre aes
Gonsenvatommlextilesme ice
Gonsenvator bapen cca. deere
Editor
ExhibitionsGoordinatons aaeese eee ee
Exhibitions Desiener mae cement
Business Administrator ...............
Ghief tofSecurity 2-1. eee
programs Manager wnrrkyonceo rer:
Public Relations Manager ............
Exhibitions Researcher ......:.........
EducationsSpecialist yarn ee
Building sproremanweyane serie
Program Coordinators

eee ee ew ee ee ee we eee eee eee eee

Ce

Ce

Business Office Manager .............
Administrative Assistants to the
Director

er

FREER GALLERY OF ART

DIT CON iets n eve rs le ee ee
Assistant Director for Administration . .
Administrative Officer ‘
Associate Curator, Chinese Art ........
Associate Curator, Japanese Art ......
Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art ...
Assistant Curator, American Art ......
Assistant Curator, Japanese Art .......
Museum Specialist, Japanese Ceramics .
Museum Specialist, Chinese Art ......
Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory
Gonservatonnteincie ce acs eitisoeietetens
Research Curator, Far Eastern Ceramics
Research Assistantianniacnerennriicenie
Palbraniantnrtanen een cotta teraraceels
RG giS trated os! bios sir taie, siecle, al teats stale satel bs
RegistrarialikSpectalist) ahi 005 sae okies
DocentiChamman eee einen

* Deceased September 18, 1982.

536 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Paul Karlstrom

Lisa Taylor
Christian Rohlfing
Elaine Evans Dee

David Revere McFadden

Milton Sonday
Cordelia Rose

Robert Kaufmann
Lucy Commoner
Konstanze Bachmann
Nancy Akre

Dorothy Twining Globus

Robin Parkinson
Kurt Struver

Luis Palau

Mary Kerr
Isabelle Silverman
Lucy Fellowes
Andrew Svedlow
Benard Feudi
Jennifer Parkinson
Susan Yelavich
Elizabeth McKirdie

Chauncie McKeever
Peter Scherer

Thomas Lawton
Richard Louie
Sarah L. Newmeyer
Shen C. Y. Fu
Yoshiaki Shimizu
Esin Atil

David Park Curry
Ann Yonemura
Louise A. Cort
Julia K. Murray

W. Thomas Chase III
John Winter

John A. Pope”
Josephine A. Knapp
Ellen A. Nollman
Lydia Hsieh
Eleanor Radcliffe
Harriet McWilliams
Gayle Southworth
Richard Edwards
Calvin French
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

RRRRCGEMR Ey Boo S i coc sci ai jolecsta,acoielars sro Abram Lerner
DIEDIEVE DIKeCtON 5.62 ayomtorsyeyeisioe 6 cies Stephen E. Weil
EREEMIVE ROHMMCOE 2.).ics Psicws Cases sais Nancy F. Kirkpatrick
Rie EPCATAtOL © oe we wis aie wo via kin os ess Charles W. Millard
@aratur Of Exhibitions .. 0.2. ......<+: Cynthia J. McCabe
Associate: @urators: 2.0: 6060o6ce@eews ss Howard Fox

Frank Gettings
Phyllis Rosenzweig
Judith Zilczer

INGSIStant, GlUTcatOrsy saciswe oir cuca Valerie Fletcher
Miranda McClintic

ILTISVREUSIEIG “det oreo ene CREP ee Deen Anna Brooke

R@NSERVAEOLSIE Paes, Sos 6-0 Sree hes Sickel worsens Felrath Hines
Leland Aks

Clarke Bedford
Susan Lake
Antoinette Owen

Baa OS mere Sm KAS @ Douglas Robinson
(Chinas, EChiree Nate) anata pie eimai Cerree Edward Lawson
Chief, Exhibits and Design ............ Joseph Shannon
Public Information Specialist ......... Sidney Lawrence
mn otoorapher cy piri. <6 asaaessiee. G58. 865 John Tennant
Building Services Coordinator ........ Frank Underwood

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

[EUS OTT cos Ags Oe ee ae Nathan Reingold

ISRARL ALE AECILOLS tis :c acs we wea wie si 0nt a ere Marc Rothenberg
Paul Theerman
Kathleen Waldenfels

Agminestrative Officers .25...55) 2 2 sis Beverly Jo Lepley

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

PMR SEMITOCIOL. oo ooo yoje na sales aye os 5 = 26 John E. Reinhardt
Actine Deputy Director .---:.-...:..- Jean Salan
Founding Director Emeritus .......... Warren Robbins
Cucarcor or Collections”... ..<-5 25.0... Lydia Puccinelli
eeedecns CuratOL Seceodo. so sess hen Roslyn Walker
Program/Education Director .......... Amina Dickerson
Academic Coordinator, Higher

[Sc S(G2 07) MESS age ee cen Sheer aR Edward Lifschitz
Beildines \Mariager  ....5.50'..0.0si svar ss Basil Arendse
IReGiStrar wer, ih a osnsveetrstrsase ae ration ae Lee Williams
PEGE Oe aS hi otal dain ay shidge gh wh di dia Renee Welfeld
PABCMUAVES CAGSISEANE (oc asic.ns.c1h m1 2-svin'e se Bryna Freyer
Docent/Intern Coordinator ........... Gretchen Jennings

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

REDO CEE eer riz Seals AE os spaccie win e\e he Charles C. Eldredge
PASBISEANE \OMCCCEGE x55 bios vial ateeres ss cies Harry Lowe
PuIMISETALOE. 152655 sib ble Satay sens bs) aid%s,0 H. Eugene Kelson

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 537
Associate Administrator ............-
Assistant to the Director .............
Curator, 20th Century Painting and
Sculpture rade oer
Senior Curatorial Advisor, 20th aoe
Painting and Sculpture .-------:--
Associate Curator, 20th Century
Painting and Sculpture ............
Assistant Curator, 20th Century
Painting and Sculpture .:...........
Assistant Curator, Joseph Cornell
Studya@enter a ypaeiereriraitete errr
Curator, 18th and 19th Century
Painting and Sculpture ...........--
Associate Curator, 18th and 19th
Century Painting and Sculpture .....
Curator, Prints and Drawings .........
Associate Curator, Prints and Drawings
Gurator of Educationy 4.) 0-0-1)
Education Program Officer .........---
Associate Curator for Secondary
Educationuceeeececeeieiocerccre rior
Assistant Curator for Elementary
ECUCAL ONCE icrr racer
Assistant Curator for Docent Programs
Assistant Curator of Education,
Renwick) Gallery oc). sso)
Artist-in-Residence, Discover
Graphics Workshop ........----++--
Director, Renwick Gallery ............
Curator, Renwick Gallery ............
Associate Curator, Renwick Gallery .
Curator, Barney Studio House ........
Guraton of Researchwre eso alr
Chairman, Professional Training
Prtyaeboy coscocaden bode Oe CON oaddgiE
Chief, Office of Exhibition and
DERI ooacccn6g000cuGoHoaGo0N0000
Chief, Design Unit, Office of
Exhibition, and Design ....<...- --.:
Seniors Gonservatone rye cierto reli:
Chief, Office of Publication ..........
INGO Sopdangoeo sooo nD so beenOOnGo
Assistant Registrar, Permanent
Collection mass tersersieeens cre ses seseiatoy xoyene
Assistant Registrar, Loans ...........
Assistant Registrar, Packing
Atal Snijoaines gaecosbbencucteonoundo
Chief, Office of Public Affairs .........
Chief, Office of Visual Resources .....
Assistant Chief, Office of
NistalmResoluncesmeryinieic tater
Ghietabhotographer my. -y-pieliad teres
Coordinator, Inventory of
Americans raintingsacmrtreeierlcieer:
ibrarian NMAA/ NEG eiiclsente yi tell=

538 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Charles J. Robertson
Birute Anne Vileisis

Harry Rand

Adelyn Breeskin
Virginia Mecklenburg
Merry Foresta

Lynda Hartigan
William H. Truettner

Robin Bolton-Smith

Janet Flint

Martina Norelli

Barbara Shissler Nosanow
Margaret P. Cogswell

Teresa C. Grana

Margery E. Gordon
Nora Panzer

Allen B. Bassing

Allan K. Kaneshiro
Lloyd E. Herman
Michael Monroe
Ellen Myette

Jean Lewton

Lois M. Fink

Patricia H. Chieffo
David Keeler

Val Lewton

Stefano Scafetta
Carroll S. Clark

W. Robert Johnston

Thomas W. Bower
Melissa L. Kroning

Michael Smallwood
Margery Byers
Eleanor Fink

Rachel Allen
Michael Fischer

Martha Andrews
Cecilia Chin
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

RPM dia ag ad eye -<isifernu tates le sisiene’ Roger G. Kennedy
DIEMEEY PMTECEOL sic <cica cai als Sayscle oes 6 3 Douglas E. Evelyn
Assistant Director for Administration .. Ronald E. Becker
Special Assistants to the Director ..... Lawrence A. Bush
Eleanor Trowbridge
Museum Program Coordinator ........ Susan B. Beaudette
Public Information Officer ............ Mary W. Dyer
National Philatelic Collections
Beecutive DirectOr «+2566. 0 00 se ccs sees Robert G. Tillotson ™
EXecuisve DiTeCtOr S) cs. tesa shone ake Herbert R. Collins ”
PYSSOCIALe CUuraAtOM . 6 <0 <jaere as da, c alee s Reidar Norby

National Numismatics Collections

PIGLORI ATISM Tear hie ate ae oman Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli “
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research

UISEORIANS | 5. ccc)s)eyss 0/0 > c/6s vous mesic ates Forrest C. Pogue
James Hutchins

Office of Building Management
Assistant Building Manager .......... William Sanford

Division of Conservation

Fleadm Conservator 2c. aso ccss cys oases J. Scott Odell

Department of Exhibits

Assistant Director for Exhibits ........ J. Michael Carrigan
Chief, Exhibits Management .......... Richard S. Virgo
Ghret Exhibits. Design, «. «24.0000 6 a0 Nadya Makovenyi
ChietExhibitsseroduction a. .0es eee Walter N. Lewis

Office of Public and Academic Programs
| DEEL NOI OGRE EEE OD Dacia GED Oem Josiah Hatch

Office of the Registrar

IRE PAGED AT. cay spre tate) ot 3/505 2 elegans SERS aretouste ars aes Virginia Beets
PASSISLADE: IRCOISED AL 55.0 ciiehers 50s oie)'s 3 sie Martha Morris

Department of Social and Cultural History

o-@hainment eerie see eines cain ones Anne C. Golovin
Elizabeth M. Harris
Wice-Ghairinan 6722.4. e040 se eS es Gary B. Kulik

CERAMICS AND GLASS

Missistane Curators Fon. es ease sec dnes Susan Myers

* Deceased May 18, 1982.
* Appointed July 25, 1982.
* Deceased October 19, 1982.

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 539
GuratorsmEmeritianeece oe eee Paul V. Gardner
J. Jefferson Miller II
C. Malcolm Watkins

Gollaboratote ace ee foe tele ions Joan P. Watkins
Fell owacheve arses sees sierra cle eroreisteisiees Hans Syz
INesearchwAssociatemnrinnaeee nee: Ivor Noél Hume

COMMUNITY LIFE

GUratOrs eae rsr loca oan cient ais eel wieie se Richard E. Ahlborn
Carl H. Scheele
Research Associate: a -riieinie ceiisiertereten Sally Griffith
COSTUME
Guratonenia see ee caeenotreeletraets ears Claudia B. Kidwell
CuratornEmeritus sm ce ce dotece ne aoeie Anne W. Murray

DOMESTIC LIFE

@linatorsiin Ce Leen rae Anne C. Golovin
Rodris C. Roth
GRAPHIC ARTS

Guratores snc ieee er oe ees Elizabeth M. Harris
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
Gurators esc eee reoeciate John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover
IResearchwAssociatesi meric Charles P. Fisher

Sheridan Germann
POLITICAL HISTORY

(Gib Zoh eat eae EOC Croan Uno maina Margaret B. Klapthor

Associates @uratormiyencnic acc cece Edith P. Mayo
TEXTILES

GUratOnied cece een hele Rita J. Adrosko

Assistant:Guratore,< cciscne cee causa Gary B. Kulik

Department of the History of Science and Technology

Chatrmanseenec ae Ce renee Bernard S. Finn

Wice-G@hrairmam = sorte cot eet Pes Robert C. Post

esearchwAssociatesie eon en Derek J. De Solla Price
Bern Dibner

ELECTRICITY AND MODERN PHYSICS

(GUPAatOns: ie percent eee ee AEE Arthur P. Molella
Paul Forman
EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES

Curators ees eee ee John N. Hoffman *

GuratOrrscece skeen chase naror IRIS up eneeas John T. Schlebecker

Associate; Curator sins deyecmcc tons Os George T. Sharrer

Research) Associates: 4..:). scp eis be ce ote Philip W. Bishop
MATHEMATICS

Guratorinngh:cteeee enone haere: Uta C. Merzbach

* Deceased July 17, 1982.

540 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Research Associates’ 52.0.0 0se eee. cw Judy Green
Jeanne LaDuke

MECHANISMS
(CLITETOTE: 6 coorGions PARC DIOR RRR In area Otto Mayr
esearch Associate! foc.ss oe oe siecisic ae Stuart Bennett

MEDICAL SCIENCES

(CUETO. SAO Ale Monon Grane neo cree Audrey B. Davis
Assistants CuratoOm -accicsc oie sate als Ramunas A. Kondratas
CratOnpEMeLitus sacmeioace oie ide seals Sami K. Hamarneh

MECHANICAL AND CIVIL ENGINEERING

DORI R ere ays aie aia c,ay)6 soe Ss ash nis esas Robert M. Vogel
Research Associates ........:..0.+.00. Charles T. G. Looney
Dian O. Belanger

Associate’ Curator: So. co. eee ees cease Donald E. Kloster
uratOceEMeritus ee eee io orice Craddock R. Goins, Jr.
Research ASsociatell aqae. nee oe ee Mrs. John Nicholas Brown

NAVAL HISTORY

MAES RE Hee any ci, cls e/ncarede aoa ae Philip K. Lundeberg
Harold D. Langley
Mesearen ASSOCIate: oo cies cee ec ss Lee Houchins

SU ACO oe ayeiisy ops ic. 010 a Petals eRe nayeinats ce acess Eugene Ostroff

PHYSICAL SCIENCES

(CORATIOR “6S Re RIO ee ae ee Deborah J. Warner
Associate: Gurator Sinise ee ee scion Jon B. Eklund
ResearcheAssociate cine eee anes Arthur Frazier
TRANSPORTATION
(COACHES “J NeRE Nwied COC tis CLOGS UAE EDS John H. White
Robert C. Post
ReSearchASsociates’ se const es oes Peter B. Bell

Arthur D. Dubin
George Hilton
Melvin H. Jackson

Seniorenlistoniana-)..mart ee eee es Brooke Hindle
Senior ocientitic ocholar.... ...o2.5+- Robert P. Multhauf

DPE CLOT cir aia ace ee Alan Fern *

PIGSISEANIE DUITCELOLS oct a talisieia's ciieiciets oe ave Harold Francis Pfister *
Administrative Officer’ .....5.2 60.2. Barbara A. Hart

In felvorn eile et on Amol ono cterne Marc Pachter

** Appointed June 1, 1982.
* Acting Director June 26, 1981-June 1, 1982.

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 541
Curator of Painting and Sculpture ....
Curator of Exhibitions
Associate Curators of Painting and

Sculpture

coe eee eee eee eee

Curator of Prints
Curator of Photographs
Curator of Education
Editor of Publications
Chief, Design and Production
Keeper, Catalog of American Portraits
National Survey Coordinator, Catalog of
Ameri canwlontraltsmeneee rien ncicter
Editor of the Charles Willson Peale
Papers and Historian of American
Culture
MHI Drariatacircusiis Coreen ee
Senior Conservator
Senior Photographer
Registrar); che semtcpeis cil syrem eeasiayete ee nsec
Public Affairs Officer

eco e ee ee es eee oe ees oe
eee eee eee eee oe
eer eee eee ee oe eo oe

Ce ee

Ce

eee eee eee eee ee ew

Ce

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Director

Cr

eee ee eee eee eee ee ee eee ee ee eo oe

eee ce ee eee eee ee eee eee

Senior Ethnomusicologist
Administrative Officer
Program Coordinator
Program Specialist
Folklorists

ce |

Ce ee ee
eee eee eee eee ee oe
eoeee ee eee eee eee soe

CC

Ethnomusicologist
Archivist
Designer
Administrative Assistant
Fiscal Technician

CC
CC rr er)
eee eee eee eee eee sees eseese ee
see eee eee eens

eee eee eee eee eee ee oo

Renwick “Celebration” Exhibition

Project Manager

eee eee ee eee ee ee ee eee

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Assistant Secretary
Executive Assistant
Special Assistant
Program Analyst

eee eee ee ee eee ee oe
CC er
eee eee eee eee eee ees ce

™ Appointed May 16, 1982.

542 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Robert G. Stewart
Beverly J. Cox

Monroe Fabian
Ellen Miles
Wendy Wick
William F. Stapp
Kenneth Yellis
Frances S. Wein
Nello Marconi
Mona Dearborn

Richard K. Doud

Lillian B. Miller

Cecilia Chin

Rosamond Westmoreland ”
Eugene Mantie

Suzanne Jenkins

Sandra Westin

Wilcomb E. Washburn

Ralph Rinzler
Peter Seitel
Thomas Vennum
Betty Beuck

Jeffrey LaRiche
Diana Parker

Jack Santino
Steven Zeitlin
Kazadi wa Mukuna
Richard Derbyshire
Daphne Shuttleworth
Sarah Lewis
Barbara Strickland

Kristie Miller

Paul N. Perrot
William N. Richards
W. Donald Duckworth
Thomas J. Peyton
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Director
Supervisor (Archaeometry)
Supervisory Conservator
Supervisory Conservation-Scientist ..-.
Administrative Officer 1... .......0e00

a) eheleleie) mie (ee) a, e)\ee'0)e.0)e) 06 © @ ue) 6s e.0
ee eee eee eee

NGI G Heri o osc ers voce eoste gc aueraunatasa one

Administrative Officer
SeMcEOr PLOGUCHOMN, .<.taéisjielegies 3. sss
Supervisor, Exhibits Specialist
Supervisor, Exhibits Specialist

(Modelmaker)

Ce
eee ee eee
ee

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Foreman, Grounds Management Division
Foreman, Greenhouse Nursery Division

Robert M. Organ
Jacqueline S. Olin
Eleanor McMillan
Timothy Padfield
Vernetta M. Williams

James A. Mahoney
John C. Widener
William M. Clark, Jr.
John C. Widener
Kenneth R. Clevenger

Walter G. Sorrell

James R. Buckler
John W. Monday
Lauranne C. Nash
Kenneth Hawkins
August A. Dietz IV

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

PRISPCIOE oe 22 os = 0 Sok Seatac w orae ender
Deputy a DITe COT ercctere care cial oe hein series
Peapram: Omcer:. cic. cislseie SSG os eo 2s
International Liaison Specialist
Maordinator Ais se wok us stele te we sa eee

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

beppran Manager nis. <0) «00's s0000 56s
Assistant Program Manager and Native
American Museums Program
ROGrdinatOl evo. ccece snes s cbse h ee
Training Program Coordinator ........
Intern and Visiting Professionals
Programs: Goordinator 2... 0.00600
Conservation Information Program
Boordinator: 520s tenes e ee haar a bs
fi. Production. Specialist 2 50,2 <2
AY. Production’ Specialist: :25 223.0545
Distribution Coordinator 222-0... << 2%:
Museum Reference Center Librarian ...

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

REPISET AR. 5:5 otc eee Aap SI + ose.
Assistan’ Resistear, o5;.1d<isdaiatth > «000
Management Analyst

eee eee ease eee ees

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 543

Kennedy B. Schmertz
Richard T. Conroy

LeRoy Makepeace

Saundra Tilghman-Thomas
Brian J. LeMay

Jane R. Glaser

Nancy J. Fuller
Nancy L. Welch

Mary Lynn Perry

Elena Borowski

Peter Erikson

Eleanor Crow

Bettie J. Randolph

Rhoda Ratner/Catherine Scott

Philip Leslie
Mary W. Lund
Melva S. Elmer
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Acting Archivist
INSSociatemAnchivastsme seimmcreiiecni tor

eer ees e eee ere ee eee eee

Assistant Archivists

eoe rere ees ee ees ee

IGHSIEI, aoddocodadcncgucnoGoUnUORGD
Supervisory Archives Technician ......

William A. Deiss
Alan L. Bain

Richard V. Szary
William E. Cox
William R. Massa, Jr.
James A. Steed
Susan E. Westgate
Pamela M. Henson
Norwood N. Biggs

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

IDiiAty? |ogobousabaapecogooaodoaDUeOC
Special Assistant -...........--2------
Assistant for Publications and
Exhibitions
Assistant for Resource Development ...
Manager, Systems, Planning and
Adiministra tions star cteyercs terete ets eres
Administrative Assistant .............
Associate Director and Manager
Bibliographic Systems Division .....
Chief, Acquisition Services ...........
Supervisor, Monographs Purchasing
and Gifts/Exchanges ............
Supervisor, Serials Purchasing ......
Supervisor, Binding Purchasing ....-
Chief, Automated Bibliographic Control
Acting Chief, Catalogue Records ......
Ghief, Original andexingie west oi
G@ataloguers'. ssmvec clas, depetciore 1+ os om

eee eee eee eee eee eee ee 8

Assistant Director and Manager,
Research Services Division .........
Chief Librarian, Central Reference and
WO AN SCEVICES ree erie ureree are ise syaueticgebent
Senior Science Reference Librarian
Reference libranianmsecieerrcice cri
umanitiesmlsibranianmerercr cece
Computer Search Management
Wibrarian a sacextote em eee
Library of Congress Liaison
Meibrariani) -acewetcreri eee
Chief Librarian, Museum Reference
Genter: elise ues eteh alate ecepetiene
Chief Librarian, Special Collections ...
Assistant Librarians

Branch Research Libraries
Chief Technician, SIL Branch,
CBGES/RBE icc ioe ie recae
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, C-HM .....
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM ....

544 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Robert Maloy
Silvio Bedini

Sharon H. Sweeting
Mary A. Rosenfeld

Stephen Toney
Peter Nerret

Vija L. Karklins
Mildred D. Raitt

William B. Neff
Lucien R. Rossignol
James E. Lawson
Victoria Avera
Susan M. DeRitis
Mary Jane H. Linn
Margaret A. Sealor
Dianne Chilmonczyk
tlelen Nordberg

Margaret Child

Mary C. Gray
Jack F. Marquardt
Amy E. Levin
Bertha S. Sohn

S. VanHaften-Mackler
Janette K. Saquet

Catherine D. Scott
Ellen B. Wells

Angeline D. Smith
Charles G. Berger

Angel Haggins
Robert Kaumann
Frank Pietropaoli
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAfA .. Janet L. Stanley
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMVAH .... Rhoda Ratner

ererence Librarian: seen oes Karen Preslock
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NUNH ... Sylvia J. Churgin

Assistant librarians) so. cceseces ce Ruth Schallert

Barbara Veloz

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NZP ...... Key Kenyon
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, STRI ...... Carol Jopling
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch,SAO ...... Joyce M. Rey
Assistant Director and Manager

Collection Management Division .... Jack S. Goodwin

Book Conservation Laboratory
ehiel’ Conservator -s c)sicis ete <a Johannes H. Hyltoft

Research) ASSOCIA patos.) cissistele ss 0 Jean C. Smith

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

URE CEO TE fers Sia ose oie alee so suet dy sl suaisineVoinveore Peggy A. Loar
buble Atrairs Officer... 2.5.20 eee Eileen Harakal
Assistant Director for Administration

ana Program Analysis’ «0.0.00. .0%.'s Antonio Diez
Pashications Omeer,. 3.0 i Fev acae bs 0% Andrea Stevens
Registrar for Shipping ..... 00.6... Mary Sheridan
Reeistrar for Scheduling 22.../2...... Vera Hyatt
Assistant Director for International

ETOSTAMY . 022s ws cee Sasemiere hee eee Eileen Rose
Exhsbttions Coordinator . 3.2.0.6. 8s Donald McClelland
Assistant Director for Program

POOMMIStLALON. . 55 sie di sce ee vs cee sel Deborah Dawson
Exhibitions Coordinators ........6..%% Martha Cappelletti

Judith Cox

Elizabeth Driscoll

Julie Myers

Betty Teller
Eedeational Specialist’ 2.52.6 s05.025006 Marjorie Share
Edueation ‘Coordinators .. 2.2... 0» Susan D. Boer

Deborah Lerme Goodman
Assistant Director for Exhibition

BEVEIG PICMG 2). spurs erases & Sh- leis s + 6,3 Anne R. Gossett

PUBLIC SERVICE

PSSINCANE SECKELATY 3 So oe c5.5, ho 0,6 shee Julian T. Euell
Executive Assistantusitisss <s.cbelve sess. Vincent L. MacDonnell
Admunistrative Officer .....2600 eo 5 Andrew W. McCoy
ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM STAFF

PUITC CLOT eee airs ee ee John R. Kinard
musmnistrative ‘Officer 72. 3.2)... 2 55.2. Audrey M. Archer
PRESEN AAT ee ei ee erie sve) coe ays ee Louise D. Hutchinson
Exhibits Program Manager ........... Victor M. Govier
Edaeation Specialist 2.0. 22520. ee oN Zora Martin-Felton
Supervisory Visual Information

SPOCIAMGE Cars stieharey bibs B eteiaiea\eieadcteca re Sharon A. Reinckens
Supervisory Exhibits Specialist ........ James E. Mayo

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 545
DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Directors ee eee oie James R. Morris
Businessm Vianagermemenias emcee erie Joe Reed
Box/@ffice Manager i aaascte neler Jere: Ann Norton
Director, Chamber Music Programs ... James M. Weaver
Director, Program in Black American

Gulture steers te ees Nemsns tons cae Bernice Johnson Reagon
GCultural@hiistonian’ socuseee ener. Martin Williams
Director, Museum Programs .......... Shirley Cherkasky
Director, Education Services .......... Cynthia A. Hightower
Director, Marketing and

Gommunicationsss eee eee Sally Roffman
jiechnicalgDinectorm eee ee oer Harold A. Closter
ib licgAttainsl © ficermeene reece icnior Manuel J. Melendez

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Dre ctor ee io sccceint ics occas eager ia 6 de John E. Estes *
ACHING MIDITECEONa. 3c seus srecintene.cloutorrvacrois Rosa E. Maness

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Education Program Coordinator ....... Ann Bay

Museum Education Specialist ......... Alan Gartenhaus
Museum Education Specialist ......... Irvin Lippman
Museum Education Specialist ......... Thomas Lowderbaugh
Special Education Coordinator ........ Janice Majewski

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Director ess ex. cee neve cose Wilton S. Dillon
Associate Directors: 4.sasnee ciesise sree Dorothy Richardson
Carla M. Borden

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS

Director on eek se oe eee Nazaret Cherkezian
AssistantaDinectonmen nance anreeere Paul B. Johnson
Telecommunications Specialists ....... Ann M. Carroll
Jean B. Quinnette
Productions Goordinatoneee eee eee Lawrence E. Kline
Radio Production Specialists .......... Jesse E. Boggs

John P. Meehan
Radio Production/Marketing Specialist . Denise E. Freeland

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

Directors i ocrscls Docker eke ieee Felix C. Lowe
Deputy Director igen. ich cscnevcsts eases Glen B. Ruh
DirectonEmenitusime nner cee aoe Edward F. Rivinus
Financials Managermny mn age acess ee John R. Ouellette
Administrative Officer... s.04.. 9000 Georgiana Hahn

*® Deceased January 31, 1982.

546 / Smithsonian Year 1982
University Press Division

Assistant Director and Managing Editor Maureen R. Jacoby

Rroduction! Manager ecircyerieisisns 0a a6 Lawrence J. Long
Series Publications Supervisor ......... Barbara J. Spann
Distribution Section Supetvisor ....... Rosa E. Maness
BEMIOTE DECSIONCE «tae... ccc vere vie oe Stephen J. Kraft
Direct Mail Book Division

PIEGLOL -chararayer sikh tere e eilstonetake Wis oneiwiels Glen B. Ruh
esmmess Manager 2% 225 sia. ce Sete ee ees Janet Woodward
BICMISSIEMEOE ss <'a cis/eies sis.5.sc-0 sels sisle es Alexis Doster III

SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE

"ELLs ld I I a a ge ke Don Moser
BERNESE 08) 5,2 a5 oe ar eret Ss ¥ wea oat ewido he Joseph J. Bonsignore
ER PCUIVESEGILOL “52.2. isa: sinew aeie eevee ss Ralph Backlund
Members, Board of Editors:
Caroline Despard Paul Trachtman
Edwards Park John P. Wiley, Jr.
Bennett Schiff Richard L. Williams
Nancy Seaman
Associate Publisher, Advertising ...... Thomas H. Black
Associate Publisher, Circulation ....... Anne Keating
SREMeral Mana Ser 36.5, he mssca- sven bese o.or5 2:6 Carey O. Randall
Production Manager...» j<i00chsse«s Nannie Shanahan *
REAM oe selon ats as nls /s 2 Gpiciss ds) anya se <a 06+ = E. Cherry Doyle
Consultant to the Secretary ........... Edward K. Thompson

VISITOR INFORMATION AND ASSOCIATES’
RECEPTiON CENTER

PIE CEO assy soc sko Sly sisyousvsnsie| o's S. 5 assis isise seve Mary Grace Potter
DED ya DITCCEOL 6 x -aeeace sha: Meisspsusiole Ss ors Carolyn Clampitt
PIGPEAMYEGIUOL «60. %;ckals,s %\isj0ia 3000.01 Maria Heasly
Manager, Staff/Volunteer Service Unit . Sally Covel
Manager, Public Inquiry Mail Service .. Nancy Wyeth
Coordinator, Group Information Services Lois Brown
Manager, Telephone Information Unit . Gretchen Latimer
DHice MANAGER «oi iheioetin cians tildes ones Bee Gee Livsey

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

Director. 2 sn ehis tics clos ee he oe James McK. Symington

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT

Deputy. Director ...2)..20:. 6 sess ci eee E. Jeffrey Stann

Associate Development Officers ....... Arthur W. Gardner
Ronda R. Simms
Salvatore G. Cilella, Jr.

esearchvAssistantee eee re cnn aare Susan J. Kal¢ik

* Deceased February 28, 1982.

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 547
NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Director
ProgrammAnialyStar tae toe olen teres creek
Program Coordinator for

the Women’s Committee ............

Ce

Regional Events

ligofndevon IMEI? Gaoonooapgoopou0GGOr
Program) Assistants) /10-).- 4 - jie = ee =

Contributing Membership

Rrogran Manager jini tice «/sarels\ ele)
coped AGIELEIMe Ching a6 5cccbus coun

Selected Studies

rogram Vianiae erriitrirnccrctntcirrsters
Program Assistant cece tlels niece:

Associates Travel

Program Manager, Domestic

Study Moursies rs sores setertonetnc e crct
Program Manager, Foreign

Study Tours. iincnice bs cata ers ches

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

DirectOL 25.6 aioe Scxcwaeierne mee Waspmeteacs
Associates Director aaaeecneieie ee ieee
Assistant Director for Administration . .
Program Coordinators

Ce er

Associate Program Coordinators .......

Public Information Specialist ..........
ATE ID ITeCtOT Wa.) xeie.choeevelsromietsvae earn ee
Membership Coordinator .............
Assistant Membership Coordinator ....
Registration) Manager 22.0.0. .45+ 054 -
Assistant Registration Manager ......
Volunteer Coordinator 222.27... 25-.4--

ADMINISTRATION

Assistant Secretary ..................
Rilannines@ ficersaaeeec eerie ero:
Contracting Officer, Contracts Office ...
Director, Management Analysis Office .
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity ..

548 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Jacqueline Austin
Abby Whitenack

Marta Doggett

Charlene James-Duguid

Amy Kotkin and MaryBeth Mullen

Janet Fesler
Robert Smulian

Nancy Starr
Nancy Mitchell

Prudence Clendenning

Barbara Tuceling

Janet W. Solinger
Michael C. Alin
Eugene S. Szopa
Paul J. Edelson
Moya B. King

Carol L. Malmi
Christine Parker
Karen M. Gray
Marsha Semmel
Alice Dana Spencer
Helen A. Marvel
Margaret V. Lee
Jeanne B. George
Claudette E. Moore
Marjorie Lee Walker
Xenia Sorokin Arnelle
Elinor K. Emlet

John F. Jameson

Robert L. Farrell
Elbridge O. Hurlbut
John G. Motheral
Will Douglas, Jr.
Director, Office of Facilities Services ...
Director, Office of Design and
Construction
Director, Office of Plant Services ....
Director, Office of Protection Services
Director, Office of Information Resource
IMAM ABEMENE ccc: ceiesasicmee sess es
Director, Office of Personnel
NGmInisErationl wana cice cece tie oat
Director, Office of Printing and
Photographic Services... . wes. as
Director, Office of Programming and
BRRICR EE eee acc Scr e eee nie oe ero he
Director, Office of Supply Services ..
Director, Travel Services Office .......

Tom L. Peyton, Jr.
Phillip K. Reiss
Kenneth E. Shaw
Robert B. Burke, Jr.
Richard H. Lytle
Howard Toy

James H. Wallace, Jr.
Jon E. Yellin

Harry P. Barton
Ann H. Krafthofer

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

Dre ASUTERE h7) iF re cee bicre Scceyei a Ae atone
Assistant to) the Treastrer 5. )..0...--
Panamcial: Analyst ooo scc-crashsis essays dean oe.
Assistant Treasurer, Office of

Accounting and Financial Services ..
Assistant Director, Accounting Services
Assistant Director, Business and

GontrolwAccountsiacsc.ns sce eee ee
Director, Office of Grants and Risk

IManacement iaiciicin ss ols oe crete Gieieye's
Assistant Director, Grants Management
Assistant Director, Risk Management ..
Director, Business Management Office .
Assistant to the Director, Business

Management Office 2 ci se. a. 0 nee
Director (Acting), Smithsonian

SUES tte | 00) 2)
Director, Mail Order Division .........
Director (Acting), Department of

Foode Services) Marcrracoe arenes wins
Manager, Parking Office ..............
Director, Belmont Conference Center ..

Christian C. Hohenlohe
John R. Clarke
Frances C. Rooney

Allen S. Goff
James W. Evans

Shireen L. Dodson

Phillip H. Babcock
Rick R. Johnson
Alice R. Bryan
James J. Chmelik

Ann McClellan Miller

Ohlen J. Boyd
Donald E. Press

John R. Clarke
Charles K. Ruffin
Mary B. Force

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

Assistant General Counsels:
Robert A. Dierker
Marie C. Malaro
Suzanne Dupré Murphy

OFFICE OF COORDINATOR OF PUBLIC INFORMATION

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 549

George S. Robinson
Marsha S. Shaines

Peter G. Powers
Alan D. Ullberg

Lawrence Taylor
Eileen Hall

Sharon A. White
James I. Wilson
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Director cg aise se aikeres Ochsner emis er Alvin Rosenfeld
ANgeigieine IDR oé50cconn0eg0ep0GaD Madeleine Jacobs
PubliceAftairsySpecialists  ..1.: +24: Ingrid Mendelsohn
Mary Combs
Public Information Specialists ......... Richard Friedman

Susan Bliss

David Maxfield
Linda St. Thomas
Johnnie Douthis
Lilas Wiltshire
Kathryn Lindeman

OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL LIAISON

Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Margaret Hird
Congressional Liaison Assistant ....... Carey Wilkins

OFFICE OF SPECIAL EVENTS

Director Gana ecciaeron ee ncn or eolel arcs sieve Barbara Spraggins
Assistants DirectOneets 4. si) e os 5 Anne Blattberg

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

Director: 4352s hee eae eee sas James H. Billington
Deputy Director -yoaeeedas tree care Prosser Gifford
|aclivc\e en NERI RISO Cc mace cod acre OOO Peter Braestrup
Bibraniany Goontieicme ee eed seias-<c8 Zdenek V. David
Publications Program Manager ........ Elizabeth Dixon
Assistant Director for Administration .. William M. Dunn
Secretary, Kennan Institute ........... John Glad
Secretary, American Society and Politics

Programs {44 c sateen hae poeters «obese Michael J. Lacey
Secretary, Latin American Program ..... Abraham F. Lowenthal
Secretary, East Asia Program ......... Ronald A. Morse
Assistant Director for Development .... George Liston Seay

Assistant Director for Fellowships and
Coordinator of History, Culture, and

Societys io.5 ter ee ac Scio Ann Sheffield
Executive Assistant to the Director ....  Mernie Wright Weathers
Secretary, International Security Studies

Progiarn ce sitire crecceynieier soos orsroin aro Samuel F. Wells, Jr.

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Artistic DirectOn pia sclera Marta Istomin
DirectonofO©Operationsmar cose eae Thomas R. Kendrick
Deputy Director of Operations ....... Geraldine M. Otremba
General Manager of Theaters ......... Judith O’Dea Morr
Associate Manager of Theaters ........ Richard H. Owens
Controller! ye. aes sae eon eae Clifton B. Jeter

550 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Director of Development ............. Jillian H. Poole

Director of Building Services .......... Edward G. Schessler
BuarewOdicer® Ketones, 6 sos eons Verda V. Welch
Administrative Assistant for

|Es2oyeaasyoqbachh (he es enteat ha gee Benes eae ae Wayne Richardson
Directonof Educationwearsisces sce cies eer Jack W. Kukuk
Marketing Manager <. .. ¢s.<%%ale es. os John H. McAuliffe
Director of Public Relations ........... Leo Sullivan

Laura Longley ”

NaanaAeer/OL Gales “Sec ae kis Sees os Ss Carl A. Matte
melevision Consultante:.. saqisiees «oss Chloe Aaron
Theater Productions Consultant ....... Ralph G. Allen
Minority Affairs Consultant .......... Archie L. Buffkins
Technical Systems Consultant ......... Alexander Morr

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

Chairman of the Board ............... Mrs. Elliot Richardson
RES IO OCs: S782 chicos stat & ore ues Ruth Graves
Executive Assistant i. % 2.00 sases.e0is Nancy Lewis
Director of Development ........0.5.3% Wade St. Clair
Director of Supplier and

Organizational Relations ........... Barbara Atkinson
Director of Financial Operations

anacspecial Projectsmk, Sone ok se ayes Christina D. Mead
Director of Publications and

PREGEAKGLTN CY <2) eriepee ara eaint e tierce Kristine Wilcox
Regional Program Coordinators ...... Curtis L. Brown

Denise Bulluck
Jessie L. Lacy
Barbara Melnicove

Subcontract and Data Retrieval Officer . Don Perron
Resource Coordination Specialist ...... Deborah K. Stoeckle
Einrance sVianla Gener aterm ethers oie ot oie Donna M. Wagley
Materials/Supplies Manager .......... Calvin L. McFadden
Writer/Editor/Researcher ............. Gail Oerke
Manager, Parent Services ............. James Wendorf

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Bresidentern tate ek ee eee ee ne Salis John R. Stevenson
Wicesenesi dentine tant i svac cic otra olen Carlisle H. Humelsine
DIFC CEON Meroe eerste see nats, Hae ts was J. Carter Brown
NSSISEANE IDITECEOLIC: & sion ices s o.cie ee sto arels Charles P. Parkhurst
Dean, Center for Advanced Study in

EME MISH AL GATES), Siete 2 Wiern.o ste Ghanacsrsio is Henry A. Millon
SRL CASUTELIEs st tetars tear Nal arc acter Gaere ake Robert C. Goetz
PAAEDRISELATOR 0 soe = love oie. ont ec ern ee tie oie)s Joseph G. English
Secretary-General Counsel ............ Carroll J. Cavanagh
Construction Mariager |. .: 0.25.6 os.0 Hurley F. Offenbacher
Assistant to the Director, Music ...... Richard Bales

” Appointed September 23, 1982.

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 551
Assistant to the Director, Public
IGqvioeaneVaOIN ooscocodsdaootacooGedus
Assistant to the Director, Special Events
Planning Consultant ..............---
Curator of American Painting .........
Ghictiltibranianwemeeeeeeee ee oer
Chief, Education Department ..........
Head, Extension Program Department .
Head, Art Information Service ........
|SGshidore” cs cache Sto ton oo Gu0.6. con Oo oceo ae
Chief, Photographic Laboratory .......
Curator of Photographic Archives .....
Head, Photographic Services -.........
Sor (COMESWEWO? Soagcccnoacbapodcar
Head, Exhibitions and Loans ..........
Head, Department of Design and
Installation
ISAC ShoobpascocddoouaDCDdHGDaGS
Curatoriof GraphicyArtsiee eer = a.
Curator of Early Italian and Tuscan
levine Geeeodoucao.cunosodaheuons
Curator of Northern and Later Italian
PERiMebN? sogacoccoonddsboasenugo0GK
Curator of Italian Drawings ..........
Gurator of Erench Fainting <:.......-.
Gurator of Erench! Printsmareen oa
GuratonmofSculptureyr ase eee
Curator of Twentieth-Century Art .....
Curator of Northern European Painting
Guratonmof Dutch) Painting) ssa ae
Curator, Department of Graphic Arts ..
Assistant Dean, Center for Advanced
Study in’ the Visual “Artsi<-22 2. --
Assistant Administratoniesniererr ae
Associate Secretary—General Counsel ..
Assistant Secretanymam erator raise
Personnel Officersaso serie oe

552 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Katherine Warwick
Genevra Higginson
David W. Scott
John H. Wilmerding
J. M. Edelstein
Margaret I. Bouton
Ruth R. Perlin

Elise V. H. Ferber
Frances Smyth
William J. Sumits
Ruth Rowe Philbrick
Ira A. Bartfield
Victor C. B. Covey
Jack C. Spinx

Gaillard F. Ravenel
Peter Davidock, Jr.
Andrew C. Robison, Jr.

David A. Brown

Sheldon Grossman
Diane DeGrazia Bohlin
David E. Rust

H. Diane Russell
Douglas Lewis, Jr.

E. A. Carmean, Jr.
John O. Hand

Arthur K. Wheelock
Ruth Fine

Marianna Shreve Simpson

George W. Riggs
Elizabeth A. Croog
Kathryn K. Bartfield
Michael B. Bloom
Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1982

APPENDIX 8.

The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join
with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for their gen-
erous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the
name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inad-
vertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were
received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian
wishes to thank them for their generosity.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

SPECIAL PROJECTS

Donors to the Furnishings Collection

The Edward E. Lawler Estate, Bellehaven, Alexandria, Virginia, one Rococo
Revival footstool; pair table lamps, ca. 1850; one Empire sofa.
Mrs. Milton Turner, Bethesda, Maryland, three watercolors by Ferdinand

Petrie.

Mrs. Alexander Macomb, Williamsburg, Virginia, nine Eastlake sidechairs.

Mr. Edward Stead, Elkridge, Maryland, one Empire sofa.

Mr. J. V. Jamison, Hagerstown, Maryland, matching pair of Rococo Revival
sofas; a matching pair of Rococo Revival side chairs.

SCIENCE

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Donors of Financial Support

Bendix Field Engineering Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Berlin

The Boeing Company

Robert and Joan Burtnett

Patricia M. Dennehy

Ms. Virginia C. Ellett

Employees of the Federal Aviation
Administration Public Affairs Office

Employees of Upper Providence
Township

Frederick L. Felton

Martha C. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Irvin Kibler

Mr. and Mrs. Luthene G. Kimball

Mrs. Helen McCray

McDonnell Douglas Astronautics
Company

Mrs. Robert L. McMillan

The National Committee for the
Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris

National Space Club

RCA

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Reed

Thomas and Marry Sarko

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Schutter II

Mrs. Sam Siegel

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Skinner

Mrs. Mary E. Stearns

Time-Life Books, Inc.

The Viking Fund

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 553
Donors to the Collections

Advanced Electronic Design, Inc.: AED-512 Color Video Monitor.

Dr. John J. Alford, Jr.: World War I Bombing Military Aviator Badge.

Mr. William F. Baggerman: civilian seat type parachute, ca. 1941, and flight
consolidated altimeter.

Mr. John Batchelor: Focke-Wulf 190F-8 aircraft clock.

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Bigaignon de Sulle: collection of 105 airline pennants.

Dr. Harold J. Berman: World War II “Short Snorter” souvenir bank note.

Mr. William R. Bertelsen: Aeromobile 35, Aeromobile test model, and Bertel-
sen Aeromobile hovercraft.

Mr. Donald H. Boderick, civilian flying helmet, ca. 1930s.

Mr. John M. Brown: Star Cavalier manufacturer’s insignia.

Mr. Henry P. Bruckner: electrically heated flying suit.

Bundesamt fuer Whertechnik und Beschaffung Kobleny: 2 German Luftwaffe
machine guns.

California Institute of Technology (through Dr. G. Neugebauer): 62-inch
infra-red telescope.

Mr. John J. Caputo, Jr.: civilian flying helmet, gloves, and goggles, ca. 1920.

Mr. Mark Chases: untitled sculpture by Bijan Bahar.

Estate of Jacqueline Cochran: WASP World War II service jacket, trousers,
and shirt; WAF service hat, flight cap, coat, skirt, overblouse, and handbag;
shoes, Lombard-type protective helmet, USAF oxygen mask, 2 civilian fly-
ing suits, ca. 1960, U.S. Navy anti-G garment, custom flying boots, dress
gloves, Spanish Air Force pilot’s badge, Orden de Ruben Dario-Nicaragua,
civilian beret, model of Northrop T-38, and model of Lockheed F-104.

Mrs. Hereward Lester Cooke: drawing, The Vehicle Assembly Building, by
Hereward Lester Cooke.

Ms. Phyllis S. Corbitt, in memory of Col. Gilland W. Corbitt: oil painting,
Night Reconnaissance, by Frank Wootton.

Mr. Felix de Weldon: sculpture, bust of Paul Garber, by Felix de Weldon.

Capt. R. F. Dreesen: 1964 U.S. Navy summer camouflage flying suit.

Mr. Joseph F. Dulvick: three-blade propeller, German TBF Avenger aircraft
cabin seat, automatic direction finder antenna, T-28 ignition harness, 4
100-Ib. practice bombs, 2 U.S. Navy foul-weather ponchos, U.S. Navy
plastic water bag, U.S. Army Air Forces vest life preserver, U.S. Navy vest
life preserver, U.S. Navy lightweight flying helmet, U.S. Navy lightweight
flying suit.

Mrs. Charles Ernst: Fiat A-12 bis engine.

Mr. Anton Fibiger: World War I German Air Force watch and 3 West Ger-
man Air Force pilot’s badges.

General Dynamics Corporation: painting, F-16, by Robert McCall.

Mr. William R. Graver: Forster 35-R engine model.

Dr. D. A. Harper: NASA Lear Jet infra-red telescope.

Mr. Stephen W. Henninger: model of a Grumman F-14 Tomcat Fighter.

Mr. John F. Jameson: model of Ohlsson and Rice 19 engine, ca. 1940, and
model of a rocket engine, ca. 1940.

Mr. Robert A. Johnson: 4 World War I 97-round Lewis Gun magazines.

Mr. William M. Masland: U.S. Navy flying face mask, ca. 1930.

Mr. Gregory M. Masone: watercolor, The Flying Machine, by Greg Mort.

Mr. John J. McCulloch: Monocoupe 110 Special aircraft.

Mr. John W. Moffitt: World War II U.S. Army Air Forces navigator badge.

Mr. Richard W. Morris: World War II “Short Snorter” souvenir roll of bank-
notes and U.S. Army Air Forces World War II flying sunglasses and
whistle.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Johnson Space Center: 50

554 / Smithsonian Year 1982
space shuttle tiles, food and personal accessories from the first flight of
the Space Shuttle Columbia—72 objects; 5 pairs Extra Vehicular Activity
gloves, 6 pair Intra Vehicular Activity gloves, 6 Extra Vehicular Visor
Assemblies, 6 helmets, 5 bubble helmets.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Kennedy Space Center:
orbiting solar observatory prototype S-16.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Langley Research Center:
wind tunnel model and electro-optical facsimile camera for Viking Mars
Lander.

Mr. Karl Ort: de Havilland 9 Liberty propeller, 2 U.S. World War II trainer
aircraft propellers, “Flo-Torque”’ wind-driven generator propeller, U.S.
Signal Corps altimeter, airspeed indicator, 2 oil pressure gauges, pilot static
tube, aircraft compass, magneto switch, Zenith carburetor, wind driven
generator, 2 gasoline pressure gauges, 2 Paragon generator propellers,
throttle, U.S. Army Mark III aircraft bomb, 4 U.S. Army World War I
practice bombs, 2 U.S. Army Air Force World War II flying jackets, U.S.
Army World War I flying suit, civilian winter flying suit, 2 OX-5 engine
exhaust manifolds.

Mrs. Catherine P. Phillips: 8 serigraphs by Clayton Pond: Experimenting with
my Pull Chain Toilet in a Weightless Environment; Finding a Cure for
Cancer; Encountering an Alien Battle Cruiser; Strange Encounter for the
First Time; Proposed Color Scheme for Shuttle Inaugural Launch; Acquir-
ing the Constellation Orion for the Smithsonian; and Deliniating the Con-
stellations to Simplify Astronomy for the Average Man.

Pratt and Whitney Aircraft: Pratt and Whitney JT9D turbofan engine.

Prime Computer Corporation: Prime 550 Computer and Associated hardware.

Princeton University (through Dr. Martin Schwarzschild): Stratoscope I pri-
mary mirror.

Princeton University (through Dr. Lyman Spitzer, Jr.):open-faced photo-
cathode.

Purdue University: 1912 Olmsted aircraft wind-tunnel model.

Mr. Thomas A. Regnier: World War II hotel key.

Mr. James Rogers: U.S. Army Air Forces World War II officer’s service cap,
mosquito net hood, garrison cap, miniature navigator’s badge, 2 shirts, and
2 bags.

Rolls Royce, Ltd.: Rolls Royce Dart engine and Rolls Royce RS-211 fanjet.

Mr. Fred C. Rothfuss: Chauviere-type French propeller, ca. World War I.

Sen. Tom Rutherford: 10 colored enamel balloon pins commemorating the
Tenth Anniversary of the Albuquerque International Balloon Festival.

Mr. John J. Ryan: Japanese aircraft airspeed indicator.

Mr. George Seifert: Liberty propeller.

Capt. H. K. Shaw: U.S. Navy Mark 6 chart plotting board.

Mr. Frank Sierra: 3 oil paintings: Apollo, by John Rummelhoff; Air India, by
Frank Crysty; and Rancher’s Airstrip, by William Schenk.

Dr. George V. Simon: brass model of Perkins 69-inch reflecting telescope.

Mr. Carl F. Steinfield: 2 U.S. Navy Mark 6A chart-plotting boards.

Mr. Ingo Swann: painting, Tribute to Astronomers, by Ingo Swann.

Mr. Wesley Tallent: Curtiss OX-5 engine.

U.S. Air Force: Boeing air-launch-type cruise missile.

U.S. Air Force, District of Columbia National Guard: Republic F-105D air-
craft.

U.S. Air Force, Vermont Air National Guard: Martin B-57B Canberra.

U.S. Air Force, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base: YJ93 turbojet engine.

U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps Museum: U.S. Army World War II K ra-
tions—breakfast and dinner.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 555
U.S. Navy: BGM-109 Tomahawk cruise missile, U.S. Navy flight deck crew-
man’s helmet.

U.S. Navy, Aircrew Survival Division: U.S. Navy type Mark I vest life pre-
server, life raft air pump, hand-generator-type flashlight, emergency drink-
ing-water container, and signaling-type mirror.

U.S. Navy, Naval Air Systems Command: Phoenix guided missile.

U.S. Navy, Naval Propulsion Center: Hiller Pulse reactor engine.

Mr. Henry S. Villard: Aero Club of America lapel pin, ca. 1915, and Belmont
Aero Meet 1910 pennant.

Mr. Charles Viosca: drill press.

Dr. Denys Volan: complete set of U.S. Air Force Ground Observer Corps
insignia.

Mr. George W. Wallace, Jr.: U.S. Air Force revolver holster.

Mr. Leslie Ward: 1 Pan American Boeing 314 passenger seat.

The Whirly-Girls, Inc.: Whirly-Girls Hanna Reitsch Memorial Trophy.

Mr. Patrick Henry Winston: acrylic painting, Lunar Rover, by Patrick Henry
Winston.

Mr. Frank H. Winter: 4 Thai bottle rockets.

Donors to the National Air and Space Museum Library and Archives

Mrs. Dee Ann Bishopp: 3 photographs of the Matthewson Flyer; one news-
paper article.

Mr. Piotr Gawlowski: 2 pencil drawings of the Loening amphibian and the
Douglas Torpedo plane.

Mr. L. D. Graves: sketch of Lt. Col. Harry Abbott.

Mr. Ira Milton Jones: 2 copies of the ninth and tenth reunions of the World
War I Overseas Flyer.

Mrs. Alicia M. Miller: article of “50 Years Later We May Be Returning to
the Era of Airships” and the photograph taken aboard the Graf Zeppelin.

Mrs. Sandra Norell: photographic aircraft album of Jesse Goss.

Mr. Louis Anthony Petronio: combat record and list of missions with the
815th Bomb Squadron.

Mr. Paul Spitzer: 8 photographs from the YC-14 program.

Ms. N. J. Stewart-Smith: thesis entitled, “Women Airforce Service Pilots
(WASP) of World War II: Perspectives on the World Work of America’s
First Military Women Aviators.”

Dr. John Tanner: hand-produced edition of the Battle of Britain Roll of
Honour.

Mr. James J. White: recording of Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh’s address
before the Press Club at Washington, D.C., June 11, 1927.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN
National Human Studies Film Center

DONORS OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT

Mrs. Lionel C. Epstein
The Holladay Corporation
The R. K. Mellon Family Foundation

Human Studies Film Archives

DONORS AND COLLABORATIVE ACQUISITIONS

Beloit College: 21,000 feet of film taken on Algerian archaeological expedi-
tions in 1925 and 1929, sponsored by Beloit College/Logan Museum and
conducted by Mr. Alonzo Pond. This collection also includes footage of

556 / Smithsonian Year 1982
the southwest United States and Mexico in the thirties and forties. The
Algerian footage includes scenes of the camp site, excavations, and early
twentieth-century life in Algerian towns and villages.

William and Sarah Machold: 4,500 feet of Beautiful Japan, a 1917 film of
various Japanese locales made by the travel lecturer Benjamin Brodsky.

National Anthropological Archives: 4,000 feet of film taken in 1930 and
1931 by Dr. Henry Collins, archaeologist emeritus, Smithsonian Institution,
and archaeologist Dr. James Ford on Saint Lawrence Island in the Aleutians
and Point Barrows, Alaska. Footage includes scenes of the Sivuqaq Eskimos
in Gamble and archaeological excavations.

Roger Hilsman: 4,400 feet of film shot in 1929 by U.S. Army Captain Roger
Hilsman of various cultural groups in the northern Philippines. (Donated
by Captain Hilsman’s son.)

Helen Glessner and Lois Kratz: 900 feet of film shot by Reverend J. C. Gless-
ner between 1934 and 1956 in northern Iraq around Kirkuk and Bagdad.

Jean and Robbin Harper: 1,000 feet of film shot by naturalist Francis Harper
in 1939 of settlers in the Okefinokee Swamp shortly before they were re-

located due to a WPA project.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Donors of Financial Support

The Ahmanson Foundation

American Gloxinia & Gesneriad
Society, National Capital

Dr. J. Lawrence Angel

Anonymous

Paul H. Arnaud, Jr.

Mr. Robert Aronheim

Professor Antonio Ascenzi

Atlantic Richfield Company

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur C. Aufderheide

Dr. J. L. Barnard

Mr. Michael A. Barnes

Mrs. Beatrice L. Burch

Mr. and Mrs. V. R. Burghardi

Mr. James G. Cassanos

Chevron U.S.A., Inc.

G. Arthur Cooper

Ms. Mary Denison

Department of Entomology

Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Duncan

Embassy of Korea

Mr. and Ms. Philip J. Erlenback

Exxon Company, U.S.A.

Milton V. Freeman

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Furar

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Getty Oil Company

Ms. Margaret K. Gillis

Mr. Aurelio Giroud

Mrs. Bea Gold

Gulf Oil Corporation

Dr. James E. Harris

Mr. C. W. Hart, Jr.

Dr. Gerald D. Hart

Robert P. Higgins

The Henry L. Hillman Foundation

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.

Martin A. Hoffing and Shirley Hoffing

Walter H. Holden

Mr. Patrick Horne

Dr. G. O. F. Jensen

Marguerite H. Kellogg

Kinetics Technology International
Gas Processors

Ms. Linda Klepinger

Hugh B. Leech and Frances O. Leech

Dr. Michael Lessner

Dr. Peter K. Lewin

E. Gorton and Juanita M. Linsley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Lundy

Edgar J. Maiz

Marathon Oil Company

Dr. Susan H. McDaniel

William F. McNary, Jr.

A. E. and Martha Michelbacher

Mrs. Ann Moreton

National Geographic Society

Elizabeth F. Nicholson

Northwest Alaskan Pipeline
Company

Charles E. Pang

Peabody Coal Company

Robert L. Pearson

Phillips Petroleum Co.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 557
Dr. Paul V. Ponitz

Dr. Wojciech Pulawski and
Veronica Ahrens

Mr. and Mrs. Leland H. Rayson

Ms. Jeanne M. Riddle

Mrs. Mary L. Ripley

Mrs. Warren A. Roberts

Ms. Elizabeth B. Roth

Ms. Rosemary N. Ruppert

St. Joe Minerals Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Boris G. Sellers

Ms. Ellen Sharp

Mrs. Lila Silverman

Robert D. Simpson

Mr. and Mrs. Ray F. Smith

Mrs. Phyllis M. Spangler

Standard Oil Company (Indiana)

Mr. and Mrs. Miodrag Stankovic

Mrs. Irving F. Stein

Mary Horner Stuart Foundation

Dr. Paul M. Taylor

Donors to the National Collections

INSTITUTIONS

Tenneco Oil

Mrs. Elinor B. Thompson

Time-Life Books, Inc.

Mrs. Rosemary Torney

Union Oil Company of California

Valley National Bank Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Viviano

Frances I. Voris

Janet Waddington

The Washington Biologist Field
Club, Inc.

Miss Katharine Wasserfallen

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Watkins

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Weston

Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore

Donald J. and Carol Butler Wilken

Austin B. Williams

Jean Davies Wright

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Young

Dr. Robert Zavod

Mrs. William Zimmerman, Jr.

Academia Sinica, China: 12 fossils, 6 insect slides (348889, 349177), 6 insect
slides, 60 plants (349526, 350718, exchanges).

Academy of Sciences, Czechoslovakia: 65 plants (350223, exchange).

Academy of Sciences, USSR: 4 echinoderms, 63 plants (343081, 347197,

exchanges).

Agriculture, U.S. Department of: 442 plants (346523, 346573, 346574, 347225).
Alaska, University of: 4 crustaceans (345175).
Albany Museum, South Africa: 140 fishes (349479, exchange).

All-Union Research Institute of Marine Fisheries and Oceanography, USSR:
15 crustaceans (330100, 333821).

American Museum of Natural History: 20 fossils, 2 weevils (250390, 348512).

American Samoa Government, Office of Marine Resources, Pago Pago,
American Samoa: 2 fishes (349396).

Arizona, University of: 17 crustaceans, 1 plant (346453, 350732), 1 toad, 79
birds, 78 plants (348841, 348881, 346516, exchanges).

Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department: 30 crustaceans
(347282).

Arkansas State University: 7 crustaceans (345906, 349028).

ARTROX, Incorporated: 2 minerals (346778).

Assiut University, Egypt: 2 worms (348560).

Australian Museum, Australia: 3 crustaceans, 31 worms (337108, 348392).

Australian National University, Australia: 4 crustaceans, 1 mineral (348442,
348774).

Barry A. Vittor and Associates: 3 worms (348016).

Bea Wetmore Fund: 200 birds (342139).

Bergen, University of, Norway: 50 plants (348196, exchange).

Bermuda Biological Station for Research, Bermuda: 62 crustaceans (326088,
334765, 343102).

Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 8 mollusks, 2,780 echinoderms (347808); and
Beatrice Burch: (341200), 9 fishes, 1 plant (348532).

Bideaux Minerals: 2 minerals (345462, exchange).

558 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Biological Station, Canada: 28 crustaceans (328322).

Biosystematics Research Institute, Canada: 29 beetles (346808, 348334,
exchanges), fruit flies (350971).

Boston State College: 1 plant (348598).

Boston University, Marine Biological Laboratory: 2,535 crustaceans, 3 crus-
stacean slides (345804, 349295, 349414).

Botanical Museum of Lund, Sweden: 6 plants (348677).

Botanical Research Institute, South Africa: 234 plants (346609).

Brigham Young University: 5 minerals, 6 plants (348906, 349085).

British Museum Natural History, England: 1 echinoderm (345393, 1 insect,
80 plants, 1 mineral (291645, 349141, 349315, exchanges).

British Columbia Provincial Museum, Canada: 7 echinoderms (347666,
348688).

British Columbia, University of, Canada: 2 algaes (349077).

California Academy of Sciences: 810 fishes (341191, 348768, exchanges), 75
mollusks, 3 plants, 2 echinoderms, 51 flies (304649, 345387, 347215, 348074,
349185).

California, University of: 91 insects, 100 crustaceans, 2 minerals (329524,
347303, 349348); Herbarium: 29 plants (348143, 350717), 138 plants (347218,
350231, 350679, exchanges); Scripps Institution of Oceanography: 107
crustaceans, 5 echinoderms (345392, 346025, 346041, 346717, 349297, 349298,
349572), 1 mineral (349524).

California State University: 766 crustaceans (346248, 346792, 348556).

Canada Centre for Mineral and Energy Technology, Canada: 1 mineral
(349737).

Canberra Botanic Gardens, Australia: 130 plants (349116, exchange).

Canfield Fund: 5 minerals (337916, 346958, 347056, 347793).

Canterbury, University of, New Zealand: 42 crustaceans (350532).

Caroline Islands, Office of the Chief Conservationist, Caroline Islands: 229
crustaceans (325401, 331543).

Central National Herbarium, India: 65 plants (347590, exchange).

Centre National de Tri D’Oceanographie Biologique, France: 10 worms
(348999).

Centro de Investigaciones Pesqueras Occ., Venezuela: 11 crustaceans (326115).

Centro Nacional Patagonico, Argentina: 9 crustaceans (329022).

Chamberlain Fund: 3 minerals (337917, 347875).

Charleston Museum: 1 leopard (346723).

Chesapeake Biology Laboratory: 2 crustaceans (335178).

Chulalongkorn University, Thailand: 39 crustaceans (344972).

Cincinnati, University of: 16 crustaceans, 11 plants (326440, 350742).

Cincinnati Zoological Society: 2 crocodile eggs (344976).

Cleveland Museum of Natural History: 1 fossil (346701).

Clyde Reed Herbarium: 2 plants (346216).

Commerce, U.S. Department of: 639 crustaceans, 27,559 mollusks, 7 birds,
2 fishes, 1 fossil, 3 echinoderms, 8 mammals, 2 worms, 1 beaked whale
(314432, 317027, 320537, 327903, 336042, 338481, 346793, 347044, 347636,
347745, 348441, 349759).

Commonwealth Associates, Incorporated: 10 mollusks (346021).

Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Australia: 2
minerals (350467).

Connecticut, University of: 20 plant slides (334358), 162 plants (348123,
348203, exchanges).

Continental Shelf Associates, Incorporated: 800 worms (346885).

Cooks College: 12 crustaceans (346999).

Copenhagen, University of, Denmark: Botanical Museum: 106 plants
(346589, exchange; Zoological Museum: 18 worms (348699); 25 worms
(347958, exchange); 4 crustaceans (330657, 349438).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 559
Dalhousie University, Canada: 424 fishes, 8 crustaceans (344795, 346914,
348006).

Darwin Museum, Australia: 3 crustaceans (344157, 347833).

Dauphin Island Sea Laboratory: 302 crustaceans (346611, 347052).

Defense, U.S. Department of: 3 Nigerian costumes, 1 crustacean (348704,
346695, 349569).

Delaware Medical Examiner, Office of the Chief: 1 skull (348289).

Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Zealand: 212 crusta-
ceans, 19 crustacean slides (327773, 350573).

Department of Primary Industries, Australia: 270 fruit flies (332283, ex-
change).

Direccion De Investigaciones OCEA, Mexico: 55 crustaceans (335525).

District of Columbia Medical Examiner, Office of the Chief: 2 skulls (348294,
348302).

Drake Fund: 8,506 true bugs (349157).

Duke Medical,Center: 8 minerals (349845, exchange).

Duke University Marine Laboratory: 90 crustaceans (341491).

Edinburgh University, England: 1 mineral (349738).

Entomological Museum of Osaka, Japan: 19 moths (350301, exchange).

Escuela Nacional De Agricultura, Mexico: 29 plants (345563, exchange).

Fairchild Tropical Garden Herbarium: 185 plants (346590, exchange).

Federal Ministry of Mines and Power, Nigeria: 1 meteorite (350990).

Field Museum of Natural History: 1 plant (347220), 331 plants (348639,
349687, 350283, exchanges).

Filiala Akad. Nauk, USSR: 90 fossils (350616).

Florida Atlantic University: 12 worms (348027), 3 fishes (346833, exchange).

Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services: 4 fruit flies
(350969).

Florida Department of Environmental Regulation: 10 stoneflies (348726).

Florida Department of Natural Resources: 28 crustaceans (346919, 346946,
347000, 349299).

Florida State Museum: 29 crustaceans, 22 crustacean slides (332090, 346947,
350640), 11 crustaceans (349205, exchange).

Florida State University: 150 worms, 1 echinoderm, 1 crustacean (347022,
348686, 348985).

Fort Benton, City of; Police Department: 1 skull fragment (348293).

Fundacao Universidade do Rio Grande, Brazil: 14 fishes (350164).

Georgia Department of Natural Resources: 1 crustacean (347664).

Georgia State University: 1 fossil footprint slab (350780).

Georgia, University of: 632 plants (348661, exchange), 1,835 plants (348661).

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Canal Zone: 19 insects (348418).

Goteborg, University of, Sweden: 78 worms, 39 worm slides (346481, 348391,
349365), 12 plants (348198).

Grassland Soil and Water Research Laboratory: 7 beetles (348722).

Great Falls College: 8 plants (349151).

Gulf Branch Nature Center: 1 weasel (348535, exchange).

Harvard University: Gray Herbarium: 359 plants (349695, exchange), 2 plants
(350693) ; Museum of Comparative Zoology: 20 lots of fishes, 2 echinoderms
(346877).

Hawaiian Electric Company, Incorporated: 46 crustaceans (324554, 326766).

Hawaii, University of: 2 crustaceans, 207 plants (326441, 343686, 349086).

Herbario Centro de Pesquisas do Cacau, Brazil: 134 plants (350274).

Herbario de Reserva Ecologica do Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatis-
tica, Brazil: 429 plants (346194, 347231, 348147, 349681).

Herbario San Marcos, Peru: 29 plants (348641).

Herbario Universitario, Venezuela: 1 plant (346602).

560 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Herbarium Australiense, Australia: 34 plants (350696, exchange).

Herbarium of the Northern Territory, Australia: 3 plants (346544).

Herbier du Centre Orstom de Cayenne, French Guiana: 66 plants (346565,
348612, 350720).

Herbier National du Cameroun, Cameroun: 8 plants (348168).

Hillman Fund: 11 minerals (348077, 348030, 348096, 348097).

Hong Kong, University of, Hong Kong: 7 crustaceans (328573, 349313).

Houston Museum of Natural History: 10 mollusks (328895).

Houston, University of: 158 crustaceans (333858).

Hubbs-Sea World Research Institute: 4 bird skeletons (349906).

Humboldt State University: 4 crustaceans, 2 plants (344345, 347224).

Hungarian Natural History Museum, Hungary: 233 plants (349101).

Ichthyological Associates: 890 worms (330725).

Illinois, University of: 5 minerals, 1 plant (349185, 349521).

Indiana University: 36 crustaceans, 26 crustacean slides, 1 echinoderm
(345943, 347665, 348925, 349477), 2 plants (346223, exchange).

Institut fur Botanik, Austria: 66 plants (348607, exchange), 17 plants (348607).

Institute of Ocean Sciences, Canada: 18 worms (349418, 350673).

Institute of Biology, Romania: 99 fishes (333723).

Institute for Systematic Botany, The Netherlands: 53 plants, 8 photographs
(346180, 349057, 350220, exchanges), 19 plants (347543, 350220).

Institute of Oceanographic Sciences, England: 351 crustaceans (335540), 2
echinoderms (348805).

Institute of Taxonomic Zoology, The Netherlands: 8 echinoderms (345806).

Instituto Botanico, Venezuela: 2 plants (347572, exchange), 31 plants (347572,
348148, 349122).

Instituto Botanico A.J. Cavanilles, Spain: 1 plant (348625, exchange).

Instituto de Botanica, Brazil: 11 plants (347534, exchange).

Instituto de Botanica Darwinion, Argentina: 369 plants (349088, exchange).

Instituto de Bontanico de la Academia de Ciencias de Cuba, Cuba: 25 plants
(346214).

Instituto de Investigacionas Pesqueras, Spain: 6 crustaceans (315957).

Instituto de Pesca, Brazil: 1 fish (346474).

Instituto Miguel Lillo de la Fundacion Miguel Lillo, Argentina: 200 plants
(347605, exchange).

Instituto Nacional de Pesca, Ecuador: 2 crustaceans (325721).

Instituto Nacional de Parques, Venezuela: 10 plants (348173, 350726), 1 plant
(350928, exchange).

Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas de Amazonia, Brazil: 51 plants (348650,
350237), 60 plants (350681, exchange).

Instituto Sperimentale per la Zoologia Agraria, Italy: 4 sawflies (346645,
exchange).

Instituto Tecnico Industriale di Stato, Italy: 3 meteorite fragments (331612,
exchange).

Instituto Technoligico y De Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, Mexico: 86
crustaceans (340693).

Interior, U.S. Department of: Bureau of Land Management: 3,523 echino-
derms, 1,047 mollusks, (333929, 340684, 342663, 348038, 348352); Fish and
Wildlife Service: 571 reptiles and emphibians (342277, 345886, 345938,
346031, 346033, 3246465, 346466, 347148, 347721, 348104, 348216, 348955,
349623); 2,702 mammals (347637, 350006); 239 birds (347148, 349896);
950 fishes (349025); Geological Survey: 1,019,414 fossils, 16 minerals,
(344926, 346249, 346822, 347058, 347284, 347844, 348217, 348355, 348358,
348390, 348698, 348943, 349272, 349549, 349564, 349583, 349674, 350443,
350457, 350485, 350576, 350611, 350613, 351247); 23 minerals (345842,,

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 561
347910, 349541, 349785); 13 meteorites (348305); National Park Service:
3 mollusks (347150).

International Potato Center, Peru: 38 plants (350729).

Interstate Electronics Corpration: 300 echinoderms, 5,000 worms (345761).

Iowa, University of: 7 plants (350692).

Iowa State University: 52 insects (350967).

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 35 plants (347519, 350243, ex-
change), 2 plants (349190, 350697).

Jardin Botanico Nacional, Dominican Republic: 1 plant (347571).

Kansas, University of: 1 fruit fly (350970).

Karachi, University of, Pakistan: 93 crustaceans (344811, 349500).

Karl-Franzens-Universitat Graz, Australia: 190 plants (347514).

Karnatak University, India: 40 crustaceans (325061).

Katholike Universiteit, The Netherlands: 14 mite slides (348731).

Kent State University: 1 fossil, 559 plants (346703, 346576, 350199).

Kristalle: 8 minerals (345461, 349309, exchange).

Kyoto University of Education, Japan: 28 crustaceans (334922).

Laboratorio di Techologia della Pesca Molo Mandvacchio, Italy: 2 crusta-
ceans (336687).

Lae Papua, New Guinea, Government of; Department of Primary Industry,
New Guinea: 73 plants (347570, 348586).

Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory of Columbia University: 20 crusta-
ceans, 6 crustacean slides (330410).

Leeds, University of, England: 64 plants (346608).

Liege, University of, Belgium: 2 minerals (350581).

Longwood Gardens: 12 ferns (349084).

Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History: 2 fishes, 1 mammal
(300016, 344363, exchange), 27 crustaceans, 9 worms, 1 mineral (346716,
349508).

Louisiana Purchase Gardens and Zoo: 1 gibbon (342893).

Louisville, University of: 134 crustaceans (343066).

Lyko Mineral and Gem Incorporated: 1 mineral (346720).

Lyon County Nevada; Sheriff’s Office: skeletal remains (348296).

Macquarie University, Australia: 4 worms (350483).

Manitoba, University of, Canada: 1 bird skeleton (349330, exchange).

Manomet Bird Observatory: 1 bird skin (349830).

Marie Selby Botanical Gardens: 1 plant (347536), 40 plants (349693, ex-
change).

Marine Biological Laboratory: 150 crustaceans (324443).

Marine Mammal Stranding Center: 2 dolphins (347043).

Marine Research Foundation: 1 fossil (318433).

Marine Science Laboratories, United Kingdom: 2 crustaceans (345610).

Maryland Medical Examiner’s; Office of the Chief: skeleton remains (348291).

Maryland University of: 1 meteorite (350991).

McCormick Properties, Incorporated: 1 fossil (348954).

McMaster University, Canada: 12 crustaceans (328041).

McNeese State University: 271 worms, 66 crustaceans, 40 mollusks, 10 echin-
derms (346922, 347051, 347364, 347811).

Memphis State University: 15 plants (348200).

Mexico, Government of, Mexico: 70 ceramic pieces (348281).

Miami, University of: 11 crustaceans (348557).

Michigan, University of: 63 insects, 370 crustaceans, 11 worms, 3 mollusks,
10 fishes, 19 plants (332597, 338043, 346418, 346487, 347390, 348381,
350225, 350234, 350694), 500 plants, 10 fishes (346176, 349030, exchanges).

Michigan State University: 30 crustaceans (348439).

Mie University, Japan: 16 crustaceans (333710).

562 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Millstone Environmental Laboratory: 2 crustaceans (348502).

Mineral Fund: 65 minerals (345354, 346900) 346901, 347087, 347622, 347812,
347838, 348695, 348948, 350452).

Mineral Kingdom: 3 minerals (349233, 350561).

Mineral Kingdom of Woodmere: 2 minerals (347855, exchange).

Mineralosich-Petrographisches Institut der Technische Universitate, Braun-
schweig, Germany: 1 mineral (348761).

Mineralogisch-Petrographische Institut der Universitat Heidelberg, West Ger-
many: 1 mineral (350454).

Ministerio de Agricultura y Canaderia, Servicio Porestal Nacional, Paraguay:
76 plants, 74 fishes (347234, 347285).

Mining Institute Museum, USSR: 1 meteorite (347111, exchange).

Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, England: 75 carpet beetles
(349371, exchange).

Ministry of Agriculture, Lands and Food Production: Trinidad and Tobaga:
63 crustaceans (347663).

Minnesota, University of: 20 seals (347045).

Mississippi, University of: 210 caddisflies (348430).

Mississippi, State University. 12 crustaceans (349044).

Missouri Botanical Garden: 247 plants (346591, 348657, 350240, 350735, ex-
changes), 55 plants (350735, 346579, 349120, 350685).

Missouri Department of Conservation: 62 crustaceans (348382).

Missouri Fish and Wildlife Research Center: 12 crustaceans (346106).

Montana State University: 1 echinoderm (347040).

Montgomery County; Police Department: 2 skulls, 1 mandible (348301).

Moss Landing Marine Laboratories: 324 crustaceans (321257).

Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales “Bernardino Rivadavia,” Argentina:
1 echinoderm (347084).

Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, Costa Rica: 2 ferns (350293).

Museu Botanico Muncipal, Brazil: 52 plants (346575, 348609).

Museum National D’Histoire Naturelle, France: 5 crustaceans (348871; 62

plants (349092), 349143, exchanges).

Nanjing Technological College of Forest Products, China: 24 bamboos
(347597).

National Classical Music Institute, Korea: 1 fretted zither (349791).

National Institute of Health, Japan: 8 flies (349173).

National Museum of Natural Sciences, Canada: 43 crustaceans (345682,
349204).

National Museum of Natural Sciences, New Zealand: 7 mammals (347281).

National Museum of Victoria, Australia: 1 fish, 8 crustaceans (346490,
348090).

National Museum of Wales, Wales: 2 minerals (350430, exchange).

Natural History Society of Maryland: 2 fossil crocodile skulls (347009).

Nebraska, University of: 2 minerals (348741).

New Brunswick, University of, Canada: 5 echinoderms (344801, 349571).

Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, University of, England: 5 worms (287773); 4 fishes
(350166, exchange).

New England, University of Australia: 78 crustaceans, 18 crustacean slides
(331639, 332588).

New York Botanical Garden: 2,820 plants (346207, 347208, 347598, 348640,
exchanges); 7 plants (350684).

New Zealand Geological Survey, New Zealand: 15 fossils (348558).

New Zealand Oceanographic Institute, New Zealand: 8 crustaceans (326739).

Normandeau Associates, Incorporated: 1 crustacean (338531).

North Carolina, University of: 441 crustaceans, 2 echinoderms, 4 mammals
(327410, 333946, 338622, 347486, 349400).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 563
North Carolina State Museum: 36 crustaceans (345157).

North Carolina State University: 1,620 wasps (348404).

North Dakota, University of: 8 crustaceans (343888).

North Dakota State University: 5 leaf beetles (347302, exchange).

Northeastern University; 4 sponges (348756).

Northeast Louisiana University: 157 plants (348183).

Nova Scotia Museum, Canada: 6 worms (341774, 348564).

Oceanographic Research Institute, South Africa: 1 crustacean (331541).

Ohio, Miami University: 2 plants (348105).

Ohio State University: 4 crustaceans (346910).

Okinawa Expo Aquarium, Japan: 1 echinoderm (349395).

Oregon Regional Primate Research Center: 42 mammals (348257).

Oregon, University of: 1 bird skin (349203).

Oregon, State University: 812 crustaceans, 1 plant (346112, 346945, 348208,
348656).

Orma J. Smith Museum of Natural History: 1 crustacean (349580).

Orstom Centre de Noumea, New Caledonia: 3 echinoderms (349336).

Osterreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Australia: 20 crustaceans, 11
crustacean slides (325157).

Otago, University of, New Zealand: 3 minerals (346252).

Ottawa, University of Canada: 3 minerals (349234).

Pakistan Agricultural Research Council, Pakistan: 27 wasps (348424, ex-
change).

Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources: 1 fossil (348214).

Philadelphia Academy of Sciences: 1 mollusks, 72 crustaceans (345884,
348383).

Philippines National Museum: 5 crustaceans (332988).

Philippines, University of: 23 crustaceans, 63 plants (332423, 342703, 347226),
23 plants (347516, exchange).

Port Harcourt University College, Nigeria: 106 crustaceans (327670, 348018).

Princeton University: 2 fossil cast mammal teeth (348096).

Puerto Rico, University of: 117 crustaceans, 41 echinoderms, 16 worms, 1
plant (345853, 345945, 346024, 346553, 348753, 350310), 950 plants (346552,
exchange).

Purdue University: 6 mayflies (349827).

Queensland Herbarium, Australia: 1 plant (349095).

Queensland Museum, Australia: 8 crustaceans (346845).

Queensland, University of, Australia: 63 crustaceans, 3 echinoderms (346750,
348804, 350437, 350534).

Rainbow Collection: 1 quartz (342732, exchange).

Rhodes University, South Africa: 17 fishes (334182, 347001).

Rijksmuseum Van Natuurlijke Historie, The Netherlands: 80 crustaceans
(315926, 331615, 342584).

Riverina College of Advanced Education, New South Wales: 12 crustaceans,
2 crustacean slides (345942).

Roebling Fund: 6 gold specimens, 2 silver specimens, 5 minerals (337915,
346721, 346882, 347620, 347621, 347897).

Royal Azel, Incorporated: 1 mineral (346814).

Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia: 13 plants (346210, exchange).

Royal Botanic Gardens, England: 1,129 plants (348632, 348655).

Royal Ontario Museum, Canada: 606 fishes (346898).

S.S. and W. Investment Co.: 1 blue topaz (347879).

Saint Lucia, Department of Research and Control, Saint Lucia, BWI: 1 crus-
tacean (347939).

Santa Barbara Museum of Natural History: 1 echinoderm (344973).

Sao Paulo University of, Brazil: 2 fruit flies (350975).

564 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Shimonoseki University of Fisheries, Japan: 4 crustaceans (349362).

Soil Systems, Inc.: 20 crustaceans (348525).

South African Museum, South Africa: 2 bird skeletons (347896, exchange).

South Alabama, University of: 8 fishes, 61 crustaceans, (346423, 348984).

South Australian Museum, Australia: 23 fossil casts (346445, exchange).

South Carolina, Department of Wildlife and Resources: 6 crustaceans, 300
echinoderms (328818, 333646).

South Carolina, University of: 5 plants (348585).

South Florida, University of: 2 plants (346554).

Southern University: 1 crustacean (350818).

Southern Arkansas, University of: 1,004 crustaceans, 13 insects (339397,
340240, 347362, 348524).

Southern California, University of: 2 crustaceans (349502); Allan Hancock
Foundation: 17 crustaceans (324963, 347633, 348754, 350639).

Southern Illinois, University of: 6 insects, 353 crustaceans (343255, 345386,
348348).

Southwest Texas State University: 50 crustaceans (333248).

Southwestern Louisiana, University of: 11 crustaceans, 1 plant (347933,
349726).

Stanford University: 88 algae (346555).

Stuart Fund: 7 minerals (345268, 346818, 347055, 348036).

Swedish Museum of Natural History, Sweden: 38 plants (347603, exchange).

T. F. H. Publications, Inc.: 3 fishes (346488).

Tampa, University of: 6 crustaceans (331879).

Tasmania, University of, Australia: 12 crustaceans (346997).

Tanunggy Museum, Burma: 3 carved ethnological items (349799).

Taxon Incorporated: 100 worms (347709).

Tel Aviv, University of, Israel: 162 insects (350966), exchange); 15 crusta-
ceans (341511).

Tennessee Valley Authority: 7 crustaceans, 83 fishes (347485, 348885).

Tennessee, University of: 837 crustaceans, 140 mollusks, 1 plant (346693,
348116, 348682, 348683, 350528).

TerEco Corporation: 1 crustacean (346022).

Texas A and M University: 459 crustaceans, 2 echinoderms, 3 insects, 2 plants
(345605, 346599, 348101, 349130, 350533, 350977); 379 plants (346536,
349148, exchanges).

Texas Memorial Museum: 25 crustaceans (348559).

Texas Tech University: 25 crustaceans (329014).

Texas University of: 217 crustaceans, 10 worms, 9 plants (345203, 347061,
347240, 350724); 1 mineral (350441, exchange).

Toronto, University of, Canada: 10 crustaceans (346694).

Towson State University: 150 reptiles of amphibians (341219).

Tulane University: 29 crustaceans: (347931).

Ulster Museum, Northern Ireland: 3 minerals (348776).

Ultraviolet Products: 1 mineral (351133).

Universidad Central De Venezuela, Venezuela: 3 crustaceans, 1 fish, 179
plants (339313, 349314, 350715, 350721).

Universidad de Antioquia, Colombia: 21 plants (348107, 350195).

Universidad de Los Andes, Colombia: 55 crustaceans (329587).

Universidad de Costa Rica, Costa Rica: 3 echinoderms (350872).

Universidad de Los Andes, Venezuela: 21 plants (350211, 350212).

Universidad de Panama, Panama: 48 crustaceans (327663, 348883).

Universidad de Valle, Colombia: 1 echinoderm, 5 crustaceans (348211,
349501).

Universidad de Ciencias de Mar y Limnolosia, Mexico: 2 plants (3495233;
2 plants (349105, exchange).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 565
Universidade de Brasilia, Brazil: 5 plants (346534).

Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Brazil: 165 plants (349691).

Universidade Federal do Ceara, Brazil: 2 crustaceans (345609).

Universita di Genova, Italy: 1 mineral (348764).

Universita di Rome: 1 mineral (348775).

Universite D’Aix-Marseille; Station Marine D’Endoume et Centre D’Oceano-
graphie, France: 65 crustaceans (331044, 298103).

Universiteit van Amsterdam, The Netherlands: 46 crustaceans (335448).

Universitetets Mineralogisk-Geologiske Instituter og Mineralogisk Museum,
Denmark: 2 echinoderms (349231).

University College, Ireland: 33 crustaceans (336509).

Uniwersytet Lodzki, Poland: 12 crustaceans (338046).

Uppsala, University of, Sweden: 29 plants (347189, exchange).

Utah, University of: 1 bird skin (349904).

Utah State University: 7 bees (348416).

V. L. Komarov Botanical Institute of the Academy of Sciences, USSR: 121
plants (346150, exchange).

Virginia Historic Landmarks Commission: 8 human skeletons (348287).

Virginia Institute of Marine Sciences: 156 crustaceans, 8 echinoderms, 20
mollusks, 3 worms, (347932, 322594).

Virginia Medical Examiner; Office of the Chief: skeletal remains (349788).

Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 1 mineral (348760).

Virginia State Library: 1 skeleton, 5 human skeletal remains (348288, 348300).

Volcani Center, Israel: 1 insect slide (349826).

Washington, Government of; Newport Sheriff’s Office: 2 skeletal remains
(348292).

Washington, University of: 15 worms, 10 bird skeletons (307067, 328659,
348970).

West Indies, University of, Trinidad: 5 fishes (347639).

Western Australian Museum, Australia: 1 crustacean (346108).

White House: 6 ethnological items (349790).

Whitman College Herbarium: 9 plants (348119).

William and Mary College: 2 fishes, 4 crustaceans (345821, 347283).

Wisconsin, University of: 2 plants (346535).

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute: 22 worm slides, 12 crustaceans (281067,
347484).

Wroclawski Uniwersytet, Poland: 3 fossil fishes (303810, exchange).

Yale University: 1 plant (348610).

Zoological Institute, Sweden: 3 fossil slides (347799, 348563).

Zoological Institut der University Vienna, Austria: 52 worms (300025).

Zurich Zoo, Switzerland: 1 sea turtle (344380).

INDIVIDUALS

Aaronheim, Robert: 344 butterflies (348403, 349161, 349824).

Abbey, Rachel L.: a fossil seal tooth (349236).

Acciavatti, Dr. Robert E.: 3 tiger beetles (349189).

Ahrens, Veronica: 2,998 insects (351244).

Alzona, Dr. Gianluigi: 59 ground beetles (346661, exchange).

Ambuske, Robert: a fossil seal cuboid (348478).

Amestoy, Fernando: 107 crayfishes (347036).

Anderson, Dr. William H.: 4 mollusks, 1 fossil mammoth tooth, (348811,
349664).

Andrews, Dr. Fred G.: 7 parasitic wasps (349823).

Angkanarak, Khunying Supang: 21 Thailand ethnological items (348284).

Anonymous: 8 Dominican ambers (347880).

Anselmo, Scott R.: 3 gems (329816).

566 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Areson, Lee: 2 minerals (346255, exchange).

Ash, Dr. Sidney R.: 13 fossils and 2 fossil slides (347088, 350612).
Ashby, Wallace L.: a fossil seal jaw (348475).

Ashby, Mr. and Mrs. Wallace L.: a fossil seal radius (350875).
Ayala, Dr. Stephen C.: 1 protozoan slide (348687).

Bagchi, Dr. Pranab: 2 cut gems (347268).

Bailey, Donnie: a collection of seal bones (347006).

Baird, Robert: 1 bird skeleton and skin (349202).

Baker, Alan: 1 echinoderm (348386).

Baker, H. Randy: 4 worm slides (347738).

Banks, Dr. Harlan P.: 1,156 fossils (348094).

Bardalio, Governor Richardo J.: 1 human skeleton (348297).
Barnes, Dr. Jeffrey K.: 6 marsh flies (349193).

Barrella, Sigri and Gerry Skakel: 1 mineral (346253).

Barriga T., Juan Enrique: 136 wood-boring beetles (348795, exchange).
Bassett, Preston R.: 12 lighting devices (349794).

Bauer, Dr. Bruce H.: 124 crayfishes (349620).

Bauer, Dr. Raymond: 100 crustaceans (346023).

Baum, John: 13 minerals (346754, 347267).

Baumfalk, Dr. Ynze A.: 4 fossils (346795).

Baxter, Rae: 7 mollusks (350469).

Beck, Dr. Frank A.: 4 mineral (346254).

Beddoe-Stephens, Dr. Brett: 2 mineral (346713).

Behnke, Dan: 2 minerals (347822).

Belveal, L. Dee: 1 coral (347041).

Bennett, Dr. Thecla: 3 fossil fragments (347708).

Berman, Howard and Drazia: 4 cut gems (348023).

Bertolani, Dr. Roberto: 14 worms (348813).

Besansky, Nora J.: 373 insects (348727).

Beshear, Remona J.: 12 insects (349188).

Bier, Mrs. Marcelle M.: 3 Chinese stone carvings (349796).
Bieri, Robert: 6 worms (349419).

Bierwagen, Amos William: 88 cabochons (346708).

Bishop, Dr. Gale A.: 6 fossil decapods (346462).

Bissell, T. L.: 8 insect slides (348724).

Blake, Dr. Daniel: 5 fossils, 11 echinoderms (346464, 348921).
Blanchard, Andre: 15 moths (346923, 350960).

Blasdell, Francis S.: 14 reptiles and emphibians (349643).
Blodgett, Richard E., Jr.: 1 mineral, 10 fossils (348508, 348765).
Blue, Dr. Rhea C.: a brown, Chinese-lacquer box (348705).
Bogner, J.: 12 plants (345572).

Bohannan, Charles T. R.: 1 mineral (349784).

Bohaska, David J.: a fossil seal tibia (350874).

Bohigian, George M.: 1 cut gem (348092).

Bonsanti, Dr. and Mrs. Robert L.: 2 cut gems (348014).
Borrero, Francisco J.: 100 mollusks (346616).

Bosch, Dr. Carl: 1 silver punch bowl (347903).

Bouchard, Dr. Raymond W.: 23,075 fishes, 8 amphibians (338755, 346883).
Boucot, Dr. Arthur J.: 2,367 fossils (347843, 349763).

Bowden, Dr. John: 2 beeflies (348730).

Braiman, Edward M.: 1 mineral (347942).

Brandyberry, John J.: 1 mollusk (346726).

Brattstrom, Hans O.: 2,530 worms (346757).

Brewer, George: 18 minerals (347278, exchange); 10 minerals (348012, 348949).
Briggs, Mead L.: 1 cat’s eye chrysoberyl (347957).

Bright, Cheryl F.: 60 worms (349731).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 567
Brinck, Dr. Per: 1 insect (351024).

Brink, Dr. Robert W.: 2 Bolivian quartzs (348025).

Broadhead, Gordon, C.: 6 crustaceans (336046).

Bronson, Sonia and Wilfrid S.: an oil painting (349795).

Brooks, Stanley Ray: a pair of Sioux Indian moccasins (349797).

Brou, Vernon Antoine: 157 moths (350961, 350985).

Brower, Dr. A. E.: 25,017 insects (349199).

Brown, Mrs. Ben Hill: 1 sponge (348504).

Brown, Dr. Harley P.: 11 riffle beetles (349180).

Brown, Dr. W. L., Jr.: 46 insects (348415).

Browne, Dr. Joseph E.: 13 biting midges (348723).

Bruce, Dr. Robin W.: 134 fishes (349224).

Bruder, Howard: 14 cut gems (347973).

Brumbach, William C.: 68 plants (348584, 349056, 349137).

Bullington, Stephen W.: 2 flies (350959).

Bullock, C. R.: a ceremonial stone axe (348282).

Burch, Bernice L.: [See also Bernice P. Bishop Museum] 4 crustaceans
(346944).

Burnett, Bryan: 10 worms (348997).

Butler, Walter L.: 65 caddisflies (350964).

Byers, Dr. George W.: 1 insect (351020).

Caballero, Santiago Zaragosa M. enC.: 3 glowworms (350786).

Calderon, Peter J.: 4 New Guinea ceremonial art objects (348283).

Callahan, Richard: 1 snake (347625).

Camp, David K.: 6 crustaceans (342626).

Caparis, Dr. Petros: 1 mineral (347474).

Carr, John L.: 8 weevils (349169).

Carroll, Lois J.: a raffia cap (348706).

Cave, Ronald: 3,581 miscellaneous insects (350987).

Cerami, Philip D., and L. Thomas Jones: (343527, 348031).

Cernohorsky, Walter O.: 1 mollusk (347946).

Chaikin, William E. and Raphael, Lester A. Smith, and Thomas G. Deemer:
53 cut gems (348021).

Chalumeau, R.: 2 lizards (349574).

Chapman, Dr. Brain R.: 15 beetles (348420).

Christy, John A.: 59 plants (346171, 348608).

Cianciulli, John: 11 minerals (347780, 350577).

Cicero, Joe: 2 glowworms (350965).

Clapp, Roger B.: 1 turtle (347338).

Clark, Mr. and Mrs. Albert C.: 1 walrus tusk (350009).

Clark, William H.: 10 crustaceans (346920).

Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates: 308 moths (348412, 348436, 350984).

Clench, Dr. William J.: 228 mollusks (349225).

Coates, Kathryn A.: 8 worms (350470).

Collins, John: 197 worms (350821).

Conkin, Dr. James E.: 101 fossils (346794).

Conway, R. W. F.: 9 cut gems (348060).

Cooper, Dr. Robert W.: 69 mammal primates and tissues (342586).

Corbett, Herbert: 1 mineral (349638).

Correia, R. F.: a fossil whale lumbar vertebrate (347827).

Coull, Dr. Bruce C.: 38 worms (346493).

Couvillion, Kathy: 1 fish (347821).

Covell, Dr. Charles V.: 10 butterflies (348405).

Crandall, Philip R.: 8 mollusks (349316).

Cranmer, Mrs. Roberta D.: 2 mollusks (347796).

Craver, Dr. Joseph M.: 3 blue topaz gems (347968).

568 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Croft, Richard: 1,949 fishes (347387).

Crowell, Mark: a fossil femur (350614).

Cunningham, Chris: 1 beryl (348940).

Cunningham, Dr. E. J.: 1 cut gem (347956).

Daniels, Dr. Robert A.: 5 fishes (349207).

Darling, Thomas, Jr.: 678 ferns (350698).

Darnell, Dr. Rezneat M.: 15 echinoderms (296577).

Darsie, Dr. Richard F., Jr.: 265 insects (350983).

Davis, Dr. Don R.: 1,133 insects (349197).

Dayvault, Richard: a shark tooth (347828).

Dean, Mr. and Mrs. George E.: 4 minerals (343409).

DeBoer, Charles: 1 mineral (347825).

Decraemer, Dr. Wilfrida: 1 worm (346902).

Deemer, Thomas G.: [See also Chaikin, William E. and Raphael] (348021).

Deeming, John C.: 3 flies (348728, exchange).

Degener, Dr. Otto and Isa: 25 plants (350209).

DeMark, R. S.: 3 minerals (347280, exchange).

DeMartino, Al: 3 worms (347264).

Dietrich, Dr. Richard V.: 2 minerals (347806).

Dilcher, Dr. David: [See also Tidwell, Dr. William D.] (348482).

Disney, Dr. H. H. K.: 4 flies (349822).

Doberl, Manfred: 519 flea beetles (346994, 350492, exchanges).

Doell, Dr. Donald V.: 1 mineral (348847, exchange).

Dogger, Mr. and Mrs. Allen J.: 1 carved ivory tusk and 15 carved ivory
figures (343384, 347805).

Donnelly, Dr. T. W.: 12 insects (349163).

Dover, Willard B.: 3 lots of cut gems (329815).

Downer, Mrs. Audrey: 10 bird skeletons (349901).

Downie, Dr. N. M.: 2 weevils (350982).

DuBois, Random and Marea Hatziolos: 12 sponges (348809).

DuPont, James M.: 11 meteorites (336931, exchange), 1 meteorite (350992).

DuShane, Mr. Helen: 1 mollusk (346615).

Dutrizac, Dr. J. E.: 4 minerals (348762).

Edmunds, Dr. G. F.: 3 stoneflies (348432).

Ehrlich, Dr. Paul R.: 2 insects (349170).

Ehrlich, Sanford H.: 4 Bolivian quartzs (346476).

Eiler, David L.: 2 moths (348426).

Eker, Helene: 823 mollusks (333146).

Eldridge, Bill: 11 rodents (347046).

Emerson, Dr. K. C.: 400 lice slides (350989).

Emmons, Dr. Louise H.: 11 mammals, 6 rove beetles (347634, 349182).

Ernst, Carl H.: 2 turtles (347059).

Facciolla, Nicholas: 6 minerals (348243).

Farina, Robert M.: 2 opals, 1 beryl, 4 topazs (348035).

Faulkner, D. J.: 1 sponge (347616).

Feinglos, Dr. Mark: 7 minerals (347920, exchange).

Fellows, Bruce Hamilton: 1 cut gem (347944).

Fenton, Dr. M. Brock: 7 house bats (348757).

Ferguson, Dr. George: 3 insects (351016).

Ferreira, Dr. Antonio J.: 2 mollusks (348863).

Fitzpatrick, Mrs. Mary Alice: 4 ivory carvings (348001).

Fjellberg, Arne: 170 insects (350973).

Flint, Mrs. Carol M.: 150 butterflies, 427 insects, 315 mosquitoes (348419,
348735, 349174).

Florensky, P. V.: 11 meteorites (348306).

Flury, Alvin G.: 969 frogs (340371).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 569
Forbes, Frank A.: 10 insects (349183).

Forbes, Mrs. R. J.: a handmade Chinese rug (349793).

Foster, Dr. Merrill W.: 9,400 fossils (285186).

Franclemont, Dr. John G.: 972 moths (349825).

Franz, Dr. Gerhard: 3 minerals (347757, exchange).

Frazier, Dr. John G.: 6 fossil turtles (349543).

Freytag, Dr. Paul H.: 1 insect (348546).

Friedman, Mr. and Mrs. Jack: 8 anthropological items (349792).
Frithsen, Jeffrey B.: 100 worms (348449).

Fritts, Thomas H.: 210 reptiles and amphibians (331540).
Fugler, Charles M.: 157 frogs (344629).

Futrell, Darryl: 6 meteorites (345136, 347352).

Galletti, Dr. Marco Curini: 4 mollusks (348389).

Gallo, Sergio: 7 minerals (348905, exchange).

Garcia-Gomez, Julio: 3 crustaceans (347935).

Garrison, Dr. Rosser W.: 23 dragonflies (348055, exchange).
Gaston, Mr. and Mrs. Lamont W.: a gold ring and a gold pendant (347791).
Gatrelle, Ronald R.: 233 butterflies and moths (349821, 350986).
Geevarthese, Dr. C.: 10 fishes (349301).

Gelaude, Piet: 19 minerals (347476, 349200).

Gibbs, Dr. Peter: 77 worms (346428).

Gillaspy, Dr. James E.: 62 insects (350962).

Gills, Dr. James P.: 4 opals (347899).

Glassman, Mr. and Mrs. David M.: 1 faceted gem (347671).
Glynn, Dr. Peter W.: 168 crustaceans (337412).

Golomb, Irving L.: 6 gems (347906).

Godding, Dr. Richard U.: 8 mollusks (349031).

Goodland, E. A.: 13 human skeleton remains (348290).
Goodman, Dr. Larry R.: 1 fish (345880).

Gordon, Dr. A. Elizabeth: 8 stoneflies (348433).

Gordon, Harvey M., Jr.: 14 minerals (349506).

Gordon, Dr. Robert D.: 3,926 insects, 300 mollusks (295338, 349158, 349172).
Goudey, Hatfield: 1 mineral (350579).

Grabe, Stephen: 11 crustaceans (348986).

Gradante, Charles J.: 93 minerals (347970).

Grady, Frederick V.: 42 bats (349399).

Graf, A. B.: 1 plant (349081).

Granados, Mrs. Fredda and Howard Jackson: a fossil seal (350784).
Grant, Arthur T.: 1 cut gem (348992).

Grant, Mr. and Mrs. Robert W.: 242 ethnological objects (335380).
Grassle, D.: 1 echinoderm (346457).

Greenhall, Paul: 4 crustaceans (346949).

Greenman, Dr. and Mrs. Marshall: 1 cut gem (348091).
Greenwell, Francis M.: 1 shorttail shrew (347951).

Grippa, Giacomo: 2 quartz (347813).

Grunt, Dr. T. A.: 60 fossils (346823).

Guillea, Rear Admiral Fernando: 2 sets of Bolivian pan pipes (348285).
Gunawardane, Dr. (Mrs.) W. T. T. P.: 7 wasps (351009).

Gupta, Dr. Virendra: 4 wasps (341336, exchange).

Gurney, Dr. Ashley B.: 118 insects (348435).

Hahn, Robert H.: 1 bird skin (349872).

Hall, Mr. and Mrs. Roger L.: 1 diamond and ruby ring (347974).
Halpin, Libby: 37 insects (348713).

Hamada, Mona: 9 mollusks (348388).

Hammond, Dr. Laurie: 350 fossils (346463, exchange).

Hansen, Gary: 1 mineral (344252, exchange).

570 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Hanson, John F.: 56,041 stoneflies (349176).

Harasewych, M. G.: 86 mollusks (348445).

Hardy, Jerry David: 2 fishes, 2 bats, 2 worms (336044).

Harry, Dr. Harold W.: 1,700 mollusks (344197).

Hartl, Max E.: 1 cut gem (347954).

Hartman, W. D.: 34 sponges (347332).

Hatcher, Dr. Charles R., Jr.: 1 blue topaz (347952).

Hatziolos, Dr. Marea: 15 crustaceans, 25 worms, 1 echinoderm (346815,
348076, 348351); [See also DuBois, Random].

Hauck, Mr. and Mrs. Richard: 4 minerals (350578).

Hawk, Dr. Bray O.: 1 large gold and platinum brooch (348032).

Haworth, Mrs. Jean: 4 stone artifacts (346483).

Hayward, Mr. and Mrs. Robert B.: 1 cut gem (347837).

Hedges, S. Blair: 11 mammals (347470).

Hellebuyck, Dr. Victor: 1 bat and 1 shrew (349761).

Helmerding, Fredrich: 6 minerals (347266).

Henbest, Lloyd G.: 1 quartz (347487).

Henderson, William A., Jr.: 4 minerals (348941).

Hendler, Gordon: 26 worms (298147, 337352).

Henning, Edward L.: 4 minerals (348034).

Hepler, Neil M.: 5 mollusks (314783).

Hermann, Fred: 130 plants (350236).

Hernandez, C., Dr. Marco Antonio: 2 mollusks (336928).

Hertz, Mrs. Helen S.: 1 gold specimen (350094).

Hevel, Gary F. and Julie F.: 13,561 insects (349162).

Hilsenhoff, Dr. William: 2 water beetles (349820).

Hodges, Dr. William: 12 insects (348429).

Hollowell, Vicki: 13 bamboos (348617).

Holzenthal, Ralph W.: 182 caddisflies (349171).

Hoover, Col. and Mrs. Warren H.: 10 basketry items (350957).

Houart, Roland: 2 mollusks (350671).

Howden, Mrs. Anne T.: 3 weevils (349165).

Howes, Mr. and Mrs. Durward: a collection of fresh-water pearls and pearl
jewelry (295806).

Hughes, Dr. John M.: 2 minerals (346710).

Humes, Dr. Arthur G.: 25 mollusks (347776).

Hutchings, Dr. Pat: 1 worm (349522).

Hyne, Frank and Becky: 2 fossil seal teeth (348476).

Ivantsoff, Dr. Walter: 2 fishes (346869).

Ivie, Michael: 6 insects (349167).

Jackson, Howard: [See also Granados, Mrs. Fredda] (350782).

Jackson, James F.: 780 fence lizards (342960).

Jackson, Roy H.: a witch doctor’s kit (350498).

Jacobs, Deborah Morgan: 1 musk turtle (348359).

Janzen, Dr. Daniel H.: 3,225 insects (348725, 349192).

Jardine, David R.: 3 crocodile eggs (348102).

Jaxel, Robert and Norma: 12 minerals (348506).

Jayawickrema, Lalith: 1 scale insect (349186).

Jell, Dr. P. A.: 20 fossils (347720).

Jenkins, Mrs. Lucretia R.: 1 embroidered Chinese-silk coat (349816).

Jenssen, Thomas A.: 2 lizard skeletons (346704).

Jimenez, A., Dr. Jose de Js.: 2 plants (348109).

Johnson, Dr. C. D.: 60 seed beetles (351245).

Johnson, Dr. Colin: 1 insect (346642).

Johnson, Dr. Gerald H.: a fossil elk antler, 1 fossil walrus femur (346120,
350783).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 571
Jones, Thomas L.: [See also Cerami, Philip D.] (343527, 348031).

Jorgenson, Jeffrey, P.: 473 worms (347361).

Joughin, Louis: 1 piece of tapa cloth (349815).

Jourdan, Kenneth: 90 crustaceans (326927).

Joy, Oliver T.: 1 cut beryl (347904).

Kahn, Walter: 5 minerals (347310, 347758).

Kaicher, Sally D.: 1 mollusk (348926).

Karunartne, P. B.: 4 insects (348733).

Kasch, Arthur A.: 1 cut gem (348033).

Kauffman, James: 1 mineral (348942).

Kean, Phillip: 5 butterflies (348428, exchange).

Keating, Mr. and Mrs. Robert B.: 2 Zaire masks (350954).

Keller, Mr. and Mrs. Charles, Jr.: 1 necklace with a jadeite pendant (347824).

Keller, Mrs. Ellen: 1 cut gem (347945).

Kendall, Mr. and Mrs. Roy O.: 14 moths (350980).

Kenk, Dr. Roman: 51 worm slides (348814).

Kenk, Dr. Vida: 5 mollusks (350456).

Kennebeck, Jack T.: 1 cut gem (343389).

Kennedy, A. J.: 19 insects (349191).

Kerber, Mrs. Norma Townsend: 1 dress and a pair of Afghanistan bracelets
(349814).

Kerckhoff, Arthur F., Jr.: 3 cut gems (384017).

Kern, John: 1 mineral (348886).

Key, Charles: 6 minerals (346268, 347488).

Kimball, Charles P.: 4,200 moths (349160).

King, Vandall: 4 minerals (346251, 347779).

Kirby-Smith, Dr. William W.: 1 echinoderm (348989).

Kirchner, Ralph F.: 53 insects (348398).

Kleck, Wallace D.: 1 mineral (347836).

Kleeman, Dr. Karl H.: 60 mollusks (350779, exchange).

Klepper, Lawrence R.: 1 cut gem (347943).

Kline, Kirby: a fossil cast of a camel footprint (346029).

Kloecher, Dr. and Mrs. Richard: 1 cut gem (347940).

Knudson, Dr. Edward C.: 8 moths (347301); [See also Blanchard, Andre]
(350960).

Koch, Dr. Frank: 1 insect (351022).

Kodama, Dr. H.: 2 minerals (348763).

Kohn, Dr. Alan J.: 5 fossils, 72 insects (346785, 350974).

Kolic, John: 31 minerals (346819, 347471, 348507, 349829, 350560).

Kondratieff, Boris C.: 4 stoneflies (348396).

Kormilev, Dr. Nicholas A.: 1 flat bug (348409).

Kornfield, Dr. Irv: 169 fishes (349208).

Kosnar, Richard: 1 mineral (349235).

Kraissl, Mrs. Alice: 6 minerals (347807, 350580).

Kristennsen, Dr. Reinhart: 7 worms (350820).

Kubler, Dr. Lutz: 1 mineral (349782).

Kuiper, J. G. J.: 83 mollusks (347358).

Kurz, Richard M.: 2 mollusks (349582).

Landing, Dr. Ed.: 8 fossils (346269).

Lanoie, Dr. Leo O.; 1 water shrew (349398).

Larson, Thomas J.: 8 Botswana ethnological objects (350951).

Larson, William: 3 minerals (347835).

Leake, Dr. Bernard E.: 8 minerals (347475).

Leath, Mrs. M.: 1 mineral (349639).

Lee, Dr. Harry G.: 3 mollusks (342020).

Leblang, S. Howard: 104 minerals (347955).

572 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Lekagul, Dr. Boonsong: 57 bats (350040).

Leverett, Dave: 1 fossil (348689).

Levesque, Andre: 1 mineral (347483, exchange).

Levine, Gerry: a fossil seal jaw (348480).

Lewis, Jerry: 9 crustaceans (333825).

Lewis, Randall B.: 33 mollusks (346917).

Lightbourn, J. R. H.: 38 mollusks (347333).

Lincer, Jeffrey L.: 1 human skull (348295).

Lipschitz, Henry: 9 cut gems (347971).

Little, Dr. Elbert L., Jr.: 1,034 plants, 243 tree species (347522, 347546, 347547,
347589).

Livingstone, Hilda: 4 echinoderms (347801).

Llwellyn, Betty H.: 2 Chinese carved-wood panels with antique jade (334479).

Lochman-Balk, Dr. Christina: 5 fossils (346702).

Logan, Dr. Alan: 150 fossils (347057).

Loveridge, Arthur: 16 crustaceans (338408).

Luhman, John C.: 50 wasps (348717).

Lutterlough, Mrs. Sophie G.: 12 insects (348423).

Lyons, Mrs. Marcia: 1 fish (346424).

MacGinitie, George E. and Nettie: 3 fossils (331095).

Machado-diniz, Frei Jorge L.: 6 large ants (350963).

Maciolek, Nancy J. 4 worms (348998).

Madge, Dr. R. B.: 2 beetles (348411).

Maggi, Dr. Vic: 37 lace bugs (348709).

Magnum, Larry: 2 fossils (347295).

Majtenyi, Steven I.: 1 mineral (347902).

Maldonado, Capriles, Dr. J.: 60 insects (348859, 350978, 351246).

Malicky, Dr. Hans: 37 insects (348395).

Malone, Dr. Leo J.: 2 cut gems (347907).

Malouf, Donald J. and Dianne L.: 1 ivory carving of a horse-drawn chariot
(348010).

Manchester, Steven R.: [See also Tidwell, William D.] (348482).

Mandracchia, Michael J.: 3,057 mollusks (346753).

Manning, Dr. Raymond B.: 2 crustaceans (322095).

Manning, Robert and Charles: 5 pieces of Pueblo Indian pottery (349813).

Manuel, Kenneth L.: 3 insects (346932).

Marden, Luis: 1 Melanesian wooden club (349812).

Marelli, Dan C.: 16 mollusks (348387).

Marrero, Yvonne: 25 crustaceans (331465).

Masner, Dr. Lubomir: 1 insect (351023).

Mason, L. S. and Noreen A.: 2 minerals (347898).

Mathis, Dr. Wayne N.: 3,083 flies (349156).

Mattacola, Dr. A. D.: 12 fishes (349302).

May, John W.: 2 quartz (347750).

McCafferty, Dr. W. P.: 5 mayflies (348734).

McCutcheon, John T., Jr.: 4 Micronesian tortoise dishes (349811).

McDowell, Marion: 29 echinoderms, 130 crustaceans, 1 worm (345582, 345925,
348995).

McLaughlin, Dr. Patsy A.: 2 crustaceans (348684).

McLean, Dr. James H.: 29 mollusks (348444).

McLellan, Jack H.: a collection of 3,000 fishes (347841).

Meehan, A. Lloyd: 4 ethnological items (343103).

Mehretens, Dr. Charlotte: 2 fossil slabs (350562).

Melampy, Michael: 95 plants (346592).

Mello, Dr. James F.: 1 katydid (348729).

Metcalf, Dr. Artie L.: 2 mollusks (350610).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 573
Metter, Dean E.: 57 reptiles and amphibians (318836).

Michaels, Dr. David B.: 1 faceted gem (348354).

Mikkelsen, Paula M.: 35 mollusks (348810).

Miller, Mrs. Franklin R.: 1 squirrel (346722).

Miller, Dr. J. R.: 4 bird skeletons (349902).

Miller, John E.: 5 echinoderms (348385).

Miller, Dr. Molly: 4 fossils (346250).

Miller, Richard: 4 minerals (347473).

Miller, Scott: 560 insects (348421).

Miller, Dr. Walter B.: 2 mollusks (346725).

Milne, Prof. Lorus J.: 741 insects (324258).

Milton, Dr. Charles: 2 minerals (347782).

Miskell, John: 2 tiger beetles (348711).

Mitchell, Edwin S. and Mary E.: a shawl (349810).

Mitchell, Dr. Stephen: 250 fossils (348357).

Monell, Edmund C.: 1 pair of jade altar lanterns, 1 jade altar Tou (325212).

Montgomery, Leslie: 1 piece of fossil amber (347753).

Moomavwy, B. C., III: 13 pieces of fossil amber (349345).

Moore, Dr. Donald R.: 12 mollusks (347334).

Morge, Prof. G.: 21 flies (347493).

Mous, Ahmed Sayed M.: 37 mollusks (347712).

Mulaik, Dr. Stanley B.: 5,559 crustaceans (324663).

Mulliner, David K.: 2 mollusks (348994).

Murakami, Dr. Nobuhide: 1 mineral (347153).

Muzik, Dr. Katherine: 3 crustaceans (347354).

Nasu, Dr. Yoshitsugu: 11 moths (348402, exchange).

Nelson, Jack A.: 100 mollusks (349640).

Neto, Pedro Scherer: 2 bird eggs (348311).

Nicolay, Col. S. S.: skipper butterflies (348422).

Niedringhaus, Mrs. James S.: 1 diamond, gold, and platinum ring (347784).

Ning, Dr. Zhang: 15 fossils (347623).

Nolan, Jack and Bob: 25 minerals (349540).

Nutting, W. H.: 11 beetles (346811), 1 beetle (346811, exchange).

Obodda, Herb: 6 minerals (348325, exchange), 1 mineral (346719).

O’Brien, Dr. Charles W., and G. J. Wibmer: 10 weevils (348720, 350981); 60
weevils (348720, 348732, exchanges).

O’Brien, Francis: 1 echinoderm (348349).

Ogle, Dr. Douglas W.: 1 fossil (348481).

Ollis, Walter C.: 6 minerals (349542).

Osychnjuk, Dr. A. Z.: 2 bees (348410).

Overal, Dr. William Leslie: 12 weevils (349168).

Overstreet, Robin M.: 25 mollusks (347152).

Pawlik, Joseph: 2 sponges (347705).

Pearson, Mrs. G. Burton, Jr.: 1 platinum, diamond, and sapphire ring (347834).

Pehachek, Michael J.: a fossil bird (350782).

Pequegnat, Dr. Linda H.: 5 fossils (347050).

Peters, Dr. Gary L.: 12 weevils (349198).

Peters, Thomas: 1 mineral (347781).

Petters, Dr. Sunday W.: 23 fossils (348945).

Petuch, Dr. Edward J.: 14 fossils (348890).

Phillips, Edward: 15 sea turtles (344630).

Phillips, John F.: 1 bamboo (348180).

Pickett, Joseph F., Sr.: 10 crustaceans (346718).

Pieters, S.: 15 minerals (347803, 347900, 348887, 349338, 350439).

Pilz, Dr. G. E.: 34 plants (347544).

Pinch, William: 2 minerals (349781); 7 minerals (349781, exchange).

574 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Pittino, Dr. Riccardo: 190 insects (348793, exchange).

Pletsch, Dr. Donald J.: 16 crustaceans (325327, 347355).

Polhemus, Dr. John T.: 95 insects (349159, 350976).

Pollock, Dr. Leland W.: 4 worm slides (346494).

Ponder, Dr. Winston F.: 4 mollusks (346461).

Popov, Dr. L. E.: 27 fossils (346824).

Porcellini, Gianni: 38 minerals (349663).

Pregill, Gregory K.: 8 amphibians (347845).

Price, Mr. and Mrs. Robert: 22 anthropological items (350953).

Proctor, Mr. and Mrs. Keith: 1 mineral (348061).

Proctor, Mrs. Jefferson F.: a beaded Apache pouch (348303).

Pulawski, Dr. W. J.: 1 insect (351017).

Purnell, Mr. and Mrs. L. M.: 6 marionettes (350955).

Putterman, Isaac: 1 cut gem (347953).

Racek, A. A.: 84 echinoderm slides (347357).

Rahn, Russell A.: 751 insects (348399, 349175, 350979, 350988).

Rao, Dr. K. Sreeramachandra: 2 minerals (346712).

Raynor, Judy, and Vincent P. Schneider: a collection of 12 fossil fish, turtle,
and crocodile remains (347949).

Reeder, Charlotte G. and John R.: 1 Apache, buckskin doll (349786).

Rehder, Dr. Harald A.: 92 mollusks (346614).

Reichert, Dr. Ralph: 4 cut gems (348015).

Reid, Dr. Gordon McG.: 1 African weasl (341753).

Reid, Mrs. Janet W.: 12 crustaceans (348924).

Remaudiere, Dr. G.: 18 insect slides (348407, 348714).

Renaud-Mornant, Dr. Jeanne: 10 worms (348816).

Resig, Dr. Johanna: 6 fossils (347336).

Rickes, Dr. W. E.: 1 stonefly (348431).

Rigout, Dr. J.: 2 beetles (348414).

Riker, Norman: 2 fossil seal femurs (348473, 350876).

Ripley, Mrs. Mary L.: 1 treehopper (348406).

Ripley, Dr. S. Dillon: 3 bird skins and 1 skeleton (349907).

Roberts, Sandy: a fossil seal bone (348479).

Robertson, Dr. Robert: 9 mollusks (346916).

Robinson, Dr. A. G.: 114 insect slides (348715).

Robison, Dr. R. A.: 4 fossils (348944).

Roess, Martin J.: 2 lots of cut gems (329814).

Rohr, Dr. David M.: silurian gastropods (349622).

Rolston, Dr. L. H.: 1 stink bug (349819).

Rona, Dr. Peter A.: 1 echinoderm (347384).

’ Rosado-Neto, Dr. Germano H.: 1 insect (348721).

Rosales, Dr. C. J.: 105 caddisflies (349195).

Rose, Jean Michel: 24 fishes (342730, 347748).

Ross, Charles A.: 5 frog skeletons (349034).

Rozman, Mrs. Phyllis: 11,712 insects (349187).

Ruhoff, Theodore: 2 minerals (350440).

Sabrosky, Dr. Curtis W.: 1,729 flies (350968).

Sackett, Edward B.: 3 Indian items (349809).

Sala, Frank P.: 1,470 insects (347858).

Samuel, Mr. and Mrs. Craig: 1 fossil (310986).

Samuelson, Dr. G. A.: 2 beetles (349184).

Sanford, Steven: 4 minerals (346820, 347790).

Sarjeant, Dr. Peter T.: 1 sunstone (348991).

Savage, Harry W.: 2,136 insects (348719).

Savazzi, Dr. Eric: 4 mollusks (347363).

Savignac, R.: 21 insects (349164).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 575
Savoie, Kurt: a collection of 18 fossil mammal and reptile remains (348356).

Scheffres, Eugene: 1 white-gold, diamond, and sapphire ring, 1 cateye gold
ring (347151, 347751).

Schmetzer, Dr. Karl: 1 mineral (347002).

Schneider, Mrs. Judy Raynor: 1 fossil (349226).

Schneider, Vincent P.: 447 fossils (347947, 348477, 350973); [See also Raynor,
Judy]; 11 fossil seal, walrus, birds, sharks, porpoise skull (347007).

Schneider, Mr. and Mrs. Vincent P.: 112 fossils (350615).

Schoenfield, Mr. and Mrs. Berni: 1 dugout canoe (349807).

Schultz, Dr. George A.: 26 crustaceans (334483, 345608, 349673).

Schumann, Dr. E. L.: a Chien Lung jade book (347969).

Schuster, Gary F.: 1 opal (347793).

Seitel, Dr. Peter: 11 Indian calabashes, stoppers, and straws (349806).

Selburn, Abel J.: 2 opals (347815).

Shaw, Kevin: 19 echinoderms (341569).

Sherman, Kevin, 130 worms (349644).

Sheppard, Jay: 4,432 tiger beetles (358425).

Sherry, Dr. Thomas W.: 1 black rat (346751).

Sienkiewicz, Dr. Igor: 1 insect (348427).

Silverman, Mr. and Mrs. Morton: 1 turquoise and silver bracelet, 1 fetish
necklace (343533).

Skakel, Gary: [See also Barrella, Sigri] (346253).

Slater, Dr. James A.: 6 bugs (350972).

Smith, Dr. Andrew: 3 fossil slabs (348864).

Smith, Dr. C. F.: 493 insect slides (348716).

Smith, F. L.: 3 minerals (346257, 346657).

Smith, H. Morgan: a blowgun (349805).

Smith, Lester A.: [See also Chaikin, William E.] (348021).

Smith, Dr. Judy Terry: 3 mollusks (350502).

Smith, Neal: 3 bird skins (349908).

Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Richard Dale: a Navaho rug (349804).

Smith, Robert E.: a fossil jaguar jaw (347008).

Smith, Ronald P.: 6 cut gems (347972).

Snyder, Mrs. D. H.: 11 Chinese items (349803).

Spall, Theodore F., Sr.: 1 opal, 1 quartz (347797, 347804).

Stafford, Dr. William L.: a fossil cast (347839).

Stark, Dr. William P.: 20 stoneflies (348434).

Steineck, Dr. P. Lewis: 3 fossils (349089).

Steiner, Warren: 4 weevils, 1,343 beetles (349166, 349828).

Sterrer, Dr. Wolfgang F.: 1 worm, 13 echinoderms (348350, 348866, 348919).

Stolburg, Craig S.: 11 minerals (347871), exchange).

Stornelli, Dr. Leo F.: 1 topaz (347877).

Stricker, Dr. Stephen A.: 3 worms and 11 worm slides (348766).

Stubenbrod, Mrs. John: 2 frogs (348891).

Studders, Robert J.: 15 cut gems (348013).

Svecz, Robert: 2 minerals (349539).

Svitil, John L., Jr.: 1 fossil (347826).

Swaykus, Dr. and Mrs. Bernard T.: 1 emerald (347905).

Tarkington, Horace L.: 1 fossil (350781).

Tashiro, Mr. and Mrs. Jack: a carved, wooden, Buddhist shrine (349802).

Taylor, Calvin: 3 fossil seal bones (348474).

Taylor, Mrs. Helen Abbott: 20 African items (349800).

Taylor, Dr. John L.: 6 crustaceans (342140).

Them, Walter J.: 2 mammals (349762).

Thiel, Dr. J. Allen: 1 sapphire in a gold pendant (347909).

Thoenes, Hank: 64 insects (348394).

576 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Thomas, Richard: 7 reptiles and amphibians (345707).

Thomssen, R. W.: 4 minerals (347783).

Tidwell, Dr. William D., Steven R. Manchester, and Dr. David Dilcher: 4
fossils (348482).

Tiffney, Dr. Bruce H.: 40 fossils (347010).

Townes, Dr. Henry: 3 wasps (343137, exchange).

Treadwell, Mrs. Bruce: 21 anthropological items (350958).

Trelawney, John J.: 1 morganite beryl (347472).

Triplehorn, Dr. C. A.: 429 caddisflies (348710, 349190).

Trondle, M. Jean: 325 mollusks (340976).

Tufts, Craig E.: 1 weasel (347950).

Turnbull, Timothy L.: 9 crustaceans, 7 echinoderms (342757E, 350093).

Turner, Mrs. Lillian: a carved leaf jadeite, 1 nephrite ceremonial bowl
(347752, 348063).

Turner, Dr. Ruth D.: 11 mollusks (349047).

Uemura, Naomi: 1 Eskimo fur suit (349789).

Underwood, Col. and Mrs. Warren N.: a bronze Budda figure (349801).

Valley, Dr. Karl: 3 moths (348401).

Van den Hoven, W.: 14 bird skeletons (345933, 347396, exchanges).

Van Der Voorn, Dr. Peter C.: 1 quartz, 1 topaz (348022).

Van Devender, Dr. Thomas R.: 5 worms (346617).

Van Dievoet, Eric: 1 mineral (347670).

Van Meter, James P.: 1 cut gem (347794).

Van Morkhoven, Frank: 1 crustacean slide (318521).

Van Scoy, David and Peter: a fossil crocodile snout (347829).

Van Scriver, Brad: 6 minerals (346258, exchange).

Vaucher, Cl.: 4 mollusks (349402).

Vermeij, Dr. Geerat J.: 200 mollusks (346699).

Vidakovic, Jasna.: 20 worms (348812).

Viers, Dr. and Mrs. Wayne: 1 quartz in a gold pendant (347908).

Vinikour, Dr. William S.: 166 caddisflies (348404).

Vokes, Dr. Emily H.: 15 fossils (347719).

Vokes, Dr. Harold E.: 10 fossils (347489).

Voss, W. B.: a jadeite vase, 1 jadeite urn (346477).

Walker, Dr. Francis $.: 12 minerals (348024).

Walter, Chad: 200 crustaceans (346967).

Waren, Anders: 1 echinoderm, 27 mollusks (346422, 348093).

Waring, Avis: a stick sailing chart (350950).

Wassell, Dr. James T.: 10 worms, 24 worm slides (346468).

Watanabe, Dr. Douglas T.: 1 cut gem (347901).

Watson, Dr. George E.: 1 partial bird skeleton (349899).

Weber, Mr. and Mrs. Charles H., Jr.: 2 cut gems (346821, 349507).

Wehle, Ruth D.: 2 moosehair embroideries (350952).

Weibezahn, Prof. Franz H.: 3,184 caddisflies (348718).

Weller, Mrs. Harriett, and Mrs. Helen Garcia: a pottery bowl (349798).

Weslager, C. A.: skeletal remains (349787).

Whiteley, Dr. Thomas and Ellen: 80 spheres, 1 cut gem (344146, 347876).

Wibmer, G. A.: [See also O’Brien, Dr. C. W.] (348720).

Wicks, Dr. Anthony E.: 1 pink sapphire (347823).

Wielgus, Ronald S.: 58 moths (348400, 348413).

Williams, Dave: 1 bird skin (348310).

Williams, James: 30 fishes (349343).

Williams, Dr. James D.: 5 mollusks (347385).

Williams, Sidney A.: 2 minerals (350453).

Wilson, Larry David: a frog skeleton (348892).

Wilson, Wendell E.: 2 minerals (348062).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 577
Wingate, David: 3 birds (349201).

Wolda, Dr. Henk: 124 caddisfles (348397).

Wood, John: 3 ferns (347578).

Wood, Walter F., III: 1 ruby (347878).

Woodhead, Chuck: 1 fossil (347005).

Woodhull, Ann B.: 1 tektite (347785).

Wright, Eugenia I.: 613 mollusks (345343).

Yadrenkina, Dr. Anastasia G.: 30 fossils (347840, 349536, exchanges).

Yedlin, Helen, Estate of: 20,068 minerals (335061, 348773).

Yanasida, Dr. Juichi: 50 fossils (348777).

Yeu, Douglas: 3 pieces of Melanesian bark cloth (349817).

Young, Dr. Frank N.: 140 water beetles (334880, exchange).

Young, Jack: 12 minerals (346711, 347269).

Young, James Phillip: 1 cut gem (347941).

Young, M. E.: 9 mollusks (347410, 348212).

Yount, Victor: 18 minerals (346256, 347279, 348,903, 348956, 349565, ex-
changes); 11 minerals (348026).

Zarco, Antonio: Indian fish spear, bow, and arrow (349818).

Zeitschel, Walter: 1 meteorite (348304, exchange).

Zhican, Tang: 200 worms (350311).

Zibrowius, Dr. Helmut: 66 insects (294838).

Zopco, Nick: 2 minerals (347265).

Zweibel, Mr. and Mrs. Julius: 8 minerals (348064, 348353); 2 minerals
(345464, exchange).

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Donors of Financial Support

Mr. and Mrs. David C. Bechtol

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Lovelett

Mr. Mason F. Moore

National Institutes of Health
(International Women’s Group)

Mr. and Mrs. David W. Peigh

Messrs, David and Matt Petrie

Mrs. Mary Livingston Ripley

Mr. S. Dillon Ripley, II

Dr. Albert Strawinsky

Grants

Chelonia Institute

Friends of the National Zoo *

National Fish and Wildlife Association
National Geographic Society

National Institutes of Health

Office of Naval Research

Washington Biologists’ Field Club

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Donors of Financial Support

Estate of Eugene Eisenman

* These funds were earned by the Friends of the National Zoo according to
their provision of public service under contract to the Smithsonian Institution.

578 / Smithsonian Year 1982
FELLOWSHIP/ASSISTANTSHIP PROGRAM

EXXON Corporation

Banco Union, C.A. (Panama)
Banco Nacional de Panama
CITIBANK, N.A. (Panama)
Market Managers, Ltd., S.A.

THE ROBERT E, SILBERGLIED MEMORIAL FUND

(as of September 1, 1982)

Dr. and Mrs. Warren G. Abramson II

Air Florida

Priscilla May Allen

Robert E. Aronheim

Elso S. Barghoorn

Milton and Rose Bauman
Robert and Susan Benjamin
Beverly A. Bigwood

Rae Louise and Martin H. Birnbaum
Isaac and Lillian Breslow
Bridge Club of Section 23
Dr. David Challinor, Jr.
Chevron USA Inc.

Mrs. Rose K. Cohen

Mary Lynne Corn

Gordon H. Congdon, Jr.
Molla Corson

Don Ray and Mignon Davis
Hanso E. Eisner

Ramon Ely

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Fish
Patricia L. Foster

Miss Ninochtka Franco

Dr. Helen Ghiradella

Eli and Diane Godinsky
Morgan & Thelma Golden
Morris and Estelle Goodgold
Joseph and Libby Gordon
John W. Grula

Henry R. Hansen

Professor J. W. Hastings
Berthold ana Friederike Holldobler
H. Robert Horvitz

Dr. David and Bonnie Inouye
Maria Luz Jimenez

Eva S. Jones

Larry and Elizabeth Kipp
Morris Kolodner, Esq.

Josef W. and Isa Konvitz

Janet Lanza

Herbert and Lorna Levi

Olga F. Linares

Esther Lisbe

Stanley and Emma Mazor
Harold and Marcene Michaelson
Larry E. Morse

Martin H. Moynihan

Harry and Goldye Olitzky

G. O'Neill

Julie H. Otto

Stephen D. Paine

Carl and Marian Rettenmeyer
Robert Robbins

D. Ross Robertson

Michael H. Robinson
Richard B. Root

Pearl G. Rubin

Dr. and Mrs. Ira Rubinoff
Ronald and Kathleen Rutowski
Curtin and Laurel Sabrowski
Ralph and Ada Samwick
Max and Mary Schneider
Mr. and Mrs. K. Schwartz
Kenneth and Barbara Sebens
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred T. Seder
William and Helen Stoll
Mark Stowe

Dr. Karen Strickeler

Roger and Elizabeth Swain
Toni and Orley Taylor
Pauline Tillis

Myra F. Tennant

Carmelli Vetri

Sandra K. Weisberg

Harry and Miriam Weisberg
Miss Fromma Wellman
Edward and Irene Wilson

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 579
HISTORY AND ART

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Donors of Financial Support

$10,000 OR MORE
American-Scandinavian Foundation
Helen W. Buckner
Hearst Magazines
The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.
Karen Johnson Keland

$1,000 OR MORE

Arkville Erpf Fund

Mrs. B. Aronson

Baker Furniture

Estate of Alice B. Beer
Benson & Hedges Co.

Book of the Month Club, Inc.
Edith C. Blum Foundation
Bristol-Myers Fund

Brunschwig & Fils International Corp.

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Coach Leatherware

Con Edison

Conde Nast Publications
Rosemary Corroon

William Doyle Galleries
Estate of Irene Emery

Exxon Corp.

Fieldcrest

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Howard Gilman Foundation
Johnson & Higgins

Keene Corporation

Knapp Communications Corp.
Lee/Jofa

$500 OR MORE

American Fabrics Company
Anne S. Dayton

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Flanzer
Grow Tunneling Corp.
Stephen Kiviat

Klauber Bros., Inc.

Mrs. Belle Linskey

Elinor Merrell

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Donors of Financial Support

New York State Council on the Arts
Arthur Ross

Helena Rubinstein Foundation
Warner Communications, Inc.
Wellington Foundation, Inc.

LiLerty Fabrics of New York, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter L. Malkin

Helen R. & Harold C. Mayer
Foundation

Metropolitan Life Foundation

Mobil Oil Corp.

Philip Morris, Inc

Museums Collaborative, Inc.

Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Pace Collection

I. M. Pei and Partners

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

Celia Siegel

Smithsonian Associates Women’s
Committee

Sotheby’s

George Stavropoulos

Steuben Glass

Stroheim and Romann

Uris 380/Madison Corp.

Ralph J. Weiler Foundation

Mrs. Leigh Weiner

John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Wyeth Endowment for American
Art

Florence M. Montgomery
Carleton Putnam

Esther W. Putnam

Joan Stumpf

Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Arthur Sulzberger
Tiffany & Company

Time, Inc.

Mrs. Naomi Ellias Dallen (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hanaumi

580 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Art Studies

National Committee to Honor the Fourteenth Centennial of Islam
Mrs. Barbara J. Norris (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)

Mrs. Verna Ross Orndorff

Mr. John S. Thacher

Mr. Edward H. Wilkinson

Donors to the Freer Collection

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Avent Dr. Henry W. Kumm

Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark Dr. Jack Light

Mr. and Mrs. Myron S. Falk, Jr. Mr. Joseph Upton, Estate of

Mr. Gregory Kruglak Mr. William S. Weedon
Donors to the Study Collection

Mrs. Adele E. Cotton Mr. Craig S. Korr

Mr. Olin Dows, Estate of Mrs. Miriam McNair Scott

Mrs. Ann Ford Doyle Mrs. Takatori Seizan

Mr. and Mrs. Province Henry

Donors to the Library
The Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation Mr. Laurance Roberts
Professor Martha Boyer John S. Thacher, Estate of
Donor to the Facility
Augusta Lumber & Supply, Inc. (Mr. Lloyd C. Smith IT)

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Donors of Financial Support

Leigh B. Block

Champion International Corporation
The T. M. Evans Foundation

Jerome L. Greene Foundation, Inc.
Hechinger Foundation

Sidney and Frances Lewis

Wyeth Endowment for American Art

Donors to the Library

- Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Mrs. R. C. Wheeler

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Donors of Financial Support

Mr. and Mrs. David L. Anderson Mr. and Mrs. William Gilmartin

Mr. and Mrs. Martin W. Bell Dr. and Mrs. Harold Johnson

Lee Bronson Mr. G. William Miller

Carroll J. Cavanaugh Mr. and Mrs. James Mitchell

Dr. and Mrs. P. B. Cornely Phelps-Stokes Fund

Scot M. Faulkner Honorable and Mrs. James Scheuer

Former Members of Congress Auxiliary Mr. and Mrs. Gustave Schindler

Friends of the National Museum of Shell Companies Foundation
African Art Irwin Smiley

Florence Gerstin Mrs. Clare Timberlake

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 581
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Wheeler
Honorable and Mrs. Franklin H.
Williams

Mrs. Albert Winer
Hattie Winston

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Donors of Financial Support

Ronald Abramson
Anonymous

Awards in the Visual Arts
Linda L. Ayres

Banamex Cultural Foundation
Evelyn F. Bartlett

Regina C. Beerbohm

Bergman Family Charitable Trust
Meredith Bixby

Elizabeth B. Blake

Blount Foundation, Inc.
Richard F. Bohn

David Bowen

Mr. and Mrs. Abner Brenner
Stephen A. Bromberg

Jeffrey R. Brown

Howard Butler, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Conrad Cafritz

Francis B. and Vivian G. Carothers
Bruce W. and Margaret J. Chambers

Mrs. Eliot Clark

Dr. Dale G. Cleaver

Marcus Cohn

Howard and Florence C. Conant
Joseph J. II] and Wanda M. Corn
Dr. Harvey J. and Isabel B. Croze
Robert Tyler Davis

Mary C. Delgreco

David C. and Thelma G. Driskell
Edith M. Dus

Wendy Fay Eisenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Ellsworth
John C. and Margaret E. Ewers

The Fine Arts Museum Foundation

Lois Marie Fink

Conrad M. and Harriet S. Fredin
Mr. and Mrs. Jack M. Foy
W. Roger Fry

Mrs. Harry S. Galblum
Charles R. and Ann P. Gailis
Mary Dubose Garrard

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

Jacob D. Geller

Guin B. Hall

Walter Hancock

Gordon Hanes

R. Phillip Hanes, Jr.

Miss Nancy Hanks

Albert McHarg Hayes

582 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Joseph C. Hawthorne
Mary C. Holderness
Mrs. Mary Homans
Thomas C. Howe
Group of Lakewood Welcome
Wagon Friends
Rensselaer W. Lee
Val E. Lewton
Harry A. Lockwood
Mr. and Mrs. George R.
Louden, Jr.
Vincent L. and J. B. MacDonnell
Norman F. Maclean
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Maloof
John J. and Helen M. Manse
Nan Tucker McEvoy
The McKee Foundation, Inc.
Giuseppe Medici
Louis Menk
John W., Jr., and Jean S. Michael
Alison M. and Steven E. Miller
Mr. William D. Morgan
Frank B. and Clivia Morrison
National Museum of American Art
Fellows
Francis J. Newton
Dr. P. B. North
Nora Panzer
Paul D. and Elmerina L. Parkman
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson
Helen A. Phelan
Ruth Rowe Philbrick
Post Road Gallery
Mrs. Abraham Rattner
Warren M. Robbins
Samuel J. and Eleanor T. Rosenfeld
Ednah Root
Lee G. Rubenstein
Dr. James and Dr. Nina
Bleiberg Rudel
Rupert, Gibbon and Spider, Inc.
Fritz Scholder
Ms. Julie Schimmel
Frank S. Schwartz and Son
Leonard N. Simons
Anneliese Sinn
Roy Slade
Morton D. and Harriett Smerling
Estate of Helen Burr Smith
James Robert Smith and Miranda
McClintic

Clements M. Stone

Lilian M. Stoner

Zachary Taylor

William Bond Walker

The Washington Art League

James M. Wells

Donors to the Collections

Ronald and Anne Abramson

J. Robert Andrews

Anonymous

Peter H. Barnett

Marilyn Baum

Ruth Benedict

Ruth Benedict, in memory of
William S. Benedict

Jennifer M. Berringer

Philip W. Bourne

Robert Brady

Harry Brodsky

Susan M. Bush

Dr. and Mrs. Frederic M. Chacker

Mrs. Otis Chatfield-Taylor, in

memory of her father, Boris Anisfeld

Barbara Latham Cook

Alfred D. Crimi

Democratic National Committee

Paul Desind

Albert J. Desrosiers

Lewis and Risa Dimm

Estate of Brois Deutsch

Mrs. Roger Pryor Dodge

Werner Drewes

Barney Dreyfus

L. Lazlo Ecker Racz

Arnold Elser

Mrs. Ella Farruggio

Elfriede Fischinger

Gerald M. Galler

Gallery 4

Smith Girard

Walter J. Goes

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. C_oss

Elizabeth Gibbons-Hanson

Perkins Harnly

John Davis Hatch, in memory of
Joshua C. Taylor

Lee Hoffman, in memory of Irving
Hoffman and Mark A. Hoffman

The Jesuit Community at
Georgetown University

Mrs. Elizabeth Johnson (with
Mrs. Loreine T. Wuorinen)

Hugh McK. Jones, Jr.

W. E. Wiltshire III

Mr. and Mrs. Otto Wittman
Sarah R. Woodward

Karel Yasko

Jean Fagan Yellin

James Ziegler

Mr. and Mrs. Tessim Zorach

Dr. Naomi M. Kanof

H. Eugene Kelson

Dr. and Mrs. Bernard H.
Kirshbaum

Bernard and Sherley Koteen

Dr. Donald W. Kreuzer

David LaPlante

Emalie Lorens

Adele Lozowick

Alfred H. McAdams

Margaret D. McKee

Christopher and Palmer Lane
Middendorf

Dr. Ira Miller

Norma Minkowitz

Lynn and John Minna

Mrs. Bruce Moore

Margaret T. Mowbray

Marjorie Muller

Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Noret

Mrs. Peter Roussel Norman

Paul and Elmerina Parkman

Florence R. Perry

Bequest of Henry Ward Ranger
through the National Academy of
Design (Jersey City Museum)

Bequest of Henry Ward Ranger
through the National Academy of
Design (North Carolina Museum
of Art)

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Estate of Abraham Rattner

Joshua Reichek

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Ritzenberg

Max Robinson

Charles and Janice Rosenak

Nancy L. Ross, in memory of
Patricia Firestone Chatham

Mrs. Alice H. Rossin

Mrs. Alice H. Rossin, in memory of
Joshua C. Taylor

Jack and Anne Ryan

Margaret Ahrens Sahlstrand

Dr. and Mrs. Peter L. Salk

Mr. and Mrs. Alain Sasson

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon C. Schild

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 583
Joshua P. Smith
Smithsonian Institution Resident
Associate Program
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
LaSalle Spier
Doris A. Stoner
Gladys Gleason Swan
Mrs. Anne W. Thomas
Maurice Vanderwoude
The Virland Foundation
Donald Vogler

Stephanie Weber

Ella Freer Weisgerber

Mrs. Louis Wiesenberg-Arp

Valerie Suzanne Wolf /

The Woodward Foundation

Loreine T. Wuorinen (with
Mrs. Elizabeth Johnson)

Harry W. Zichterman

Harry W. Zichterman, in memory
of Joshua C. Taylor

William and Lynette Zimmer

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Donors of Financial Support

AKC Fund Inc.

American Society of Anesthesiologists

American Society of Civil Engineers

American Society of Civil Engineers,
Metropolitan Section

American Legion Post 15

American Legion Post 88

Amos Press, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Antemann

Atwood Foundation

Mrs. John W. Auchincloss

Virginia Ballard

The Bass Foundation

Ms. Eleanor Battle

Beverly Enterprises Corporation

Mrs. Richard Bodman

Mrs. Jane K. Brooks

Mr. Weir M. Brown

Mrs. Percy Brown

Dr. Bertel Bruun

Centennial Fund

Mr. and Mrs. David Challinor

Mr. Anthony Chanaka

Patricia R. Chichester

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Childs

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas K. Cline

Robin M. Crandall

Lt. Col. Robert D. Crea

Judith G. Denningham

Leroy and Rachel Doggett

Mr. and Mrs. George A. T. Donely

Mr. and Mrs. Loren J. Eastmer

Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Edwards, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. T. Emond

Fairfax Nursing Center

Federal Home Loan Bank Board

First American Bank, N.A., Washington

The Ford Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Gallagher

Great Eastern Numismatic Association

Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Green

584 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Mrs. Ray W. Hoagland

Mrs. Helen R. Hollis

George B. Holmes

Bruce Howe

International Railway Historical
Society, Washington, D.C.
Chapter

Johns Hopkins University

Mrs. R. Keith Kane

Mary L. Kerr

Mrs. Otto Peter Kominik

Mrs. Walter Kravitz

Mr. and Mrs. James Lawrence

Richard W. Lenhard

Kate Levy

Mr. and Mrs. C. Daniel Lindblom

Susan McConnell

Mars Foundation

Mrs. Loudon Mellen

Mobil Foundation, Inc.

Mary Modell

Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris

Persis W. Morris

MSC Corporation

Mueser, Rutledge, Johnston &
Desimore

Robert P. Multhauf

Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Mr. James H. Pipkin, Jr.

Mr. Charles L. Poor

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence J. Radice

RCA

Henry A. Rentschler

Sears, Roebuck and Co.

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mr. and Mrs. Henry P. Smith III

Mrs. Francis A. Smith

Janet W. Solinger

Mr. Davidson Sommers

Henry Z. Steinway

Janet Hart Sylvester
Mrs. James Symington Dr. and Mrs. C. F. Tyner

Alice Talonn United Technologies

C. T. Thomas Constanze Crea Wales
Time-Life Books, Inc. Rebecca J. Walker

Time, Inc. Wandra S. Ward

Mrs. Bronson Tweedy Mrs. Francis P. Wilkinson

Donors to the National Collections

Rita J. Adrosko: 2-piece wool suit, 1964-65 (1980.0461); 21 high school news-
papers, 12 report cards, 4 school newsletters, 7 pins, 2 programs, and a
catechism (1981.0144).

Mrs. Albert Aiken: dark blue enameled and painted footed glass vase (1981.
0187).

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (through William J. Kendrick): 9 vinyl
product samples (1981.0874).

Alexandria Diamond Cab Co. (through Robert M. Werth): dome light from
a taxi and a taximeter (1982.0322).

Alrich Precision Manufacturing Company, Inc. (through Frederick Primer,
Jr.): document of appreciation to the Bard-Parker Company for equipping
the 1925-30 Byrd Antarctic Expedition with medical provisions (1982.0032).

American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (through
Philip Sparks): 2 videotapes of AFSCME advertisements (1981.0986).

American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (through Hal
David): photograph and autograph of Victor Herbert in frame (1982.0269).

Martin P. Amt: red earthenware roofing tile (1980.0532).

Margaret W. Anderson: 18th-century crewel embroidered valance (1981.0769).

The Honorable Hiram G. Andrews: an original copy of the Pennsylvania
House of Representatives resolution to adopt the Equal Rights Amendment,
1961 (238183).

Dr. Robert B. Angerman: a letter dated January 12, 1980 written to the Anger-
man family by three U.S. citizens held captive in Iran, 3 T-shirts, and 2
posters (1981.0462).

Anonymous: a pair of woman’s shoes and 3 items of woman’s underwear
from the 1950s and 1960s (1980.0462).

Rochelle D. Aschheim: Ateco Ice Box Cookie Mould carton (1981.0540).

Mary G. N. and Col. Whitney Ashbridge: 15 service documents (1979.0835).

Grace Ashley: bronze desk plaque American Agriculture, Hope of the Nation,
by Grace Ashley (1981.0875).

Norman R. Ashton: 16 phonograph records (1982.0088).

Benjamin P. Astley: Mullen paper-testing machine (1981.0654).

Garnet W. Ault, M.D.: black and burgundy man’s robe and a double-
breasted suit with 2 pairs of trousers and 2 vests (1979.1116).

J. M. and Jeannette Nelson Avent: silk crazy quilt containing pieces from the
bolt of fabric which was used to make Mrs. William McKinley’s inaugural
ball gown (1982.0197).

Tai Babilonia: royal blue ice skating dress and a rhinestone headband worn
by Tai Babilonia when she won the 1979 World Championship Pair Skating
event with Randy Gardner (1982.0079).

Bernice Baer: 2 Boston Post newspapers dated December 28, 1917, and June 5,
1919 (1981.0426).

Baird Corporation (through I. D’Arcy Brent II): Baird-Dow direct reading
spectrophotometer (1982.0277).

Caroline L. and Louis A. Baisden: spring pencil holder advertising Chatterson
and Son of Lansing, Michigan (1981.0678).

David and Shirley Baitch: Baitch 9-button coat (1979.0277).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 585
Margaret Carr Baker: blue and gray floral brocade wedding dress, 1855 (1979.
0386).

The Ball and Socket Manufacturing Company (through William W. Anthony,
Jr.): 4 button sample cards and a booklet (1981 :0630).

Clara Powers Basnight: floral-printed beach pajamas (1980.0159).

Preston R. Bassett: 574 lighting devices, a posnet, and a spigot (1979.0568).

Anne Bayly Lloyd Battams: double flageolet of boxwood made by C. E. Eisen-
brandt of Baltimore, Maryland, in period case, ca. 1840 (1981.0569).

Bruce S. Bazelon: red wool beret and a herringbone twill jacket (1981.0172);
10 items of insignia, insignia dies, and memorabilia from the U.S. Navy,
U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Life Saving Service, and U.S. Merchant Marine
(1981.0870).

Renee Beam: a button titled “Iran/Let Our People Go” (1981.0792).

Carl Becker: fireman’s torch, ca. 1860 (1979.0400).

Beckman Instruments, Inc. (through Arnold O. Beckman): Beckman D U
spectrophotometer and a Beckman pH meter (1981.0816).

Catherine A. and Clay P. Bedford: Miquelet fowler by Domenico Battista, a
flintlock fowling piece by Piravbe, and an English revolving cylinder rifle
by Collier (1978.2491).

Silvio A. Bedini: horseshoe, mousetrap, and a strap of 4 jingle bells (1982.
0064).

Ethel A. Belinky: 48-star U.S. flag (1982.0330).

Col. Richard S. Bennett in the name of Walter G. Bennett: furnace salesman’s
kit (1981.0821).

Jennifer M. Berringer: monotype by Jennifer M. Berringer (1982.0131).

David E. Biggar: a post card franked with a U.S. 1-cent postage stamp (1982.
0016).

Blair Birdsall: collection of documents and photographs from the John A.
Roebling’s Sons Company concerning the historical development of Ameri-
can bridge engineering (1981.0908).

P. S. Bixler (through William E. Salter): hog scraper (1980.0513).

George T. Blair: sextant by Spencer Browning & Co., London (1981.0942).

Mrs. William McCormick Blair, Jr.: 2 dresses by Givenchy, a nightgown and
robe by Porthault, and a pair of woman’s boots and shoes (1979.1089) ;
2 designer sketches (1981.1008).

Mary Lou Bolliger Blazek and Teresa M. Blazek in memory of Karen E.
Bolliger: white cotton quilted counterpane made by Jessie Anderson in
1835 (1981.0830).

Dr. Rhea C. Blue: opaque white glass dresser bottle and stopper (1981.0840).

David D. Blume: hemoglobinometer in a black papier mache covered case
(1981.0489).

Mary A. and Richard H. Bogard: set of 13 pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuti-
cal bottles (1981.0788).

Carl and Marvin I. Bornfriend and Herbert Linsenberg: 12 wooden hat molds,
1920-50 (1980.0456).

Frederick Brisson in memory of Rosalind Russell: 2 costumes and a suit worn
by Rosalind Russell in the motion pictures Auntie Mame, Oh Dad... Poor
Dad, and The Girl Rush (1979.0481).

Louis C. Brock: baseball shoes (1979.1042).

Stanley L. Brothers: 4 type composing tools (1981.1011).

Mrs. Fern V. Brown in honor of Bob Viney: 58 phonorecords (1981.0762).

Laura-May Spain Brown: black taffeta dress with rhinestones and beads in a
floral pattern, a 2-piece black silk and lace dress with a jacket, a print
dress with a jacket, a black satin and lace dress with black satin pumps,
and pink velvet shoe stretchers (1980.0017).

586 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Naomi Huber Brown: Minox camera inscribed “Naomi from John Steinbeck”
with leather case (1982.0082).

Brunswick Corporation (through Milton Rudo): a Red Crown bowling pin
and a Zebco fiberglass spin-cast rod and reel (1982.0181).

H. S. Bryan: 48-star U.S. flag (1982.0332).

George G. Bull: 2 platinum-gilt coins from France and Spain respectively
(1981.0508).

Ida Reynolds Bumstead: gold thimble, 3 sterling silver bodkins, and a pair of
sterling scissors in a heart-shaped box (1981.0553).

Edward R. Burk in memory of William H. Burk: pen used by William Wil-
liams of Connecticut when he signed the Declaration of Independence
(1981.0890).

S. Joan Burk: satin and lace wedding dress with veil, 1951 (1979.1225).

Helen Burlingham: 51-star unofficial U.S. flag (1982.0331).

Ens. Janice Lynn Mary Buxbaum: 41 uniforms and accessories used by En-
sign Buxbaum while attending the U.S. Naval Academy as a member of the
first class to include women (1982.0316).

Bank of Canada: a 5-dollar note dated September 28, 1979 (1981.0622).

Leopoldo Cancio: World Bank bond of December 9, 1977, for 10 million yen
with 30 coupons attached (1981.0773).

Hannah Barrett Carmick: unassembled Brussels needlepoint and bobbin lace
wedding dress, 2 lengths of a Brussels Point de Gaze needle lace border,
and a Torchon bobbin lace border (1981.0902).

Mrs. M. Lizbeth Carr Carroll: 2 dresses, 2 beaded purses, quilted vest, box of
beauty spots, fancy-dress ball mask, powder box, parasol, and a rouge
sample (1979.0482).

Arthur M. Carter: Negro Baseball yearbook, 1945 (1981.0341).

Florence Gerhard Casper: 14 pieces of sheet music, 4 folios, and Ditson &
Co.’s Musical Monthly (1982.0005).

Catawissa Monument Works, Inc. (through Frederick Brighthaupt): granite
gravestone for Maggie Winters, 1897 (1981.0775).

Louis Centore: apothecary shop show globe, ca. 1900 (1981.0461).

Patricia Chalk: 2-piece purple dress designed by Lilli Ann (1979.0553).

Chicago Historical Society (through Teresa Krutz): 19th-century ice skate,
a golf ball autographed by Sammy Snead, and a football autographed by
the 1950 Notre Dame football team (1981.0974); (through Sharon S. Dar-
ling): 2 Boxer Rebellion flags and 2 WW I period U.S. Army flags (1982.
0186).

Children’s Television Workshop (through Frances Kaufman): phonorecord
“Sesame Country” (1981.0712).

Patrick K. C. Chun, M.D.: set of 10 heart valves (1981.0731).

Ann Clark and Deborah L. Clark Ohl: compound archery bow, 2 wooden
bows with case, 6 aluminum arrows, a quiver, glove, finger tab, and 2 cloth
patches (1981.0713).

Dick Clark: 39 top hit phonorecords from 1951-81, the original painted can-
vas backdrop used on the first “Bandstand” TV program, and the “Ameri-
can Bandstand” podium (1982.0095).

Elizabeth Clarke: 7 anti-ERA posters, circulars, and leaflets (1981.0893).

John J. Clifford: Selective Service System status card, 1975 (1981.1070).

Caroline QO. Coddington: carved wooden window screen formerly used in the
White House (1981.0921).

Alfredo Cohen: Harley-Davidson motorcycle, 1902 (1981.0766).

Bernice E. and Glen L. Colegate: 19th-century barber’s chair and tools (1981.
0740).

Quintina Colio: 3 embroidered pictures (1982.0115).

Edith Elliott Conger: 2-piece man’s suit, 1910-19 (1980.0032).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 587
Congressional Union (through Pam Elam): 39 pro-ERA materials including
buttons, posters, press releases, and flyers (1981.0881).

Will Connell: 49 silver prints by Will Connell from the series In Pictures
satirizing Hollywood film production, 1937 (1981.0549).

Earl V. Conway: 2 wool olive drab jackets, a twill herringbone jacket, a pair
of wool trousers, a cap, and a helmet liner (1981.0939).

Prof. John A. Cook: bronze medal designed by Professor Cook for the “Cre-
ative Achievement Award” of the College of Arts and Architecture of Penn-
sylvania State University (1981.0951).

Linda M. Cookson: a yellow ribbon and a badge honoring the returned U.S.
citizens held in Iran (1981.0628).

Frances B. Cornell: tin chandelier for candles and a brass kerosene hanging
lamp (1981.0979).

Ruth E. Cosgrove and Roberta L. Robinson: diary, uniform items, photo-
graphs, and personal papers of Signalman 2nd Class Dudley Reed Rider
during WW I (1982.0123).

Cosmos Club (through Burton W. Adkinson): Zeiss Ikon camera and carrying
case with accessories and a Kodak Pupille camera with case, strap, filter,
and lens cap (1981.0521).

Bentley Courtenay: embroidered silk jewelry case and an embroidered silk
waistcoat with floral motifs, 1800-20 (1979.0881).

Martha Chardavoyne Cramer: white cotton quilted counterpane (1981.0818).

Flora Crater: 20 objects including buttons, tissue flowers, and various cam-
paign materials and handouts concerned with women’s rights (1981.0072).

Richard W. Creaser: 54 pottery fragments from Charlestown, Massachusetts
(1978.0881).

Margaret Sands Crebbin: hand-embroidered net veil (1981.0956).

Pauline M. Cross: red wool bathing suit, 1928 (1980.0458).

Bobby Lee Cude and Watie Riley Pickens: sheet music “Los Angeles Town”
by Cude & Pickens Enterprises (1981.0531).

Marie Cullerton: molded glass plate engraved by Ephraim Francis Camp
(1981.0610).

Lucile Lawrence Dahlstrom: Salzedo harp made by Lyon & Healy with pen-
tagonal case, 1928 (1981.0780).

Rodney Dangerfield: red necktie and white cotton shirt worn by Mr. Danger-
field and a phonorecord and 6 videocassettes of performances by him
(1982.0268).

Victor C. Darnell: photograph album from the Berlin Iron Bridge Co. (1981.
0909).

Elva Davis: a videocassette titled “Womankind: 60 Minutes” (1980.0476).

Stephen Neal Dennis: silver-plated presentation pitcher engraved “1859”
made by Rogers, Smith & Co., Hartford, Connecticut (1981.0988).

Kathryn L. DeRiemer: 22 mint stamps of El Salvador including recent bird,
snake, and wildlife issues (1981.0361).

Tamara Burnside Detweiler: 6 German Rhineland postcards (1978.2183).

Robert J. De Villiers: mahogany Civil War medicine chest with instruments
(309145).

DHS Films, Inc. (through Peter Broer): videotape cassette of Sen. Edward M.
Kennedy’s 1980 primary campaign ads (1981.0404).

Eleanor Dickinson: 1980 pen and ink drawing of Bro. Harrison Mayes (1981.
0570).

Barbara Dickstein: 2 T-shirts, a western style shirt, corduroy trousers, black
boots, a yellow nightgown, and ski mittens (1979.0554).

Wilton S. Dillon: a program from “The National Council of Negro Women,
Inc. International Salute to Women of Achievement” (1981.0615).

588 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Katherine Dirks: a pin in the shape of a tied white bow, a symbol of the
Woman’s Christian Temperance Union (1981.0664).

The District of Columbia League of Women Voters (through Jean E. Fleming):
9 resolutions, 8 pamphlets, 6 bills, 2 flyers, 2 bumper stickers, 2 papers, 2
newspaper articles, poster, book, mourning band, form, card, fact sheet,
social studies project, a copy of the Congressional Record, and a group of
papers on D.C. voting rights (1980.0527); a T-shirt, pamphlet, 6 stickers,
and 2 buttons supporting D.C. voting rights (1981.0671).

Alice L. C. Dodge: 4 postcards and 2 photographs (1981.0693).

Mary D. Doering: 16 items of woman’s clothing by Villager, Ladybug, and
John Romain from the 1960s, a woman’s belt, and a pair of woman’s shoes
by Capezio, 1967 (1979.1258).

James M. Dolan, Jr.: 2 “ERA Countdown Campaign” sashes (1981.0894).

Alice Faith Dole and Timothy Evans: woman’s dark-brown velveteen jacket,
1862-67 (1980.0138).

Gladys C. Dougherty: 5 phonorecords (1981.0860); 5 postcards and a map
depicting a Pony Express route (1981.0967); 2 phonorecords “Songs by
Tom Lehrer” and “Judy at the Palace” (1982.0158).

Mrs. M. D. Dovener: white empire style dress with train (1980.0460).

Downtown Drugs (through M. E. Heckathorn): 2 copper bracelets (1981.0670).

Lawrence Drake and Mrs. Robert M. Drysdale, Jr.: man’s dressing gown,

1880-99 (1981.0398).

Lt. Elizabeth W. Durham: 81 uniforms and accessories used by Lieutenant
Durham while attending the U.S. Naval Academy as a member of the first
class to include women (1982.0318).

William G. Dutton: sextant made by Spencer, Browning & Rust of London
(1981.0943).

Robert E. Eckhardt: a banner, poster, and 3 leaflets with Biblical mottoes and
quotations (1981.0608).

Eder Instrument Co. (through Louis Streifeneder): 1 prototype model fiber-
optic gastroduodenscope, ca. 1960 (314556).

Central Bank of Egypt (through Manager, Note Issue Department): 50
piastres note put into circulation May 16, 1981 (1981.0543); a 5 pound note
put into circulation June 17, 1981 (1981.0544); 25 piastres note put into
circulation November 15, 1979 (1981.0624).

Eleanor B. and Wm. J. Ellenberger: 14 78 r.p.m. phonorecords (1982.0136).

Jane F. Ellis: Stanford-Binet I.Q. testing kit in brown case (1982.0240).

Lt. Col. William K. Emerson: U.S. Army ration card, U.S. Army ROTC
insignia, weapons receipt card, and a license (1981.0599).

Emser Industries (through Richard Signorelli): 7 nylon objects including a
shuttlecock, carpenter’s rule, watchcase, soccer shoe sole, flow meter body,
and 2 pieces of nylon tubing (1981.0873).

Prof. William J. Eney: 30 bridge testing models and deformeters (1981.0423).

Lucia K. Englehart in memory of Lucia Knight Kerfoot: a silk quilt em-
broidered with Masonic symbols made by Eliza Rosecrans Hussey (1981.
0680).

Fairchild Space and Defense Systems (through Ruth D. Miller): 6 photographs
of the moon from Apollo Missions 15, 16, and 17 (319933).

Harriet L. Fedder: brochure, school admission ticket, and 3-D postcard from
the 1939 New York World’s Fair (1982.0364).

William W. Fee: WW II tanker’s helmet, WW I trench periscope, and a
B-2 ration can (1981.0546).

The Field Artillery Association (through John R. Dobbs): 2 medals and
2 award certificates from the Order of Saint Barbara (1982.0135).

Margaret A. Fikioris: Jacquard woven silk picture (1981.0539).

Detmar H. Finke: U.S. Army volunteer cloth insignia and a U.S. Armed

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 589
Forces bicentennial badge (1977.0762); 10 Staunton Military Academy uni-
form accessories, ca. 1970 (1981.0810).

Samuel A. Finz: New York Giants program with a scorecard and a ticket
stub (1981.0711).

Helen P. Fish: valentine and 48 greeting card cut outs (1981.0393).

Frank L. Flay: badge and rosette from the funeral of Pres. William
McKinley (1982.0074).

Florence Utt Focht and Miriam Utt Frank: 2 honorable discharges, a Civil
War certificate, a forage cap, wool trousers, and a dark blue wool coat
(1980.0420).

Philip Foisie: 21 posters of mainly Vietnam War protest subjects (1981.0452).

Shelly Jayne Foote: green wool shawl, a necklace, and hoop earrings (1980.
0828).

Cynthia Forbes: a film documenting the Women’s Parade in Greenbelt, Mary-
land, September 4, 1972 (1981.0642).

City of Fort Smith, Avenue of the Flags Committee (through Hubert G.
Jerue): 50-star U.S. flag which flew over Fort Smith National Cemetery in
Arkansas while American citizens were held hostage in Iran (1981.0306).

Mrs. A. T. Fossum: U.S. Coast Guard Spar officer’s hat insignia, WW II
(1982.0071).

Four D Productions, Inc. (through Hal Linden): props used on the television
show “Barney Miller,” including an assignment board with pegs and
eraser, a jail door key, and 6 police badges (1982.0294).

The Foxboro Company (through Earle W. Pitt): 17 automatic control instru-
ments (1981.1009).

R. B. Freeman for the Freeman family: telegraph register (1981.0696).

The Honorable Stanley B. Frosh: 16,266 U.S. philatelic items including mint
sheets, blocks of stamps, and first day covers (1982.0086).

Marlon E. Fuentes: 3 photographs (1981.0689).

Philip F. Gabler: Easter card, ca. 1887 (1981.0822).

Gertrude K. Gaeckler: U.S. Navy Yeoman (F) blue uniform shirt and blouse,
WW I (1981.0968).

Mrs. Okey F. Gallien: natural-gas space heater manufactured by the Reliable
Stove Co., Cleveland, Ohio (1981.0666).

Gail Galloway: printed oath of office signed by Chief Justice Warren E.
Burger and Justice Sandra Day O’Conner, September 25, 1981 (1982.0073).

Helen M. Gardner: a suffragette postcard titled “Pilgrims Entering Washing-
ton, D.C., 2/28/13” (1981.0537).

Randy Gardner: royal blue ice skating costume with matching skate boot
covers worn by Randy Gardner when he won the 1979 World Champion-
ship Pair Skating event with Tai Babilonia (1982.0078).

Eleanor J. Gawne: protective coat and trousers (1982.0195).

Helen K. Gaylord: cut glass vase decorated with ‘Rambler Rose” pattern
made by the Enterprise Cut Glass Co., 1911-17 (1981.0783).

Felix E. Geiger: photographic exposure table in German, 1935 (1981.0945).

The Getty Oil Company (through Miles West): 2 videocassettes and a pro-
gram book for the 1981 Getty Oil Company advocacy advertising program
(1982.0042).

Gettysburg College (through Laurence A. Marschall and John J. Schlegel):
5 scientific and surveying instruments (1982.0104).

Nancy Gewirz: a black caftan style dress by Halston, a multi-color striped
dress by Halstoa, and 18 items of woman’s clothing and jewelry designed
by Mary McFadden (1979.1091).

Harry A. Giarretto: set of 39 photo-engraving tools (1981.0946).

Kirkland H. Gibson: 1866 Dudgeon steam wagon (1981.0328).

Henry Gichner on behalf of Fred S. Gichner’s children: 17 blacksmithing

590 / Smithsonian Year 1982
hand tools from the Fred S. Gichner Iron Works (1981.0992); pair of hand-
forged andirons by Paul Greiner (1982.0024).

Cora Ginsburg: a wedding dress, ca. 1910, a green taffeta dress, and a man’s
waistcoat from the 18th century (1980.0459).

Merl P. Glaser: 2 bowling shirts and a bowling bowl (1981.0548).

James M. Goode: wooden window cornice probably made in Lewes, Dela-
ware 1825-60 (1978.2453).

The B F Goodrich Company, Chemical Group (through W. C. Becker and
W. Thomas Duke): 4 early vinyl plastic objects (1982.0033).

Marilyn M. Gould: 2 surgical knives, a capitol saw, and a surgical kit (1981.
0829).

Howard F. Greene: 10 lithographs showing railroad routes (1981.0748).

Neil G. Greensides: limited edition mechanical bank issued for the 75th
anniversary of the Trenton Trust and honoring its president, Mary G.
Roebling (1982.0233).

Margaret E. Griffin: red, white, and blue overshot coverlet (1980.0631).

Nicholas Grossman: hydraulic slide rule developed by M. W. Kellogg Com-
pany (1981.0998); 2 Zeiss prism binoculars and a dipping refractometer
(1982.0001).

Mrs. A. S. Guimaraes: a necklace, a sewing box, and a man’s cigarette
holder (1977.0179).

Dona Guimaraes: white turban-style knit hat (1979.0556).

Henry Hamelly: 10 U.S. First Day Covers and 1 special cancellation (1981.
0206).

Hanes Hosiery, Inc. (through Robert E. Simms): basketball uniform, warm-up
suit, and a 1953 National Women’s A.A.U. Basketball Championship trophy
(1982.0159).

Ruth F. Hanna: boy’s galoshes, ca. 1890 (1980.0547).

Marion E. Hardwick: lady’s pocket watch with photograph of Ms. Hardwick’s
father on the dial (1981.0691).

Al Harrell: Burroughs adding machine (1981.0368).

L. Parker Harrell, Jr.: a “Connally Leadership For America” glass dated
October 18, 1979 (1982.0165).

Martha-Belle Harvie: earthenware plate with brown transfer-printed design
in the “Millenium” pattern, 1830s, (1981.0249).

Jack K. Hashley: Abraham Lincoln belt plate made in the 1960s (1981.0928).

Hastings Historical Society (through Virginia McGuire and V. Karolyn
Wrightson): photograph on glass of a quarter moon by Henry Draper
(1982.0099).

Moryem S. and Raymond J. Hebert: 346 late Ilkhanid and other silver coins
of the 14th century (1981.0975).

George D. Hedrick: Spaulding baseball autographed by the 1956 Brooklyn
Dodgers team (1981.0793).

Keir H. Helberg: 10 ceramic tiles from the Immaculate Conception Church in
Baltimore (1981.0163).

William H. Helfand: 15 wooden nickels advertising U.S. pharmacies and a
sample of Raccoon Antiseptic Corn Plasters (1981.0787).

Francis Hemminger: set of Spitler’s puncture plugs and an inner tube (1982.
0321).

Esther S. and James C. Henderson: 4 typewriters and a roll-top secretary
collected by Henderson’s Business Machines, Corvallis, Oregon (1982.0201).

Mrs. Maxine K. Heneberger: 70 U.S. Navy uniforms, uniform accessories,
and other personal effects of Dr. Lucien G. Heneberger, Captain, U.S.N.,
late 19th century (1981.1017).

Rochambeau A. Herosian: 2 ration packs, a ration-type matchbook, 3 paper
vehicle decals, a WW II metal whistle, a leather belt, and 2 Vietnam propa-

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 591
ganda leaflets (1981.0419) ; 3 school books, 2 Washington Senators baseball
programs, and 2 Redskins football ticket stubs and program (1981.0858).

Hobart W. Hesse, Jr.: poster advertising a concert in Headsville, West Vir,-
ginia, June 23, 1923 (1981.0710).

Kenneth F. Hodges, Jr.: man’s umbrella cane (1981.0503).

Sheila B. Hoermann: an 18th-century white salt-glazed stoneware plate and
a pair of wall pockets in the form of a cornucopia (1981.0863).

Christian Hohenlohe: blue jasper plaque and a dipped blue jasper jar and
cover (1980.0714).

Mrs. Helen Lucile Hollister: Weno Hawk-Eye rollfilm camera with instruc-
tion booklet (1981.0903).

Carolyn C. Holloway: light-pink knitted dress (1980.0377).

Betty A. Holt: woman’s gold mesh purse, ca. 1925 (1981.0707).

C. W. Holt: “Billy Rose’s Aquacade, N.Y. World’s Fair, 1939” program
(1981.1002).

Robert M. Hosler, M.D.: 4 Cleveland Public School report cards (1981.0147).

Edwin L. Hotchkiss: Hotchkiss super dip needle and pivot polishing lathe
(1981.0488).

Adalbert and Hedy Howard: Bohemian cased glass beaker and a ruby-
colored glass vase (1981.0271).

Arline Howdon: woman’s tapestry purse (1980.0031).

Marion Huber: 100 medical instruments and memorabilia belonging to
Dr. Charles Huber of Ohio (315330).

D. Christopher Hughes: “Kensington Cavaliers” basketball shorts and T-
shirt and 121 football cards (1981.0146).

Ellen Roney Hughes: St. Patrick’s School program, 1887 (1981.0138).

Cornell C. Hunter: 2 paper molds for the Bank of New Zealand with one
deckle (1982.0183).

Heather Huyck: 2 circulars and a pamphlet about the ERA Walk, August 22,
1981 (1981.0879).

Nina S. Hyde: girl’s plaid coat and 14 items of woman’s clothing by Jean
Marie Armand, Emilio Pucci, Gucci, Sloat, Calvin Klein, Courreges,
Missoni, Goldworm, and others (1979.1085).

Ice Capades, Inc. (through Jeyne Brown): poster featuring Tai Babilonia and
Randy Gardner at the Capital Centre, 1982 (1982.0194).

John Frederick Inman: letter from President Franklin D. Roosevelt to Jack
Inman dated February 3, 1934 (1982.0150).

Georgia Jacobs (through Ralphene Jelenick): white cotton stuffed-work quilt
(1981.0682).

Charles D. Jacobson: 3 cards, 2 certificates, an honorable discharge, an issue
tag, and an armband all relating to the military career of Arthur Jacobson
(1981.0857).

Mrs. Charles T. Jacoby in memory of Mrs. Stella Lublintz (through Edith H.
Smith): 1884-85 edition of the R. H. Macy Company catalog (1982.0138).

Margaret Jaep: tin box and 6 sets of brass weights (1981.0777).

Patricia B. Jamison: black leather U.S. Army dress shoes worn by Lt. Gen.
Harold Roe Bull (1981.0578).

Gordon Javna: kit manufactured by Revell, Inc., of a plastic model of the
WW II torpedo boat PT-109 (1982.0236).

Eric C. Jenkins: pair of U.S. Army shoes from Spanish-American War period
(1980.0531).

Joseph P. Jodoin: Swedish rifle cartridge (1981.0867).

Adelina S. and Charles E. Johnson: pewter basin according to tradition used
by Ethan Allen (1981.0200).

Gladys Abell Johnson and Lester D. Johnson, Jr., M.D.: collection of 120
pharmaceuticals (1981.0760).

592 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Linda and M. Frank Johnson, Jr.: white cotton socks (1981.0563).

Walter A. Johnson: 5 ambrotypes and 2 daguerreotypes (1977.0235).

Frances Benjamin Johnston: 63 photographic prints by American women
photographers, ca. 1900 (1978.2457).

Catherine S. Jones: 2 photographs by Robert Epstein, Hanging Carcasses and
Lea at the Beach (1981.0465).

Harvie P. Jones: union badge, “Jr. Order of United American Mechanics,” in
its original container (1982.0149).

Stephen D. Jones: Victrola phonograph, ca. 1911 (1981.1010).

Josten’s (through Robert W. Leslie and H. William Lurton): replica of the
1978 World Championship Super Bowl ring made for Terry Bradshaw
(1981.0705).

Chester L. Justus: 2 “Celectray” pyrometer recorders and 1 “Micromax”
thermoelectric furnace controller (1982.0310).

Celine B. R. Karraker: laboratory notes, correspondence, diplomas, maps,
certificates, awards, photographs, and laboratory glassware belonging to
Dr. Leo Baekeland (1982.0034).

Lucille D. Kaufman: boy’s navy blue wool jacket, 1976 (1979.0672).

Elisabeth Corrigan Keiffer and Faith Corrigan Martin: an embroidered white
mull shawl given, by family tradition, to Mrs. Jonathan Trumbull by Gen-
eral Lafayette (1981.0723); an English creamware platter with family crest
owned by Gov. Jonathan Trumbull of Rhode Island, 1769-84 (1982.0085).

Stetson Kennedy: 6 posters and 12 flyers on campaign and labor subjects
(1981.0286).

Kenyon College (through Thomas B. Greenslade, Jr.): Excello dotting instru-
ment, arm protractor and goniometer, triangle, and a section liner (1982.
0147).

Richard A. Kidwell: man’s bathing suit, 1963—70 (1979.0886).

Mary Elizabeth King: a Willke-McNary Dollar campaign contribution certifi-
cate (1981.0665).

Dr. Frank Kiss: walnut tool chest, 13 tool cannisters, 6 chasing hammers,
and a set of chasing punches used by Professor Ferenc Kiss and his son,
Dr. Frank Kiss (1981.0616).

Mrs. Mary Kissick in memory of Cora Olive (Wade) Ellis: silver teaspoon
commemorating the Battle of Manila Bay during the Spanish-American
War in 1898 (1981.0732).

Frank E. Klapthor: 2 fur muffs, a chinchilla collar, and a white and gold
striped jacket with fur trim (1979.0275); salt-glazed stoneware spittoon
made by W. Lehew & Co., Strasburg, Virginia (1981.0474).

Margaret Brown Klapthor and Mary Berry Moore: 2 dresses, 2 veils, and
3 pins worn by an American Red Cross volunteer during WW I and the
1930s (1981.0930).

Wm. B. Knapp: 9 Pan Handle Scrap Chewing Tobacco “Champion Women
Swimmers” sports cards (1981.0839).

Fay Knicely: brown maternity dress, 1865-80 and a man’s wool shirt, 1800-99
(1980.0191).

Zula H. Koenig: 11 photographs of U.S. Navy Yeoman (F) activities during
1919 (1981.0555).

Carol Kominoth: child’s white sneakers (1981.0562).

Andrew P. Kosic: 97 German WW I sea post markings on covers and post
cards (1982.0013).

Gene and Nancy R. Krupa: Jerry Mahoney toy ventriloquist figure with origi-
nal box, “Latin from Manhattan” marionette, Farfel the dog toy hand
puppet, 3 clown marionettes, 2 finger puppets, 1 phonorecord, and a Tony
Sarg Marionette Course diploma (1981.1085).

David S. Kyle: WW II olive drab winter coat and trousers (1980.0122).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 593
Ginetta La Bianca: opera costume worn by Ginetta La Bianca in Gilda (1981.
0757); 2 tape cassettes and a phonorecord of Ginetta La Bianca (1982.0076).

Lafayette College, Department of Physics and Chemistry (through Nancy
Tregoe): autoclave, wax bottle, student’s spectrometer, and a Bunsen spec-
troscope (1981.0826).

Dr. Noel P. Laird: Eastman National Business College diploma, 1891 (1982.
0006).

Virginia LaRocque: leather and cloth side saddle, a handmade saddle cloth,
and 3 stirrups (1981.0901).

Sally L. Larson: black crepe cloak, 1923 (1979.1118).

Lt. Col. Benjamin T. Layton: steel helmet from the period of WW I (316379);
2 registration cards, an identification tag, and a WW I discharge lapel pin
(1978.0105); 1 U.S. stock and 1 school bond certificate (1981.0649); 1 U.S.,
1 Roman, 2 Italian, and 27 French medals (1981.0650).

Beth Leary: T-shirt and newspaper with anti-nuclear themes (1981.0659).

Katherine M. Lechleitner: diary kept by U.S. Navy enlisted man, Ab Lapine,
from 1914-19 (1981.0674).

Lenox, Incorporated (through Robert J. Sullivan): 2 porcelain plates from the
Lenox/Boehm Bird Series and a porcelain plate from the Lenox/Boehm
Woodland Wildlife Series (1981.0387).

Jack L. Leon: 137 examples of English yellow-glazed earthenware (1980.0615).

Carole Le Van: phonorecord “How Great Thou Art” by Elvis Presley (1982.
0206).

Barbara and David M. Levey on behalf of the Levey Family: grandstand seat
from Ebbets Field, ca. 1913 (1981.0675).

Levi Strauss & Co. (through Roy C. Johns, Jr.): 1980 Winter Olympics U.S.
team parade uniform (1981.0131).

Hilda Putziger Levy: 8 porcelain vases used as glaze test pieces by Adelaide
Alsop Robineau, 1924-25 (1981.0466).

Elizabeth R. and Stewart Lindsay (through Rear Adm. Philip W. Snyder):
original photograph of the U.S.S. Texas entering the harbor of Havana,
Cuba, in January 1929 (1981.0428).

Eric M. Lipman: German dagger and a collection of 28 WW II German and
Russian insignia (317887).

Milton A. Lipsner: 530 philatelic covers and pieces of equipment related to
early U.S. airmail service as organized by Benjamin B. Lipsner, the first
U.S. Airmail Superintendent (1982.0157).

Dr. Charles T. G. Looney: aluminum freezer container (1981.1014); aluminum
refrigeration container, cigar box opener, and 2 tin plates from Brown Mule
tobacco (1982.0056).

Lorimar (through Earl Hamner and Lee Rich): radio used on “The Waltons”
television show (1982.0119).

LaVerne M. Love: 7 booklets, 7 buttons, 5 leaflets, a notice, newspaper, busi-
ness card, flyer, plastic bag, and notepaper pertaining to women’s rights
(1980.0469).

Leila D. Lovelace: Routledge’s Engineer slide rule (1981 :0934).

Margaret E. Lowey: blue wool, American Legion coat (1981.0481).

Dr. Philip K. Lundeberg: German camouflage steel helmet (1978.2343).

Carol C. Lupia: girl’s dress, 1926-27 (1980.0382).

Volina Valentine Lyons: daguerreotype portrait of Louis Daguerre by Charles
Meade and reverse oil painting on glass of a landscape by Louis Daguerre
(1982.0010).

Mrs. John White McBurney: KKK red cross lapel pin (1982.0309).

Rosalind B. McCagg: original cartoon by Enright captioned “The Break in the
Fence” (1982.0161).

594 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Donald T. McDaniel: a handbill The Tenderfoot, 2 playbills Ten Nights in a
Bar Room, and 2 playbills Uncle Tom’s Cabin (1981.0859).

Eleanor McKay: collapsible plastic dress hoop in plastic box (1981.0278).

D. Ruth and Roger McSweeny: iron can opener patented May 19, 1877 (1981.
0963).

Roger McSweeney: chatelaine hook with a silver perfume bottle (1981.0949) ;
set of carved bone needlework tools (1981.0977).

Thomas L. Macy: 3 games “Hit the Beach,” “Thunderball,” and Kukla &
Ollie’; 2 toys “Jimmy Jet” and “Guerrila Gun”; and a plastic model “’Visi-
ble Dog” (1981.1082).

Elizabeth N. Malmberg: a postcard of Mt. Vernon and a photograph of the
Abraham Lincoln family (1981.0667).

Dr. Raymond B. Manning: manufacturer’s fabric sample book (1982.0163).

Lawrence R. Mapps, Sr.: 2 alignment gauges and 3 body standards (1981.
0596).

Mildred Marable: photo album and diary of PO Henry Schenk, U.S. Navy,
compiled during WW I aboard the U.S.S. Texas (1981.0868).

C. Kenneth Marble: porcelain thread guides and shuttle eyes displayed on a
board (1981.0073).

Beth S. Markow: 2 newspapers and 4 handouts protesting nuclear power
(1981.0698).

Annie Laurie Marshall: man’s trousers, 1790-1845 (1980.0379).

Andrew J. and Eleanor W. Mason: 14 cylinder phonorecords (1981.0344).

Mrs. Elwood W. Mason: white organdy graduation dress, 1921 (1979.0276).

Y. Matsumoto: 20 silver medals illustrating American history (1979.0655).

E. Lyle Maxwell: 2 U.S. Army mohair ties and 2 army green wool coats (1978.
0519).

Lester A. Meis: 28 early issue British Colonies stamps from New Zealand,
the Cook Islands, and the Australian States (1981.0990).

Charles and Melva Milauskas: monocular microscope and accessories (1981.
0561).

Earl Millard, Sr. Memorial Fund (through Earl Millard, Jr.): stoneware basket
made by Ken Ferguson, Shawnee Mission, Kansas (1981.0367).

Elizabeth Ellis Miller and J. Vance Miller in memory of David Newton Ellis:
10 surveyor’s instruments used by David Newton Ellis (1981.0648).

Marge Miller and Grace M. Van Deusen: items related to the career of
Ruth McGinnis, professional billiard player, including a cue in leather
case, ticket, contract, poster, and 2 handbills (1982.0267).

Milwaukee Electric Tool Corporation (through Jack R. Jaeger): 1 electric drill
and a drill housing (1981.1013).

Minnesota Historical Society (through Stephen E. Osman): reproduction of
5th Infantry cap insignia (1978.2486).

Anita F. Mitchell: woman’s WW II khaki shirt (1981.0662).

Mobil Oil Corporation (through Herbert Schmertz): 2 Sony videocassettes
“A Fable for Now” series and a selection of “Mobil Information Center”
TV commercials (1982.0077).

Alfred B. Moe: model 227 signal lamp (1981.0754).

Joan Mondale: a dress, scarf, handbag, and 2 campaign buttons with
Hubert H. Humphrey’s name and initials worn by Mrs. Mondale at the
Democratic National Convention (1981.0529).

Paul A. Moneski: Martin 100 outboard gas engine (1980.0672).

Kathleen Sowa Moore: Raku-fired stoneware vase made by Robert Piepen-
burg, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 1981 (1982.0105)

Ruth E. Moore: silver-plated coffee service made by Rockford Silver Plate
Co., Rockford, Illinois, ca. 1882 (1982.0114).

Eloise R. Morris: 13 Christmas tree ornaments, ca. 1903 (1981.0993).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 595
Wells Morris, Jr.: Berge sextant (1981.0744).

Lizzie L. Morse: 5 articles of woman’s and girl’s underwear, a girl’s dress,
coat, and hat, a woman’s nightcap, hat, curlers, and a switch of hair
(1979.0384).

Betty Jean Mowbray: 2 letters and a certificate from the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Union and a pseudo-stock certificate for the prevention of
war (1981.0557); 2 Army Nurse Corps caps, WW II window flag, and a
pamphlet “Going Back to Civilian Life” (1981.0755).

Frances M. Rudell Moyer: 3 bracelets, a woman’s brooch, and a vanity case
purse (1982.0075).

Lt. Col. William B. Mozey, Jr.: 5 U.S. Army Service and dress chevrons
(1980.0613).

MS. Magazine (through Joanne Edgar and Gloria Steinem): a T-shirt with
the legend ‘Failure is Impossible” on the front and signatures on the back
(1981.0484).

Paul Muldawer and James Patterson: a model of the Carter Inaugural review-
ing stand with a watercolor rendering and 20 blueprints with a cover
(1980.0857).

Dr. Wm. P. Murphy, Jr.: 445 linen tracings of machinery produced by the
Corliss Steam Engine Co. and its successors (1982.0019).

Mrs. John H. Murray: mid-19th-century straw splitter unearthed in the
English straw plait manufacturing village of Campton (1981.0980); mid-
19th-century peg-wooden doll (1981.1004).

Marvin Murray, M.D.: sestertius coin struck in the name of the Roman
Emperor Pertinax (1979.0517).

Susan H. Myers: yellowware preserve jar by Edwin Bennett, Baltimore,
Maryland, 1856 (1981.0354).

Dr. Perham C. Nahl: 171 U.S. first flight covers from contract air mail routes
#23, #28, #32, and #71 (1982.0017); 196 U.S. first flight covers from
contract air mail route #20 (1982.0018).

National Abortion Rights Action League of Illinois (through Cynthia J.
Little): 6 buttons, 3 fans, and a pamphlet concerning abortion rights
(1980.0905); (through Jan Ryan): 8 fans, flyers, newsletters, and handouts
(1982.0101).

National Organization for Women (through Patrice M. Sayre): a metal ERA
pin designed by Andrea Olney (1981.0485).

National Society Children of the American Revolution Museum (through
James H. Johnson): U.S. Army Artillery enlisted man’s coat, 1832 (1981.
0541); white-on-white embroidery collar and sleeves, an embroidered net
collar, and a sheer cotton shawl (1981.0681).

Richard M. Needham: 8 U.S. first day covers and 14 special cancellations
(1981.0208).

Anna and Mortimer L. Neinken: 1,759 German Emergency Currencies with
city names Bischofstein through Braunschweig, issued 1914—23 (1981.0897) ;
55 German Emergency Currencies issued from various cities, 1914-23
(1981.0898).

Carl W. Nelson, Jr.: samples of pig iron, iron ore, slag, and furnace lining
brick (1982.0262).

Peter A. Nelson: 3 wooden spools and 12 miscellaneous parts for a music box
(1981.0987).

New Hampshire Historical Society (through John F. Page): wagon used by
suffragette Lucy Stone and the National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation (1982.0288).

City of New Orleans, Historical Pharmacy Museum (through Ben Bavly):
“Sarsaparilla” syrup bottle (1981.0789).

New York City Department of Transportation, Bureau of Highway Opera-

596 / Smithsonian Year 1982
tions (through Robert Gough): 2 stay cables from the Brooklyn Bridge,
1883 (1981.0983).

Museum of the City of New York (through Nancy Kessler-Post): 2 silver
albumen photographic prints (1981.0877).

Louis Nichole, Inc. (through Louis Nichole): 5 ball ornaments, 2 dolls, 2
stands, a nosegay, and a parasol used for Christmas decorations at the
White House during the administration of President Jimmy Carter (1982.
0255).

Northwestern University (through David Mintzer): counter-current distri-
bution apparatus (1981.0824).

Elinor F. Oakes: brown suede clogs and earth shoes (1980.0415).

Wendy C. O’Bert: 35 photographs, circulars, and buttons from the Minne-
apolis ERA Countdown Rally, June 30, 1981 (1981.0883).

Catharine C. Olds and George D. Olds III: a wedding dress and wreath-
style wedding headdress from 1914, a pink jumpsuit-style lounging outfit,
a wool petticoat, a black lace headdress, a white cotton cap, an apron, and
wedding photograph (1979.1229).

Mrs. Dorman S. O’Leary: WW I woman’s Red Cross dress and cap (1981.
0804).

John W. Olson in honor of Mrs. Chester H. Adams and Mrs. Walter F.
Olson: woman’s black gloves, ca. 1903 and boy’s diaper cover, ca. 1870
(1979.0880).

Barbara Orden: 2 white brassieres and a black felt hat (1980.0759).

ORSONIC Recording Services (through Leo Orso): 2 recorded tapes of his-
torical subjects (1982.0068).

Mabel M. Owen: 17 items from the 1976 presidential campaign and the 1977
inauguration of President Jimmy Carter, letter and cartoon regarding
national suffrage, and a “Save the Fox” bumper sticker (1982.0166).

Mary Jo Owens: first-prize trophy from the Kansas City Monarchs Beauty
Contest presented to Mary Jo Owens in 1940 (1982.0265).

Mildred R. Palmer: navy-blue hat designed by Lilly Dache, 1935-39 (1980.
0384); bright pink turban-style hat, and a white hat designed by Hattie
Carnegie, 1951-58 (1981.0011); 2 shield-shaped brooches and a perfume
bottle and compact in their original boxes (1982.0070).

Paragon Optical, Inc. (through Don Ratkowski): contact lens buttons (1981.
0739).

William H. Pascoe: 3 steel moulding tools (1981.0669).

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 18 pieces of fishing equipment (1981.0021); picnic
basket and 18 women’s sports artifacts (1981.0973); cocktail shaker (1982.
0059); mechanical card shuffler, black rubber and wood duck call, and
2 handkerchiefs with a baseball design (1982.0080); 24 items of sports
and game equipment (1982.0110); paperweights from President Richard M.
Nixon, Senator Barry Goldwater, and Senator Everett M. Dirksen and a
“Clarence J. Brown for Governor” button (1982.0148); plastic table service,
stainless steel flatware, aluminum ware, 10 tumblers, 2 toasting forks, 3
soupspoons, a tablecloth, 4 tablecloth clamps, 6 napkins, and a box of
bonded filter papers (1982.0154); 2 Polaroid Land cameras, 2 Zeiss Ikon
cameras, and 1 each Kodak Stereo, Kodak Instant, Stereo Realist, and Afga
Optma II cameras, with various accessories (1982.0173); glass bottle
“Jamestown Festival, 1607-1957” (1982.0188); terry-cloth robe and slippers
worn as part of an exercise uniform and a wrist caddy for keeping golf
score (1982.0235).

Pete Pedroli: shepherd’s hook (1981.0552).

Sidney A. Peerless, M.D.: 65 mostly ancient Greek and Roman coins (1982.
0036).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 597
Walter E. Peery: photo-typesetter and keyboard invented and developed by
Mr. Peery, 1946-52 (1982.0008).

Clifford L. Pelton, Jr.: Franz Schwarzer zither with a black case and acces-
sories (1981.0779).

People for the American Way (through Norman Lear): a press kit and 2
videotape cassettes promoting the right to free expression (1981.0302).

Mendel L. Peterson: U.S. Army regulation knapsack from the Civil War
period, WW I service certificate, and an 1899 Red Cross game (1982.0067).

City of Philadelphia, Office of the City Representative and Director of Com-
merce (through Anna Marie O’Brien): a Wedgewood Bicentennial cream-
ware punch bowl with views of Philadelphia, 1976 (1977.0024).

Josephine R. Philip: porcelain bisque figure of a Roman soldier, a stand, and
a framed letter presented to Hoffman Philip by the French government
(1980.0440).

Clarice Pierce: Planter’s Peanuts glass jar (1981.0835).

Plastics Institute of America, Inc. (through J. H. DuBois): 1 man’s brown
vinyl shoe (1981.0770); 15 objects relating to the plastics industry
(1981.0825).

Marjorie Plunkett: Gothic revival style church lectern with eagle (1982.0221).

Milburn J. Ponder: a baseball cap which was worn by Enos Slaughter of the
St. Louis Cardinals, ca. 1950 (1982.0270).

Margie B. Porter: child’s “Olympian” tennis shoes (1981.0564).

Constance Potter: 2 leaflets and a poster protesting nuclear power and
weaponry (1981.0720); 25 objects including circulars, leaflets, posters,
buttons, and a banner (1981.0889).

Julia C. Powell: 32 U.S. Navy enlisted man’s uniforms and accessories
(1981.0871).

Martin Prince: 5 selective service system records (1981.0937).

Louise Brown Purdy, M.D. (through John S. Harrison and Lawrence J.
Sheehan): pair of white sapphire earrings, black onyx ring, ring and brooch
with opals and diamonds, pink gold watch, watch chain, and necklace with
cameo pendant (1981.0635).

Jane C. Purnell: button and wristwatch with inscriptions favoring John
Anderson for president (1982.0303).

Joan C. Quinn: 3 Kewpie dolls and 2 farmer dolls (1981.0799).

Rafshoon Communications (through Gerald M. Rafshoon): 11 audio tapes
from the re-election campaign of President Jimmy Carter, 1980 (1981.0304).

Nancy Reagan: white silk-satin beaded ball gown designed by Galanos with
gloves, shoes, and evening purse, worn to the inaugural balls on Janu-
ary 20, 1981 (1981.0604); black velvet and peau de soie evening gown
designed by Bill Blass and worn to the inaugural gala on January 18,
1981 (1982.0081).

Frank C. Regnier, Sr.: ceramic pitcher made by the Sevres China Company,
East Liverpool, Ohio, ca. 1900 (1981.0409).

Molka Reich: a beanstalk, a golden goose, and 2 marionettes, “Jack” and the
“Giant,” from Jack and the Beanstalk (1982.0093).

Pauline W. Reiher in memory of Rebecca and Abraham Wolf: Women’s
Army Auxiliary Corps uniform, 1942 (1982.0175).

Estate of John Paul Remensnyder (through Doris R. Ballantyne and John P.
Remensnyder, M.D.): “Bailey’s Patent” steam jack, ca. 1793 (1981.0989);
60 antique tools (1982.0045).

John H. Rick: alcohol blowtorch and an adjustable die stock (1982.0208).

Emily Crowley Rickey in memory of Frances Hall McCudden: flat iron and
a bone seam spreader, 1880-1910 (1979.0072).

Kathryn H. and Ralph C. Rinzler: 13 examples of southern American pottery
(1981.0287).

598 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Mary Livingston Ripley: tinned-sheet iron oval wash tub and a double-
burner electric hot plate (1982.0190); set of 5 golf clubs with canvas bag
(1982.0193).

Edwin K. Robinson: U.S. Navy seabag, ca. 1945 (1981.0197); hand-forged
railroad track wrench (1981.0478); fraternity pin, Civil Defense pin, USA
ski team pin, and a ticket to the 1940 New York World’s Fair (1981.0924) ;
13 cycle name plates, 7 lapel pins, 3 ribboned medals, and a cuff link
(1981.0960).

Mrs. Hazelle H. and J. Woodson Rollins: 2 marionettes dressed as a Southern
belle and a Southern gentleman (1982.0362).

Irene Roney: brown leather baseball glove (1981.0492).

Kermit Roosevelt, Jr.: cut-silk velvet furnishing fabric (1980.0366).

Rt. Rev. David S. Rose: 19th century kerosene chandelier from a church in
Chatham, Virginia (1982.0326).

Dr. J. William Rosenthal: collection of 16 ophthalmic objects (1981.0737).

Rubin Brothers Waste Company (through Bruce S. Bazelon): a Viet Cong
flag with pen-printed words alluding to Black Power (1981.0551); 14 items
of U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps uniforms and accessories (1981.0869) ;
(through Henry M. Rubin): 9 U.S. Marine Corps uniform leggings and a
U.S. Navy gas mask carrier and Arctic trousers (1981.1016).

Mrs. Betty L. Ruffley: 2-piece maternity dress from 1954, boy’s baseball uni
form from 1963, and infant’s red velveteen overalls from 1957 (1979.1120)

Lucile B. Rugh: U.S. baptismal bowl used by Air Force chaplain Verling
Rugh while serving with the 103rd Infantry Division in Europe, 1946-47
(1981.0936).

Helen Winnett Russell: pillbox hat, hood, and 2 dresses and a coat designed
by Adrian (1977.1175).

John W. Ryan, Jr.: a broadside titled “Defenders of the Republic” (1981.
0715).

Dale C. and John B. Sabel: 13 Duo-Art piano rolls (1982.0220).

William A. Sack (through Margaret Sack): 39 accessories from the tailoring
trade (1978.1003).

R. A. St. George: Civilian Defense certificate of instruction, 1942 (1982.0072).

Gary Sandburg: human-hair beard dyed red, white, and blue for the Bicen-
tennial (1981.0455).

Geraldine Sanderson: peanut-shaped lapel pin (1982.0164).

Geraldine and Jack T. Sanderson: 11 items of girl’s clothing from the 1970s
(1979.1117).

Sandvik, Inc., Disston Consumer Division (through Terrance J. Lanning and
W. C. McGowan): “Disston-Danville Commemorative Handsaw” with dis-
play board (1981.0926).

Sanitoy, Inc. (through S. Tharler): 1 plastic piggy bank, 3 vinyl squeeze toys,
and a set of 8 blocks (1981.0771).

August K. Scheele: 47 football cards (1981.0459).

Carl H. Scheele: 2 phonorecords (1981.0460); a letter and poster urging con-
tinuation of full funding for the Social Security system (1981.0676).

Madalyn Miller Schimmel: Chanukah card with enclosures (1981.0999).

Carl Schlesinger: button and ribbon commemorating the Allied Printing
Trades Council’s participation in the Labor Day parade of 1961 and a set
of flashcards (1981.1012).

Herman W. Schneider: 24 artifacts and memorabilia from the early history
of nylon manufacture (1982.0140).

Emilie Schulz: bound account entitled The Life of Carl and Emilie Schultz, a
diary written in German, a certificate indicating a crossing of the Equator,
a framed embroidery piece, and 3 photographs (1982.0224).

Robert J. Schurk: 7 flyers, 6 newsclips, a calling card, 1980 presidential

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 599
debate poster, a brochure on nuclear power vs. coal, the final edition of
the Cleveland Press, and a news item, reprint, button, and information
sheet pertaining to Iran (1981.0887).

Constance H. Schwab: brown damask, beaded mourning bag (1982.0028); a
brooch made of woven hair from the mid-19th century, a tortoise-shell
necklace from the mid-19th century, and a 19th-century woman’s card
case made of tortoise shell and silver (1982.0286).

Don Elliot Schwartz, M.D.: 22 ophthalmological instruments (1981.0978).

Lt. Claire A. Sebrechts: 139 uniforms and accessories used by Lieutenant
Sebrechts while attending the U.S. Naval Academy as a member of the first
class to include women (1982.0317).

Joan Severa: 2 instruction booklets and L. J. Snow’s skirt drafting system
(1979.0073).

John W. Severinghaus, M.D.: blood-gas calculating machine, 4 electrodes,
and 2 blood-gas slide rules used in the development of modern anesthetics
(1982.0218).

Dr. Margery W. Shaw: volumes IJI-VII of the Henry A. Meyer Collection of
Napoleonic and French Revolution philatelic covers and documents (1981.
0819).

Ruth Sheldon: pressed-glass dish associated with Stohlman’s Confectionary
Shop (1982.0237).

Hubert B. Shenkin: 32-piece boxed set of Van Keuren cylindrical gauge
blocks (1982.0002).

Estelle R. Sherman: U.S. Navy enlisted man’s dress white uniform jumper
worn by Allen Vincent Sherman, ca. 1935 (1981.0850).

Righter B. Shiner: collection of 14 iron relics from the Lehigh Coal and
Navigation Canal (1980.0617).

Mrs. Paul V. Shirley: 2 black dresses designed by Adrian (1979.0781).

Ruth W. Shure: U.S. Naval officer’s sword belt, mid-19th century (1981.0672).

Mary Scott Simmons: woman’s turquoise taffeta dress from 1941 (1980.0414).

Joseph S. Simms, Jr.: 4 brooches, a pair of earrings, a necklace, a bracelet,
and a buckle (1979.1115).

George W. Sims: 9 architectural fragments from the 1949 renovation of the
White House (1981.0727); a dog tag with a Masonic emblem and 10
movie star cards (1981.0806).

Orlan Skare: color print showing a wagon-maker’s shop and tools (1981.
0984).

Professor B. F. Skinner: 1954 teaching machine, guided missile nose, and a
cumulative recorder (1981.0997).

Bertha Perrin Smith in memory of Rebecca Clark Perrin: black straw hat
with large, off-white fabric flower, 1914-16 (1980.0982).

Edith Hertz Smith: a Hubert H. Humphrey memorial paperweight (1982.0160).

Edna M. Smith: copper-keyed bugle and 2 cornets owned and used by
Walter F. Smith of the U.S. Marine Band and the Sousa Band (1981.0425).

Dr. Martin D. Smith: orthodontic bracket table designed by Edward H. Angle
(1981.0794).

Paul Smith: 11 ROTC insignia and metallic chevrons (1982.0133).

Smithsonian Institution, Business Management Office, Mail Order Division
(through Richard Griesel): pair of English candlesticks (1981.0526) ; (through
Luna Lambert): Lenox reproduction of 1782 General Washington mono-
gram bowl (1982.0037). Product Development (through Ann McClellen
Miller): a reproduction of a Meissen porcelain vase from the Hans Syz
Collection (1980.0811); 3 relish dishes, 3 nappies, and a plate in the
“Broken Column” pattern, ca. 1880, and a pitcher and a pair of candle-
sticks reproduced in the “Broken Column” pattern, ca. 1980 (1980.0812).

Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of Natural History, Office of

600 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Exhibits (through Carl A. Alexander): Friden model F calculating machine
(1982.0243).

Smithsonian Institution, National Zoological Park (through Theodore H.
Reed): a cast bronze plaquette commemorating the 36th Annual Confer-
ence of the International Union of Directors of Zoological Gardens held at
the National Zoological Park, 1981 (1981.0950).

Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Associates, Women’s Committee
(through Jeannine S. Clark): 201 objects, mostly postcards, handbills,
broadsides, and buttons, concerned with women’s voting rights, 1900-20
(1980.0606).

Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Institution Libraries: 2 Spanish broad-
sides (1981.0716).

Smithsonian Institution, Traveling Exhibition Service (through Dennis A.
Gould): 22 pieces of contemporary glass designed by Tapio Wirkkala of
Finland (315335).

Walter A. Soplata: U.S. Navy experimental life preserver, WW II (1982.
0228).

Bryan Sorens: 517 phonorecords (1981.1003).

Diana and Neil P. Sowards: 1,963 American checks, drafts, and promissory

notes (1980.0959).

Emily Robertson Spainhour: a snuff box which belonged, by family prove-
nance, to Patrick Henry (1981.0800).

Arabella S. Sparnon: 7 pieces of sheet music from the early 1930s, 4 phono-
records, and 4 phonorecord transcriptions of radio broadcasts (1980.0797).

Judith Ann and Dr. Robert L. Speer, Jr.: boxed table-tennis set (1982.0171).

SPS Technologies (through H. T. Hallowell, Jr.): funnel fragment from the
C.S.S. Virginia (formerly the U.S.S. Merrimac) scuttled in May, 1962
(1981.0204).

Benjamin, Harvey G., Joseph B., Morton, and Norman Stack: 2 keys with a
letter of explanation from the house in which President Abraham Lincoln
died; a block of wood from, and a newspaper clipping about, the gunboat
Essex (1982.0168).

Benjamin, Harvey G., and Norman Stack: 1 silver and 2 gold ingots from the
Far East (1980.0923); 3 U.S. silver mining ingots (1980.0924); 2 gold bars
(1980.0925); 3 foreign coins (1980.0926); 10 rare American tokens (1980.
0927); 3 U.S. medals awarded to Edward Seagrave, ca. 1852 (1980.0928);
3 U.S. and 2 Canadian tokens (1980.0934); 6 countermarked ancient Greek
silver coins (1980.0935); 12 ancient coins, some of Jewish origin and some
from Asia Minor (1980.0939); 93 Crusader imitations of Ayyubid silver
coins (1981.0851); 39 early Indian silver coins (1981.0852); 94 Medieval
Islamic silver coins issued by the Ilkhanids of Persia, 13th—14th centuries
(1981.0853) ; 257 silver half drachms issued by the Ispahbads and Arab Gov-
ernors of Tabaristan, 8th century (1981.0969); 171 silver half drachms cir-
culated by the Arab Governors of Tabaristan, 8th century (1981.0970);
186 silver hemidrachms of the Ispahbads and Arab Governors of Tabaristan
(1981.0971); 104 silver half drachms issued by the Ispahbads and Arab
Governors of Tabaristan, 8th century (1981.0972); a West Indian “Holey
Dollar” with a plug, a Korean “1 Warn,” and a 1915 San Francisco Expo-
sition spoon (1981.1033); a set of monetary essais for Burma in gold, silver,
and bronze (1981.1034); 2 gold pieces and a Slavic religious medal (1981.
1035); Governor George Clinton gold portrait medal designed by Charles
Keck (1981.1042); Peter Stuyvesant gold portrait medal struck in 1908 by
Tiffany & Co. (1981.1043); Japanese gold koban and cho-gin bar of gold
(1981.1044); bronze mold for counterfeiting U.S. silver half dollars, 1826
(1981.1045); Japanese gold oban (1981.1046); a Greek gold 50 drachmai
essai striking by Barre, 1875 (1981.1048).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 601
Melanie Stamatellos: brooch and earrings set in the Victorian fashion, 1870—
85 (1982.0069).

Staples & Charles Ltd. (through Barbara Fahs Charles): a cartoon from Har-
pers Weekly, titled “The Third-Term Panic,” November 7, 1874 (1981.0714).

John and Karren L. Stead: 1975 Jaycees Champ pin, a Soap Box Derby banner
and program, and a rule book, T-shirt, and white plastic helmet used by
Karren Stead, the 38th All-American Soap Box Derby Champion (1981.
0947).

Helen I. Potter Stedman: Potsdam Conference pass, 1945 (1981.0855).

John R. Steele: 3 plates and a white “ironstone” dish recovered from the
steamer Indiana which sank in Lake Superior on June 6, 1858 (1981.0133).

Mary Hunter Steinbauer: pink-satin dress with a jacket, 1950 (1979.1259).

The Honorable Charles W. Stenholm: “Boll Weevil” button, stick pin, and
bumper sticker (1981.0834).

Joseph F. Stoltz: Penreco gasoline pump globe (1982.0320).

Kathleen Stout: floral print dress, 1975 (1979.1264).

Esther Stoyanoff: 3 ads for bathing caps and suits, 2 pieces of sheet music,
2 certificates, a program, hat, and a chart of Dover Straits, all relating to
Mille Gade Corson’s swimming career (1981.0729).

Adeline Bassett Cook Strange: 4 French posters from the period of WW I
(1979.0708).

Mary E. Studebaker: 1 button with a tinted photograph of Frank L. Stude-
baker (1981.0568).

Edna S. Suber: designer knit dress, 1966-67 (1979.0782).

Marian A. Summers: blue and brown brocade wedding dress with a piece of
matching fabric, 1853, and a gray silk wedding dress, 1877 (1979.0387).
Marguerite T. Sundback: woman’s cape from the 1880s, woman’s muff, 4
woman’s hats from the 1940s and 1950s, and 7 woman’s dresses from the

1920s, 1930s, and 1940s (1979.1228).

Superba Cravats, Inc. (through Peter T. Strauss): 2 neckties (1980.0139).

Jane K. Sussman: U.S. Naval woman Ensign’s blue overcoat worn during
WW II by Mrs. Sussman (1981.0982).

John August Swanson: serigraph, Rainy Day, by John Swanson (1981.0916).

Ernest M. Swanton: plastic batting helmet (1981.0510).

Sybron Corporation, Taylor Instrument Company (through H. W. Jarvis):
41 instruments and devices used for feedback and control in industry
(1981.0854).

Berenice Sydney: Tiny Etching with Virgin and Child, by Berenice Sydney
(1981.0620).

Dr. Hans Syz: collection of 25 Meissen porcelains (1981.0702).

TABS, Aids for Ending Sexism in School (through Lucy Picco Simpson):
15 posters, an order form, and 6 TABS publications (1981.0878).

Anne Talley in memory of John G. Fall: an international collection of 4,155
philatelic objects with a Boy Scouting theme (1981.0820).

Edna M., Gertrude E., and Goldie I. Tearman: black mourning hat, 1869,
brown and white checked apron, 1890-1909, and a black polished cotton
sun bonnet, 1906-8 (1981.0590).

William F. Tearman: woman’s white satin bag, compact, and lipstick (1981.
0366).

Lillian L. Teelin: U.S. Navy Yeoman (F) uniform cape and an American
Legion overseas cap from WW I (1981.0554).

Eleanor Lee Templeman in memory of Robert Lee Reading: a U.S. Naval
commission signed by President James Madison on July 24, 1813, 2 silhou-
ettes, and 17 uniform buttons which belonged to Dr. Bailey Washington III
(1982.0337).

602 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Dorothy R. Teskey in memory of Walter J. Teskey: model of an 1880 four-
wheel caboose (1981.1015).

Alice Thomas: Presidential Pardon awarded to John H. Thomas for taking
part in the late rebellion against the government of the United States, 1866
(1981.0607).

Leonora Thompson: 12 photographs (1981.0876).

Beatrice S. Thorne: 2 clay marbles (1981.0861).

Marilee Tillstrom: girl’s knit jumpsuit, red terry cloth infant’s overalls, girl’s
“Big Bird” overalls, 2 pairs of girl’s shoes, a black quilted purse, and a
navy blue suede belt (1980.0134); 2 bandannas (1981.0090); a T-shirt titled
“Run Teddy Run!” (1981.0728).

Barry Trebach: 2 posters and a leaflet pertaining to U.S. military involvement
in El Salvador (1982.0184).

Laura M. Trexler: 2 waving bonnets with box and instructions, 2 pairs of
suspenders, a pair of man’s gloves, and a cotton corset waist (1980.0140).

Robert Jeffery Trimmer: 304 bills, receipts, checkbooks, cash books, pay
books, negatives, photographs, and correspondence kept by U.S. Navy
Paymaster Ben D. McGee, 1898-1910 (1981.0765).

Trinity College (through Theodore D. Lockwood and Harvey S. Picker):
5 pieces of mid-19th-century physics apparatus (1981.0743).

Don Troiani: 26 reproduction buttons of the American Revolution and Civil
War periods (1978.2344).

Harold J. Trussel: hearing aid and a conversation tube (1981.0827).

Norma S. Turck and daughters Lenore and Dana: metabulator (1981.0205).

Lillian Scheffres Turner: a pair of Lenox cups and saucers, 2 porcelain coffee
services, a dinner plate, and a vase (1981.0918); porcelain figure of
Madonna with Bird (1981.0929).

Maida Davis Turtle: 9 U.S. Army insignia (321806).

Union Carbide Corporation (through Warren M. Anderson): 84 early Bakelite
artifacts (1981.0976).

United Farm Agency, Inc. (through Kenneth W. Hylton): United Farm Agency
1928 Spring catalog and 1981 Fall/Winter catalog (1982.0261).

United Press International (through Gene Poythress): Unifax I receiver
machine (1981.1073).

United States Center for International Women’s Year 1975 (through Dr. Ruth
Bacon): 65 objects and memorabilia representing the efforts of the Inter-
national Women’s Year 1975 (1980.0783).

Unknown: woman’s jacket, 1880-89 (1980.0776); engraving Wreck of the
Brighton Chain Pier as Seen Oct 16th 1833 (1982.0029).

U.S. Department of Agriculture: 81 chemical samples in glass bottles (1981.
0756).

U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards (through John
Tinker): “GELI” radiation detector with “Rabbit” or sample conveyor and
2 micro test tubes (1982.0046); Office of Administrative Services, Property
and Building Management Division: Standard adding machine (1979.0806).

U.S. Department of Defense, Department of the Army, Fort Jackson Museum:
2 field telephones, 2 folding cots, and a one-burner gas stove (1978.0106);
Headquarters Presidio of San Francisco, Presidio Army Museum (through
J. Phillip Langellier): WW II rain hat, battle dress blouse, wool trousers,
khaki breeches, and Pro kit, a 1906 U.S. Army emergency ration tin, and
a 1918 cartridge belt (1977.1037); Mobility Equipment Research and Devel-
opment Command, Services and Support Directorate, R & D Model Fabri-
cation Division (through David Faunce): pneumatic/steam single-frame
forging hammer (1982.0278); The Chief of Military History and the Center
for Military History, Historical Services Division (through Robert N.
Waggoner): 47-star U.S. flag with staff (1982.0226); The Institute of Her-

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 603
aldry (through Jacob D. Tomlinson): 111 U.S. Army insignia (1981.0272),
19 U.S. Army distinctive unit insignia (1981.0534), 4 distinctive
unit insignia (1981.0782), 19 U.S. distinctive unit crests and shoulder
sleeve insignia (1981.0823), 30 U.S. distinctive and shoulder sleeve
insignia (1981.1072), 10 U.S. Army shoulder sleeve insignia (1982.0375);
The United States Armed Forces Bicentennial Band (through CWO
Donald M. Flewell): U.S. Armed Forces Bicentennial Band badge and 2
phonograph records (1978.0551); U.S. Army Foreign Science and Technol-
ogy Center, Field Support Division (through Willard Jennings): 10 foreign
rations (1978.2233). Department of the Navy, Chief of Navy Materiel
Command, Command Federal Women’s Program (through Constance B.
Price): 2 buttons from the Command Federal Women’s Program (1981.
0677); Naval Historical Center (through H. A. Vadnais, Jr.): U.S. Navy
Combat Information Center equipment from WW II (1980.0596); Naval
Oceanographic Office, Magnetics Division (through R. H. Shaw, Jr.): Vector
airborne magnetometer type 2A (1981.0687).

U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Headquarters, United
States Park Police (through Lynn H. Herring): Bicentennial Park Police
badge (1982.0137).

U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration,
Property and Services Branch (through Wendell C. Shingler): turnpike
mile-marker from the National Road (U.S. 40) (1982.0327).

U.S. General Services Administration, Federal Property Resources Service
(through Ulysses Faulkner): cotton flag of the Republic of Israel and a
flag of the Republic of Colombia (1981.0127).

U.S. Legislative Branch, Architect of the Capitol (through Florian Thayn):
5 pictures of various presidential inaugurations and 4 signs (1981.0427).

U.S. Legislative Branch, Congress, Joint Congressional Committee on Inau-
gural Ceremonies (through Howard W. Cannon): 45 tickets, 13 envelopes,
6 programs, 6 menus, 2 invitations, 2 diagrams, a plan, vehicle pass, and
pamphlet from the presidential inaugurations of 1949, 1961, 1965, 1969,
and 1973 (1981.0802).

U.S. Legislative Branch, Library of Congress, Exchange and Gift Division:
original page from The Graphic dated May 25, 1872 (1982.0308).

U.S. Legislative Branch, U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on the
Budget (through Nicholas A. Masters): a “Save Our Social Security”
button (1981.0694).

U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board, Office of Special Counsel (through
Janice A. Preece): 3 posters and a handout (1981.0733).

U.S. Postal Service, Stamp Management Branch (through James R. Williams) :
U.S. mint stamps, stamped envelopes, postal cards, and commemorative
stamp panels (1981.0242).

U.S. Veterans Administration, Veterans Administration Medical Center
(through Welton H. Williamson): 61 phonorecords and 387 phonorecord
transcriptions (1980.0692).

Jesher de M. Vink, M.D., and Thelma de M. Vink: photograph of William
Gladstone and entourage dated November 21, 1885 (1982.0191).

Baroness Theresa von Pantz: off-white suit designed by Chanel and a black
dress designed by Balenciaga (1979.1083).

F. Joseph von Tury: porcelain studio pottery made by F. Joseph von Tury
at Perth Amboy, New Jersey, 1940s—50s (1981.0408).

Eula W. Wake in memory of Harry Wake: 552 78 r.p.m. phonorecords (1981.
0656).

Janet Wallach: woman’s brown tweed coat, white silk jacket, black tuxedo-
style pantsuit, and tan tweed pantsuit designed by Ralph Lauren in the
1970s (1979.1260).

604 / Smithsonian Year 1982
John P. Wallach: pencil drawing of Franklin D. Roosevelt by Oskar Stossel
(1982.0038).

Robert J. Walter: 200 phonorecords (1981.0566).

Henry H. Ware: Bohemian gilt and enamel decorated champagne goblet
(1981.0966).

Washington Development Corporation (through K. Armstrong and R. G. Til-
mouth): birthday card book made by the school children of Washington,
England (1982.0162).

C. Malcolm Watkins: New England wood and rush slide chair, 1700s
(1981.1083).

Joan Pearson Watkins: Wizard calculating machine with leaflets (1980.0787) ;
woman’s Navajo necklace and ring (1981.1030); 2 medallions restamped
from reshaped U.S. copper pennies commemorating the San Francisco Bay
Bridge and the Golden Gate Bridge (1982.0118).

Stanley E. Weaver: set of 18th-century Point d’Alencon neck and sleeve
ruffles (1979.1084).

Dana Wegner: 10 Civil War era ship plans drafted by Mr. Wegner (1981.
0673).

Ruth D. Wehle: 2-piece pale-orange dress embroidered with yellow and white
daisies, a black wool and satin dress, and a white evening dress em-
broidered with white dots on a net ground, all designed by Mainbocher,
and a gray and brown crepe dress with a star motif designed by Stiebel
(1979.0512); woman’s tan cloak designed by Mainboucher, black coat by
Worth, black crepe dress by Molyneux, bright-pink strapless dress by
Hattie Carnegie, a black hat, and black velvet pumps (1979.0896).

Ben H. Weil: 1,340 philatelic objects including U.S. zip code blocks, copy-
right marginal inscription blocks, “Mail Early in the Day” blocks, and
various U.S. and U.N. items (1982.0116).

Kayla Lee Weiner: heather-brown wool sweater, 1942 (1979.0780).

Robert S. Weiner: 149 objects, mostly speeches, statements, and press
releases, from the presidential campaign of Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
1979-80 (1981.0161).

Carl E. Wellde: pair of the U.S. Army shoes from WW II period (1981.0532).

The Westport Marketing Group, Inc. (through R. C. Metell): a set of 3 first
day covers and a postal medallic commemorative issued for the inaugura-
tion of President Ronald Reagan, 1981 (1981.0337).

John White: Curta calculating machine with leaflet and 2 books, Sharp
EL-8 calculator, Unisonic calculator, calculating compendium, calculating
rule, caliper-calculator, adding machine, chart, abacus, 4 slide rules, and
3 pamphlets (1981.0922).

’ John H. White, Jr.: 1907 wedding certificate (1981.0536); pin-the-tail-on-the-
donkey game, 1930s (1981.0611); toy sewing machine (1981.0627).

Terry L. White: sprint racing car, 1973 (1981.0814).

Mrs. W. Winchester White, Jr.: 52 letters and memorabilia associated with
C. W. Wilson, an officer in the U.S. Navy during the Civil War (1981.0961).

The White House, White House Gift Unit (through Dan Chew and Stanley
Duda): a gold medal commemorating the first anniversary of the Nica-
raguan revolution, 1979 (1981.0623).

Aminda B. and Roy Wilkins: 114 mementoes of the career of Roy Wilkins,
the late Executive Director of the National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People (1980.0668).

Elizabeth L. Wilkinson: Swiss music box, ca. 1880 (1982.0011).

Ames W. Williams: cast-iron window ornament from the Chesapeake Beach
Railway private car “San Juan,” ca. 1880 (1979.1032).

Vivian Weinhardt Williams: nurse’s cape and 2 disposable caps (1982.0258).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 605
Mrs. Charles E. Wilson: 3 medals, 2 lapel pins, and identification tags from
WW I (1979.0037).

Mary Wilson: 3 yellow satin and chiffon costumes with daisies worn by
Cindy Birdsong, Diana Ross, and Mary Wilson of The Supremes, 1966—67
(1981.0952).

Ada M. Wing: woman’s shoes, stockings, and drawers (1980.0457).

Craig H. Winslow: ERA apron, button, and literature (1982.0040).

Dorothy M. Wise: U.S. Open Champion trophy from the Billiard Congress of
America presented to Dorothy Wise in 1969 (1982.0266).

Mrs. Barbara R. Wood: wooden-handled tracing wheel, a needle case, and a
tape measure in the form of a turtle (1981.0683).

Nancy Wyeth: “Anderson for President” button and a “Byrd” bookmark
(1982.0304).

Dr. Leland C. Wyman: 1 fragment of a papyrus letter with Arabic inscrip-
tions on both sides (1981.1021).

Sherrill S. and Stephen V. N. Yates: enameled iron gas range “Detroit Jewel,”
made by the Detroit-Michigan Stove Co., 1930s (1981.0954).

Elizabeth D. Yeatman: embroidered counterpane (1982.0084).

Jane Griffin Yeingst: strip of button stickers and a metal button pertaining
to the ERA ratification campaign (1981.0882).

Jean H. Youngren: 5,974 mint and used foreign stamps (1982.0014).

Ziff Corporation (through Alfred E. Hill): antique greeting-card collection
(1980.0816).

Mrs. Walter G. Zuflucht: discharge card, Wage & Separation notice, page
from Pearl Harbor Bulletin signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and
a hammer made by Mr. Zuflucht from parts of 3 U.S. Naval ships
destroyed during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor (1981.0751).

Jay W. Zvolanek, D.D.S., M.S.: dental articulator (1981.0741).

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Donors of Financial Support

Eaton Corporation for CAP Ohio.

Owens Corning for CAP.

General Mills Foundation for CAP Minnesota.

Zaven Matossian for unrestricted gift.

Rhode Island Historical Society for CAP.

Barra Foundation for American Icon Tea.

Phillip Morris, Inc., for Good Sports.

Patric and Aimee Butler Family Foundation for CAP Minnesota.

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation for CAP
Minnesota.

Phillip Morris, Inc., for Good Sports.

Mrs. Donald Klopfer for George Washington Carver drawing.

Pillsbury Company Foundation for CAP Minnesota.

Lilly Endowment, Inc., for CAP Indiana.

Manitou Fund for CAP Minnesota.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Houghton, Jr., for General Purpose.

Athwin Foundation for CAP Minnesota.

Southways Foundation for CAP Minnesota.

Grotto Foundation, Inc., for CAP Minnesota.

Steven D. Ethen for Acquisition.

Minnesota Historical Society for CAP Minnesota.

Robert H. Smith for CWP Dinner.

Katie Louchheim for Peale opening.

606 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Donors to the Collections

Hugh Trumbull Adams
Val A. Browning

Harry Burns

Joseph Collector

Witney Dall

John Dewey Foundation
Melvyn Douglas

Olin Dows

Jack Drown

Steven D. Ethen

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Feld
Lawrence A. Frost
Gerard Gover

Forrest H. Kennedy
Colonel Robert E. Latimer
Helen and Nel Laughon

Mrs. Willard F. Libby

Katie Louchheim

Mrs. Paul Penfield
Pinkerton’s, Inc.

Max Robinson

Charles E. Rowe

Florence Schaffhausen
Katheryn Simons

Frank Stanton Fund

Edward Steichen

Joanna Sturm

University Women’s Club, Inc.
Frank A. Vanderlip, Jr.
Frederick S. Wight

Emma Hart Willard School
Donald Hamilton Workman

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Donors of Financial Support

The Diamond Jubilee Commission of the State of Oklahoma
The International Cultural Society of Korea

The Music Performance Trust Funds

John Jameson Irish Whiskey

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Donors of Financial Support

Cornell Oil Company
Mr. Kenton McGee

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Donors of Financial Support

Educational Outreach Fund for printing of Museum Studies Programs in the
United States and Abroad.

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates for videotape production
Conservation Bookbinding.

W. K. Kellogg Foundation grant for programs to “Expand the Educational
Influence of Museums.”

Native American Archives Project grant to produce slide-cassette program,
Tribal Archives.

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Donors of Financial of Support

John F. Olmstead
Mary L. Ripley

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 607
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Donors to the Collections
INDIVIDUAL

Charles P. Alexander: the papers of Charles P. Alexander.
Andrew J. Berger: the papers of Andrew J. Berger.

Doris Holmes Blake Estate: the papers of Doris Holmes Blake.
Shirley A. Briggs: the photographic negatives of Paul Bartsch.
W. Donald Duckworth: taped reminiscences.

Farouk El-Baz: the papers of Farouk El-Baz.

K. C. Emerson: the papers of Melbourne Armstrong Carriker, Jr.
Mrs. Patricia Knight: the papers of Harry H. Knight.

Watson M. Perrygo: taped reminiscences.

Harald A. Rehder: taped reminiscences.

Nathan Reingold: the papers of Nathan Reingold.

S. Dillon Ripley: the papers of S. Dillon Ripley.

Lawrence H. Walkinshaw: the papers of Lawrence H. Walkinshaw.

INSTITUTIONAL

American Ornithologists’ Union: the records of the Union.

American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists: the records of the
Society.

Audubon Naturalist Society of the Central Atlantic States, Inc.: the records
of the Society.

Museum Education Roundtable: the records of the Roundtable.*

Society of Systematic Zoology: the records of the Entomological Society of
Washington.

Society of Systematic Zoology: the records of the Society.

University of Kansas: the papers of Robert Ridgway.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Donor of Financial Support of $1,000 and above
David Dibner

Donors to the Collections

Dr. Gerald F. Abbott: La Pendule Francaise, 1974.

Susan Abrams: seven volumes.

Rita Adrosko: two volumes.

Richard Ahlborn: Architecture and Furniture of the Spanish Colonies during
the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries.

American Philatelic Congress: Congress Book, 1978-1980.

Dorothy Anderson: Sanson’s 1669 map of Africa.

Lt. Col. R. E. Augur: 150 magazine issues.

Konstanze Bachman: Arnot Art Museum, Elmira, New York. Catalog of the
permanent collection.

Richard C. Banks: Marine Birds of the Southeastern United States and Gulf
of Mexico, pt. 1.

Mrs. Clermont Livingston Barnwell: 999 postcards.

Clifford Barrett: two volumes.

D. A. Bassett: three volumes.

* The Smithsonian Archives has also been designated as the continuing
depository for the Museum Education Roundtable.

608 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Ann Beneduce: various volumes.

Roloff Beny: five volumes.

Miriam Berkley: various volumes.

Julie Bettenberg: four issues of Aviation/Space.

Brig. Gen. George H. Beverley: Pioneer in the U.S. Air Corps.

Rudi Blesh: forty-nine photos and five color negatives of his work.

Stanley Block: three volumes.

John W. Bodine: three books and various journal issues.

Daniel J. Boorstin: forty-eight book and twenty-eight journal titles.

Elena Borowski: nineteen treatises on museum procedures.

Ed Botwin: two volumes.

Mira Bowles: six volumes.

Doris Bowman: Rugs from the American Museum in Britain.

Walter Boyne: Kurt Tank-Konstrukteur und Testpilot bei Focke-Wulf.

Roy S. Bryce-Laporte: Female Immigrants to the United States.

Mrs. Lester Cahn: seven magazine issues and one exhibition catalog.

Mr. and Mrs. William M. Cahn, Jr.: various volumes.

Royden Card: one alphabet book.

Mrs. John Caroon: two volumes.

Vera A. Carver: various volumes.

Guglielmo Archille Cavellini: two volumes.

Lou Churchville, Jr.: subscription to Professional Pilot.

Roger Clapp: Marine Birds of the Southeastern United States and Gulf of
Mexico, pt. 1.

Arthur H. Clarke: The Freshwater Molluscs of Canada.

J. F. Gates Clarke: various journal issues.

Frederick J. Collier: Transactions and Proceedings of the Palaeontological
Society of Japan.

Kirke W. Comstock: six volumes.

Corinne Conde: two volumes.

G. Arthur Cooper: three volumes.

Richard Cowan: nine volumes.

Ronald Crombie: three volumes.

Bonnie Dalzell: three volumes.

Dr. Besim Said Mayad Damerji: three volumes of Sumer.

Elaine E. Dee: five volumes.

Albina De Meio: two volumes.

Bern Dibner: Aldini manuscripts.

Anne Dorfsman: various volumes.

John F. Eisenberg: The Mammalian Radiations.

Richard Eyde: Why and How.

Lucy Fellowes: Bertold Léffler (1874-1960): Graphics and Designs.

Oliver Flint: Tasmanian Caddis-flies.

Charles Flynn: one book and 5,880 postcards and manuscripts.

Paul Forman: various volumes.

Raymond F. Fosberg: Flora of Ceylon, volume 3, (2 copies).

Marilyn G. Francis :various volumes.

Charles Rahn Fry: various volumes.

Mrs. Walter Gellhorn: one book and several journal issues.

Brenda Gilchrist: various journal issues.

Craddock Goins: nine volumes.

Martha Goodway: Non-Ferrous Metallography Notes. Part II, Copper and the
White Metals.

Hugo O. Graumann: twenty-one volumes of Crop Science.

Mrs. E. Grebinar: twenty-nine issues of American Heritage.

Edward Grissell: two volumes of The Plantsman.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 609
Dr. Adnan Hadidi: Jordan Department of Antiquities, 24th Annual Volume.

Miss Tarrant Hancock: three volumes.

Mrs. Letitia Hanson: twenty-eight titles.

J. Harkness: various volumes.

Raymond J. Herbert: Oeuvres Posthumes de Paul Pelliot IV, Les Debuts de
Imprimerie en Chine.

E. P. Henderson: eight volumes.

Lester K. Henderson: The Sublime Heritage of Martha Mood. (2 copies).

Dr. Helga Hilschenz: two volumes.

Joel W. Hollenberg: two volumes.

Thomas T. Hoopes: 340 volumes, and six manuscripts.

Nikki Horton: Data Communications Dictionary.

Richard S. Houbrick: Saudi Arabian Seashells.

Scott Hyde: two volumes.

Bremmer Jackson: various volumes.

Mrs. Edith Jacobs: various volumes.

Robert C. Kaufmann: two volumes.

Jean Callan King: various volumes.

Donald Kloster: New Belt Buckles of the Old West.

Karl Krombein: seven volumes.

David B. Lellinger: Illustrations of Pteridophytes of Japan, vol. .2

Leo Lerman: various volumes.

Elbert Little: Pequerfia Flora Ilustrada de los Parques Nacionales Andino-
Patagonicos.

Robert Luck: various volumes.

David McFadden: various volumes and exhibition catalogs.

Leroy Makepeace: Journal of Oman Studies, volumes 1 and 2.

Robert Maloy: two volumes.

Joe T. Marshall, Jr.: Birds of Pine-Oak Woodland in Southern Arizona and
Adjacent Mexico.

Claire K. and Ladislaus L. Marton: 143 titles.

Brian Mason: four volumes.

Phyllis Massar: various exhibition and sales catalogs.

Marc Mayer: Weather and Flight.

Mary Mickett: Forty-seven issues of American Heritage.

Scott Miller: Entomological Bibliography of the California Islands.

Michael Morgan: The Bison of Yellowstone National Park.

Susan H. Myers: two volumes.

Dan H. Nicolson: The Forest Trees of Tranvancore.

Jacqueline S. Olin: Exchange Networks in the Prehistoric Southeastern United
States.

William A. Oliver: Devonian Biostratigraphy of New York.

Oxford University: Thesaurus Entomologicus Oxoniensis.

Paul and Elmerina Parkman: three volumes.

Roger F. Pasquier: Conservation of New World Parrots.

Paul N. Perrot: five volumes.

Archie Phillips: four volumes.

Prof. Georg Pilleri: five volumes.

Katherine Pruitt: Webster’s New Geographical Dictionary.

Robert Purdy: three volumes.

Evelyn Raskopf: various volumes.

Doris Rauch: various volumes.

Clayton E. Ray: two volumes.

Gordon N. Ray: The Art of the French Illustrated Book, 1700-1914.

Leonard J. Raymond: three volumes.

Robert Read: seven volumes.

610 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Clyde Reed: Guide to Manuscripts in the National Agricultural Library.

Theodore Reed: Exploring with Martin and Osa Johnson.

Harald A. Rehder: The Audubon Society Field Guide to North American
Seashells.

Oscar W. Richards: various volumes.

S. Dillon Ripley: two volumes.

Carl C. Robinson: three volumes.

Jerry Rosenfeld: two volumes.

Arthur Ross: Art of the Olmsted Landscape. Two volumes.

Gordon C. Sauer: John Gould’s Prospectuses and Lists of Subscribers to His
Works on Natural History.

Ruth Schallert: My Year with the Woodpeckers.

Peter Scherer: Structures and the Urban Environment (lecture notes).

Bert Sheldon: two volumes.

William Shopsin: two volumes.

Walter Shropshire: four volumes.

Sirikit, Queen of Thailand: three volumes.

Laurence E. Skog: Flora Reipublicae Popularis Sinicae, volume 27.

Paul Slud: 240 volumes.

Lyman B. Smith: Anais do Primeiro Encontro Nacional de Orquidofilos e
Orquidologos.

Sheila Smith: Fantastic Art.

Stephen Smith: two volumes.

Thomas R. Soderstrom: three volumes.

Theodore Spilman: two volumes.

Victor Springer: four volumes.

Helen Stanbury: two volumes.

Daniel J. Stanley: Laboratoire d’Océanographic Physisque. Recueill des
Travaux, volume 17.

Jeffery Stann: Medidas Del Romano.

Helen Stark: various volumes.

Mrs. Richard M. Stern: various volumes.

George C. Steyskal: Kratkii Toponomicheskii Slovar.

John N. Stine: United States Railroad Administration Publications: A Bibli-
ography.

Lisa Taylor: thirty-three volumes.

Edward P. TenBroeck: twelve journal issues.

F. Christian Thompson: Colemania, volume 1.

Richard W. Thorington: Age Criteria for the Gray Squirrel.

Louise Ufland: two volumes.

-University of Pennsylvania. School of Dental Medicine: various dental
journals.

Brad van Scriver: four volumes.

Charles Van Tuyl: four volumes.

Robert Vogel: forty-three volumes.

Irene Walker: various volumes.

Dorothy Warren: various volumes.

Piera Watkins: five volumes.

George E. Watson: fifteen volumes.

Stanley Weitzman: Aquarium Encyclopedia.

Prof. and Mrs. John W. Wells: two volumes.

Dennis Whigham: Nitrogen Storage Patterns under Undisturbed and Fertil-
ized Conditions in Maryland Brackish Marshes.

John H. White, Jr.: fifteen volumes.

John S. White, Jr.: three volumes.

Lee Williams: six volumes.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 611
Vivian Williams: thirty-eight volumes.

Frank Winter: Flight of the Phoenix.

Joy Wolf: Treasury of American Antiques.

John J. Wurdack: Bulletin of the Louisiana Society for Horticultural Research,
volume 3:5.

Li Xi-Wen: Acta Botanica Yunnanica, 1979-1981.

George Zug: three volumes.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Donors of Financial Support

Arabian American Oil Company

Armand Hammer Foundation

The Barra Foundation

Beverages, Foods, and Services
Industries, Inc.

Sarah G. Epstein

Eugenie Prendergast Foundation

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Foundation

Mr. Bernard Mendik

Menil Fund

Mobil Oil Corp.

Mrs. Kenneth Dale Owen

Pew Memorial Trust

Saks West End

Siam Commercial Bank

Sohio of Alaska

Sukham Navapan Foundation

Thai Farmers Bank

United Technologies Corporation

Donors of Support in Kind

Hallmark Cards, Inc.
Hyatt Hotels

Pan American

Trans World Airlines

Donors to the Education Department

Cannon Mills Company, Kannapolis, North Caroliana: cotton products.

Celanese Fibers Marketing Company, New York: polyester products.

Cheryl Kolander, Myrtle Creek, Oregon: silk yarn and silkworm cocoons.

Doubleday Books, Garden City, New York: 45 books.

Frederick J. Fawcett, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts: linen thread and unspun
line.

Halcyon Cards, Ltd., London, England: 15 boxes of greeting cards.

Harold Mayer Productions, Washington, D.C.: 1 film.

Harrisville Designs, Harrisville, New Hampshire: woolen yarn.

John Wilde & Brothers, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: wool top.

The Silk Tree, Whonnock, British Columbia, Canada: silk fibers and yarn.

UNESCO: 1 film.

612 / Smithsonian Year 1982
PUBLIC SERVICE

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Donors of Financial Support

ARTS D.C., a CETA program sponsored by the D.C. Commission on the Arts
and Humanities and the United Labor Agency of Greater Washington and
funded by the District of Columbia.

Asia Society

Associated Japan America Societies of the United States

Caltex Petroleum Corporation

Mrs. Alice Denny

Mr. John Goelet

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation

Japan American Society of Washington

The Japan Foundation

Japan-United States Friendship Commission

MCA Television

John McConnell and the Royal Hanneford Circus

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Film Company

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

Mitsui and Company (USA), Inc.

Music Performance Trust Funds, American Federation of Musicians, Local
161-710

National Newspaper Association

Philip Morris, Inc.

Ringling Brothers-Barnum & Bailey Combined Shows, Inc.

Ringling Museum of the Circus

Seven-Up

Society of Industrial Realtors

The Weatherhead Foundation

Westinghouse Electric Corporation

World Study Museum of Kyoto, Japan

Barry Young

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Donors of Financial Support

Exxon Education Foundation
Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, Inc.
The Rockefeller Foundation

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Donors of Financial Support

Educational Outreach Fund, Office of Assistant Secretary for Public Service,
and Smithsonian Associates Women’s Committee: partial funding for the
Free Film Theater.

Netherlands-American Amity Trust, Inc.: granted funds for the Director’s
participation as Vice-Chairperson for Culture and Publications, in connec-
tion with the Netherlands-American Bicentennial celebration, commemorat-

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 613
ing the 1782 opening of diplomatic relations and the signing of a treaty
of amity and commerce between the two countries.

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

CORPORATE FUND LEADERSHIP

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Charles L. Brown,

Chairman

Vice Chairmen:
William M. Agee M. Paul LeBlanc, Jr.
Robert A. Beck Ruben F. Mettler
Thornton F. Bradshaw W. Jarvis Moody
James E. Burke John R. Opel
James H. Evans Edward L. Palmer
James L. Ferguson Roger B. Smith
Edward L. Hennessy, Jr. J. Paul Sticht
John J. Horan Rawleigh Warner, Jr.
Edward G. Jefferson Lew R. Wasserman
Howard C. Kauffmann John F. Welch, Jr.
James L. Ketelsen Thomas H. Wyman

William F. Kieschnick
Harold Burson,

Secretary
GOVERNORS

Ray C. Adam J. Terrence Lanni
Bennett E. Bidwell James E. Lee
John F. Bookout John G. McElwee
Theodore A. Burtis Edward N. Ney
Joseph E. Connor Edmund T. Pratt, Jr.
Hugh Cullman Donald E. Procknow
Robert F. Dee James D. Robinson III
Thomas E. Drohan Thomas F. Russell
Walter A. Fallon Donald V. Seibert
J. Robert Fluor Richard R. Shinn
John P. Harbin Donald Sloan
Amory Houghton, Jr. Otto Sturzenegger
Samuel C. Johnson Philip W. K. Sweet, Jr.

DONORS OF SUPPORT TO THE 1981-82 CORPORATE FUND

CORPORATE LEADERSHIP CIRCLE

American Telephone and Telegraph Company
Atlantic Richfield Foundation

Conoco Inc.

Exxon Corporation

The General Foods Fund Inc.

International Business Machines Corporation
Mobil Oil Foundation, Inc.

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

Standard Oil Company (Indiana)

614 / Smithsonian Year 1982
CORPORATE PATRONS

CBS Inc.

Champion International Corporation
Chevron U.S.A. Inc.

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

The General Electric Foundation
International Paper Company Foundation
Merck & Company

The Procter & Gamble Fund

Shell Companies Foundation, Inc.

Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc.
Time Incorporated

United States Steel Foundation Inc.
Warner Communications Program for the Arts
Xerox Corporation

CORPORATE SPONSORS

Allied Foundation

Amerada Hess Corporation
American Express Foundation
American Security Bank, N.A.
Arthur Andersen & Co.

Bender Foundation, Inc.

The Bendix Corporation
Bethlehem Steel Corporation
Blake Construction Co., Inc.

The Chase Manhattan Bank
Citicorp

Coastal Corporation

The Coca-Cola Company
Deloitte Haskins & Sells

E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co. Inc.
Eastman Kodak Company

Ernst & Whinney

Ford Motor Company Fund
Foremost-McKesson, Inc.
General Motors Foundation, Inc.
Gulf Oil Corporation

Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contribution Fund
Metropolitan Life Foundation
Nabisco Brands, Inc.

The N.C.R. Foundation

Northrop Corporation

Philip Morris Inc.

Price Waterhouse & Co.

The Prudentiai Foundation
Raytheon Company

Riggs National Bank of Washington, D.C.
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc.
Sears, Roebuck & Co.
Sheller-Globe Corporation
Tenneco Inc.

The Times-Mirror Foundation
Union Pacific Foundation

The Washington Post Company

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 615
CORPORATE DONORS

ALCOA Foundation

Alexander & Alexander Services Inc.
Allis-Chalmers Foundation, Inc.

The Allstate Foundation

American Broadcasting Company
American Can Company Foundation
Anheuser-Busch Foundation
Archer-Daniels-Midland Corporation
BankAmerica Foundation

Bankers Trust Company

Bechtel Foundation

Beverly Wilshire Hotel

The Boeing Company

Borg-Warner Corporation

The Bristol-Myers Fund
Brown-Forman Distillers Corporation
The C & P Telephone Company
Caesar’s World, Inc.

Caterpillar Foundation

Celanese Corporation

Charles E. Smith Companies

Chemical Bank

Chesebrough-Pond’s Inc.

CIBA-GEIGY Corporation

Cities Service Foundation

COMSAT

Consolidated Petroleum Industries, Inc.
The Continental Group Foundation, Inc.
Coopers & Lybrand

Crum and Forster Foundation

CSX Corporation

Cummins Engine Foundation

Dart & Kraft

Diamond Shamrock Corporation

Dow Corning Corporation

Dresser Industries Inc.

The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation
Eaton Charitable Fund

Fayez Sarofim & Co.

Federal-Mogul Corporation Charitable Trust Fund
Federal National Mortgage Association
The Fluor Foundation

General Dynamics

General Mills Foundation

General Telephone & Electronics Foundation
The George Hyman Construction Company
Getty Oil Company

The Gillette Company

Gould Foundation

Grace Foundation Inc.

Halliburton Company

Hallmark Cards

Harris Corporation

Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc.

616 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.

Hughes Aircraft Company

Humana Inc.

International Harvester Foundation
International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation
J. Aron & Company, Inc.

John Deere Foundation

John Hancock Charitable Trust
Johnson & Higgins

The Johnson’s Wax Fund, Inc.

Kellogg Company

Kimberly-Clark Foundation, Inc.

Levi Strauss Foundation

MCA Foundation Ltd.

McGraw-Hill Foundation, Inc.
McLachlen National Bank

Manville Fund

Martin Marietta

Mary Horner Stuart Foundation

The May Stores Foundation, Inc.
Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc.

Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.) Inc.

National Distillers and Chemical Corporation
National Geographic Society

National Steel Corporation

Nissan Motor Corporation in U.S.A.
The NL Industries Foundation
Occidental Petroleum Corporation
Owens-Illinois, Inc.

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.

J. C. Penney Company, Inc.

The Pfizer Foundation, Inc.
Phelps-Dodge Industries, Inc.
Potomac Electric Power Company
Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.
Reynolds Metals Company Foundation
Rockwell International Corporation Trust
St. Regis Paper Co.

Schlumberger Horizons, Inc.

Security Pacific Charitable Foundation
SmithKline Beckman Corporation
Sperry Corporation

The Standard Oil Company (Ohio)
Sun Company, Inc.

Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.

TRW Foundation

Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation
Union Carbide Corporation

United Technologies

Walt Disney Productions

Wang Laboratories

The Warner-Lambert Foundation
Wells Fargo Foundation
Wheelabrator Foundation, Inc.
Woodward & Lothrop, Inc.

The Wyndham Hotel of New York

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 617
CORPORATE CONTRIBUTORS

AMF, Inc.

Abbott Laboratories

Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Company
The Air Products Foundation

American Airlines

American Cyanamid Company
American Hospital Supply Corporation
American Stock Exchange

Arrow Services

Ashland Oil, Inc.

Automatic Data Processing, Inc.

Avco Corporation

Baker International

Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc.
Baxter Travenol Laboratories, Inc.
Belco Petroleum Corporation

Belding Hausman Foundation Inc.

The Black & Decker Manufacturing Company
Black, Starr & Frost Ltd.

Huntington T. Block Insurance
Burson-Marsteller

CPC International

Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.
Campbell Soup Fund

Central Telephone and Utilities Corporation
The Charitable Foundation of the Burns Family, Inc.
Cigna Corporation

Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.
Continental Bank Foundation

Cooper Industries Foundation

Corning Glass Works Foundation
Cross & Trecker Foundation

Detroit Bank & Trust Company
District Photo

Donohoe Construction Co., Inc.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Earl G. Graves Ltd.

Earle M. Craig, Jr. Corporation

Eli Lilly and Company

Emerson Charitable Trust

Enserch Corporation

Equitable Life Insurance Company
Ethyl Corporation

Fairchild Industries Foundation, Inc.
The Fairfax Hotel

The First Boston Corporation

Folger Nolan Fleming Douglas Inc.
Franklin Mint Corporation

Fruehauf Corporation Charitable Fund, Inc.
Garfinckel, Brooks Brothers, Miller & Rhoads, Inc.
GEICO Philanthropic Foundation
General Signal Corporation

The General Tire Foundation, Inc.
Giant Food Foundation, Inc.

618 / Smithsonian Year 1982
GK Technologies Incorporated
Goldman, Sachs & Co.

B. F. Goodrich Company

Gulf & Western Foundation

Handy & Harman Foundation
Harnischfeger Foundation, Inc.

Hecht’s

H. J. Heinz II Charitable and Family Trust
Holiday Inns, Inc.

Hoover Universal

Hospital Corporation of America

The Howard P. Foley Company

Hyatt Corporation

International Bank

The Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Foundation
Kerr-McGee Foundation, Inc.

Kiplinger Foundation

The Kissinger Family Foundation
Lazard Freres & Co.
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company

Liberty National Bank & Trust Company
Loews Foundation

The LTV Corporation

Lutz and Carr

Main Hurdman

Mapco Inc.

Mars Foundation

Maugus Manufacturing Company
McCaffrey and McCall, Inc.

Monsanto Fund

Montgomery Ward Foundation
Morgan Stanley & Co.

Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York
National Broadcasting Company, Inc.
National Savings & Trust Company
Neiman-Marcus

New York Life Foundation

The Northern Trust Company

Norton Simon Inc.

NVF Company Community Services Trust Fund
The Oakleigh B. Thorne Foundation
The Oliver T. Carr Company
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation
Peoples Drug Stores

Phillips Petroleum Company

Raleigh Stores Foundation

Reading & Bates Corporation
Restaurant Associates Industries, Inc.
The Rouse Company

Royal Crown Companies, Inc.

Safeway Stores, Inc.

Salomon Brothers Foundation, Inc.
Sandoz, Inc.

B. F. Saul Real Estate Investment Trust
Sheraton Foundation, Inc.

The Silverstein Family Foundation

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 619
Squibb Corporation

Stewart-Warner Foundation

The Stouffer Corporation Fund

Suburban Bancorporation

Taft Broadcasting Company

Technicolor, Inc.

Thomas Somerville Company

J. Walter Thompson Company Fund Inc.
Touche Ross & Company

The Turner Construction Company Foundation
USAir

U.S. News & World Report

Union Oil Company of California Foundation
Virginia Electric & Power Company

W. Clement and Jessie V. Stone Family Foundation
Washington Fish Exchange, Inc.

Weaver Bros., Inc.

Western Electric Fund

Young & Rubicam Foundation

Zinder Companies, Inc.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Donors of Works of Art, Pledges and Financial Support

Alcoa Foundation

Grace Vogel Aldworth

The Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Alsdorf

American Medical Association

American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations
Winslow and Anna Ames

The Annenberg Fund, Inc.

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ard

Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Arnold, Jr.

The Art Lover’s League, Baltimore, Maryland
Artemis Fine Arts (UK) Ltd.

Avalon Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Sid R. Bass

Mrs. John A. Beck

Ruth B. Benedict

Dr. and Mrs. Malcolm Bick

Mr. and Mrs. George R. Brown

Dr. and Mrs. Harrison Brown

Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. William N. Cafritz

Mary Schuyler Campbell

Amon G. Carter Foundation

Pierre Chahine

Charlottesville-Albemarle Foundation for the Encouragement of the Arts
Collectors Committee

Catherine Mellon Conover

Chester Dale Fund

620 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Ducommun
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr.
James, David, and Richard Epstein Fund
Dorothea Tanning Ernst

Paul B. Fay Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher
Lawrence A. Fleischman

John Fleming

Grey Froelich Memorial Fund
Elizabeth Merrill Furness

The Jo Ann and Julian Ganz Jr. Foundation Trust
Martin Gardner

Mrs. George A. Garrett

Gemini G.E.L.

General Telephone & Electronics Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Katharine Graham

Philip L. Graham Fund

Leo S. Guthman

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. James Gordon Hanes III

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Heinz II

H. J. Heinz II Charitable & Family Trust
Margaret M. Hitchcock

Margaret M. Hitchcock Foundation
Oveta Culp Hobby

Philip Hofer

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Hudson, Jr.
IBM Corporation

The Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin II
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.
Mrs. Carter Johnson

J. S. Johnson and Barbara P. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. George M. Kaufman
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kellen

Mr. and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder

Ivo Kirschen

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod
Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald S. Lauder

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore N. Law

Mr. and Mrs. Judd Leighton

Parker Lesley

Sydney and Frances Lewis

Sydney and Frances Lewis Foundation
Mrs. Hyatt Mayor

Mrs. Eugene McDermott

Dr. Abraham Melamed

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Constance B. Mellon

Dr. Matthew T. Mellon

Matthew T. Mellon Foundation

Paul Mellon Collection

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 621
Dr. W. L. Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Georges de Menil
Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation
Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Moncrief
Montgomery County Volunteer Docents
The National Italian American Foundation
Nancy B. Negley

Nelson Doubleday Books

Hugo V. Neuhaus, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Morton G. Neumann
Mrs. P. Roussel Norman

Georgia O’Keeffe

William B. O’Neal

John Oudine

William S. Paley

Charles Parkhurst

Joanne Pigford

Robert S. Pirie

Dr. and Mrs. David S. Pollen

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

Mr. and Mrs. A. N. Pritzker

General and Mrs. Dillman A. Rash
Republic National Bank of New York
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Resnick

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Salomon
Lili-Charlotte Sarnoff

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Schwartz
Seymour and Iris Schwartz Collection
Mrs. William C. Seitz

Ellen M. Semonoff

Mrs. Evelyn Sharp

Robert H. and Clarice Smith
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Sowell

Mme. Andree Stassart

Mr. and Mrs. John Steiner

H. Peter Stern

Marion O. Stevens

John R. Stevenson

Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Strasburger

Mrs. Raymond F. Tartiere
Tempelsman Foundation, Inc.

Robert H. Thayer

Virginia M. Ullman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Vaughn, Jr.
Arthur and Charlotte Vershbow
Phillipe Visson

Dr. and Mrs. Maclyn Wade

Lila Acheson Wallace

Rachel Mellon Walton Fund of The Pittsburgh Foundation
Washington Art League

Washington Print Club

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Whitehead

Mr. and Mrs. John Hay Whitney

P. A. B. Widener

622 / Smithsonian Year 1982
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson

Edward D. Wolski

Mr. and Mrs. William Wood Prince

Ian Woodner

The Honorable and Mrs. Stanley Woodward
Mrs. Lowe Yost

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Young

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 623
APPENDIX 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution

in Fiscal Year 1982

As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution
has received federal support since it was established in 1846 to carry out the
terms of James Smithson’s will. Appropriated funds have long provided
important additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subsequent
benefactors, to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for
research and exhibition of the national collections and maintenance of the
valuable objects and records of science, history, and culture entrusted to the
Institution.

The Smithsonian’s basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the
elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative
growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research,
acquisition, and educational programs, which are central to the Smithsonian’s
present resources and achievements.

The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to the foundations, corporations, and
individuals listed below for their gifts, bequests, and contributing member-
ships in the Smithsonian Associates. If the name of any benefactor has been
omitted from the following list, it is unintentional and in no way lessens the

Smithsonian’s appreciation.

GIFTS AND BEQUESTS TO THE SMITHSONIAN

$100,000 or more

Anonymous

Japan Foundation

W. K. Kellogg Foundation
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation

Estate of Donald Sultner
Yorktown International Bicentennial
Committee, Inc.

$10,000 or more

The Ahmanson Foundation

Mrs. Russell B. Aitken

The Joe L. & Barbara B. Allbritton
Foundation

Allstate Insurance Company

American Association of Zoo
Veterinarians

American Numismatic Association

American Can Company Foundation

American Society of Anesthesiologists

American Society of Civil Engineers

Anonymous

Arabian American Oil Company

The Arcadia Foundation

Barra Foundation

624 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Mrs. Evelyn F. Bartlett

Beverages, Foods and Services
Industries, Inc.

The Brown Foundation

Mrs. Helen W. Buckner

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Champion International Corporation

Chevron USA Inc.

Citibank, N.A.

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation, Inc.
Exxon Corporation

Miss Gertrude Helen Fay

Friends of the National Zoo

The Ford Foundation

Freeport McMoran

Goethe House

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Jerome L. Greene Foundation, Inc.

George and Mary Josephine Hamman
Foundation

The Armand Hammer Foundation

Mr. Gordon Hanes

Hearst Magazines

William Randolph Hearst Foundation

International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development

International Business Machines
Corporation

The Johnson Foundation (Trust)

The Johnson’s Wax Fund, Inc.

The J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Charles F. Kettering Foundation

The Hagop Kevorkian Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Manufacturers Hanover Foundation

R. K. Mellon Family Foundation

Merck & Co., Inc.

Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern
Art Studies

Metropolitan Museum of Art

Mobil Oil Corporation

Estate of Herman Moser

The N.C.R. Foundation

National Audubon Society, Inc.

National Committee to Honor the
14th Centennial of Islam

The Sukhum Navapan Foundation

New York State Council on the Arts

Occidental Petroleum

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Peabody Coal Company

Philip Morris Incorporated

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

The Rockefeller Foundation

Helena Rubinstein Foundation, Inc.

Sears Roebuck and Co.

Mrs. Sonia P. Seherr-Thoss

Shell Companies Foundation

The Siam Commercial Bank Ltd.

Mr. George W. Sims

Allie L. Sylvester Fund, Inc.

The Ruth & Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Thai Farmers Bank

Time, Inc.

Mr. Ernest Trova

Warner Communication, Inc.

Wellington Foundation, Inc.

The Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Zoological Society of San Diego

$1,000 or more

Estate of Irene Emery

AKC Fund, Inc.

The Alvord Foundation

AMAxX Foundation, Inc.

American Legion Post 88

The American Scandinavian
Foundation

Society of American Archivists

Amos Press, Incorporated

Dr. J. Lawrence Angel

Anonymous

Arkville Erpf Fund, Inc.

The Asia Society, Inc.

Athwin Foundation

Atlantic Richfield Company

Atwood Foundation

Awards in the Visual Arts

Badger Meter Foundation, Inc.

Banamex Cultural Foundation

Barra Foundation

Mr. John L. Bartlett

Estate of Alice B. Beer

Bendix Field Engineering Corporation

Beneficia Foundation

Beneficial Foundation

Berman Family Charitable Trust

Beverly Enterprises Corporation

The Bio Energy Council

Mr. William Blackie

Sarah Campbell Blaffer Foundation

Miss Elizabeth B. Blake

Blount Foundation, Inc.

Edith C. Blum Foundation

The Boeing Company

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust

The Eli and Edythe L. Broad
Foundation

Mr. Lee Bronson

Brown Group Inc. Charitable Trust

The Brown Foundation

Brunschwig & Fils Inc.

Bull’s Head Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce

Bundy Foundation

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 625
Florence V. Burden Foundation

R. P. Bushman, Jr.

Patrick and Aimee Butler Family
Foundation

Mr. John G. Case

Centennial Foundation

Mr. Marion Oates Charles

The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.

Chevron, U.S.A., Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Childs

Mr. Blair Childs

The George E. Coleman, Jr.
Foundation

The Continental Group
Foundation, Inc.

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper

Cornell Oil Company

Mrs. Rosemary Corroon

Miss Priscilla Cunningham

Mr. and Mrs. F. Arnold Daum

Miss Elizabeth De Cuevas

Mr. David Dibner

The Dillon Fund

William Doyle Galleries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Dunitz

Eaton Charitable Trust

Joel & Anne Ehrenkranz
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Ray Eilers

Estate of Eugene Eisenmann

Embassy of Korea

Mrs. Lionel C. Epstein

Exxon Company, U.S.A.

Fairchild Industries

Mrs. Paul Feldenheimer

Fieldcrest Mills, Inc.

First American Bank

Ray C. Fish Foundation

The Fountain Gallery of Art, Inc.

Mr. W. Roger Fry

The Jo Ann & Julian Ganz
Foundation

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

Miss Rachel Gay

General Mills Foundation

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty

Getty Oil Company

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Goldberg

Miss Mary Goldwater

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Grotto Foundation, Inc.

Gulf Oil Corporation

Mr. Gordon Hanes

Miss Nancy Hanks

626 / Smithsonian Year 1982

George D. Harris Foundation

Mr. Marshall Hatch

Senator S. T. Hayakawa

The Henry L. Hillman Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Roderick M. Hills

Mrs. Ray W. Hoagland

Hobby Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

The Holladay Corporation

Estate of Albert Jensen

JEM Foundation

Mrs. Henry C. Johnson

Johnson & Higgins

Mr. Sidney S. Kaplan

Keene Corporation

Miss Marquerite H. Kellogg

Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Mr. Albert Kerry

Kinetics Technology International Gas
Processors

Mouse King Foundation

Robert J. & Helen C. Kleberg
Foundation

Mrs. Otto Peter Kominik

Mr. and Mrs. David W. Kornblatt

The Landsman and Katz Foundation,
Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Irving Leopold

Liberty Fabrics of New York, Inc.

Lilly Endowment, Inc.

Lindblad Travel, Inc.

Howard and Jean Lipman Foundation,
Inc

Little Gallery

Mrs. Kathleen S. Louchheim

Felicia and Bruce Lovelett

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Lundy

Mr. Larue R. Lutkins

Maybelle Clarke MacDonald Fund

Miss Elizabeth H. Maddux

Lt. Gen. (Ret.) and Mrs. Sam Maddux

The Magowan Family Foundation Inc.

Manitou Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney

Marathon Oil Company

Martin Marietta Corporation

Mars Foundation

Mr. Tom F. Marsh

The Helen R. and Harold C. Mayer
Foundation

Mrs. Helen McCray

Mrs. Eugene McDermott

McDonnell Douglas Astronautics
Company

Mr. Kenton McGee
Dextra Baldwin McGonagle
Foundation, Inc.

The McKee Foundation, Inc.

Estate of Ida C. McNeil

The Mediators, Inc.

Mr. Bernard H. Mendik

Menil Foundation

Metropolitan Life Foundation

Metropolitan Section A.S.C.E.

Mrs. William L. Mitchell

Miss Marian S. Mitchell

Mobil Foundation, Inc.

Estate of Herman Moser

Museums Collaborative, Inc.

The National Committee for the
Bicentennial

National Community Funds

National Geographic Society

National Newspaper Association

Netherlands American Amity Trust

Mrs. Albert H. Newman

Mr. Bruce W. Nichols

Northwest Alaskan Pipeline Company

The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer

Parsons Inc.

Pepsi Cola Bottling Company of
Portland

William H. Phelps, Jr.

Phillips Petroleum Co.

The Pillsbury Company Foundation

RCA Corporation

Anne S. Richardson Fund

The Frederick W. Richmond
Foundation Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II

Mr. David Rockefeller

The Mark Rothko Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin

Saks West End, Inc.

St. Joe Minerals Corporation

St. Paul Foundation

Sarah I. Schieffelin Residuary Trust

Seattle Art Museum

Seven Eleven Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Shapiro

$500 or

Mr. William S. Anderson
Anonymous

Miss Margaret A. Bolinger
W. H. Boutell

Mr. David Bowen

Mrs. Dorothee N. Bowie
Miss Olivia E. Bruni-Jutson

Jean S. and Frederic A. Sharf Fund

Miss Celia Siegel

The L. J. and Mary C. Skaggs
Foundation

The John Sloan Trust

Mr. Robert H. Smith

Society of Industrial Realtors

Sohio Alaska Petroleum Company

The Southways Foundation

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

E. R. Squibb & Sons, Inc.

Standard Oil Company (Indiana)

Frank Stanton Fund

Steuben Glass

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Straus

The Taubman Company, Inc.

Tenneco Oil

Mr. John S. Thacher

Miss Louise Talbot Trigg

Time-Life Books Inc.

Marcia Brady Tucker Foundation

Union Oil Company of California

United Technologies

Valley National Bank Foundation

Vought Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Wallstein

Washington Jockey Club

Miss Marilyn B. Watson

Mr. and Mrs. Morrison Waud

The Raymond John Wean Foundation

Mr. James E. Webb

The Ellen Bayard Weedon
Foundation

Ralph J. Weiler Foundation

Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust

Western Foundation of Vertebrate
Zoology

Mr. Jerome Westheimer

Westinghouse Electric Corporation

Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore

Lawrence A. Wien Foundation, Inc.

W. E. Wiltshire III

Mr. Bagley Wright

Wyeth Endowment for American Art

Mr. Thomas Layne Zumwalt

more

Dr Bertel Bruun

Dr. Henry A. Chase

Mrs. James H. Clement
Jacqueline Cochran, Inc.
Miss Maribeth W. Collins
Mrs. Loretta Anne D’Arcy
Mrs. Walter Davis

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 627
Miss Anne S. Dayton

Miss Jean Delacour

The Dover Fund, Inc.

Employees Welfare Association of
the U.S. Consulate Germany

George R. and Elise M. Fink
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Flanzer

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Fleischman

William and Martha Ford Fund

Mrs. Helena Fraser

Mrs. Frank Freed

Miss Bea Gold

Mr. Eugene P. Gorman

Great Eastern Numismatic Association

Grow Tunneling Corporation

Mr. Walker Hancock

Mr. Philip Hanes, Jr.

Miss Pauline L. Harrison

Mrs. Amy E. Higgins

Mrs. Dorothy H. Hirshon

Johns Hopkins University

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr.

Atwater Kent Foundation, Inc.

The Elbrun & Peter Kimmelman
Foundation Inc.

Klauber Brothers Inc.

Mrs. Miriam Klein and
Granddaughter

Mrs. Donald Klopfer

Mr. Robert P. Kogod

Lakeside Foundation

American Council of Learned Societies

Mrs. Disney K. Legare

Mrs. Janet Cook Loeb

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller

Professor Ernst Mayr

McAshan Educational and Charitable
Trust

Ms. Anita M. McCullough

Miss Nan Tucker McEvoy

Mrs. Hiram McKee

Miss Alice K. Meyer

Miss Prudence M. Miller

Miss Florence M. Montgomery

MSC Corporation

National Space Club

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley

Mrs. Albert Newman

Mr. Kenneth M. Novack

Mrs. Harriet K. Oppenheimer

Louise L. Ottinger Charitable Trust

Mr. Charles R. Penney

Mrs. Cornelia W. Perry

Mrs. Shirley Polykoff

Mr. Carlton Putnam

Miss Esther W. Putnam

Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord

Mrs. William L. Richards

Mr. Walter T. Ridder

Mr. Miles S. Roberts

Miss Blanchette H. Rockefeller

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin

Saul Z. and Amy Scheuer

Mrs. Joanne Schneider

Mrs. Morris Schnitzer

Miss Anneliese Sinn

Mrs. Eloise Spaeth

Miss Phyllis M. Spangler

Miss Joan Stumpf

The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.

Tiffany & Co.

Miss Mildred Tippett

The Tillman Trotter Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Warriner

Weinstein Spira and Company

Miss Clair A. Williams

Women’s Council of Dallas County,
Texas, Inc.

Mr. Warren R. Woodward

Miss Jean Davies Wright

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES * CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support
the Institution’s work through annual contributions of $50, $100, $250,
and $500.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and recog-
nize major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. The Society, which is the
highest order of the Contributing Membership in the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates, is comprised of Annual and Life Membership categories. In 1982,
Annual Membership for new Members was raised by the National Board of
the Smithsonian Associates to unrestricted contributions of $1,500 or more in
recognition of the effects of continuing inflation. Since 1981, Life Membership
has been awarded only to those individuals making extraordinary contribu-
tions to the Smithsonian Institution and receiving the Founder Medal of the

628 / Smithsonian Year 1982
James Smithson Society. Their names appear on a plaque hanging in the

original Smithsonian Building.

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous support
of the James Smithson Society and the Contributing Membership of the

Smithsonian Associates.

JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. David K. Anderson*

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Honorable Walter H. and
Honorable Leonore Annenberg

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains

Mrs. Joan Hay Baizermau

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Baker II

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hood Bassett

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mr. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Best

Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mrs. Harry Payne Bingham

Mr. William Blackie

Honorable and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. Leigh B. Block

Mr. and Mrs. Winton M. Blount

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Bodine, Jr.

Senator and Mrs. Nicholas F. Brady

Mr. and Mrs. Bob Brinkerhoff

Mr. Lee Bronson

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. Keith S. Brown

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Mrs. Susie Brummer

Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun and
Dr. Bertel Bruun

Honorable and Mrs. Wiley T.
Buchanan, Jr.

* Founder Medalist.

Honorable and Mrs. Philip W. Buchen

Dr. and Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Barnet Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hubbard
Caldwell, Jr.

Major General and Mrs. Daniel S.
Campbell

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Campbell

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Henry E.
Catto, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George P. Caulkins, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Robert Horne
Charles

Mr. and Mrs. E. Taylor Chewning, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Blair Childs

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland

Mr. Robert L. Coleman

Honorable and Mrs. James M. Collins

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton

Mr. Joseph E. Connor

Mrs. Howard F. Cook

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles

Mr. Marshall B. Coyne

Miss Louise Crane

Mr. and Mrs. John David Crow

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Cunningham

Mr. and Mrs. Kent T. Cushenberry

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II

Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart

Honorable and Mrs. Shelby Cullom
Davis

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 629
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day

Miss Patricia DeYoung

Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Mr. Norman L. Dobyns

Mrs. Kathryn W. Donaldson

Mr. and Mrs. James C. Donnell II

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Dorrance, Jr.

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover

Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin*

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont

Mr. Duncan L. Edwards

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Clark Ellison

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans*

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Exley, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Fisher III

Honorable and Mrs. William H. G.
FitzGerald

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Floyd, Jr.

Mrs. John Clifford Folger

Mr. John Dulin Folger

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt

Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield

Mrs. George A. Garrett

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Miss Rachel Gay

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mr. William B. Graham

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mrs. Lloyd P. Griscom

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. John W. Gruber

Mr. Leo S. Guthman

* Founder Medalist.

630 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Richard Harkness

Honorable and Mrs. W. Averell
Harriman

Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen*

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy HI

John and Lucia Heard

Dennis and Elizabeth Heffernan

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Heiskell

Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Robert R. Herring

Mr. Christian A. Herter, Jr.

Mrs. Edith Mansfield Hills

Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn*

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Holladay

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Ireland III

Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin II

Mr. and Mrs. Sam Israel, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

Mr. and Mrs. George Frederick
Jewett, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mrs. Virginia Kettering Kampf

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufman

Mrs. Karen Johnson Keland

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. W. John Kenney

Honorable and Mrs. Randolph A.
Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merrill Klein

Honorable and Mrs. Philip M.
Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land
Dr. David Landau

Mrs. S. Kent Legare

Dr. Morris P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon

Mrs. Sarah L. Lepman and
Mr. Joshua M. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mr. Elliot R. Lief

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred L. Loomis, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Love

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mrs. Edward Macauley

Honorable and Mrs. George C.
McGhee

Honorable and Mrs. Robert M.
McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Mac
Naughton

Mr. and Mrs. Donald McNeely

Mr. and Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Lt. General and Mrs. Sam
Maddux, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. Edgar S. Mangiafico

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Honorable and Mrs. Leonard H.
Marks

Mr. and Mrs. J. Williard Marriott, Sr.

Honorable and Mrs. William
McChesney Martin, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Mascioli

Mr. John A. Masek

Mr. David O. Maxwell

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Mr. Vincent Melzac*

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Mountain, Jr.

Mr. Frederic Mueller

* Founder Medalist.

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. Josephine L. Murray

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mrs. Nancy Brown Negley

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. and Mrs. James Brooks Newbill
Honorable and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Norton III
Honorable and Mrs. R. Henry Norweb
Mr. and Mrs. George L. Ohrstrom
Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Bruce Olds
Mr. M. G. O'Neil

Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow
Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Honorable and Mrs. Daniel Parker
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr.
Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson
Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons
Mr. and Mrs. Travis H. Petty

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips
Mrs. John H. Phipps*

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott
Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury
Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Polk

Mrs. John A. Pope

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Reed

Mr. John Paul Remensnyder

Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Jr.
Honorable Frederick W. Richmond
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Ridder
Mr. and Mrs. Walter T. Ridder
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts
Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis H. Robison

Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock

Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller
Honorable Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.
Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mrs. Edgar L. Rossin

Honorable and Mrs. Kenneth Rush
Mrs. Howard J. Sachs

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon
Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul II
Mr. and Mrs. Harry I. Saul

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 631
Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz
Senator and Mrs. Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frates Seeligson

Lt. General and Mrs. George M.
Seignious II

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Silverstein

Dr. and Mrs. Lionel J. Skidmore
Mr. and Mrs. David E. Skinner
Mr. David G. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. David Shiverick Smith

Mrs. Frances F. Smith

Honorable and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond F. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. Raphael Soyer*

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler
Mr. Stuart M. Speiser*

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer
Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright

Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright
Mrs. Janet Newbold Stewart

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli
Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Mr. David A. Sutherlund

Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine Sergava Sznycer
Mrs. Franz Talley

The Drs. Yen and Julia Tan

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Taylor, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Honorable Daniel J. Terra

Mrs. Edith Hale Thomas

Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mrs. Juan Terry Trippe

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mrs. Milton Turner*

Mr. and Mrs. Wynant D.
Vanderpool, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker

The Drs. Jeremy P. and Lucy R.
Waletzky

Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.

Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead

Mr. Leigh L. Weiner

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mrs. Leonard E. Wilkinson*

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Foss Wilson

Mrs. Nelse G. Winder

Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann

Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Withers

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten II

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward

Mr. James O. Wright

Mr. Parke Wright

Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

Mr. Jerome Zipkin

Sustaining Members ($500 and above)

Ms. Camilla D. Alexander

G. J. Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes

Mrs. L. M. Aroniss

George H. C. Arrowsmith
Mary M. Ashmore

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt

Mrs. W. P. Battell

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Bayard
Col. and Mrs. George C. Berger
Mr. John H. Bernard

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Bettingen
Frederick Blachly

* Founder Medalist.

632 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Mr. John A. Blakemore

Mr. Christopher T. Blayney

Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman
Dr. Joan Blondin

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg
Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Blum

Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T. Bowie
Mr. and Mrs. Townsend burden III
Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell

Mr. Nicholas Bush

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten
Laurence L. Champion
Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Mrs. Sylvia M. Clark

Mr. James R. Cramblett

Michael S. Currier

Amb. Antonio F. A. DaSilveira

Mr. and Mrs. F. Davis

Mrs. Keith Davis

Mr. Charles S. Draper

Mr. and Mrs. Irenee Dupont

Elinor Emlet

Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein

Armsado Felix

J. Fleischman

Capt. and Mrs. J. E. Galloway

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Gantt

Mrs. Melvin Gelman

Ms. Susan R. Goldman

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. Ernest T. Guy

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Haas

Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley W. Hamilton

Mr. and Mrs. Paul O. Harder

Mrs. Helen Leale Harper, Jr.

Mones E. Hawley

Mr. John W. Hechinger

Nona G. Herndon

Mr. and Mrs. L. Von Hoffmann

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hoover

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Howar

Dr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey

Mr. Edward Jonas

Mr. and Mrs. Harris L. Kempner

A. Atwater Kent

Patrick T. King

Mr. Albert Kramer

Mr. E. C. Kubik

Mr. Stanley J. Kuliczkowski

Ms. Agatha Larson

Walter E. Lawrinson, M.D.

Charles W. Lee

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. M. William Levy

Julia Lewis

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield

Mrs. John E. Long

Laura McAuliffe

Mr. James D. McClary

Clayton and Kathleen McCuistion

Dr. R. A. McReynolds

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead

Marcus Mehtonen

Paul Mellon

Richard J. Mikyska

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Monrose

M. G. Morris

Mr. Anthony John Mourek

Mr. Edmund L. Murray

Mr. William J. O’Connor, Jr.
Cmdr. Lester E. Ogilvy

Mr. and Mrs. Mandell J. Ourisman
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick
Helen Ann Patton

William C. Penick

Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Ratcliffe
Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts
Ms. Mary M. Roberts

Mr. George C. Rohwer

Francis C. Rooney

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal

Mr. Ray W. Rosevear

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. Cameron H. Sanders, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr.
Mr. C. W. Scott

Mrs. Leonora D. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Sharp
Mr. and Mrs. M. Silverman
Jonah Smith

Hugh M. South

Mrs. Gordon Stearns

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan
Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger

Mrs. Gardiner Symonds

Arthur L. Thiele, M.D.

Maj. C. A. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Thompson
Mr. Charles Lee Turner

John H. Turner

Ms. Ann T. VanRosevelt

Mr. and Mrs. Charles O. Verrill
Richard B. Wallace

Robert L. Waters

Mr. Grover C. White, Jr.

Mrs. Mary H. Wiebe

Mrs. Vivian Wildman

Warren K. and Ruth A. Wilhelm
Dr. and Mrs. Robert W. Wilkinson
Mrs. John M. Willits

W. H. Wolf

Mr. and Mrs. Gary B. Yost

Sponsoring Members ($250 and above)

Mr. W. Mike Adams
Mrs. Jobeth J. Adamson

James E. Akins
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Alexander

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 633
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Allbert
Ethan Allen

Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Allen
Thomas Roy Allen

Mrs. Carolyn Alper

Mr. and Mrs. H. Max Ammerman
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson
Mrs. Myron Anderson

Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz
Miss Marcia Ann Appel

Earl S. Archibald

Walter W. Arensberg

Mr. Philip R. Armstrong

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Atwood
G. Augustin

Dr. Doris B. Autry

Mildred Bach

Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Bach
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Baer
Lieut. Col. Dorothy A. Baetcke
Mr. Michael Barczak

Mr. Jean L. Barker

Mrs. Earl W. Barnes

Ms. Janine F. Barre

William Barstow

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Bash
Ms. Ileana C. Basil

Ms. Margaret R. Baudoin

Mr. Ralph B. Beals

Mr. Donald R. Bean

John W. Bean

Mr. and Mrs. Sam H. Beard
Mr. W. H. Beardsley

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Becker
Charles Beer

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Bemis
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Benedict

Dr. Barry M. Berger

Ms. Marie Bergmann

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Bermant
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett
Samuel W. Bernheimer

Mr. H. Harold Bishop

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black
Mr. John L. Black

Mr. Harrye Blethroad

Frank Bliss

Dr. and Mrs. Joe M. Blumberg
Robert F. Bodroghy

Geoge P. Bogumill

J. A. Boorman

Mr. Fred W. Borrish

Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini
Steven R. Bowen

Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles

634 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Eugenie R. Bradford

Mrs. Julio J. Brancoli

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantley
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Brechler
Mr. and Mrs. Karl K. Breit

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Bremerman
Mr. and Mrs. Leo V. Brenna

Mr. and Mrs. Clemens B. Bribitzer
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Brickel
Dr. and Mrs. S. B. Brinkley

Miss E. G. Brintnall

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Brodie
Mr. and Mrs. George J. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Louis J. Brown
Patricia L. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Brownson
Glen W. Bruner

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant
Mr. Waldo G. Bryant

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks
Mrs. Poe Burling

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Burnham, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Burr
Joseph Burton

Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Buttner

Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. Carrol D. Cagle

Mr. G. W. Callender

Mr. Harvey Cantor

Stacy Carmel

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth S. Carpenter
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Carrera
Philip L. Carret

Col. and Mrs. Douglas H. Carter
Mrs. George A. Carver

Dr. and Mrs. Rocco Cassone

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Catania
Mr. Richard S. Cayo

Mr. Harry R. Charles

Joel Chaseman

Dr. and Mrs. Peter M. Cianfrani
John C. Cini

Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett
Mr. and Mrs. Jerold L. Clark
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Clark
Mr. William H. Cochrane

Mr. S. Harold Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Francis X. Coleman, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Cole

T. Clyde Collins, Jr.

Margaret S. Collins

Virginia M. Collins

Col. J. M. Compton

Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Conant
Mr. Thomas Cook
Dr. and Mrs. Louis Corson
Walter H. Corson

Ralph J. Coselli

Curtis W. Cox

Mr. Melvin E. Cox

Ms. Joyce Creamer

Catherine Creede

Margery Cridland

Mrs. Richard S. Cross

James H. Curl

Maj. Robert E. Calton

Capt. and Mrs. R. L. Daniels
Ms. Norma Davila

Mrs. Alva A. Dawson

Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Day, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. C. Woodford Dayton
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Dean
Mr. Robert M. Decker

Arthur F. Dellheim

Dr. Hugh F. Demorest

Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Devane
Paul F. Dickens

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson

Phil Dickey

Mr. Raymond C. Diebel

T. A. Dietz

Hon. Douglas Dillon

Mrs. W. M. Dillon

Mrs. Walter W. Doescher
Gerald P. Doherty

Austin F. Dohrman

Mr. and Mrs. Sumner A. Dole
Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Dolstra
Mr. Sigmund R. Domanski
Mr. Alden Lowell Doud

Mr. Karl Douma

George A. Dragan, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage
Dorothea W. Dressler

Mr. Russell F. Dubes

Mary Jane C. Due

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn
Thomas L. Dunn

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn R. Eastridge
Edward E. Eckert

Lawrence A. and Melanie D. Ehrhart
Mr. Bertwin Einfalt

Mrs. Leila Eley

Mr. F. H. Ellenberger

Mr. Ward H. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr.
W. M. Evans

Ms. Marilyn Farrand

Miss Patricia Fenton

Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Fesler

Col. Gerald Fink

James P. Finn

Mr. Thomas T. Finn

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty

Col. Robert J. Flanagan

Dennis M. Flemons

Mr. R. E. Foohtman

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Folkerth

Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Foote

Nancy Allen Poran

Dr. and Mrs. Giraud V. Foster

Miss Alta Fowler

J. R. Fowler

Henry W. Franklin

Andrew L. Frey

Mr. Cary J. Frieze

William C. Frogale

Mrs. Linda D. Fuller

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. and Mrs. Carleton G. Gebhardt

M. G. George

Mr. Arthur F. Gerding

Gerald R. Gereau

Mr. Joseph P. Ghilardi

Ms. Frances E. Gibson

Wallace E. Giles

Sara E. Gillis

Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn

Susan S. Goldman

Col. and Mrs. Julius Goldstein

Stuart N. Goodman

Mrs. Winifred L. Goodwyn

Mrs. Lois R. Gordon

Mr. Harold D. Grant

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green

Preston Greene

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Green

Mr. and Mrs. Peter B. Greenough

Mr. Seymour D. Greenstone

Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg

Mr. Barron K. Grier

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas N. Grigg

Richard P. and Judith Wright Grill

William A. Grimes

Audrey J. Groene

Mr. and Mrs. William P. Groves

Helena Gunnarsson

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Guttag

Mr. Marc Haas

Mr. and Mrs. O. D. Hafer

Elizabeth P. Hagen

Mr. Kenneth A. and Margaret E.
Hamman

Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Hammock

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 635
Morella R. Hansen

Dr. Robert A. Harper

Mr. and Mrs. Allen H. Harrison, Jr.
William J. and Elizabeth Shafe Harris
Michael J. Hartman

Mrs. Robert K. Hartwick

Dr. Daniel P. Hays

Miss Annabelle Heath

Mr. Robert C. Hector

Mr. and Mrs. Felder F. Heflin
Mr. Frederick H. Heierding
Mr. H. C. Heldenfels

Jeffrey L. Hendry

Mrs. Catherine W. Herman
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines
Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson
Joseph U. Hinshaw

Franklin P. Holman

Jennifer J. Horinek

Mr. J. King Horner

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Horn
Mr. John K. Hoskinson

Mr. Samuel G. Hubbard

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes
William R. Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Ireson
Michael R. Irwin

Dr. John R. Jacoway
Reinhardt H. Jahn

Mr. William P. Jambor, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Jenks
Mr. J. J. Jeresek

Col. Alfred H. Johnson (Ret.)
Dr. Robert M. Johnson

Dr. and Mrs. James V. Jolliff
Mr. Charles W. Jones

Miss Charlotte Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Jones
Mr. Thomas O. Jones

N. Jorgenson

Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Kaim

John M. Kalbermatten

Dr. John J. Kane

Maj. John R. Keiper

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. and Mrs. George P. Kendall
Anna Marie Kent

Mr. Ralph A. Kerber

Mr. Walter H. Kidd

Mr. George H. Kinkel

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer
Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Capt. Roberta A. Kirschbaum
Diana Sinkler Knop

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Kolb

636 / Smithsonian Year 1982

Mr. Steven R. Koman

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Kotler

Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar

Mr. and Mrs. M. J. Kuff

Clarence M. and Elizabeth B.
Kunstmann

Mr. and Mrs. W. O. Kurtz

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Miss Martha Ladd

Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig

Mr. John A. Laird

Mr. C. E. Lamb

Mrs. Clift C. Lane

Mr. Gary A. Lane

Mr. Robert F. Law

Mrs. Florence J. Lee

Mr. William Leier

Ms. G. E. Lemos

Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard

Richard J. Leonard

Hon. William Leonhart

Mrs. Lawrence S. Lesser

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred B. Lichtenstein

David C. Lindeman

Frank W. Lindenberger

Gary Dean Lindsay

R. Lindstrom

Robert F. Lint

Mrs. Eunice K. Lipkowitz

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List

Clyde R. Littlefield

David H. Lloyd

Dr. R. H. Lloyd

Walter H. Long, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Long

William A. Long

Miss Doris J. Lothrop

P. H. Loughlin III

LaRue R. Lutkins

Dan Maceda

Mr. and Mrs. A. Martin Macy

Mrs. Louise Mann Madden

Rex A. Maddox

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt

Mr. Duane F. Marble

Mr. Edward Marks

Mr. F. E. Mars

S. C. Marshall

Mr. Alfred S. Martin

Mrs. Elizabeth Martin

Mr. M. S. Martin

Dr. and Mrs. Glenn B. Mather

Dr. William B. May

Mr. James I. McAuliff

Gordon W. and Martha E. McBride
Mr. Thomas C. McCague

Mr. Vernon H. McCall

Mrs. Violet McCandlish

Mr. Jack H. McCreery

Brian L. McDonald

Mrs. Tucker McEvoy

Dr. and Mrs. John J. McGrath

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth C. McGuiness

Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. McHugh
John S. McInnes

Mrs. G. H. McKee

Mrs. Norene M. McKellar
Arthur J. McLaughlin

Mrs. W. J. McNeil

Mr. Ted S. Merrill

Mr. Dominic L. Meylor

Dr. David B. Michaels

Helen J. Migh

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone
Mr. and Mrs. E. Kirkbridge Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Miller
L. Allen and Cindy R. Miller
Mr. Malcolm Miller

Mr. Stephen A. Miller

Warren G. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. James T. Milne
Mr. and Mrs. Glenn J. Mischel
William J. Mitchell

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore
Mrs. E. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Moore
Richard H. Moore

Mrs. Theda A. Moreno
Margaret Morgan

Mr. Shane Moriarity

Mr. Charles W. Morris

W. Dickson Moss

Philip M. Mount

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert
William Mullinix

Mr. and Mrs. James Mulshine
Jerry L. Mungo

Miss Lucile Myers

William and Louisa Newlin
Stuart C. Nichols

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Niles
Eileen Obrien

Milton Nottingham

Ms. R. O’Hara

John F. Olmstead

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Olyniec
Mrs. John O’Master

Robert and Jean L. Orben

Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Osborne
Mr. Newton G. Osborne

Ms. Christine C. Osmun

Mr. James C. Overholt

Mrs. Henry S. Owens

Arnold E. Palmer

Dr. and Mrs. Michael N.
Papadopoulos

Cmdr. Everett A. Parke, USN

Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Parsons

Dr. and Mrs. E. Passamani

Mr. Paul Margus

M. P. Paularena

Louis Peller

Edmund Pendleton

Mr. and Mrs. Thorn Pendleton

Mr. Gene Perry

Jacqueline Perry

James P. Perry

Mr. Robert J. Petersen

Ms. Samantha A. Peterson

J. C. Petricciani, M.D.

Mrs. Jackman Pfouts

Mrs. Alys E. Phreaner

Mr. W. M. Piatt III

Jacqueline Pierce

Mr. George B. Pletsch

Welch Pogue

Ms. Janice Popp

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter

Mrs. Anne D. Pozzi

Mrs. Charles P. Price

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Purcell

Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Purnell

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey

Dr. Raja Ram Rao

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Raso

Mr. and Mrs. C. Dean Reasoner

Mr. Philip D. Reed

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Reese

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads

Gen. and Mrs. Ralph J. Richards

Ms. Melissa J. Richens

Mrs. Richard Riddell

Dr. Monira K. Rifaat

Dr. Jerome Rinaldi, M.D.

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rixse, Jr.

Rear Adm. W. D. Robertson

Walter P. Robinson, Jr.

Mr. Edwin P. Romanoski

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root

Mr. and Mrs. Gary D. Rosch

Mr. Kurt E. Rosinger

Dr. Randi and Philip Rubovits-Seitz

Georgeann E. Russell

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo

Mr. Wayne D. Rydberg

J. Jeff Sandel

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 637
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Sander
Dorothy B. Sandleman

Mr. Milton C. Sappe

Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff

Mr. David Saunders

Mr. James P. Scannell

Hon. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer
Miss Matilda P. Schlicht

Mr. and Mrs. Morton W. Schomer
Robert M. Scott

Richard J. Sekerka

Mr. Arnold Selk

Catherine H. Sells

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Seubert
Shaw Investment

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Shelton
Therese L. Shor

Mr. Robert H. Short

Roy Shrobe

Mr. and Mrs. Milton L. Shurr
Mr. W. W. Sidney

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Silberman
Dr. A. E. Silver

Wilbur M. Sims

Mrs. E. Slack

Constance Slawecki

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small
Mrs. Beth D. Small

Mr. Benjamin M. Smith, Jr.
Charles E. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith

Mr. James B. A. Smith

Thomas F. Smith

Mr. Zachary Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Sobeck
Richard P. Solloway

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Sottile
Stephen A. Spalding

Denny Stam

Mr. Elwood C. Stang

Gary Staples

Rear Adm. and Mrs. M. H. Staring
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens
Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart
Ms. Suzanne St. Pierre

Mr. W. K. Straley, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton
Mr. William R. Sullivan II
Doctors Russell and Marie Swanson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Swart
Mr. and Mrs. Richard O. Swim
Albert Szvetics

638 / Smithsonian Year 1982

M. D. Tabakin

Mr. and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott
Mr. Peter J. Tanous

Mr. John Taylor

Mrs. May Day Taylor

Mrs. Richard R. Taylor

Joseph M. Tessmer

Gregory B. Thagard

Arlene K. Thomashow

James C. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Thomas
Mrs. Gilda B. Thompson

W. Thompson

Mrs. Margot Thomson

J. Cockrell Thornton

Dr. John L. Thornton

Mrs. B. W. Thoron

Mrs. Vincent M. Throop

Mrs. Alfred Tietze

Mr. Neil Tillotson

Mrs. Clarence O. Tormoen

Mr. Ray L. Townsend

Carol J. Traub

Mr. George S. Trees, Jr.

Robert L. Tull

Paul Turkeltaub

S. J. Ungar

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Valencourt
Amb. Enrique Valenzuela
Caroline E. VanMason

Mr. Dale E. Vaughn

Ms. Nancy B. Wagner

Dr. Joseph Walker

Miss Carolee J. Ward

Mr. and Mrs. Gary W. Ware
Nathan and Pauline Wechsler
Dr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Weinstein
Dr. and Mrs. Alan Weintraub
Brig. Gen. Sarah P. Wells

Mr. H. E. Whalen

Annette P. Whatley

Mr. Dennis A. Wheeler

Mr. and Mrs. George Y. Wheeler
Miss Lida Whitaker

Dr. John P. Whiteley

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice E. White
Mr. Peter C. White

Mrs. Catherine L. Whitsitt

Mr. and Mrs. Blaine L. Wicklein
Mr. and Mrs. P. Widener

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis W. Williamson
APPENDIX 10.

Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1982

National
Smithsonian Arts and Natural Air and Freer Museum of
Institution Industries History Space Gallery American
Month Building Building Building Building of Art History
October 1981 97,694 83,298 279,865 474,175 24,348 279,430
November 87,849 77,025 313,294 403,403 7AL Aleut 287,781
December 45,308 64,872 299,626 280,758 Ile) A VAS) 247,852
January 1982 30,849 41,224 198,657 208,642 13,547 141,757
February 36,414 50,759 233,326 261,502 13,053 225,860
March 69,547 78,394 416,431 448,036 20,558 395,755
April 109,663 124,834 652,951 911,013 35,599 682,121
May 90,805 122,908 588,189 758,703 26,526 464,911
June 112,903 alabey a A/ 503,898 751,799 26,659 486,965
July 134,856 139,998 667,845 1,344,532 30,447 566,985
August 132,115 128,360 539,369 1,742,083 33,250 444,111
September 69,779 73,292 267,729 869,127 24,137 239,513
TOTALS 1,017,782 1,098,091 4,961,180 8,453,773 285,410 4,463,041
National
American Anacostia Museum
Art & Ren- Neighbor- Cooper- of
Portrait wick Hirshhorn hood Hewitt African
Month Gallery Gallery Museum Museum Museum Art Totals
October 1981 26,530 10,665 69,848 1573: 9, A15 5,068 1,361,909
November 36,850 11,382 60,586 6,863 15,851 8,922 1,330,967
December 23,497 12,954 52,994 1,495 16,462 5,360 1,067,303
January 1982 19,751 12,082 39,638 1,451 20,555 4,355 732,508
February 25,515 19,087 52,341 3,390 24,017 6,573 951,837
March 34,936 18,499 90,332 2,842 9,671 7,546 1,592,547
April 32,130 19,515 125,589 2,056 8,828 12,762 2,717,061
May 37,454 16,641 130,143 6,868 13,145 8,531 2,264,824
June 32,849 14,683 115,846 1,752 15,526 9,378 2,185,385
July 29,663 12,338 107,630 3,081 8,597 6,598 3,052,570
August 29,034 11,916 122,271 13,465 10,986 6,139 3,213,099
September 27 ,889 13,147 71,692 1,197 13,725 4,642 1,675,869
TOTALS 356,098 172,909 1,038,910 46,033 166,778 85,874 22,145,879

Appendix 10. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution / 639
alt ny

“g 4 aa a a ee ee, ee es et
4 a “4

aa of "4 ahaha th that 8 a eta hehe
[REE MMMM EMD Db Ohh bs bor fey
VER MMME MER Ripa bbb CoB)

ee Cece re eek eh ee ee
ada a GA eae ded a ee ee ge
ae A de oe
pet tek 8 at tt eS 8 Ba
i ae". 84 x at KE fener tee AAA hy a.
faa a eeace et ed tee fed HG eee a4 ae as
Leg ae fe tee 8 ehele eee eee tag
fa Gt 8 8 ee a aa ate
Lee 44 tt Cate en te ag 40 ea 48
(eee) DOA Tata ie
hhetataty® Peery ¢ at 2 Ae a fhaic steeds
‘eae aa 7 ee Uk iat ais! ahs ‘
| § gm ‘a aha OC ee Ne
Deion ‘ a, Ae cs i. aes tages Ae @ 4 43
tenets CUO SUC a Sao
et ttt OC £ AAA 8S “9
et Byketate! ee tetetatetetatet! ‘ 1 UGS % < a!
) Celta q atste" eaten “é Pes ‘se ‘g
oe COOPER CSA Bt w CG Gla ehetalale
Bag eight
4

was

tae € 4 44 Oe Ch RM REA ce
me atatatelata ety : tk, cee ¢ os
sete! ‘4 ay crete cnt a8 At ‘ ca! coe [a
1 oe h BS 2 4g” & 1} NS ?

he ‘et a e x ne « OM

S.A RH UW ME OO
Ne « . we ke gig ee ats
tthe SEAS

a mat

oY ‘ae

“A
@

ee Ps ae

Sa ‘a

@< 3
oe
a

Be 4 a . a € ¢ . a
ia. tatatat Ate ta eh dg C4 Md
I | a ge , wo 4. bs H of q af aX a 1a 3 Ae a 4 & a Bm 4% .
ee = £ ‘a Ae 4 a q & a Se “ig ig ay “f MOS Y
ee a. 4 eee a eee |
$a ££ oe fi ay @ eye oy he ee wy ees
be ae. ,. ea UX = a Me rd — NS ge: sig 3 3 Me, es ne! Bae a ea oh a A
ae: am 3 2 ss | mi x “§ aty et SEY ¥ a i mt a4 ; es ig eS ee
ie re ee ee ee ee ee a a ee
cece cee ee ee ee a ee ee, 4488
ae a ee ee ee eee
x
ee >
~~ seeks — -

\
‘ ¥ ?
é bid |
: : Fy [| | | . ; .
= mae in 5 emotes | ; .
| | ' 7 |
“ = 7 q t
Seer oe e
cz . z fs .

2

