}
/ Hl

(om

ry hh pol

H 2 .

5

l Wi || F ¥
NS SCE ||

mithsonian Year
1984
Smithsonian Year +» 1984

ee aa
rf ’ ,
1
j : i
; SI i ey
EN wert) re y
}
/ ;
| A
4 j a ;
‘ tii y J, ‘| i
; MAL & i |
‘
i
4
a > * 3; JOR A vy, 5
St FT ae FD | Md
| MENTS RY MEN
: 3 ‘ mi ViLTYT iy
APIA yuri =

ONE RSS eer CERAIrurT wast
Smithsonian Year + 1984

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
POR THE YEAR ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 1984

Smithsonian Institution Press + City of Washington * 1985

Frontispiece: During the past twenty years under Secretary Ripley’s guidance,
the Smithsonian has been dedicated to reaching out to the public at large. At
the same time, the boundaries of museum activities have been extended beyond
the monumental buildings to the Mall and other spaces outside. Exemplifying
this spirit, the photos on the preceding pages show (left) one of the posters at
Washington bus stops that promoted a major exhibition at the Freer Gallery
celebrating the 150th anniversary of the birth of James McNeill Whistler and
(right) a nineteenth-century bandstand, a gift from the State of Illinois, which
was installed in the outdoor amphitheater near the west end of the National
Museum of American History during the early summer of 1984.

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402 (paper cover). Stock number: 047-000-00400-4
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property
and accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in
an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the President,
the Vice-President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust
in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Ronald Reagan, President of the United States
George H. W. Bush, Vice-President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
George P. Shultz, Secretary of State
Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury
Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense
William French Smith, Attorney General
William P. Clark, Secretary of the Interior
John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture
Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce
Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of Labor
Margaret M. Heckler, Secretary of Health and Human Services
Terrel H. Bell, Secretary of Education
Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Elizabeth H. Dole, Secretary of Transportation
Donald P. Hodel, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and Secretary + September 30, 1984

REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor

INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

George H. W. Bush, Vice-President of the United States, ex officio
Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts
Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California
David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia
Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Samuel C. Johnson, citizen of Wisconsin

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
David C. Acheson

William A. M. Burden

Carlisle H. Humelsine (Chairman)

Robert McCormick Adams

Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary

David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

John E. Reinhardt, Assistant Secretary for History and Art

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

William N. Richards, Acting Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Ralph Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development

vi
page

vi

105
119
124
140
157
158

179

179
181
186

191
195
198
199
204
208
219
223

225
229
233
235

Smithsonian Year » 1984
CONTENTS

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
PREFACE

FINANCIAL REPORT

SCIENCE

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Natural History
National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Office of Educational Research
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

HISTORY AND ART

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Archives of American Art

Center for Asian Art: Freer Gallery of Art and
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Joseph Henry Papers

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art

National Museum of American History

National Portrait Gallery

Office of American Studies

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum Act Programs

Office of Exhibits Central

vii
MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued
238 Office of Horticulture
249 Office of Museum Programs
264 Office of the Registrar
265 Smithsonian Institution Archives
269 Smithsonian Institution Libraries
280 Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

287 PUBLIC SERVICE
287 International Center

287 Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

293 Office of Folklife Programs

296 Office of International Activities

297. Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

302 Office of Telecommunications

304 Smithsonian Institution Press

307. Smithsonian Magazine

308 Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

315 ADMINISTRATION

316 Administrative and Support Activities
321 Financial Management Activities
323 Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council

325 MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

325 Office of Development

326 National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

327. Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
329 James Smithson Society

330 Smithsonian National Associate Program

337. Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

355 PUBLIC INFORMATION
355 Offfice of Public Affairs

361 READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

367 WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
371 JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

393. NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

401 CHRONOLOGY

425 APPENDICES
SMITHSONIAN YEAR + 1984

SLATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

The Smithsonian Institution « 1985
Gary Winnop of Sitka, Alaska, checks rigging at the 1984 Festival of American
Folklife. Native Alaskan basketry, doll making, wood and ivory carving, gold-
mining, logging, music, and dance were among the traditions presented to mark |
Alaska’s twenty-fifth anniversary of statehood.
Preface

ROBERT McC. ADAMS

Institutionally, the Smithsonian is unique. Its stockholders, to
stretch the term but slightly, are the people of the United States.
This Smithsonian Year is a report to the people on the achieve-
ments and problems of fiscal year 1984.

I had the great honor of becoming the Smithsonian’s ninth Sec-
retary a mere thirteen days before the end of that year. This, then,
can only be a letter of transmittal. Appropriately, the traditional
Statement of the Secretary introducing this report is penned by
the distinguished scientist, educator, and administrator who led
the Smithsonian not only through all but a few days of fiscal year
1984 but also through two momentous decades before that.

It was a period of rich development and meaningful growth.
Under Dillon Ripley’s guidance, the Institution was able to open
doors and windows, both literally and figuratively. The doors of
a string of new museums were thrown open; windows to the minds
of millions were opened through a range of imaginative exhibi-
tions, programs, and publications. Research blossomed, and results
in scholarship were impressive.

The years ahead will be years of challenge in a changing world,
a changing economy, changing educational and cultural priorities.
I am confident that the Institution, building upon the Ripley heri-
tage, will continue to be faithful to its mandate to increase and
diffuse knowledge for the benefit of humankind.
Time Present and Time Past Are Wrapped in
Time Future

SDIELON. RIPLEY

“Gentlemen [and Ladies]: I have the honor to submit a report
showing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution
and its branches... .” Thus, in the manner of the first seven
Secretaries, I greeted the Regents in 1964. Having served rhetorical
formality, I am honored to begin my final report. There is certain
comfort in tradition, after all, an accustomed fit like an old tweed
coat against the drafts of new circumstance. Tugging precedent
around my shoulders, I recall that my immediate predecessor,
Leonard Carmichael, reported on his first ten years en bloc. So I
am pleased to follow his worthy example and review the past score
years, as long a term as anyone save our paradigm, Joseph Henry,
was privileged to serve. It is a pleasure here to hand on the Smith-
sonian torch to the excellent successor to us all, Robert McCormick
Adams.

Looking backward—a proven way to take one’s bearings in the
woods or when putting out to sea—I am astonished to observe
how far we have come since 1964, a landmark year on many fronts.
In January, Dr. Carmichael had paved the way for the opening of
the Museum of History and Technology, ably assisted by Frank
Taylor, that museum’s first director; a national cultural center pro-
posed by President Eisenhower was renamed for John F. Kennedy
and placed under the Smithsonian aegis; some 10 million visitors
entered our buildings on the Mall; three cubs were born to Mohini,
the white tiger at the National Zoo; 1.2 million specimens were
acquired, some six hundred of them donated by the still-active
sixth Secretary, Alexander Wetmore. Also in that year, no doubt
emboldened by my relative youth, I expounded the following
thought: “Museums and their related laboratories are just entering
a new era, and museum resources are being drawn upon as never
before for general education.” [Emphasis belated.]

Twenty years later, I relish the memory of what was in the
air—an electric and electrifying energy like a summer storm over

Statement by the Secretary / 5
Alexander Wetmore (left), the sixth Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
and Watson M. Perrygo prepare bird skins at La Jagua Hunting Club near
Chico, Panama, in this 1949 Smithsonian Institution Archives photo.

the great plain of the then empty Mall. It boded so well in many
respects: the promise of enriching activity, like warm rain to
nourish the crop of human potential. President Kennedy’s clarion
call to a New Frontier still echoed noble challenges as the Peace
Corps reached its stride, and the Great Society agenda was gather-
ing force. The new National Council on the Arts was conceiving
the Arts and Humanities Endowments that would grow mightily
during President Nixon’s administration. America was “busting out
all over” in 1964, not only at the Smithsonian but everywhere. It
is fitting to remember that all the energy was not wisely spent;
that a well-intentioned nation blundered into the Vietnam mis-
adventure. The nation and its leaders were not faultless in that
highly charged decade (or any other), but the common failings
then were neither timidity nor conformity. Even around the Smith-
sonian—especially here, I believe—one sensed a kind of estival
energy.

Perhaps one had to have been here in the dead of institutional
winter to appreciate it. Again “look backward lest we fail to mark
the path ahead.” Early in the Second World War, I had passed
through the Museum of Natural History and found it as stifling
as my wartime destination in the Southeast Asian forest. The ad-
ministrator of the museum was unaffectionately known as the
“Abominable No-man” for his unwavering diligence in barring the
door against innovation, while the curatorial staff was preoccupied
with housekeeping and the conduct of bureaucracy. Yet by 1964,
a new generation of curators was emerging. Perhaps they repre-
sented a phylogenetic leap or, more likely, were boosted by the
winds of productive adventure blowing across the land.

Raising our sights two decades ago, we surveyed the world of
science, history, and art from the Castle and realized our discov-
ered goals were not so much new ambitions as renewed intentions
to realize the Institution’s ancient promise. We found one challenge
in Secretary Henry’s aim to make the Smithsonian a center for
“enlarging the bounds of human thought”; another in his boast
that “we have from the first kept a keen eye on every discovery
of science and every invention in art”; a third in his vision for a
“College of Discoverers.”” Nor could we forget the mighty mandate
of the legator himself “to found in Washington an Institution for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”

First among my aims was the basically democratic one to make
the Smithsonian known to its owners, the American people and by
extension all humankind. The public had come to view the Smith-

Statement by the Secretary / 7

sonian as a dusty vitrine containing insects impaled on little pins,
their names penned in a language as dead as the halls’ appeal. We
wanted to invite people in, to make them welcome, to accomplish
the museum’s principal work of attracting men, women, and chil-
dren to exhibits and activities that stimulate the soul and the
intellect.

Second, if the Smithsonian were to claim its rightful place among
learned societies, the deprivations of its own staff must end. It
behooved us to appreciate the men and women who in some
instances labored in Dickensian gloom, and behooved us specifically
to create both an atmosphere in which they might thrive and an
outlook that would attract gifted successors.

Third, a fair reading of the founder’s will and a quick study of
the Institution’s history showed substantial gaps in the curriculum.
Both the original mandate and the precedents of practice encour-
aged us to find or create ways to fill those gaps, as for example in
art, environmental science, and aeronautica.

Finally, it was incumbent on America’s preeminently national
museum complex to take its place as a leader both in this country
and abroad.

Not surprisingly, these interrelated goals answered problems that
were connected. Over time an original premise of the place had
turned topsy turvy: privately supported by a single bequest, the
Institution had received from Congress a tiny sum in 1855 to pay
for tending some miscellaneous collections, but now that stipend
had mushroomed until the government provided 90 percent of the
budget. No wonder the public didn’t see the Smithsonian as their
own; it belonged to the Feds. If people came to know the Smith-
sonian better, we reasoned, not only would they profit personally
and intellectually but they might come to support it more. In time,
then, we might restore an organization supported equally by pri-
vate persons and the government.

There is a footnote to history, perhaps, in a memo written to
me in 1981 by our then treasurer, Chris Hohenlohe: “In reviewing
some historical material on Smithsonian budgets, I discovered the
interesting fact that the operating budget for the current fiscal
year, 1980—just under $200 million—is equivalent to the total of
all operating expenditures of the Smithsonian for the years 1847
through 1963. Put another way, you will be overseeing a budget
in this year alone which equals all of the moneys spent by your
seven predecessors. Since your incumbency, you have already been
responsible for overseeing 87 percent of all of the Smithsonian’s

8 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Above: Ralph Chapman, researcher in the Paleobiology Department of the
National Museum of Natural History, leads a Resident Associate parent-child
class about dinosaurs while the participants make plaster casts of a dinosaur-
like animal. (Photograph by Lillian O’Connell) Below: Roger Morigi, a retired
master stone carver at the Washington Cathedral, lets young visitors try their
hand at carving as part of “The Grand Generation: Folklore and Aging” pro-
gram at this year’s Folklife Festival on the Mall.

,

operating expenses since 1847... .’

Personnel problems were also linked to the dependency on fed-
eral appropriations. For reasons lost in the ossuaries of history,
every Smithsonian employee was a federal worker first and a
scholar, scientist, or technician second. The terms of employment
did not necessarily address the career concerns of scholar or scien-
tist. It was clear that we had to find ways to compete with univer-
sities and other research institutions, to offer not only laboratory
space, but staff assistance, publishing opportunity, and higher
salaries which perforce must be funded from new private endow-
ments. As a virtual ward of the government, the Institution might
eschew individual enterprise and intellectual initiative. It behooved
us to encourage our people in the unfettered pursuit of profes-
sional interests.

Looking back over these twenty years is like studying a great
tapestry in the Textiles Collection, a complex of many threads. In
that first fiscal year the Smithsonian bravely opened several new
offices to embark on overdue work in various directions. We estab-
lished an Office of Education and Training, then an Office of
International Activities which William W. Warner directed with
peripatetic éclat. It organized the first archaeological dig abroad
with State Department cooperation. It helped unesco rescue Abu
Simbel and the monuments of Nubia from the rising waters of
Lake Nasser. It facilitated American scientists of all disciplines and
affiliations to work abroad by making local currencies available
to them as “counterpart funds.” If it appeared that the Institution
was embarked on an “outreach” campaign that year, the stage was
being set for other drama through such activities as the first con-
versations with Joseph H. Hirshhorn.

Studying what had come before offered a splendid springboard,
for a review of Smithson’s legacy revealed that 1965 was the bi-
centennial of the founder’s birth. What better occasion to win
academe and public alike to our renascent cause and, mirabile dictu,
rededicate his namesake Institution. The convocation celebrating
James Smithson’s 200th birthday brought the pomp and panoply
of a full-dress academic procession to the Mall as we conferred
the first Smithson Medal on the Royal Society (of which our
founder had been a member at age twenty-four). Some five hun-
dred learned societies around the globe sent their representatives
in recognition of the Smithsonian’s contributions to learning since
1846. These harkened back to the free exchange of scientific infor-
mation and research under the first Secretary.

10 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The academic procession from the Smithsonian Castle to the National Museum
of Natural History for the formal opening of the Institution’s eighth interna-
tional symposium, “The Road after 1984: High Technology and Human Free-
dom,” on December 8, 1983.
Fiscal year 1965 also saw the creation of the Resident Associate
Program, which proved the Biblical lesson of manifold returns:
“Give, and it shall be given unto you.” Some subscribers thought
the program an act of overt generosity on our part, yet it has
earned more than it cost many times over. For one thing, it pro-
vided a new way for the Institution to do its important work by
offering a new vehicle to diffuse knowledge. For another, it brought
into the Smithsonian fold a whole new constituency of friends who
would be both self-motivated seekers and our ambassadors. This
and subsequent Associates programs brought us close to people
and them to us. Resembling programs suggested by Secretary
Walcott in 1926, they provided educational and recreation oppor-
tunities for people who soon supported the Institution with their
gifts and good offices.

On the several scientific fronts: Donald Davis proved through
the intriguing agency of moths that yucca and agave plants belong
to one genus; through faunal evidence J. F. Gates Clarke demon-
strated the then surprising hypothesis of continental drift: that
Australia, New Zealand, Rapa Island, and South Africa were once
joined. Pioneering volunteer observers joined the Prairie Network
to track satellites and meteorites across the night skies; the new
publications series Contributions to Anthropology was launched;
we were given an estuarine tract, the Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies, now a 2500-acre natural workshop and
laboratory; the Flight Cage at the National Zoo opened to the
delight of visitors and avian occupants alike.

On strategic fronts, the Regents authorized the start of sub-
stantive conversations both with Mr. Hirshhorn and with the
trustees of New York’s beleaguered art museum at the Cooper
Union Institute. Sires, the traveling exhibition service, was reac-
tivated. Mary Livingston Ripley helped organize the soon highly
effective Women’s Committee, while her husband contemplated
the sorry tradition that the Secretary was the only Smithsonian
figure listed in the social directory, the Green Book. This was a
fact that had nothing to do with any scholarly issue or museum
policy; but it had everything to do with Washington’s infrastruc-
ture, with money and access to eleemosynary support anywhere.
As surely as an expedition in Nepal needs caches of food, success
in any Washington venture requires access to the seats of influ-
ence, a fact of life that may have been neglected by previous
Secretaries who did not believe their duties included fundraising.
Meanwhile, mindful of Joseph Henry’s belief that the Mall might

12 / Smithsonian Year 1984
be made one of the most delightful places in the United States, we
began turning this greensward into a park for people, a lawn of
living celebrations, as trumpeters mounted the Castle’s North
Portico and the National Symphony performed on the terrace of
the new Museum of History and Technology.

In the banner year of 1966, beetles arrived from the tomb of
Tutankhamen; the Arts and Industries Building was renovated;
Nathan Reingold began editing The Papers of Joseph Henry, a
project jointly sponsored by the Smithsonian, the American Phil-
osophical Society, and the National Academy of Sciences; the Divi-
sion of Performing Arts made its debut; the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press began publishing, with some trade books in addition to
a scholarly and scientific list.

Above all, President Johnson proved himself a friend of art and
of the Smithsonian. First, he was instrumental in saving the original
Corcoran art gallery building from demolition. This architectural
gem next to Blair House was transferred to the Smithsonian for
restoration as the Renwick Gallery. Next, the President and Mrs.
Johnson personally interceded in the cause of the Joseph H. Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden. I had solicited the Johnsons’
help in this matter, believing that they appreciated the ineffable
value of great art to the American people in general and Washing-
ton in particular. It seemed unfortunate that Washington might
lose this opportunity because of the presumption that nothing more
on the Mall could have a donor’s name on it. A truly passionate
collector of modern art, Hirshhorn owned nearly seven thousand
objects then valued at over $24 million, and he wanted to give the
lot—within an edifice he would help build—to America. There
was stiff competition between cities, nay among nations, to possess
this collection, but the President’s personal interest and interven-
tion won it for us. The gift of this treasury was one of three signal
art events in Washington’s history, in the grand tradition of
Charles Lang Freer’s contribution of his unrivaled orientalia and
Andrew W. Mellon’s donation of the National Gallery of Art.

Finally, 1966 marked the first of an annual miniconvocation of
scholars, academic specialists, artists, musicians, critics, and scien-
tists in cognate fields assembled as the Smithsonian Council. The
purpose of the three-day meetings of this council is mutual ex-
change: the Council familiarizes itself with the scholarly diversity
of our Institution, while our colleagues are exposed to kindred
souls in all fields. Each group comes to understand the other and
in the telling we are able to disseminate our wares to the intellec-

Statement by the Secretary / 13
Se mmntat

lie Sa he ee a

Above: Abram Lerner (left), then director of the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, with Helmut Schmidt, former Chancellor of West

Germany, studying a work in the exhibition German Expressionist Sculp-
ture, April 2, 1984. Below: Shown at the twentieth anniversary celebra-
tion of the Organization of African Unity at the National Museum of
African Art, December 20, 1983, are (left to right) Edward J. Perkins,
Director, Office of West African Affairs, U.S. State Department; Henri A.
Turpin, Counselor, Senegal; Secretary Ripley; Chester A. Crocker, As-
sistant Secretary of State, Bureau of African Affairs; and Sylvia Williams,
Director, National Museum of African Art. Photograph by Jeff Ploskonka

tual world about. The experience has not always “worked,” but
the annual meetings serve as a fascinating inward look and out-
ward exposure for both sides.

The following year marked the bestowal upon the Smithsonian
of the Lilly Collection of rare coins. Work began on the revised
multivolume Handbook of North American Indians and the Urgent
Anthropology Program. The year 1967 also brought new vitality
to “people programs.” Alarmed by the consensus among authori-
ties at an Aspen conference that museums belonged to gentry,
Charles Blitzer and I countered with a novel proposal: If less ele-
gant people tacitly proved the brahmins correct by staying away
from marble halls on the Mall, the Loop, and Fifth Avenue, then
let us build smaller museums in lesser neighborhoods. In Washing-
ton’s inner city we found an abandoned movie theater, a willing
community, and an administrator who was a local resident and
knew the area and its people well. Then John R. Kinard opened
the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, and its doors are still open,
on the avenue later named for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

The Department of Transportation was also born in 1967, and
the Smithsonian took due notice. A vehicular extravaganza on the
Mall (which already boasted the roundabout jitney of the carousel)
featured a rally of antique cars, an exhibit of vehicles of the future,
and even a demonstration of real levitation as a ‘test pilot’”” bound-
ed around wearing a rocket belt. But in the most splendid event
on our lawns that year, the first Festival of American Folklife,
under the far-seeing direction of Ralph Rinzler, our expert in
ethnicity and folkcrafts, celebrated the manifold creativity of the
American people.

In 1968, the Office of Museum Programs opened and, reflecting
the spirit of the National Museum Act of 1966, provided an
array of advisory and assistance programs to kindred institutions
throughout the land. It also would serve as our conduit of news
about goings on elsewhere in America and abroad. New York’s
Cooper Union Museum was reborn as a Smithsonian bureau, the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts and Design, signif-
icantly our only museum outside Washington, D.C.

In Washington the fabled Patent Office Building became another
of the Smithsonian’s many mansions, this one to house both the
National Portrait Gallery and the National Collection of Fine Arts.
Here nomenclature presented conundrums fit for a taxonomist.
Since 1910 the Smithsonian had a “National Gallery of Art’ of
sorts, but Andrew Mellon had appropriated the generic name with

Statement by the Secretary / 15
his famous gift in 1938. The Smithsonian’s art holdings then ac-
quired the title of National Collection of Fine Arts, a rather grandi-
ose handle for the eclectic, interesting, yet fragmentary group of
objets that dustily reposed in Hall 10 of the Natural History Mu-
seum. It was this material that became the nucleus of the Patent
Office’s north side, which was later renamed most descriptively
the National Museum of American Art.

As for the National Portrait Gallery, this was no mere copy of
a British model, but thanks to its first two directors, Charles Nagel
and Marvin Sadik, a uniquely original museum: a source of visual
information about famous Americans.

In 1968, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
was chartered by Congress as a Smithsonian bureau (under an
independent board of trustees, like the Kennedy Center and the
National Gallery of Art). In the same year the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, a joint venture with Harvard University,
opened its largest field facility, later named the Fred Lawrence
Whipple Observatory, atop Mount Hopkins in Arizona. As the
decade drew to a close, we looked farther and farther ahead.
Ground was broken for the Hirshhorn Museum, and plans were
laid for a national magazine to report on everything that interested
the Smithsonian “or should interest it,” as founding editor Edward
K. Thompson put it.

As the new decade began, we received approval to build the
National Air and Space Museum by a stroke of fiduciary genius
that might stand every government agency in good stead today.
Congress had authorized the expenditure of some $40 million for
the new museum, and we had commissioned a fine design. But with
costs skyrocketing, the construction bids were coming in at $65
million and up. Representative Michael Kirwan, a former Regent
and faithful friend on Capitol Hill, warned of disaster if we re-
quested more money. Instead, we informed our architect, Gyo
Obata, of our dilemma, told him that there was no alternative to
a streamlined, stripped-down design. At the same time, we per-
suaded a new President, Mr. Nixon, the Budget Office, and Con-
gress that if there was to be a National Air and Space Museum
in Washington on July 4, 1976, we must act quickly and push our
design and budget through. For this we summoned a blue ribbon
team: two Regents, William Burden and James Webb, and the
charismatic figure of Michael Collins fresh from the first moon
voyage. This astronaut pleaded our cause as the Director-elect of
the world’s most popular museum of the future. Meanwhile, the

16 / Smithsonian Year 1984
An aerial view of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s primary site for
ground-based astronomy, the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory on Mt. Hop-
kins, Arizona, looking north toward Tucson. Several instruments, including a
10-meter-diameter gamma-ray collector and 1.5-meter and 61-centimeter optical
reflectors (at lower left), and support and maintenance facilities are located on
a mile-long ridge at the 7,600-foot level. The Multiple Mirror Telescope, a joint
facility with the University of Arizona, is located on the 8,500-foot summit.

Natural History Museum purchased a device of then novel design
and priceless worth for its investigations of previously unperceiv-
able minutiae, our first scanning electron microscope. The Institu-
tion also abetted the exploration of ephemera by supporting a new
branch in Cambridge, Massachusetts, the Center for Short-Lived
Phenomena.

The troubled 1970s saw new and diverse activity on and around
the Mall. For one thing, the Kennedy Center opened. For another,
citizens returned en masse to Washington to protest the tragic war
in Vietnam. Here we were able to serve in a manner unexpected
for repositories of fossils and art. When tear gas lacrimated the
city, more than 80,000 people found fresh air in the environ-
mentally contained Museum of History and Technology.

In another sort of departure from inhumane policies, we annulled
the rule requiring our researchers to present their papers for pre-
publication review. And under the aegis of Charles Blitzer and
David Challinor, the tasks of heading scholarly and scientific de-
partments were put on a rotating basis—no more permanent
chairmen—in hope of precluding the investiture of a bureaucratic
satrapy.

In 1970, the Archives of American Art, an invaluable repository
of the personal history and maturation of America’s artists, be-
came a Smithsonian bureau. Also, hospitality services for the
Institution were expanded through the Visitors Information and
Associates’ Reception Center, which now directs a corps of volun-
teers approximately as large as the Smithsonian’s staff. V1arc
opened in conjunction with the premiere issue of Smithsonian
magazine, whose subscribers were automatically National Asso-
ciates. The magazine won Regents’ approval just after Earl Warren
stepped down as Chief Justice and ex officio Chancellor of the
Institution. Although many members of the Smithsonian commu-
nity opposed our entering the hue-and-cry world of popular jour-
nalism (as a few diehards still do), and grumblings about media
grants were growing louder in many quarters, our newly appointed
Chancellor, Chief Justice Warren Burger, led the Regents in ap-
proving the magazine. Within two years, the magazine began
showing a profit and has added handsomely to trust fund accounts
over the years. It has also won kudos from both media experts
and the public, who now subscribe as Associates in numbers ex-
ceeding two million.

In July 1970, the Smithsonian was privileged to enter the lime-
light on Capitol Hill when Representative Frank Thompson chaired

18 / Smithsonian Year 1984
a committee that reviewed our operations, policies, and finances.
While some bureau directors anticipated the hearings with dread,
I welcomed this expression of congressional interest in the Smith-
sonian, the first since 1855. We were fortunate that these overseers
corrected an ill-advised plan: the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden would not transect the Mall. Beyond that, the com-
mittee concluded that “the Smithsonian’s value is basic and should
be continued. Its work and research in science, education, history
and the arts and, of course, its many museums far overshadow
whatever criticisms . . . have been made.” Further afield, the Fort
Pierce Bureau in Link Port, Florida, began operations as a Smith-
sonian marine station.

In 1972, President Nixon returned from his historic visit to the
world’s most populous nation with a gift of two giant pandas from
the people of China. They were ensconced at the National Zoo,
which also prepared to embark on director Theodore H. Reed’s
masterful master plan. The Renwick Gallery opened at last, and at
Treasury Secretary John B. Connally’s invitation, the Group of
Ten international finance ministers convened in the Castle. (It is
alleged that during that meeting the dollar floated as a result of
two of the finance ministers’ getting stuck together in a balky
elevator.)

The following year, the Regents approved the introduction in
Congress of legislation authorizing planning for a Museum Sup-
port Center on federally owned land in Silver Hill, Maryland.
Having outgrown our buildings on the Mall and elsewhere, the
several museums could now responsibly plan for the curation,
preservation, and storage of priceless collections in what would be
a state-of-the-art facility. But as we focused on new beginnings,
two of the three former Secretaries died in 1973, and thus ended
an actuarial miracle: until the demise of Leonard Carmichael and
of Charles Greely Abbot, half of the eight men who had chaired
this Institution since 1846 were still alive. (The first four died in
office.)

In the Mall’s landmark event for 1974, the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden opened at last, and to lasting acclaim as a
repository of modern art. The following year the General Services
Administration conferred on us an erstwhile experimental farm
and army remount station in Front Royal, Virginia, which the Zoo
put to use as a center for breeding, research, and conservation of
rare animals. But 1975 was almost as notable for what did not
occur. In three signal instances the Smithsonian proved that it no

Statement by the Secretary / 19
PY a ee
So ey

$ a Stee,
et ty Saee yGe \

President Reagan meets Jayathu, an eighteen-month-old Asiatic elephant, a
gift from J. R. Jayewardene of Sri Lanka, at the White House, June 18, 1984.
Jayathu was accompanied by keeper Jim Jones of the National Zoological Park
and her Sri Lanka keeper, S. S. M. Seelaratna.

longer accepts everything that’s offered; the old image of “the
nation’s attic,” repository of things wanted nowhere else, may be
shelved, perhaps in someone else’s garage. We declined acquisition
of the San Francisco Mint, of the Saint Louis Post Office, and of
the liner SS United States. We have also raised a few eyebrows by
turning down Howard Hughes’s plane, the Spruce Goose.

The nation’s Bicentennial witnessed celebrations almost every-
where, but the year 1976 was an especial one on the Mall where
our museums mounted twenty-three special exhibitions, a grand
pastiche collectively called “The American Experience.” At the
suggestion of Frank Taylor, director general of the U.S. National
Museum, this included the reopening of the Arts and Industries
Building with a recreation of the 1876 Centennial Exposition at
Philadelphia. In the Natural History Building the West Court had
been developed to house a cafeteria, gift shop, and Naturalist
Center. In New York, the refurbished and reorganized Cooper-
Hewitt Museum under the consummate direction of Lisa Taylor
opened in Andrew Carnegie’s mansion on Fifth Avenue. But the
signal premiere was on the Mall’s south side: the July first open-
ing of the National Air and Space Museum, which set some kind
of record by welcoming two million visitors in the first forty-nine
days.

In the following years, the Smithsonian Institution Press added
a new imprint, now known as Smithsonian Books, another pub-
lishing venture of merit for the public and revenue for the Institu-
tion. The Regents opened a special fund for Institution acquisitions,
special research, and education. The Office of Biological Conser-
vation became our coordinator and watchdog in the crucial realm
of conservation activities. The Assistant Secretary for Public Ser-
vice, Julian Euell, established the Office of Telecommunications
under the able direction of Chic Cherkezian, thereby adding to the
Institution’s outreach efforts the powerful aid of electronic media.

The decade’s last year saw several major new projects. For one,
the fifteen-year-old independent Museum of African Art, so far
as we know the only American museum of its ken, became a new
Smithsonian bureau. In the Southwest, the Multiple Mirror Tele-
scope, a joint venture with the University of Arizona at Mount
Hopkins, began scanning the skies with uniquely new acuity. In
the Canal Zone, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute estab-
lished a 13,000-acre biological preserve, the Barro Colorado Na-
ture Monument. At home, the Regents established a new fellow-
ship program for attracting eminent scholars and scientists in

Statement by the Secretary / 21
residence.

In 1980, Walter Adey’s living coral reef—the first ever main-
tained apart from the sea—was put on public display at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History. The National Portrait Gallery
acquired Gilbert Stuart’s most famous portraits, perhaps the truest
likenesses of George and Martha Washington, in a special partner-
ship with the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The following year,
the specially designed Thomas M. Evans Gallery opened at Na-
tural History as a showcase for traveling exhibitions. This was
soon followed by the establishment of the James E. Webb Fellow-
ships to promote excellence in the management of cultural and
scientific nonprofit institutions, and by two projects of first-magni-
tude importance to museology. First, in 1983 the Museum Support
Center was finally opened at Silver Hill, the world’s model facility,
we hope, for the maintenance of museum collections. Second, the
first stage of an institution-wide inventory was completed: the
painstaking task of identifying and counting all of the Smith-
sonian’s 100,000,000 artifacts and specimens. The results of this
“sreat counting” will include cybernetic access to data describing
every single one of our possessions.

The last years of my administration have seen the National Air
and Space Museum begin the project of placing its collection of
over one million photographs onto laser videodisc. Also during
this period, several Smithsonian museums jointly compiled a poly-
math exhibition, Treasures of the Smithsonian Institution, for dis-
play at the celebrated Edinburgh Arts Festival. It was August 1984,
two hundred years to the month from James Smithson’s introduc-
tion to the Highlands and the Age of Enlightenment.

Finally in 1983, there was the planning, authorization, and early-
stage construction of the Smithsonian Center for African, Near
Eastern, and Asian Cultures. This largely underground facility,
initially endowed by Arthur M. Sackler to contain his priceless
collection of Asian masterworks, will connect with the Freer, and
will comprise also the fabled collections of the Museum of African
Art. Like the youngest child of a parent, this new museum com-
plex—the Quadrangle—must always have a special place in my
heart.

The money for it has been raised and committed; funds for the
structure’s programs have already been pledged by a goodly num-
ber of the governments and individuals across the vast arc of
mostly new nations of that half of the world represented in the
Center’s title. My chief regret at relinquishing the torch now is
leaving before the Quadrangle’s completion. But like the Smith-

22 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Brian Fisher, a thirteen-year-old junior high school student from Chicago, be-
came the 75 millionth visitor to the National Air and Space Museum on May
24, 1984. He is greeted by museum director Walter Boyne. In the background,
three medieval-costumed trumpeters herald the occasion.

sonian itself, this building may never be finished save in a physical
sense. Its purpose, its inner life as manifested in scholarly pro-
grams and public appreciation of exhibits, will depend on those
who follow me and my generation of curators, scientists, historians,
and delineators of knowledge.

The new Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures
rises steadily (as I write) in its vast pit, looking in embryo like
the beginnings of a coral reef in a tropical lagoon. The shelflike
ledges appear in place and will superimpose themselves layer by
layer. A delicate miniature forest of lacy pillars spreads up from
the base like the skeletal frame of sea fans or the bare branches of
gorgonians thrusting toward the light.

Soon this solid foundation will all be filled in and a verdant
green carpet will spread out like the top of the reef at low tide.
Look for water splashing here and there, with two projecting gal-
leries above, beautiful stranded granite boulders rich in color, set
amongst the vegetation, a dream come true.

Perhaps in years to come a similar Center for the New World
can arise in the quadrilateral space east of the Air and Space
Museum which was deeded to us some time ago by the Congress.
The statute specified that plans for any structure on that last Mall
building site must be approved in advance by Congress. (No one
need be taken unawares by some vast teeth of Cadmus springing
up overnight to obstruct the western vista from the Capitol towards
the panorama of Mall and monuments.) This was a wise decision,
one in which the Smithsonian concurred, testifying that we had
no wish to encumber space with sheer manmade mass to obliterate
openness, an increasingly precious commodity in our city.

If the Quadrangle becomes the success we anticipate—novel in
theme as well as structure—what a fine example it can serve for
the future in our world. It will serve as a model for still another
vast cultural history to be told and pondered: the sweep of two
continents from the Bering Sea to Cape Horn trodden by the
streams of emerging civilizations over the course of some 30,000
years. Cultures have emerged in the flowing over these new worlds,
from north to south, from west to east. No similar event can quite
so clearly be defined on the rest of the planet; no effort has so far
been attempted to describe in time and sequence this all-encom-
passing tidal flow which continues even today in a way whose his-
tory is only becoming known and whose future like the winds of
time cannot be discerned.

For the present our new Center for African, Middle Eastern, and

24 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Asian Cultures is an experiment for the Institution, delving into
cultural history in a new mode. J am intrigued to speculate on the
pedestrian traffic this Center will bring, whether it will attract new
thoughts, new ways of understanding half of the world’s popula-
tion. As the winds change so may our perceptions also of our
fellow humans. Across the Mall, even on calm days, gusts and
eddies of breeze remind one that this is a vast, still, quite open
space. The wind, when it comes unpredictably, blows hither and
yon. Sometimes the flags round the Washington Monument stand
straight out, their whipping sound rising to a continuous muted
roar like rapids in a stream in spate.

Pandit Nehru once said, unforgettably, “Strange winds are blow-
ing across the face of Asia. We know not whence they come nor
where they go.” His prescient words evoked a thrilling current
within me like some music. Walking across the Mall one senses
such electricity in the air, and visions of a kind, whether past or
future, we cannot tell.

Beneath the ambient noises of everyday, the ephemera of today’s
news or tomorrow’s politics, there is a steady mass of public
opinions and notions, indeed convictions, which like the breezes
are independent of the noisemakers. In the turmoil and drama of
communication most people do not listen, and do not hear or sense
the presence of these notions. No opinion poll seems to be effective,
either. What then could we hear if we cared enough?

It seems that Eisenhower’s farewell words were prescient also,
often quoted but, like Cassandra’s, unheeded. ‘Beware the military-
industrial complex.” It is not so much the question of the triumphs
of technology. One cannot feel really alarmed by our nation’s
hegemony of military-industrial development. It moves anyway,
ponderously, imperceptibly even, irrespective of the overt shouting
and tumult.

What the past years have wrought is a state of mind that seems
more pervasive and indeed alarming than the surface evidence.
Faith is at a nadir today. Religion has succumed to niggling com-
plaints about other faiths, and to a fratricidal theocracy, unknown
since the Middle Ages. We may decry the rise of militant Islamic
sectarianism, but it is being mirrored all across the world in varie-
ties of fanaticism unparalleled in recent time. In the name of re-
ligion, pseudo-religion, or neo-religion, technology aids us today
in constant acts of terror, blasphemy, and horror, enough to tip
the balance so as to defeat faith itself. We have turned inward,
towards inner self and thus selfishness with no restraint. Ambition

Statement by the Secretary / 25
Among the major works of art received by the Smithsonian this
fiscal year were (above) Edgar Degas’ portrait of Mary Cassatt,
purchased as a gift to the National Portrait Gallery from the
Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation and the Regents’
Major Acquisition Fund, and (below) Edward Hopper’s 1950 oil
on canvas, Cape Cod Morning, one of the 169 paintings, sculp-
tures, and drawings given to the National Museum of American
Art by the Sara Roby Foundation.

A record-breaking 105,000 visitors viewed the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service’s The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from the Czecho-
slovak State Collections during its seven-week showing at the National Museum
of Natural History. Among the many dignitaries who saw the exhibition was
Chaim Herzog, president of Israel.

as of now is for oneself alone in every sense or sensibility. Mam-
mon is worshiped, a companion to envy and greed in the denial of
faith.

In this paroxysm of shock, there is a parallel settling down as
of an outward buffer towards a numbing new conservatism, a
search for conformity, the building of an overweening consensus.
If there is in truth only a consensus, then bureaucracy administered
by computer will be the answer to everything. There will be a
mood of pseudocomplacency covering an essential malaise of the
spirit in what may be observed. If possible, let it be routed out if
we are to succeed in the restoration of our real faith. The cur-
rent state is a presentiment of a failure in our culture. We must
assume that the ideals embodied in our history are capable of a
just and noble restoration, and perhaps this Institution is the one
to be the bellwether. Let us then summon those strange winds to
our cause and make the view of the Mall one of hope, of keening
winds blowing our flags straight and whipping shrill.

STAFF CHANGES

The Secretary’s Executive Committee was diminished by the loss
of three members in the last year. Paul Perrot, Assistant Secretary
for Museum Programs since 1972, became director of the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts. Chris Hohenlohe, my erstwhile executive
assistant and, since 1979, the Institution’s valued Treasurer, left
in November to pursue private financial enterprises. (Ann Leven,
formerly of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Chase
Manhattan Bank, now serves as Chris’s successor.) Regrettably,
Larry Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information, retired.

Al Lerner has retired as founding director of the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden. He has been succeeded by James
Demetrion, who came from the Des Moines Art Center. Other new
Smithsonian executives include Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory director Lambertus van Zelst; Milo C. Beach, formerly of
Williams College, who will head the Sackler Gallery; and William
Moss, who left the John F. Kennedy Library to direct the Smith-
sonian Archives.

Within the Institution, Michael Robinson moved from the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute to succeed Ted Reed as director
of the National Zoological Park. Bill Klein, former director of the
Radiation Biology Laboratory, became director of the Environ-

28 / Smithsonian Year 1984
mental Research Center, and senior folklorist Peter Seitel was pro-
moted to director of the Office of Folklife Programs.

To these and many other members of our dedicated staff, we
owe a great debt of gratitude. As I have said before, the Smith-
sonian is a community of talented and interested people on whom
rests the Institution’s vitality and greatness. I take pride in having
been associated with them all.

Statement by the Secretary / 29
The Board of Regents

The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on January 23,
1984. After the Chancellor welcomed the new Regent, Mr. Samuel
Johnson, the Executive Committee reported on its January 4 meet-
ing at which the Acting Treasurer, Mr. Jameson, described the size,
purposes, and procedures of the Institution’s current fund invest-
ments. The Audit and Review Committee also reported on its
meeting of October 18, 1983, in which the members discussed the
status of the General Post Office building and collections manage-
ment policies, and conducted overviews of Smithsonian radio pro-
grams and the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice. The Personnel Committee reported that it had found no con-
flict of interest whatsoever in the financial interests statements of
the executive staff.

Mr. Jameson gave a final report on the fiscal year 1983 trust
and appropriated funds, discussed the status of fiscal year 1984
funds, and noted the allowance from the Office of Management
and Budget for fiscal year 1985 appropriated funds. The Invest-
ment Policy Committee had met on November 17, 1983, to review
investment performance and strategies of the three investment
managers and reported that the annualized returns continued to
exceed market averages. To diversify and participate in an addi-
tional sector of the market, the committee recommended and the
Regents agreed to invest $5 million of trust funds in a mutual
fund specializing in science and technology issues. The committee
also proposed and the Regents approved establishing a more
liberal total return income payout rate to be applied to new en-
dowment funds which the Secretary will determine to have high
current income needs. Mr. Jameson presented a revised and up-
dated Five-Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years 1985-89, which was ap-
proved by the Regents.

Secretary Ripley reported on the construction of the Quadrangle,
on the status of fundraising, and, with the Assistant Secretary for
Public Service, Mr. Rinzler, on the preliminary planning for the
International Center. In other proposed actions, the Regents recog-
nized Abram Lerner’s accomplishments as founding director of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and named the balcony

30 / Smithsonian Year 1984
room in his honor, approved in principle the expansion plans for
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, endorsed the preliminary planning
for a Smithsonian presence at the 1984 Edinburgh Festival, au-
thorized the Secretary to enter into agreements with the State of
Maryland to designate the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center as a National Estuarine Sanctuary, and requested that the
congressional members of the Board of Regents introduce and
support legislation authorizing the nonreimbursable transfer of the
General Post Office building (along with appropriations for its
repair and renovation) and other legislation to authorize planning
and construction of science facilities for the National Air and
Space Museum, the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center,
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, and the Whipple
Observatory. They also voted to appoint Messrs. Michael Son-
nenreich, John Al Friede, and Gustave Schindler and Mrs. Milton
F. Rosenthal to terms on the Commission of the National Museum
of African Art.

After Secretary Ripley discussed a variety of status reports, the
chairman of the Regents Search Committee, Dr. Bowen, described
the process of searching for Mr. Ripley’s successor, adding that in
all of this committee’s discussions and voluminous correspondence
a recurring theme was an appreciation of the Secretary for his
exceptional leadership of the Smithsonian over two decades. In
executive session Dr. Bowen presented the Search Committee’s
recommendation and the Regents elected Robert McCormick
Adams, Provost of the University of Chicago, as the ninth Secre-
tary. Following the meeting, Messrs. Bowen, Ripley, and Adams
met briefly with the heads of Smithsonian bureaus and offices in
the Great Hall and then, along with Mr. Humelsine, held a press
conference in the Under Secretary’s office.

The Regents’ Dinner was held on the preceding evening, Jan-
uary 22, in the National Museum of American History. After
dinner Mr. Ripley greeted the guests and awarded to Paul N.
Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, the Secretary’s
Gold Medal for Exceptional Service.

The Chancellor called to order the second meeting of the year
in the Regents’ Room at 9:30 a.m., May 7, 1984. The Executive
Committee reported on its meeting of April 11 in which this com-
mittee, acting on behalf of the Regents, requested the congres-
sional Regents to promote legislation effecting the reappointment
of Regents Armstrong and Higginbotham for the statutory terms
of six years. The Audit and Review Committee discussed its meet-

Statement by the Secretary / 31
ing of March 8 in which they had an overview of the Archives of
American Art, discussed Coopers & Lybrand’s consolidated audit
of trust and federal funds for fiscal year 1983 and Report to Man-
agement, considered factors in the Institution’s construction priori-
ties, and received reports on the Office of Audits’ most significant
recommendations in 1983 and on improvements in Smithsonian
security programs. The Investment Policy Committee reported on
its review of the investment managers’ performance and the
Regents, acting on this committee’s recommendations, approved
fiscal year 1985 total return payout rates for the endowment funds.

Mr. Jameson presented a detailed report on the status of current
year funds and the processes of budgeting for fiscal years 1985
and 1986. After considerable discussion, the Regents voted to
authorize the Secretary to negotiate contracts for the financing,
construction, and operation of a new restaurant facility in the
National Air and Space Museum and for the financing, appro-
priate renovations, and operation of food services in other Smith-
sonian museums; to create a Special Exhibition Fund for under-
writing carefully selected, major, temporary exhibitions; to receive
the Annual Report, Smithsonian Year 1983; to appoint Barbara
Tuchman, Frank Stanton, and Robert McNeil to terms on the
Commission of the National Portrait Gallery, to appoint Helen
Neufeld and Colbert King to terms on the Commission of the
National Museum of African Art, and to appoint Donald Ander-
son, Walter Hancock, Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr., Eloise Spaeth,
Charles Parkhurst, Gene B. Davis, and Margaret Dodge Garrett
to terms on the Commission of the National Museum of American
Art; and to endorse the Smithsonian’s participation in the 1984
Edinburgh Festival and authorize the Secretary to draw upon un-
restricted trust funds for that purpose with the approval of the
Executive Committee.

Mr. Ripley reported on progress in the construction of the
Quadrangle, noted that prospects were excellent for meeting or
exceeding the original goal of raising $37.5 million in nonappro-
priated funds, and described the closing stages of the fundraising
campaign. He also presented a number of status reports on Smith-
sonian programs and activities.

On September 24, 1983, the National Board of Smithsonian
Associates unanimously recommended that two distinguished ben-
efactors of the Institution, Dr. Arthur M. Sackler and Mrs. Enid
A. Haupt, be the first inductees into the Order of James Smithson.
In recognition of their extraordinary contributions to the Smith-

32 / Smithsonian Year 1984
sonian, the Board of Regents heartily endorsed their induction
into the Order at a suitable occasion to be arranged by the
Secretary.

On Sunday evening, May 6, President and Mrs. Reagan were
hosts to the Regents, members of the Smithsonian Establishment,
and Secretary and Mrs. Ripley at a dinner in the Blue Room of
the White House. During the proceedings the President raised a
toast to Secretary and Mrs. Ripley and Mr. Ripley returned the
honor.

The Regents’ third meeting of the year was called to order by
the Chancellor on September 17, 1984. The Executive Committee
reported on its meeting of August 22 in which it reviewed and
approved the Regents’ agenda. Mr. Humelsine announced that in
a poll through the mail, the Regents voted unanimously to induct
Secretary Ripley into the Order of James Smithson and to present
to Mrs. Ripley the Joseph Henry Medal. The Audit and Review
Committee reported that on May 24, it conducted an overview of
the National Zoological Park and of the Institution’s product
licensing program. In addition the Audit and Review Committee
discussed Coopers & Lybrand’s plan for their consolidated audit of
fiscal year 1984 funds and the Smithsonian’s measures toward im-
proved food service operations and facilities. The Investment
Policy Committee also reported on the performance of the invest-
ment managers as of June 30.

In presenting the Financial Report, Mr. Jameson described the
status of current year federal and trust funds as well as the pend-
ing action of the Congress on the fiscal year 1985 appropriations.
After discussion the Regents approved the fiscal year 1985 budget
for nonappropriated funds and the submission of the fiscal year
1986 budget request to the Office of Management and Budget.
The Regents also gave preliminary thought to a draft of the Five-
Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years 1986-1990, which they will consider
for approval at their next meeting.

Among other actions the Regents endorsed the Smithsonian’s
participation in the Festival of India and authorized some contin-
gent expenses; approved discussions leading to a donation of col-
lections from the U.S. Patent Model Foundation; authorized nego-
tiations with the Tupper family for their support of construction
of a laboratory and conference facility, to be named for Earl S.
Tupper, at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute; voted to
induct Mrs. Sara Roby into the Order of James Smithson in recog-
nition of her generous contribution of her fine collection of twen-

Statement by the Secretary / 33
tieth-century realist masters to the National Museum of American
Art; and discussed the George Eastman House Board of Trustees’
suggestion that their photography collections be transferred to the
Smithsonian. Secretary Ripley presented a detailed report on the
construction, fundraising, and preliminary programming for the
Quadrangle and introduced a variety of other status reports.

In their final act in Secretary Ripley’s administration, the Re-
gents adopted the following resolution and ordered it to be laid
upon the record:

RESOLUTION

Whereas S. Dillon Ripley has served as Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution with great distinction for more than two
decades and has overseen its extraordinary development to
the benefit of the American people and the citizens of the
world;

Whereas Secretary Ripley has opened the halls of the Smith-
sonian for record-setting numbers of citizens to enjoy through
a vast array of stimulating exhibitions in the National Mu-
seums, through a greatly expanded traveling exhibition ser-
vice, and through both the printed and electronic media;

Whereas Secretary Ripley has added immeasurably to the Insti-
tution’s international stature in museum techniques for ex-
hibition and conservation, in studies of the physical and
natural sciences, history and art, and therefore in fostering
increased intercultural and international understanding; and

Whereas Secretary Ripley has continued to pursue significant
ornithological and ecological research enhancing the Smith-
sonian’s leadership in the conservation of nature:

Now, therefore, be it

Resolved by the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
That S. Dillon Ripley is named Secretary Emeritus so that he
may continue to be of service to the Board from time to time
and Research Associate so that he may continue his scholarly
investigations to the credit of the Institution, and to that end
it is agreed that he shall be provided appropriate staff support
and a grant for his research.

Having adjourned their formal meeting, the Regents joined the
Regents Emeriti, invited guests, and the staff and volunteers of the
Institution for a noontime ceremony on the Mall marking the in-

34 / Smithsonian Year 1984
stallation of Mr. Adams as the ninth Secretary. Following a prelude
of traditional and patriotic music from the U.S. Navy Ceremonial
Band, the Chancellor introduced Mr. Ripley who expressed his
gratitude for the support and pleasure he received from the Re-
gents, the National Board of the Smithsonian Associates, the staff
and volunteers, and countless others. The Chancellor then pre-
sented a traditional brass key to Mr. Adams who delivered a brief
address on his view of Smithsonian purposes. There followed a
reception and luncheon in the Great Hall and Commons for the
Regents, Regents Emeriti, and invited guests.

On Sunday evening, September 16, the Chancellor and the Re-
gents held a formal dinner in the National Air and Space Museum
in honor of Secretary and Mrs. Ripley. As voted by the Board of
Regents and on their behalf, Mr. Humelsine inducted Mr. Ripley
into the Order of James Smithson and Mrs. Armstrong presented
the Joseph Henry Medal to Mrs. Ripley. The Vice-President gave
a toast to the Ripleys and announced that the Secretary will be
receiving the President’s Medal of Freedom. Concluding the cere-
monies pianist Bruce Steeg and two vocalists presented a selection
of musical favorites.

Statement by the Secretary / 35
300

250

200

150

100

300

250

225

200

150

125

100

75

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS
Fiscal Years 1965, 1975,1980,1983,1984

(In $1,000,000's)

FUNDS PROVIDED

ee

"erent
oe

Be

K?
&

io
oe
ta!

1965

HAUT

i

Ss
M9

Auxiliary
and
Bureau
Activities

Expenses Nonappropriated

Trust Funds
(Gross Revenues)

Unrestricted

Restricted

Federal Grants
and Contracts

Federal
| Appropriations

To Plant and Endowment

Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

1 Administration and Facilities Services

1975

1983

1984

Special Programs
Museum Programs

Public Service

History and Art

Science

Smithsonian Institution - 1984
FINANCIAL REPORT

ANN R. LEVEN, TREASURER

Summary: Fiscal year 1984 marked a year of change at the Smith-
sonian, most notably the appointment of Robert McC. Adams as
the ninth Secretary of the Institution and the retirement of S.
Dillon Ripley as the eighth Secretary. Mr. Ripley’s extraordinary
legacy is nowhere more visible than in the Institution’s fiscal report.
In fiscal year 1965, Mr. Ripley’s first full year as Secretary, the
Institution’s operating budget was $30 million. For the year just
ended, Mr. Ripley presided over a greatly expanded Institution with
a budget tenfold that of fiscal year 1965.

Mr. Ripley’s twenty-year tenure, as referenced elsewhere in
Smithsonian Year, brought new vitality to the Institution, vitality
that cannot be measured in dollars. Mr. Ripley acted to shape the
form and focus of the Institution. New museums were added,
particularly in the arts. Under Dillon Ripley’s aegis, the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
the Renwick Gallery, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, and
the National Museum of African Art joined the Smithsonian fam-
ily. The National Museum of American Art and the Portrait
Gallery found new homes in the Old Patent Office Building, lov-
ingly restored under Mr. Ripley’s guidance. The National Air and
Space Museum opened its new building in July 1976. In 1983 con-
struction began on the Quadrangle, Mr. Ripley’s last and most
expansive project on the Mall.

Public accessibility to American culture and diversity was fur-
ther enhanced by a variety of outreach activities, most notably
Smithsonian magazine, which stands as the preeminent publica-

37
tion of its kind in the world today. Other programmatic triumphs
include the annual Folklife Festival, the Archives of American Art,
and the extraordinarily active Associate programs. Were all this
not sufficient, research efforts, assistance to other museums, and
innovative exhibits enhanced the lay public’s and the scholars’
perspectives during Mr. Ripley’s tenure.

The accomplishments of the Ripley years have been supported
in substantial proportions by federal appropriations. In recent
years, nonappropriated trust funds have also contributed an in-
creasing share. In 1964 there were some 40 private donors to the
Institution; in fiscal year 1984 there were more than 30,000. The
unprecedented sum of $37.5 million in private funds was raised,
principally by Mr. Ripley, for the Quadrangle to match monies
pledged by Congress for the project.

Fiscal year 1984 marks the culmination of the growth, excite-
ment, and achievement of the Ripley years. The following pages
detail the Institution’s finances. It is clearly apparent that the
Smithsonian is a far more complex organization than it was in
1964. Four Treasurers served Mr. Ripley: Edgar L. Roy and Otis O.
Martin in the early years; T. Ames Wheeler from 1968 to 1979,
and Christian C. Hohenlohe from 1979 to 1983. John F. Jameson,
Assistant Secretary for Administration, served as Acting Treasurer
from November 1983 through July 1984. Ann R. Leven, former
Treasurer of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, joined the Institu-
tion in August 1984.

As the Smithsonian begins the Adams years, the Institution looks
forward to a continuation of the broad-based support of both the
Administration and the Congress and of the public at large for
further enhancement of its research, exhibition, education, and
collection management endeavors.

Operating Funds—Sources and Application

As may be seen from Table 1, the gross amount available for oper-
ations in fiscal year 1984 was $304,350,000, an increase of 9 per-
cent when compared to the previous year’s total of $277,974,000.
Federal appropriations contributed 51 percent of the fiscal year
1984 revenues, nonappropriated sources accounted for 44 percent,
and 5 percent were from federal agency grants and contracts.

38 / Smithsonian Year 1984
After deducting expenses of the nonappropriated auxiliary and
bureau activities, net operating income increased by $18 million
over the prior year to $206,452,000. Federal funds accounted for
76 percent of net revenue, nonappropriated funds contributed 17
percent, a slight increase over fiscal year 1983, with the 7 percent
balance from federal grants and contracts. The application of funds
by all Smithsonian bureaus is outlined in Table 2, with further
supporting detail in other tables.

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

Federal appropriations provide the core support for the Institution’s
continuing programs in research, exhibitions, education, publishing,
and collections management, including related administrative and
support services. They provide, as well, for the maintenance and
protection of the collections and physical plant.

Federal support for the Institution’s operating programs totaled
$156,683,000 in fiscal year 1984, an increase of $9.4 million over
fiscal year 1983. Although the majority of this increase—some $5.4
million—was required to cover inflationary increases in salaries
and other expenses, significant new funding of $4 million was
provided for a variety of program activities. Of this increase, $1.2
million was received for operations and program requirements at
the Museum Support Center, which in fiscal year 1984 completed
its first full year of operation, and for strengthening the conserva-
tion activity at the center. Complementing the growth in construc-
tion support for major renovations and repairs (discussed below),
funding was received in the operating account for professional
architectural and engineering services and for facilities maintenance
at two off-mall facilities—the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the
National Zoological Park. Other significant increases were provided
for expansion of the Institution’s computing capabilities, for en-
hancing the security of buildings and collections, and for replacing
and upgrading scientific research equipment at the Astrophysical
Observatory and the Tropical Research Institute.

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Support from federal agencies in the form of grants and contracts
totaled $14,878,000 in fiscal year 1984, an increase of 13 percent
over the previous year. These funds constitute an important source
of research support for the Institution while also benefiting the
granting agencies by providing access to Smithsonian expertise and

Financial Report / 39
resources. As in prior years, the Smithsonian worked closely with
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). As
reflected in Table 3, expenditures under nasa grants and contracts
totaled approximately $11.3 million in fiscal year 1984, primarily
for research programs at the Astrophysical Observatory. Sponsored
research included balloon-borne telescope observations, the study
of meteorite samples from the Antarctic, X-ray telescope studies,
and the design of hydrogen masers.

Support from other agencies provided an additional $3.6 million
for such varied programs as an ecological study of the Chesapeake
Bay Watershed, the 1984 Festival of American Folklife, and a
mariculture project to study and develop food sources from the sea.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

Income from nonappropriated trust fund sources including gifts,
grants, endowment and current fund investments, and revenue-
producing activities totaled $132,789,000 in fiscal year 1984. After
exclusion of expenses necessary to generate auxiliary and bureau
activity revenues, net income available for Institutional programs
equaled $34,891,000, an increase of $6.7 million or 24 percent, over
fiscal year 1983. Of the total net income, $24.7 million, or 71 per-
cent, was available for unrestricted program use and was distrib-
uted as approved by the Board of Regents. The balance of approxi-
mately $10.2 million was restricted, that is, available only for
purposes specified by the benefactor.

Restricted fund revenues of $10.2 million were up $1 million
from the previous year. They consisted of $5.9 million from gifts
and grants, $3.2 million from endowment investment income and
interest earned on restricted current fund balances, and $1.1 million
from other sources, primarily fundraising activities at the Archives
of American Art and sales desk activities at the Freer Gallery of
Art. Restricted endowment investment income served as the major
funding source for oceanographic research administered by the
National Museum of Natural History; for operations of the Freer
Gallery of Art (now included in the Center for Asian Art); and a
wide variety of research, exhibition, publication, and educational
activities at other Smithsonian bureaus. Major gift support was
received during the year for important additions to the collections,
including Portrait of Mary Cassatt by Edgar Degas and Callers by
Walter Ufer; for major exhibitions being developed by the National
Museum of Natural History and the Smithsonian Institution Trav-

40 / Smithsonian Year 1984
eling Exhibition Service; and for research and archival activities
of the Archives of American Art.

Unrestricted funds include both those available for general op-
erating purposes and a smaller category of Special Purpose funds
that have been internally designated by the Institution. The former
and larger category, Unrestricted General Purpose funds, is derived
primarily from investment income and net revenues of the auxiliary
activities. In fiscal year 1984, net general purpose unrestricted
funds provided over $22 million for general Institutional needs, an
increase of some $5.8 million over the previous year. As displayed
in Table 5, this improved performance was due to increased income
generated by the Institution’s working capital pool invested at
favorable rates and to the strong performance of the auxiliary
activities.

As in past years, the Smithsonian Associate programs contrib-
uted handsomely to auxiliary activity revenues, on both a gross and
net basis, reflecting the continued popularity of the Smithsonian
magazine and the generosity of the Contributing Membership. In
fiscal year 1984, Contributing Members donated approximately
$2.7 million in unrestricted gift support. Income from the Museum
Shops benefited from generally strong sales enhanced by the new
shop at the Museum of American History and high visitation to all
museums. The Mail Order Program offered new items and an ex-
panded catalog. The Smithsonian Institution Press experienced
extremely favorable reviews and sales from its new recording,
“Big Band Jazz from the Beginnings to the Fifties,” and the popular
publication Treasures of the Smithsonian. In October 1983, the
Smithsonian-managed food service operations in the National Air
and Space Museum building and the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden were restored to concession management, affect-
ing the financial statements accordingly.

The general unrestricted funds supported a portion of the Insti-
tution’s administrative costs and most importantly provided for,
among other bureau activities, programs of the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum, the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center,
the Office of Telecommunications, and the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams. In addition, during fiscal year 1984, there were special
allotments for several major exhibitions and related activities, in-
cluding the Shanghai exhibition in the Thomas Mellon Evans
Special Exhibition Gallery, the Hirshhorn tenth anniversary exhibi-
tion, and Smithsonian participation in the Edinburgh Festival. The

Financial Report / 41
development of a new, integrated personnel/payroll system also
received funding. Transfers to special purpose funds financed the
Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Out-
reach Programs ($2,250,000), stipends for pre- and postdoctoral
fellows under the Smithsonian Fellowship program ($1,738,000),
income-sharing to the bureaus for their discretionary uses ($638,-
000), research grants to Smithsonian professional staff ($400,000),
and other projects. An amount of $3.4 million was transferred to
plant funds for Quadrangle development and for the purchase of
a residence for Smithsonian Secretaries. To build the future re-
sources of the Institution, $3.3 million was transferred to unre-
stricted endowment.

The Unrestricted Special Purpose funds were supplemented by
approximately $4.6 million during fiscal year 1984, principally with
monies generated by bureau activities. Illustrative of such revenue
activities are fees charged for films at the National Air and Space
Museum and the admission and membership fees at the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum. Investment income earned on unexpended fund
balances and from designated endowments added $700,000. Gifts
and miscellaneous income, such as zoo parking receipts that are
being reserved for future expansion of parking facilities at the
National Zoo, brought in another $1.2 million.

Special Foreign Currency Program

Foreign currencies, accumulated primarily from sales of surplus
agricultural commodities under Public Law 83-480 and determined
by the Treasury Department to be in excess of the current needs
of the United States, are made available to the Institution through
the Special Foreign Currency Appropriation. In fiscal year 1984, an
appropriation of excess foreign currencies equivalent to $7,040,000
was received under this program by the Smithsonian. Included in
this amount was $4 million (as compared to last year’s $2 million)
to continue a program of grants to United States institutions for
field research and advanced professional training in fields of tradi-
tional Smithsonian interest and competence.

An additional $2 million was provided to the Indian rupee re-
serve account established in fiscal year 1980 to ensure continued
program support of the American Institute of Indian Studies. The

42 / Smithsonian Year 1984
balance of $1,040,000 represented the second increment of support
for the international effort to restore and preserve the ancient city
of Moenjodaro in Pakistan. An additional amount in nonconvertible
Pakistani currency is expected to be sought by the Institution to
fulfill the United States’ commitment to the project. Obligations
during the fiscal year by research discipline and country are pro-
vided in Table 8.

Construction

New funding in fiscal year 1984 for construction and renovation
projects at the Institution totaled $24,126,000. As shown in Table
9, a federal appropriation of $9 million was provided for restoration
and renovation of existing Smithsonian facilities. A further $3.5
million was designated specifically for construction and renovation
of National Zoological Park facilities both at Rock Creek Park and
Front Royal. The types of projects funded include facade, roof,
and terrace repairs necessary to maintain the structural integrity
of buildings; the planning and installation of fire detection and
suppression systems; improvements to utility systems to increase
energy efficiency and to provide stable temperature and humidity
conditions for the preservation of the collections; and repairs, mod-
ifications, and improvements to preserve and maintain the Institu-
tion’s buildings in a safe and energy efficient manner. In addition,
federal dollars covered construction of a much-needed veterinary
hospital at Front Royal.

By September 30, 1984, the Institution had achieved its $37.5
million goal equal to one-half the estimated cost of constructing the
Quadrangle Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures.
Of the total raised, $10.8 million was received in fiscal year 1984:
$8.1 million was from gifts and earned interest and $2.7 million
was a transfer from unrestricted trust funds. It must be noted that
Congress rescinded $8 million of the $36.5 million appropriated in
fiscal year 1983 for its share of Quadrangle construction. This
action was based on anticipated savings resulting from the unex-
pectedly low contract bid for construction. In taking this action,
Congress restated its commitment to sharing equally the project’s
cost and indicated a willingness to reconsider its decision based on
identified need.

Financial Report / 43
Other nonappropriated receipts include grant support for con-
struction of research facilities at the Tropical Research Institute, a
donation for relocation of an antique greenhouse, and interest
earned on unexpended gifts to plant funds. In addition to the $2.7
million for Quadrangle construction, transfers from unrestricted
funds were made for the purchase and improvement of a residence
for Smithsonian Secretaries and for mortgage payments on prop-
erty currently occupied by the National Museum of African Art.

Endowment and Similar Funds

As of September 30, 1984, the market value of the Smithsonian
Endowment Fund was $132,416,000, as compared to $132,031,000
on September 30, 1983. Of this, $131,113,000 is invested in the
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund under outside investment
management, $1,000,000 is on permanent deposit in the United
States Treasury as required, and the remaining $303,000 includes
restricted stock and donated real estate. As shown in Table 10, the
majority of the funds, 56 percent ($74,672,000), represents re-
stricted endowment, with income available only for the purposes
specified by the donor. The remaining 44 percent ($57,744,000) are
unrestricted endowment funds, with income available for general
support of the Institution. Certain of the unrestricted funds, such
as the Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History Endowment, have
been designated by the Regents for specific purposes. A complete
listing of all endowment funds, together with current book and
market values, may be seen in Table 13.

Investment of the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is
subject to policy guidelines established by the Board of Regents.
Funds are managed by professional advisory firms under the over-
sight of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasury. During
fiscal year 1984, the number of managers was increased to four
with the addition of Granahan-Everitt Investments, Inc. As of the
end of the year, the respective portion of the fund by manager was:
Fiduciary Trust Company of New York (46 percent), Batterymarch
Financial Management (30 percent), Torray Clark & Company (20
percent), and Granahan-Everett Investments, Inc. (4 percent).

For fiscal year 1984, the total rate of return (market appreciation
as well as interest and dividend yield) of the Pooled Consolidated

44 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Endowment Fund, as calculated by an independent investment
measurement service, was +0.4 percent, as compared to +4.6 per-
cent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Average and +2.2 percent for
the Dow Jones Industrial Average, both calculated on the same
basis. The year-end market values and the recap of activity of the
Consolidated Endowment over the past five years are reflected in
Tables 11 and 12, respectively.

Under the Total Return Income policy followed by the Institu-
tion, total investment return is defined as yield (interest and divi-
dends) plus appreciation, including both realized and unrealized
gains. A portion of this return is made available for expenditure
each year, and the remainder is reinvested as principal. This total
return income payout is determined in advance of the fiscal year
by the Board of Regents based on a review of anticipated interest
and dividend yields, support needs of the Institution’s bureaus and
scientists, inflationary factors, and the five-year running average of
market values, adjusted for additions or withdrawals of capital.
After income payout of $3,820,000 in fiscal year 1984 to endow-
ments in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund, $2,794,000 of
excess interest and dividend yield was available for reinvestment
into endowment principal. Net transfers to endowment, primarily
to unrestricted endowment funds, provided an additional $3.5
million with $283,000 received in gifts and other income. At the
request of the donor, balances in the Shryock Endowment for
Docents were transferred to restricted current funds.

Upon request, a listing of the securities held in the Pooled Con-
solidated Endowment Fund as of September 30, 1984, may be ob-
tained from the Treasurer of the Institution.

Related Organizations

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts were established by Congress within the Institu-
tion. Each organization is administered by its own board of trustees
and reports independently on its financial status. Fiscal, administra-
tive, and other support services are provided the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars on a reimbursement basis; office
space is made available for center operations.

Financial Report / 45
An independent nonprofit corporation, the Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo (FONZ) operates under contract a number of beneficial
concessions for the National Zoological Park. During calendar year
1983 (FONZ’s fiscal year), FONZ concession and rental fees to the
Smithsonian amounted to approximately $431,000. In addition,
FONZ contributed other important financial and volunteer support
to zoo programs. Additional information on FONZ is to be found
elsewhere in Smithsonian Year 1984.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., associated with the Institution
since 1968, now operates as an independent, separately incor-
porated entity dedicated to the improvement of reading abilities
in children. Primary support is derived from private contributions
and a federal contract with the Department of Education to operate
the Federal Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. Administrative
services are offered by the Institution on a contract basis.

For fiscal year 1984, the Smithsonian also provided administra-
tive and fiscal assistance to the Visions Foundation, a start-up
venture in the arts.

Accounting and Auditing

The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated, are audited
annually by the independent public accounting firm of Coopers
and Lybrand. Their report for fiscal year 1984 is reprinted on the
following pages. The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff audits
Smithsonian activities and financial systems throughout the year.
Additionally, the Defense Contract Audit Agency conducts an
annual audit of grants and contracts received from federal agencies
and monitors allocated administrative costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents met
several times during the year pursuant to their responsibility under
the bylaws of the Institution. The committee is charged with
reviewing the Smithsonian’s accounting systems and _ internal
financial controls; facilitating communication between the Board
of Regents and the internal audit staff, the independent accounting
firm, and the General Accounting Office; and reviewing operations
of the Institution for compliance with approved programs and
policies.

46 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Tas_e 1. Financial Summary
(In $1,000s)

FY 1982 FY 1983 FY 1984

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:

Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ......... $131,170 $147,256 $156,683
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts .............++00+ 13,217 13,125 14,878
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
ODI REStriGted ULPOSES! s.r si<0.s) <siaies oleh oetai sl «soleus 6,821 9,162 10,182
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross ... 97,350 104,129 117,550
fess Related: EXpenses) Jeiscnsttee 2 eccmiguae acvatorsts (88,596) (89,397) (97,898)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ....... 8,754 14,732 19,652
Investment, Gift, & Other Income ............... 4,808 4,302 5,057
Total Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue 13,562 19,034 24,709
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ...... 108,979 117,593 132,789
INERI Scat 20,383 28,196 34,891
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ............. 253,366 277,974 304,350
m—NCE Ll Aaeeait chi oops il $164,770 $188,577 $206,452
FUNDS APPLIED:
BAPE CRETE Clays ie aisn.s) syejoyens a s\s, e.stererenerate ois oe elie ediaieie ses $ 64,837 $ 68,895 $ 74,134
Less SAO Overhead Recovery .............-.+-0+> (2,487) (2,264) (2,226)
eMC 6 Rail BE Besc¥ once arceatav erst 3 wtha asters Petals whch yet 26,762 30,979 33,011
PETC ROPEVICER ALA i ctsie ete chal a veta sacks tanessahe sores sabes bole were 3,782 2,843 3,526
RVIIS ECM TO LAIIS!+< <ts)aieiaisisictst« ale siessictea lle sles) <teyerereisiel 8,539 9,702 10,976
ECA MEKOPTAINS yeas aac science reais wide alate ie eenveioe aie 9,533 13,342 14,805
Associates & Business Management ..............-.- 543 1,057 884
Administration—Federal®* «2... Seti eac.ou wanes ogee 9,719 11,032 12,201
—Nonappropriated Trust Funds .................4. 5,733 7,226 8,211
Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery ............ (5,338) (6,331) (6,528)
PARMATTESH OCT VICES orli aie aie a. 3. ore Ate ieie 3.3 ols, MoS ee: eomeant 39,327 43,653 46,821
Total Operating Funds Applied ..................04. 160,950 180,134 195,815
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Unrestricted Funds—To Plant ................000. 1,064 2,069 3,424
—To Endowment .............. 2,259 3,084 3,313
Restricted Funds—To Endowment ................. 318 637 222

Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out .... $164,591***$185,924 $202,774

CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED
TRUST FUND BALANCES:

Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts) $ (45) $ 1,765 $ 1/426

Unrestricted—General Purpose ...............00e000 5 28 10
-=OPeCial#Purpose -Waqadsc a. vente acces 404 860 2,242

SCENE eres reo. cine cr cvausfarals.te sus ssicucin eee arena ares $ 364 $ 2,653 $ 3,678

YEAR-END BALANCES—

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:

REBENICLEC EIT POSE) cetovs, cae 401s oh onesie ORR ood «aio RI $ 5,906 $ 7,671 $ 9,097

Unrestricted—General Purpose ..............000000- 5,048 5,076 5,086
——SPECiAls PUPOSE) 5,12) Miioss sinuses oe: =15 4gejeas 13,003 13,863 16,105

SliesCallimerrcecsavacay: reas ay syeueacicS. 2: 5-0.8/0 RG stays nies, Bae orca = aie Re $ 23,957 $ 26,610 $ 30,288

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS

Special Foreign Currency Program ..............---- $ 4,320 $ 2,000 $ 7,040
BRESIGLECCLIOIN 25 Sousa re, oheus)c Hicker over etore reve oS HanIOr ec SIE ONTOS 9,744 46,500 4,500

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) ..... $145,234 $195,756 $168,223

*Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: FY 1982—
$2,197,000; FY 1983—$15,048,000; FY 1984—$8,484,000.

**Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1982—$124,000; FY 1983—$62,000; FY 1984—
$102,000.

***Includes $185,000 available for FDR Centennial carried forward from FY 1981.
TaBLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds
Year Ended September 30, 1984
(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)

(In $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
non- iliary cial and
Federal federal activi- pur- con-
Funds funds funds General ties pose General tracts
FUND BALANCES—10/1/83 . $ — $ 26,610 $ 5,076 $ — $13,863 $ 7,421 $ 250
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations ....... 156,683 — = — — — —
Investment Income .......... = 7,023 3,108 “== 679 3,236 _
Grants and @ontracts)....-.0 - — 14,876 _— — — — 14,876
Giftei: 3. aaa ee eee — 8,701 35 2,698 109 5,859 _—
Sales and Revenue ........... — 114,852 — 112,179 2,673 — —
Ober cS a oh da sy este S25) 233s (6) — (Lise eee 2
Total Provided ........ 156,683 147,667 3,137 114,877 4,593 10,182 14,878
otalwAvailabless....2: $156,683 $174,277 $ 8,213 $114,877 $18,456 $17,603 $15,128
FUNDS APPLIED
Science:
Assistant Secretary .......... 524 ily 28 cen 38 7 329
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History/
Museumeote Wanna 18,734 3,814 310 — 794 1,387 1,323
Astrophysical Observatory ... 7,441 15,300 2,244 — 646 222 12,188
Less Overhead Recovery ... — (2,226) (2,226) — — — —
Tropical Research Institute ... 3,424 784 103 a 413 264
Environmental Rsch. Center .. 3,098 481 74 — 90 19 298
Natl. Air & Space Museum ... 7,477 2,666 39 — 2,354 134 139
Natl. Zoological Park ........ 10,720 465 66 — 225 44 130
MotaliScience ))-<)- 2. 40. 51,418 21,796 638 — 4,560 2,187 14,411
History and Art:
Assistant Secretary .......... 598 fats 108 — 7 _ _—
Natl. Mus. of Am. History ... 9,637 TRAY, 245 — 643 325 4
Natl. Mus. of American Art .. 4,465 698 48 — 123 526 El
Natl., Portrait (Gallery) .2 252/40. 3,216 1,599 17 —— 807 775 _
Hirshhorn Museum .......... 2,851 93 9 — 73 ial —
Center for Asian Art ........ 1,058 1,584 50 — 37 TA97. —
Archives of American Art ... 693 929 1 — — 928 —_
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..... 843 2,055 739 — 1,022 195 99
Natl. Mus. of African Art .... 1,043 210 73 — 104 33 —
Anacostia Museum .......... 741 34 32 — — 2 _—
Total History and Art . 25,145 8,534 1322. — 2,816 4,292 104

48 / Smithsonian Year 1984

ee
Total
non-
Federal federal
Funds funds funds General
Public Service:
Assistant Secretary .......... 456 338 272
Meeeption Center ........:... 174 589 547
Telecommunications ......... 221 716 465
Smithsonian Press ........... 1,023 10,676 36
Total Public Service ... WS7A) | 12,319 | 4,320
Museum Programs:
Assistant Secretary .......... 631 470 48
MET AIGE  oh ec oo cc's. 8105, os se 3 90 — ——
Conserv. Analytical Laboratory 883 1 —
ESI ck coy cva.d).« Pains 3,726 337 309
eee 1,413 (40) —
Traveling Exhib. Service ..... 327 3,241 182
Ls TOIWEEUS 3 oe ee a 492. abi lal 110
National Museum Act ....... 785 — —
Total Museum Programs 8,347 4,120 649
Special Programs:
Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. . 594 801 474
Int. Environ. Science Pgm. ... 687 — —
Academic & Educational Pgm. TAg 1,666 251
Collections Mgt./Inventory ... 879 _- —
Major Exhibition Program .... 522 -- —
Museum Support Center ..... 7,649 269 _-
fee center Grant ........... 1,000 — —
Total Special Programs . 12,048 2,736 725
Associate Programs ......... — 60,313 782
Business Management ....... — 24,280 oo
Mueatasiration .............. 12,099 8,288 7,985
Less Overhead Recovery .. — (6,528) (6,528)
Bemities Services .........s.. 45,650 172 ete 22
Transfers Out/(In):
0 ee 102* — —
Coll. Acg., Schol. St., Outreach — — 2,250
Net Auxiliary Activities ...... — — (18,375)
Other Designated Purposes ... _ — 4,541
ae —_ 3,424 3,400
i — 3,535 3,296
Metal Transfers ....... 102 6,959 (4,888)

TABLE 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued
Year Ended September 30, 1984

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)
(In $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted

Aux-
iliary
activi-
ties

Spe-
cial
pur-
pose

Restricted

Grants
and
con-
General tracts

18,375
638

19,013

222

Total Funds Applied ... $156,683 $143,989 $ 3,127 $114,877 $ 2,351 $ 8,793 $14,841

FUND BALANCES 9/30/84 .. $

*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.

— $ 30,288 $ 5,086 $

— $16,105 $ 8,810 $

287

Financial Report / 49
Taste 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(In $1,000s)

Federal Agencies FY 1982 FY 1983 FY 1984
Agency for International Development ......... $ — $ — $ 428
Department of Commerce 22220.522....0.<00.0- 174 (7) 57
Department of (Defense <-054..0-.0:00 sess ose 1,001 1,299 1,056
Depariment ot Enerey: < acco ccs tcitcs sceiciesisiernets 448 358 227
Department of Health and Human Services ..... 325 280 273
Department: of Interior *3:.2:2 crt cece eee. eee 268 238 204
National Aeronautics and Space Administration* 9,303 9,551 11,275
National Science Eoundation** 7-.+22.0.-.---o. 1,079 928 820
Other irs Te ee ie ieee Seis eres ene 837 415 501

WO tals oop sidpeve cs areseysvoia we S/o ie steietercie:= ove ayatouenete $13,435 $13,062 $14,841

*Includes $264,000 (FY 1982), $197,000 (FY 1983), and $399,000 (FY 1984) in subcontracts from
other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA.

**Includes $230,000 (FY 1982), $196,000 (FY 1983), and $250,000 (FY 1984) in NSF subcontracts
from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

Taste 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds *
Fiscal Years 1982-1984
(In $1,000s)

Net Fund
in- bal-
Total Trans- crease ance
Invest- Miscel- rev- Deduc- fersin (de- end of
Item ment Gifts laneous enue _ tions (out) crease) year
FY 1982—Total ....2.2-- $2,886 $3,154 $ 781 $ 6,821 $6,571 $ (77) $ 173 $5,719
FY 1983—Total ......... $2,971 $5,419 $ 772 $ 9,162 $6,823 $ (637) $1,702 $7,421
FY 1984:
National Museum of
Natural History ...... $1,150 $ 837 $ 107 $ 2,094 $1,387 $ — $ 707 $1,441
Astrophysical Observatory 91 122 — 213 222 _— (9) (16)
Tropical Research
TStILUEC) ge seereiecsraeoe tear 44 195 — 239 264 — (25) 235
National Air & Space
Museums sinc ici aoe 69 54 — 123 134 (25) (36) 79
National Zoological Park 19 69 — 88 44 _ 44 149
Other Science’ 7.252 34.4. 139 130 — 269 136 (113) 20 582
National Museum of
American History .... 58 239 il 298 325 2 (25) 527
National Museum of
American Art 22-2 66 522 9 597 526 _- 71 480
National Portrait Gallery 18 772 (2) 788 775 = 13 179
Hirshhorn Museum ..... 70 11 — 81 11 — 70 736
Center for Asian Art .... 1,131 69 630 1,830 1,497 (15) 318 1,552
Archives of American Art 45 778 320 1,143 928 — 215 530
Cooper-Hewitt Museum . Tf 238 — 310 195 — 115 693
Traveling Exhibition
SEnVICe Boe eae 79 1,415 — 1,494 1,486 — 8 930
All@ thereat acme coe 185 408 22 615 641 (71) (97) 713
Total FY 1984 .. $3,236 $5,859 $1,087 $10,182 $8,571 $ (222) $1,389 $8,810

*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.
Taste 5. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1982-1984

(In $1,000s)

Item

FUNDS PROVIDED
General Income:

_TUERT Gr Ge eR See Or es ee ee
DAE 22 Geary hk ean san oui ae ag ee
se SII ee a eh nats race

meatal Generale income ts 2.52 ates ce ses

Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):

PACS oe ee os tee Eo, op idle ow ema 2

Business Management:

—Museum Shops and Mail Order ........
—Concessions, Parking and Food Services ..
=i ee eee ee ere
Re eRMMENRES PARES 08S o.oo hte os sin mime orci aya aya
OU Ee go re ee
eaweimns Exhibitions... oii 2.2 2 cee nn salen
0 OSSD ere

Total Auxiliary Activities .............
Total Funds Provided (Net) ............

EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS

Administrative and Program Expense .........
Less Administrative Recovery ............+.--

SEEMS SAICTISE: foc. F572 ace eine aims syne = elas

Less Transfers:

To Special Purpose for Program Purposes ....
EE ARMBEAIGOS: (21-85% 5s cies n'a v Sige Rie bce
Wertadowment Funds ....- 2.02.6 ssseses0>

NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE .......
EeeuNG FUND BALANCE 5... 2205-00050

FY 1982 FY 1983 FY 1984

$ 2,921 $ 2,489 $ 3,108

(2,544) = —
670 232 ©1158
(298) (363) (421)
11 19 5

8,012 13,832 19,013
11,034 16,391 22,150

12,505 14,727 16,769
7,825 8,595 8,754

4,680 6,132 8,015

3,328 5,205 7 A429
1,000 2,005 3,400

2,021 3,021 3,296

5 28 10

$ 5,048 $ 5,076 $ 5,086

*Effective FY 1983, the Division of Performing Arts recording program was trans-
ferred to the Smithsonian Press and the performing arts activities for which tickets
are sold to the public were transferred to the Resident Associate Program.

Financial Report / 51
Taste 6. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1982-1984
(In $1,000s)

Less
cost of
sales

$56,166

Gross
revenue

$38,259

Ex-
penses

$30,247

$46,127
14,752

45

$26,369
12,010

2,572
97

$13,294
8,299

881
303

Sales
and
other
Activity revenue
FYOTOR 2) Oe ere eee eS $ 92,668
BYP LOGS UE et ree Aik don $ 98,826
FY 1984:
ASSO ClateSe wats crosrorerels tone $ 69,798
Business Management:
—Museum Shops* ..... 26,762
—Concessions/Parking/
Food Services ....... 2,617
—Otherwic. ca Fees 97
Smithsonian Press ....... 11,792
Traveling Exhibitions .... 1,030
Photo Services
(Administration) ....... 83
otal FY 1984 2... $112,179

*Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order.
**Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $380,000 (FY

1982); $486,000 (FY 1983); and $638,000 (FY 1984).

52 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Net
rev-
enue**

(loss)

$ 8,012

$13,832

$13,075
3,711
1,691
(206)
1,158
(421)

5

$19,013
Taste 7. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds

Fiscal Years 1982-1984
(In $1,000s)

Revenue Deductions
Gifts Bu- Net Fund
Bu- and Pro- reau in- bal-
In- reau other Total Trans- gram _ activ- crease ance
vest- activi- rev- rev- fersin ex-  ityex- (de- end of
Item ment ties enue enue (out) pense pense crease) year
1 $719 $2,925 $1,067 $4,711 $2,784 $4,908 $2,183 $ 404 $13,003
(0) ee $686 $3,132 $1,057 $4,875 $5,078 $6,861 $2,232 $ 860 $13,863
“Y 1984:
National Museum of
Natural History ...... $550) $0 27S. 630) 0$i6 87, $0959 $0794. Sie s—— $252 $ 854
Astrophysical
Observatory ......... 10 137 65 212 502 491 155 68 679
[Tropical Research
EME che ccc 22 131 _— 153 234 193 220 (26) 153
National Air and Space
Goons 243 1,400 35 1,678 73 1,433 921 (603) 1,993
environmental Research
Gi aS SeSeeee 7 23 16 46 88 80 10 44 175
National Zoological Park 210 -- 200 410 90 225 -- 275 2,310
National Museum of
American History .... 23 13 85 121 566 638 5 44 482
National Museum of
American Art ........ 14 5 139 158 23 119 4 58 175
National Portrait Gallery 5 9 58 72 743 799 8 8 135
dirshhorn Museum ..... 15 — 17 32 327 73 _ 286 464
ooper-Hewitt Museum . il 849 347 1,197 23 374 648 198 202
ational Museum of
Mumecan Art .......... = 7 6 13 18 101 3 (73) 48
ffice of Telecommunica-
_ > 539353 — 3 — 3 19 167 oo (178) 274
iability Reserves ....... = == 2 — — 16 — (16) 3,273
nallocated Coll. Acq.,
Schol. Studies, and
Memtedch ............ —_ —_ _— — 133 — oo 133 570
ellowships 5 S.A eerere 24 — —_ 24 1,363 £1,194 — 193 1,034
useum Support Center
Egaipment ........... = = —_ —_ — 269 — (269) 401
re 55 89 243 387 © 2,227 739 27 + =1,848 2,883

ffective in FY 1983, the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies was merged with the Radiation
iology Laboratory to form the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center.

Financial Report / 53
Taste 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1984—Obligations
(In $1,000s)

System- Astro-
aticand physics Mu- Grant

environ- and seum admin-
Archae- mental earth pro- istra-
Country ology biology sciences grams tion Total
India\ aeeiee cioseaeey $4,730 $415 $111 $405 $253* $5,914
Burmatee vis s ssa e il & — — —_ 4
Pakistani. eee: DLS. 239 6 —_ 19 1,401
Total. irae $5,868 $657 $117 $405 $272 $7,319

*Includes $180,000 for translation services in support of all programs.

TABLE 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1982-1984
(In $1,000s)

Sources FY 1982 FY 1983 FY 1984

FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:

National) Zoological Park’. 200. ...c. cose cds $ 1,104 $1,550 $ 3,500
Restoration and Renovation of Buildings ..... 7,680 8,450 9,000
Otiadraticle. es er Aaah Das tenes Sen 960 36,500 (8,000)

Total Federal Appropriations ........... 9,744 46,500 4,500

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other

Special Exhibits Gallery .oh. 005.480.3228 1 —- —_—
Smithsonian Environmental Research
Genter—Gain on! ‘Sale: 2 o.5...cas ccc — 44 —
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute—Research Facilities ............ — 66 20
Erection of Jacksonville Bandstand ......... — 174 12
GCooper-Hewitt Museum) firs. -)s teers et el 163 32
American Art and Portrait Gallery Building 183 21 21
Quadrangle and Related .................. 1,650 14,574 8,098
Smithsonian Institution Building South
Entrancet 2:26 ss) Meaetece so otencsvore s are etevarece ssorare 64 5 3
Beguest’ of Real. Estate (.5 i... cnes.e cs aecchows 225 — —
Belmont Conference Center—Gain on Sale .. —_— 1,405* —
Horticulture Antique Greenhouse .......... — —_— 16
‘Total’ Income” 208. 9.1 S88h: «SAS ceo 2,154 16,452 8,202
Transfers from Current Funds:
National Museum of African Art ............ 24 24 24
Wiadrangle sone Me ace cet nee tata ee. 1,040 2,040 2,700
EastiGarden) fo ccc c cm ce mons co ee setae ose tere — 5 =
Secretaries: #Residence™ ssmanc osha eee oa: — — 700
otalfransterse swore le eee irate oie 1,064 2,069 3,424
MotalokundssLrovideduen cease eon $12,962 $65,021 $16,126

*Total proceeds realized of $1,993,000 of which $1,750,000 was directed to construction
of the Museum Support Center and $208,000 was transferred to endowment funds.

54 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Tas_e 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1984

ASSETS

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Cash and Equivalents
Bonds

Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity
Notes Receivable
Bonds

Land
Total Nonpooled Funds

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .

ey

ec

ed

eee eee

Ce

Ce

ee

cd

Book value

eS 525)970
& 11,346,884
: 4,048,125
: 87,939,422

- 116,860,401

1,000,000
5 41,946
: 10,000
: 1,999
239,000

: 1,292,945
$118,153,346

Market value

$ 13,525,970
11,431,145
4,408,300
101,747,648

131,113,063

1,000,000
41,946
9,600
12,000
239,000

1,302,546
$132,415,609

FUND BALANCES

Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment $ 3,953,128 $ 5,014,889

Quasi Endowment .... 49,312,990 52,728,976

Total Unrestricted Purpose ............... 53,266,118 57,743,865
Restricted Purpose: True Endowment ..... 48,031,154 55,770,264
Quasi Endowment .... 16,856,074 18,901,480

otal Restricted Purposes 2. = <.0...0e0.2- ss 64,887,228 74,671,744
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $118,153,346 $132,415,609

TaBLe. 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
(In $1,000s)

Fund 9/30/80 9/30/81 9/30/82 9/30/83 9/30/84
Wmrestricted’’..-......- $28,384 $30,399 $35,974 $ 54,677 $ 56,592
ETEOT tao oe eee aes 2O;772: 20,472 22,596 32,096 SL 125
Other Restricted ...... 28,175 27,101 30,288 43,911 43,396

otal@ereen ccc $88,858 $130,684 $131,113

$77,330 $77,972

TaBLe 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds

for Fiscal Year 1984
(In $1,000s)

Gifts Inter- Change
Market and _ est and Income in Market
value trans- divi- paid Sub- market value
Fund 9/30/83 fers dends* out total value 9/30/84
Unrestricted ..... $ 54,677 $3,083 $2,821 $1,378 $ 59,203 $(2,611) $ 56,592
IETECE ines. cisreas ts 32,096 — 1,597 1,029 32,664 (1,539) 31,125
Other Restricted . 43,911 807 2,196 1,413 45,501 (2,105) 43,396
Total onc <<

$130,684 $3,890 $6,614 $3,820 $137,368 $(6,255) $131,113

*Income earned, less managers’ fees of $546,041.
Taste 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1984

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
value value income balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
AverysiFund? 2 5.2) Seen tes $ 130,518) $.. 170,081 §§8$) 473s) Sesh
Higbee, Harry, Memorial ......... 38,243 49,530 1,205 —o—
Hodgkins Fund* ................. 226,558 243,573 10,860 os
Morrow, Dwight W. ............. 228,867 304,678 7,A15 —o—
Mussinan:, Alfred)... .o..0 cs ne 72,528 89,101 2,169 —0—
Olmsted) J MelenAs. ciieracieteceie wielevers 2,404 3,110 76 —o—
Poore, Lucy T. and George W.* ... 512,423 677,406 17,621 —0—
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ... 846,465 1,125,065 27,382 0
Sanford sGeorge) He aero ere 3,784 4,644 160 —o—
Smithsonsjames seen esise sens 567,676 566,646 36,809 —0—
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary
Vaux, Research (Designated)* .. 1,322,662 1,781,055 58,759 31,064
Subtotals. a reoee ase 3,953,128 5,014,889 167,191 31,064
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Forrest, ‘Robert Wee: Js) cee aces 3,414,389 3,390,484 82,519 0
General Endowment* ............ 41,529,143 44,823,288 1,059,803 —o0—
Goddard, Robert H. .............. 27,020 26,850 654 oe
Habel Dr: Gor vencicccstoavernve, easter 524 523 34 —o—
Hart, Gustavus: Ex weenie ncocueses 1,706 2,008 49 —o0—
Henry, 1Garoline) 2. .tt eile dels Ac 4,225 4,955 121 —o0—
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. ..... 170,033 198,214 4,824 —o—
Meys;) MandeuG. a esan desis eraccr 327,238 329,912 8,030 —0—
Hinton, Carrie Susan’ ...5.0.2.0.. 87,159 96,510 2,349 —o—
Rambert» PanlatiGs arenas cies + sets 156,692 177,060 4,309 —o—
Medinus; Grace iL; cvas.ereetinnixe.s 3,238 3,283 80 —o—
Rhees, William Jones* ........... 2,263 2,539 87 —o—
Safford), Glaray Louises.cic ss) cee 149,209 154,099 3,751 —0—
Smithsonian Bequest Fund* ...... 677,280 700,361 13,501 —o0—
Taggart; Ganson) feeeecce st ese 1,434 1,878 46 —o—
Abbott, William L. (Designated) .. 402,179 470,057 15,536 16,614
Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) . 3,368 3,929 130 4,897
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace

History (Designated) .......... 1,563,652 1,628,013 53,808 72,714
Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) 12,628 14,278 1,296 7,965
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr.

(Designated) o-ccausanest-ceiccetas 13,541 14,007 463 2,309
Webb, James E., Fellowship

(Designated) FE Ce GRRE Comino OG 766,069 686,728 22,670 11,654

Subfotall eieateaaaemniseetet 49,312,990 52,728,976 1,274,060 116,153

Total Unrestricted Purpose ..... $ 53,266,118 $ 57,743,865 $1,441,251 $ 147,217

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Arthur, t James 22.295: oesccoee $ 114,851 $ 153,962 $ 5,089 $ 6,138
Baird, Spencer Fullerton ......... 104,163 137,626 4,549 11,910
Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial ..... 82,338 110,330 3,647 23,935
Batchelor EmmiallE. s. ccteise<:os os cle 106,226 114,125 3,772 60,430
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial .. 132,066 154,177 5,096 42,024
Bergen, Charlotte V. ............. 11,674 11,394 377, 635
Brown; Roland Wer satcieiarsis:oveleve-< aie 88,860 105,813 3,497 16,965
Canfield, Frederick A. ........... 117,005 169,631 5,607 220
Casey, Thomas Lincoln .......... 42,299 49,429 1,634 2,671
Chamberlain, Frances Lea .......- 80,844 108,331 3,581 17,875
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology .... 83,569 84,367 2,732 —0--
Division of Mammals Curators

Fund: 5 caatanccateeon aes ciciaicre 6,122 7,282 226 4,040
Drake Foundation .............. 545,928 600,711 19,778 86,137
Drouet, Francis and Louderback,

Harold Bs Gund) 2s cose cates rte 175,273 171,812 830 18,992
Dykes, Charles, Bequest ......... 158,678 181,773 6,008 38,674
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort .... 31,200 41,798 1,381 20,935
Freer Gharlessil a. 3- 1k cus tiveciele.c'eers 26,702,183 31,125,303 1,028,730 1,249,227
Grimm Sergei, jicyaratanveirine clerks 97,990 97,518 3,223 11,279
Groom, parricks Weaciencenmeerseniet 52,723 48,658 1,206 994
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence . 380,996 398,253 13,163 33,032
Elamittorny Jamesen sani seein cae 3,815 4,283 226 1,288
Henderson, Edward P.,

Meteorite Fund ..¢..ccccaec ces 1,096 1,369 45 398
Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund .. 22,847 25,039 828 —o—
Hewitt, Sarah Cooper ............ 135,099 147,794 4,885 —0—
Hillyer, Virgil Sr diatel aaguiictnie Wicvehevetal ai 22,180 25,921 857 11,211
Hitchcock; “Alberti cise slo cies /siele 4,561 6,168 204 110
Hodgkins Fund® So. .Jocc.caeereee 104,830 104,644 6,818 33,107

Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie ........ 160,959 191,677 6,335 6,951
TaBLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1984—continued

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
value value income balance
PANG HES TICE! (< cys cere ee cpeers anand. 54,978 73,720 2,437 20,537
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for
Oceanography alate. on aavare/eiefistaietelere 11,045,313 12,945,474 427,883 108,753
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ... 78,269 79,842 2,639 8,238
MOCC PITA NAGA 9 as, 20e) a,c aiaieoreialou ines 8,898 10,077 333 2,849
Bindsey, Jessie H.* 2... 536600000. 12,248 12,142 1,155 7,989
Miarwelly Mary Es. 06 cesceia aves 56,335 75,532 2,496 23,283
Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial .. 674 736 24 24
Mineral Endowment ............. 305,920 339,220 11,212 303
Mitchell, William A. 0... ...0.. 41,670 46,405 1,534 2,343
Natural History and Conservation . 75,300 80,731 2,571 —o—
Nelson, Edward William ......... 66,401 85,535 2,827 6,037
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ...... 21,324 28,650 947 25,070
RRERGP PA CEISON, (Le jcc, 2-0;nj0re si2/5,0.0,cka/e 71,536 81,609 3,067 6,513
Roebling [Eta yet BPs Se So oe eee we 345,925 462,053 15,271 82
Rollins, Miriam and William ..... 667,383 812,837 26,614 15,885
Shryock Endowment for Docents . —o— —o— 49 —0—
Sims, George NUN 8 Peiiaskes cose oy cha re auereve 58,999 56,727 1,830 1,516
Barapa bund tach coe corto sine 4,415,010 4,860,495 159,141 42,319
peniper Frank: ny. «  srete sos a:sres 6:3 51,747 68,949 2,279 27,204
Stern, Harold P., Memorial ...... 461,817 512,004 16,453 46,880
Stevenson, John A., Mycological
LASTEST eae NOR ene eee 16,212 18,837 623 1,430
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary
Wate MResearchy (.)6.6/.c:d0s «reve oes 429,518 511,841 16,727 13,440
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical
BNDNeAIONS TS Oe rae < ae xe oe 163,589 214,597 7,093 19,401
Williston, Samuel Wendell,
Mipteray Researchiwe.<ockocciciee. 8,996 9,438 299 1,100
Zerbee, Frances Brinckle ......... ea aly, 3,625 120 4,530
Suptotaleer three vahayofevel acer 48,031,154 55,770,264 1,839,948 2,084,904
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Armstrong, Edwin James ......... 10,125 10,962 356 —o—
Armbarier Furi ...< 00: %s 00.0000 00 64,026 63,799 2,109 —o—
Bacon, Virginia Purdy paaheuatefehetedavene 293,747 320,211 10,583 33,712
Becker, George LES a Ors paneer iets 506,092 554,225 18,318 3,719
Mesautels Pauli Es ois sagelsere ciel 36,534 42,266 1,371 —0—
Saree te RS OTAON, a1 ate os, 9510 aisievosic ere 3,972 4,507 149 3,296
Hachenberg, George P. and
Conc IG eet, geen See ese a see 13,933 16,847 557 1,209
Hanson, Martin Gustav and
IO Gh Oe a es 29,993 35,038 1,158 5,785
Hunterdon Endowment .......... 10,019,276 11,513,070 380,521 131,853
HEBP Endowment. ..<.00<.< 060s 582,335 596,758 18,023 —O0—
ICBP—Conservation Endowment .. 130,818 131,280 4,196 4,558
Johnson, E. R. Fenimore ......... 25,183 25,942 857 2,254
Me De IVIOLTIS YS. eye cvs isje.« wieehsis Wester oh 295,797 347,498 11,485 15,116
Long, Annette E. and Edith C. .... 1,578 2,146 71 290
Myer, Catherine Walden ......... 68,169 79,642 2,632 11,546
PMOVESHELANK Bs, csc sicioe ste oe vw oes 3,341 4,014 133 2,280
Noyes, Pauline Riggs ............ 30,151 30,063 994 —o0—
Pell, Cornelia Livingston ......... 25,090 29,401 972 1,907
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt
“CUS eo ooo Sete is ec eRe Bee 965,910 1,007,242 33,249 6,030
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ...... 35,974 42,127 1,392 18,273
Roebling Solar Research ......... 80,966 90,574 2,994 4,666
ehiBerthau Men srs siciojese-ciavcisctere oc 98,186 101,098 3,341 13,096
Benitez, Leonard. Ps. onc cs ween ce 26,141 30,474 1,007 19,465
SFEIGEI, VAEHETEON: ..4)-/0.5.¢.4reces sa.evie 2,007,564 2,189,643 72,370 263,285
Smithsonian Agency Account ..... 1,032,286 1,085,132 25,957 —o—
BEron eu iiaL Dy encanto sce oer 3 33,811 39,586 1,308 642
Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial 435,076 507,935 16,788 9,195
Subtotalenareen eect 16,856,074 18,901,480 612,891 S52 pLA7
Total Restricted Purpose ....... $ 64,887,228 $ 74,671,744 $2,452,839 $2,637,081

TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS .. _ $118,153,346 $132,415,609 $3,894,090** $2,784,298

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
**Total Return Income payout; does not include $215,411 of interest income for investment of unexpended
income balances.
COOPERS & LYBRAND
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the statement of financial condition of the
Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1984 and the related
statement of financial activity for the year then ended. Our exam-
ination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards and with generally accepted governmental auditing stan-
dards and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting rec-
ords and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstances. We previously examined and reported upon
the financial statements of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year ended September 30, 1983, totals of which are included in
the accompanying financial statements for comparative purposes
only.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended
September 30, 1984, referred to above, present fairly the financial
position of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1984,
and the results of its operations and changes in its fund balances
for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of
the preceding year.

COOPERS & LYBRAND
1800 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036
December 14, 1984

58 / Smithsonian Year 1984
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Statement of Financial Condition

September 30, 1984

(with comparative totals for September 30, 1983)

(thousands of dollars)
Trust Federal Totals, Totals,
funds funds all funds 1983
ASSETS:

Cash on hand and in banks (Note 3) .... $ 3,827 $ LON S 53/837" 1S) 1974
Fund balances with U.S. Treasury (Note 4) 333 69,078 69,411 73,860
imvestments (Notes 1 and 5) ...........- 166,806 — 166,806 144,518
mecervaples (Note 7) .....6.00cesesseees 45,582 220 45,802 36,778
Advance payments (Note 8) ............ 697 13,135 13,832 13,490
Merchandise inventory (Note 1) ......... 8,902 -= 8,902 8,459
Materials and supplies inventory (Note 1) 2,017 1,249 3,266 3,499
Amount to be provided for accrued annual

RM UNINGEE DT) iso Se Soin ales wa wei adie 5,4 — 7,124 7,124 6,690
Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) ... 11,573 — 11,573 9,668
Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 9) .. 23,234 184,967 208,201 197,516

MOCAIMASSEES aero riers hee o-5 er Sees Sisisiweys $262,971 $275,783 $538,754 $496,449
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses,

including interfund payable of $22,311

USL ESE CINE 7) Niet ates 3 a Saree Me oat acans, 6.15 eve sere\ ones $ 34,889 $ 10,202 $ 45,091 $ 39,096
Deposits held in custody for other organi-

BAGONG (INGLE) tcc scree yottate id eid a cnc 3,042 42 3,084 2,187
Accrued annual leave (Note 1) .......... 1,335 7,124 8,459 7,839
Deferred revenue (Note 1) .............. 24,815 — 24,815 22,015

MOA MADINTLES) Savers accioer e's ore), vis oyevs 64,081 17,368 81,449 VAGUS.
UNDELIVERED ORDERS (Note 1) ........ —_ 62,597 62,597 56,778
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):

Current:

Unrestricted general purpose .......... 5,086 _ 5,086 5,076

PEPE ULDORE 5.0502 5 4's 10,0 pe.caie ons 16,105 — 16,105 13,863

RS GUI CLEC cmrpayes care esang cee te at iedee Gere eek oneas 9,097 — 9,097 7,671
Endowment and similar funds (Note 6) .. 118,153 — 118,153 103,009
rant raunds™ (Note: 9): se eties «sae eects 50,449 — 50,449 39,242

Total trust fund balances ........... 198,890 — 198,890 168,861
BMRA LUNGS 22.65 ced ee swine ee oon — 75 175 75
Wanstriction funds <2... cee osoeseenes — 9,427 9,427 18,068
7 — 186,216 186,216 181,530

Total federal fund balances ......... — 195,818 195,818 199,673

Total all fund balances} <is. 645s 198,890 195,818 394,708 368,534

Total liabilities, undelivered orders

ance cundibalanceswaiia. seca oe eke $262,971

$275,783

$538,754

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

$496,449

Financial Report / 59
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ;
Statement of Financial Activity ;

for the year ended September 30, 1984

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1983)
(thousands of dollars)

TRUST FUNDS

Endowsi
Total trust Current and similar
funds funds funds

Revenue and other additions:

Appropriations, net (Note 10) .............. $ _ $ — $
Auxiliary activities revenue ............ mines 114,852 114,852 =
Federal grants and contracts ............-++ 14,876 14,876
Investment income (net of $546,000 for

management and custodian fees) ......... 11,902 9,842 —
Net gain on sale of securities and real

GIN GcaneorcooduncudonmosapoodeONe 8,505 _— 8,505
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants ...... 15,089 8,701 247
Additions ter! giltamtth 2.05 c0002< ob nasa neoeie eras 4,054 — —
Rentals, fees, commissions and other ....... 3,019 2,983 36

Total revenue and other additions ...... 172,297 151,254 8,788
Expenditures and other deductions:
Research and educational expenditures ...... 31,979 31,979 —
Administrative expenditures ............... 11,014 11,014 —
Facilities services expenditures ............. £172 1,172 _
Auxiliary activities expenditures ........... 93,632 93,632 —
AcHuIsitiOn {OL DIANE. octets sence eee ee 3,797 — —
Property use and retirements (Note 9) ...... 650 — —
Retirement of indebtedness ...............- 6 — —
Interest on indebtedness ..............-..- 18 — —
Total expenditures and other deductions 142,268 137,797 —

Excess of revenue and other additions
over (under) expenditures and other

deductions (Note 12) ..........0..005 30,029 13,457 8,788
Transfers among funds—additions (deductions) :
Mandatory principal and interest on notes .. _- (24) —
Nonmandatory for designated purposes, net |
(Noses hk OY ok east cae setts = (9,755) 6,356
Total transfers among funds .......... — (9,779) 6,356 —
a eee
Net increase (decrease) for the year .... 30,029 3,678 15,144
Returned fail.S.2 Treasury 94). 022 <s.sc.0 sie ewes — —_— = |
Fund balances at beginning of year .......... 168,861 26,610 103,009 —
SS) ee = |
Fund balances at end of year ..............-- $198,890 $ 30,288 $118,153 |
|

|

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

60 / Smithsonian Year 1984
FEDERAL FUNDS

Total
lant federal Operating Construction Capital Totals, Totals,
unds funds funds funds funds all funds 1983
— $168,223 $163,723 $ 4,500 $ — $168,223 $195,756
— — —_— _ —_— 114,852 101,957
— —_ —_ —_ _— 14,876 L325
2,060 — —_ — _ 11,902 9,293
_ we Ley as si 8,505 14,451
6,141 — — _ — 15,089 21,456
4,054 19,079 —_— — 19,079 23,1133 20,757
: — 112 112 —_— —_ Silesia 2,386
A 12,255 187,414 163,835 4,500 19,079 359,711 379,181
—_ 105,612 105,612 —_ —_ 137,591 121,998
— 12,371 12,371 — — 23,385 21,483
— 45,650 45,650 — — 46,822 43,648
— —_— —_ —_— _— 93,632 85,133
3,797 13,141 —_ 13,141 —_ 16,938 36,962
650 14,393 — — 14,393 15,043 20,440
6 = =+ a _ 6 7
18 —_ — —_— — 18 17
4,471 191,167 163,633 13,141 14,393 333,435 329,688
7,784 (3,753) 202 (8,641) 4,686 26,276 49,493
24 = == = _ a as
3,399 = mae abs = 2m ae
3,423 = a = = a _
11,207 (3,753) 202 (8,641) 4,686 26,276 49,493
= (102) (102) se ae (102) (62)
39,242 199,673 75 18,068 181,530 368,534 319,103
50,449 $195,818 $ 175 $ 9,427 $394,708

$186,216

Financial Report

$368,534

GA
| SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statement of Financial Activity
|
i

for the year ended September 30, 1984

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1983)
(thousands of dollars)

TRUST FUNDS

Endowme
Total trust Current and simil i
funds funds funds ih
j =
Revenue and other additions:
Appropriations, net (Note 10) .............. $ — $ — $ 2 :
Auxiliary activities revenue ................ 114,852 114,852 - ;
Federal grants and contracts ............... 14,876 14,876 = 2
Investment income (net of $546,000 for
management and custodian fees) ......... 11,902 9,842 =:
i) Net gain on sale of securities and real
| PLO PET by spc 2 sroneevsnoety |S eoaneyeraeny abel Gao sus eae 8,505 — 8,50 3
| Gifts, bequests: and foundation grants ...... 15,089 8,701 24
| Additions ‘tan plantitrs ccs ics occas ton a anion 4,054 = = I
il Rentals, fees, commissions and other ....... 3,019 2,983 3 5
Total revenue and other additions ...... 172,297 151,254 8,78 ms
Expenditures and other deductions:
Research and educational expenditures ...... 31,979 31,979 = 5
Administrative expenditures ............... 11,014 11,014 = 4
Facilities services expenditures ............. ay tA72, - 3
Auxiliary activities expenditures ........... 93,632 93,632 ~
Acquisition vof plant... oder see ne ee ee 3,797 — -
Property use and retirements (Note 9) ...... 650 —_ ~
Retirement of indebtedness ................ 6 _ =
Interest on indebtedness .................- 18 — -
Total expenditures and other deductions 142,268 137,797 -
Excess of revenue and other additions
over (under) expenditures and other
deductions; ((Notes2) sae eneeeee 30,029 13,457 8,78
Transfers among funds—additions (deductions) : g
Mandatory principal and interest on notes .. — (24) -
Nonmandatory for designated purposes, net
(Negeteis cs oy artes ns ot eae oe = (9,755) 6,35
Total transfers among funds .......... — (9,779) 6,35
Net increase (decrease) for the year .... 30,029 3,678 15,14
Returned = touW.S-eaireasiry eco oe een — — ~
Fund balances at beginning of year .......... 168,861 26,610 103,00
Fond balances at»end!of year .53.5.... 20>. « $198,890 $ 30,288 $118,15 A

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

60 / Smithsonian Year 1984
FEDERAL FUNDS

Total
Plant federal Operating Construction Capital Totals, Totals,
funds funds funds funds funds all funds 1983

—_— $168,223 $163,723 $ 4,500 $ —_ $168,223 $195,756

— — — —_ —_ 114,852 101,957

— — — _ _ 14,876 1357125
2,060 = —_ _— _ 11,902 9,293
— —_— —_ _ _ 8,505 14,451
6,141 = — —_ —_— 15,089 21,456
4,054 19,079 — —_ 19,079 Ze ei lee ye! 20,757
— 2, 12) _ — zyileul 2,386
a2,209 187,414 163,835 4,500 19,079 S59 710 379,181
— 105,612 105,612 —_ — 137,591 121,998

— 12,371 12,3721 —_— — 23,385 21,483

-—— 45,650 45,650 —_ —_ 46,822 43,648

— —_— —_ _— —_ 93,632 85,133
3,797 13,141 —_— 13,141 — 16,938 36,962
650 14,393 _— —_— 14,393 15,043 20,440

6 —_ — — — 6 7

18 _ _— —_— — 18 L7,
4,471 191,167 163,633 13,141 14,393 333,435 329,688
7,784 (3,753) 202 (8,641) 4,686 26,276 49,493
24 —_ = _ = on =
3,399 = ms a = oa =
3,423 Bis = is = saes wes
11,207 (3,753) 202 (8,641) 4,686 26,276 49,493
= (102) (102) as an (102) (62)
39,242 199,673 75 18,068 181,530 368,534 319,103

$ 50,449 $195,818 $ 175 $ 9,427 $186,216 $394,708 $368,534

Financial Report / 61
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of significant accounting policies

Basis of presentation. These financial statements do not include the accounts
of the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Perform-
ing Arts or the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, which
were established by Congress within the Smithsonian Institution (the Insti-
tuition) but are administered under separate boards of trustees. (See Note 2.)

The accounts of the federal funds have been prepared on the obligation
basis of accounting, which basis is in accordance with accounting principles
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States as set forth in
the Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies. The
obligation basis of accounting differs in some respects from generally ac-
cepted accounting principles. Under this basis of accounting, commitments
of the operating fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, are recognized
as expenditures, and the related obligations are reported on the balance
sheet even though goods and services have not been received. Such commit-
ments aggregated $33,045,000 at September 30, 1984. In addition, construction
commitments amounted to $29,552,000 at September 30, 1984.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
private sources, federal grants and contracts, investment income and certain
business activities related to the operations of the Institution. The federal
funds reflect the receipt and expenditures of funds obtained from Congres-
sional appropriations.

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the
Institution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund account-
ing. This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are
classified for funds control, accounting and reporting purposes into funds
established according to their appropriation, nature, and purposes. Separate
accounts are maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying finan-
cial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have been combined
into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded
and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are reported in
self-balancing fund groups as follows:

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources,
represent the portion of expendable funds that is available for support of
Institution operations. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific pur-
poses are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to
restrictions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal
be invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment
and similar funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal but
only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds.

62 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board
for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of
such funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds repre-
sent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the
governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the
income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisi-
tions and funds expended for plant. Pledges for the construction of the
Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures are recorded as
gifts in the plant fund in the period the pledge document is received.

Federal operating funds consist of separate subfund groups maintained
for each appropriation—Salaries and Expenses appropriations, which are
available for obligation in the current year only. Special Foreign Currency
appropriations and Barro Colorado Island Trust Fund, for which unex-
pended funds from the current year can be carried forward and obligated
in subsequent years.

Federal construction funds represent the portion of expendable funds that
is available for building and facility construction, restoration, renovation,
and repair. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each appropria-
tion—Construction and Improvements, National Zoological Park, Restora-
tion and Renovation of Buildings, Museum Support Center and the Center
for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the amount of the investment of the
United States Government in the net assets of the Institution acquired
with federal funds and nonexpendable property transfers from Govern-
ment agencies.

Investments. All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other
disposition of investments and property are accounted for in the fund in
which the related assets are recorded. Income from investments is accounted
for in a similar manner, except for income derived from investments of en-
dowment and similar funds, which is accounted for in the fund to which it is
restricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds. Gains
and losses on the sale of investments are recognized using the specific identi-
fication method, whereby the cost of the specific security adjusted by any
related discount or premium amortization is the basis for recognition of the
gain or loss.

Inventory. Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, retail cost method (for
those inventories held for resale) or net realizable value.

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription,
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine are charged against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens. The Institution acquires its collec-
tions, which include works of art, library books, photographic archives,

Financial Report / 63
objects and specimens, through purchase or by donation. In accordance with
policies generally followed by museums, no value is assigned to the collec-
tions on the statement of financial condition. Purchases for the collections
are expensed currently.

Property and equipment. Capital improvements and equipment purchased
with trust funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized
at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives of 3 to 10 years. Equipment purchased with trust funds for use by
non-income-producing activities is treated as a deduction of the current fund
and a capitalized cost of the plant fund. Depreciation on equipment capital-
ized in the plant fund is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful life of 3 to 10 years (see Note 9). Equipment purchased with federal
funds is recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over a
period of 10 years.

Real estate (land and buildings) purchased with trust funds is recorded
at cost, to the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended
therefor, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands
in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded
at nominal values. Costs of original building structures and major additions
are depreciated over their estimated useful lives of 30 years. Costs of reno-
vating, restoring and improving structures are depreciated over their esti-
mated useful lives of 15 years (see Note 9).

Buildings and other structures, additions to buildings and fixed equipment
purchased with federal funds are recorded at cost and depreciated on a
straight-line basis over a period of 30 years. Costs of renovating, restoring
and improving structures are depreciated over their useful lives of 15 years.

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings were appropriated
and reserved by Congress for that purpose and are not reflected in the
accompanying financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equipment
acquired through transfer from Government agencies are capitalized at the
transfer price or at estimated amounts, taking into consideration their use-
fulness, condition, and market value.

Government grants and contracts. The Institution has a number of grants
and contracts with the U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost
reimbursement to the Institution. Grant and contract revenue is recognized
when billable or received in the trust funds.

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state-
ments since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.
Annual leave unfunded. The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual
leave in accordance with federal law and regulations. However, only the cost
of leave taken as salaries is funded and recorded as an expense. The cost
of unused annual leave at year-end is reflected in the accompanying financial
statements as an asset and accrued liability in the federal funds.

2. Related activities

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several separately
incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution serve

64 / Smithsonian Year 1984
on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these orga-
nizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institution
facilities occupied, etc. totaled approximately $355,000 for the year ended
September 30, 1984. Deposits held in custody for these organizations are
$3,029,000 as of September 30, 1984.

The following summarizes the approximate expenditures of these orga-
nizations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1984 as reflected in their
individual financial statements and which are not included in the accompany-
ing financial statements of the Institution:

($000s)

\hicnerne, owircatsiors item fa don dao ouSboeaO ou ulodioua dtd cena nor $ 128

eading Is Fundamental, Inc) 06... 2. wee ene ne ey simne os oe $6,400
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars:

THraeiatia dl ibtave Saves Maes Bene eer oe eran 6 cect oictaniato cieroscanora eee or $4,100

Bederdl APPLOPTIAHONS y.yc)c mrss oie cwicle © alse aim oo yn me nian cha as $2,568

3. Cash on hand

Cash on hand—federal funds represents the amount of imprest fund cash
advanced by the U.S. Treasury to imprest fund cashiers for small purchasing
purposes.

4, Fund balances with U.S. Treasury

The account represents fund balances on the books of the U.S. Treasury
available for disbursement.

5. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or estimated fair market value
at date of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1984, investments
were composed of the following:

Carrying Market

value value
($000s) ($000s)
Current funds:
Berimeates Of PEPOSIE. 62. Nou ss eee ede acess $ 12,252 $ 12,254
Wemmncecial paper’ 1 2)s </./ots Late Hoe eA arraite 3,949 3,940
U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations 33,701 33,084
omiMOM StOCKy ac c.e ac arcns Soca a elsretn oie ene ole ane le 28 9
PEELEELEO'SIGOEK, 5.2 otis 52% weno ttereitve d. ayy-mimverceie Saws 30 57
49,960 49,344
Endowment and similar funds:
Money market account ..../c.cn ct /aemo beeen. sls 12,367 12,367
Mmeposie with U:S., Treasury... css oe ci. s's)s 06 eee» 1,000 1,000
U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations 10,028 10,063
Serourate sDends hese: ere ere te heehee aes 5,377 5,786
BGmmMON StOCKs: Hoss eee ee Sete A cies ths Rear 84,927 99,479
RRECETICO STOCK, Ste cet nce Hie tame Ae eb tn ho i ee 3,015 2,282
116,714 130,977

Financial Report / 65
Plant funds:
U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations 32 29
Commoinistock ae vt a eas oe aes 100 —

132 29
$166,806 $180,350

Since October 1, 1982, the deposit with the U.S. Treasury has been in-
vested in U.S. Government securities at a variable yield based on market
interest rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at
market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $203.92, 293,996
units were owned by endowment and 348,976 units were owned by quasi-
endowment at September 30, 1984.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between
cost and market values of the pooled investments:

($000s) Market
Net value
Market Cost change per unit
End. of years: siac swe s002 $131,113 $116,860 $ 14,253 $203.92
Beginning of year ...... $130,684 $101,672 29,012 210.27
Increase (decrease) in unrealized net
gain: for the: year 5; boo. os Bae ei wat oes (14,759) —
Realized net gain
FOLMphe VEarurse ae ee s.25 4 otek Stes See fee cae 8,505 —
Total realized and
unrealized net

gain, (loss): for the) year oie at wate: ces ors adapters $ (6,254)  $ (6.35)

6. Endowment and similar funds

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1984 are summarized as
follows:

($000s)
Endowment funds, income available for:

Restrictedpurposes: {kn Saeimbeinw o-Aoe | Sone ee ee eee $ 48,031
Unrestricted ppurposes and as cca vated oad Shs ea ee 3,953
51,984

Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for:
Restricted Gpiinpases >’. c.a'.,0' oh siecoatsle ste cies ie a evans alate ee 16,856
Unsestrictedp purposes: ses. c oct a iso oaels eminence oe eres 49,313
66,169
Total endowment and similar funds ................. $118,153

66 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach,
the total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized
gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal
to the difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and
the amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or
from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such
factors as, but not limited to: (1) 412% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2)
current dividends and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien-
tists, and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index;
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is
less than 110°/o of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of dona-
tion), the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received.
The total return factor for 1984 was $6.74 per unit to the Restricted and
Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $5.00 per unit to the Unrestricted
General Purpose Endowment Funds; new units were purchased for the Unre-
stricted Endowment Funds with the $1.74, the difference in the total return
factor. The total return applied for 1984 was $2,594,000 to the Restricted
and Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $1,226,000 to the Unrestricted
General Purpose Endowment Funds.

7. Receivables

Receivables at September 30,1984 included the following:

($000s)
Trust funds
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of allowance for
maupteul accounts of $919/000 .2.< bse csc ee akes sa Haseenas $ 9,136
Interfund receivables due from current funds:
Endowmentsangusimilar tandses sie ciiicieicieciciicicieictee ole 1,156
anne ete Sime ene ccctstarckc ove rece rs seer etches oteietove einte, sustolavo ous tetera 21,155
Interest and! dividends receivable .. 0.25. .0.0ccccn ccs gemecns 2,036
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts ............ 942
MREEMPR IS Meroe ie Aiea’ eee sc arte U ainiw'e Sires os Aare ale TING Aeonte EAS Wate ae 11,102
(CUGGES RR ee ee re Re SCE ete ALS ee 55
45,582
Federal funds
BRENICE CES ANOUENALEES 2. 0c cca ccs bn sh oes pris she nweene ees 220
Total: gall” ftv si sis pets 2 a See tek css oe eee ato eae $45,802

8. Advance payments

Advance payments represent advances made to Government agencies, educa-
tional institutions, firms and individuals for services to be rendered or
property or materials to be furnished.

Financial Report / 67
As of September 30, 1984, the Institution had advances outstanding to the
U.S. Government of approximately $10,807,000, principally for construction
services to be received in the future. The Institution at that date also had
advances outstanding to educational institutions amounting to approximately
$1,420,000, principally under the Special Foreign Currency Program.

9. Property and equipment

At September 30, 1984, property and equipment which have been capitalized
(see Note 1) are comprised of the following:

($000s) ($000s)
Trust
Current funds
Capital improvements ........... Tarte SC eonbem ese Ee
EQUIDMIONE sO oia sia ccc as sa ace tres wie 4 aparece sue srKe eel ue 3,892
Leasehold ‘improvements: . 5. aie o.5.0 0 ase os 235
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization (3,832)
4,747
Endowment and similar funds
BR i cesgs vs Sas, bays usin nasdi noone bags cioks ete near ekoteeRE EES 239
Plant funds
Land:and buildings: : .;. doce caneeene ss one ate 21,984
Equipmient 6202 assis oa se miners Ses Gato ors 2,389
Less accumulated depreciation ................. (6,125)
18,248
Motaleotrustsfundsiear steerer $ 23,234
Federal
Capital funds
PTOPOLEY ei aiaeterece nies oe. eel CO Oe, ei ene erm evanet 263,226
Equipmientyss/ 155 Ste oe ven ome aerator cere ne 24,758
Less accumulated depreciation ................. (103,017)
otal federal fands tse 2 wiancu ales ots as 5 ere 184,967

Totaltralltitinds? Sosmc coe wee eee $208,201

Depreciation and amortization expense for 1984 for trust funds’ income-
producing assets amounted to approximately $957,000, which is included in
auxiliary activities expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation of trust
funds’ nonincome-producing equipment and buildings for 1984 amounted to
approximately $650,000.

Depreciation expense reflected in expenditures of the federal capital funds
for 1984 was $11,437,000.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1984 included $32,201,000
of unexpended plant funds.

68 / Smithsonian Year 1984
10. Appropriations

For the year ended September 30, 1984, the Institution was awarded
$12,500,000 for various construction projects. Funds appropriated in the
prior year for Quadrangle construction were reduced in fiscal year 1984 by
$8,000,000.

11. Pension plan

The Institution has separate retirement plans for trust and federal employees.
Under the trust fund’s plan, both the Institution and employees contribute
stipulated percentages of salary which are used to purchase individual an-
nuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with the employees. The
cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1984, was $3,195,000. It is
the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued currently. There are
no unfunded prior service costs under the plan.

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by the Civil Service
Retirement Program. Under this program, the Institution withholds from the
gross pay of each federal employee and remits to the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund (the Fund) the amounts specified by such program. The
Institution contributes 7% of basic annual salary to the Fund. The cost of
the plan for the year ended September 30, 1984, was approximately $5,900,000.

12. Excess expenditures and other deductions

The net excess of expenditures and other deductions over revenue and other
additions disclosed for federal construction funds in the Statement of the
Activity for the year ended September 30, 1984 arose because certain appro-
priations, having been recorded as revenue and other additions in prior years
and carried forward as fund balance, were expended during the year. Addi-
tionally, funds appropriated in the prior year were reduced in fiscal year 1984
(see Note 10).

13. Nonmandatory transfers for designated purposes

The following transfers among trust funds were made for the year ended
September 30, 1984 in thousands of dollars:

Current funds Endow-
ment and
Unre- similar Plant

stricted Restricted funds funds

Portion of investment yield

appropriated (Note 6) ........ $(1,466) $(1,353) $2,819 $ —
Beant acquisitions ...5.....020 (3,400) — — 3,400

Income added to endowment
EINICI PAN Sr che eect ass» Gos sia) se == (190) 190 _
Appropriated as quasi-endowment (3,313) (33) 3,347 (1)
PRSEAN Mee aed eS ta See $(8,179)  $(1,576) $6,356 $3,399

Financial Report / 69
14. Income taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in
that section are taxable only on their unrelated business income, which was
immaterial for the Institution for 1984.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such dual status.

70 / Smithsonian Year 1984
s

Explore
Your

Heritage
at the
Smithsonian!

The Office of Public Affairs produced a new brochure, Exploring Your Heritage,
featuring areas of the Smithsonian Institution of particular significance to
members of the black community. The brochure was the first effort in a project

aimed at encouraging visits to the Smithsonian by members of minority com-
munities.
Top: A two-layered geodesic glass dome supports the body of a radiolarian, a
kind of plankton. The animal’s amoeboid body extends through the holes to
communicate with the outside environment. The geodesic structure is an excel-

lent means of distributing strength through equidistant trusses. Bottom: This
radial spray of bladelike crystals belongs to the mineral hemimorphite, zinc sili-
cate. Both of these were in the National Museum of Natural History’s exhibition
Exploring Microspace, March 16-July 15, 1984.

Smithsonian Year + 1984
SCIENCE

DAVID CHALLINOR,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE

National Air and Space Museum

The National Air and Space Museum (NAsM) remains the most
popular museum in the world. On May 24 director Walter J.
Boyne welcomed the 75 millionth visitor—a thirteen-year-old
student from Chicago. This spring the museum enjoyed record-
breaking days of more than 100,000 visitors. Attendance this year
substantially exceeded that of any previous year since the opening.

Under the leadership of a new associate director for research,
NASM staff members continued their efforts to establish the mu-
seum as the preeminent center for research in the history of air
and space technology and geophysical science. The first National
Air and Space Museum Research Report, to be published annually
beginning in the fall of 1984, highlights the results of staff re-
search and describes the collections, facilities, and resources avail-
able to scholars. The Research Report will also promote interest
in nasM fellowships, chairs, and research programs.

A new committee structure will help to strengthen the NasM
research effort. Staff committees assist in planning and implement-
ing long-range research programs, solicit proposals for new pub-
lications and research projects, develop ideas for new symposia
and teaching programs, advise on visiting or contract appoint-
ments, and recommend courses of action to the director. An ex-
ternal Research Advisory Committee, composed of leading figures
in various disciplines appropriate to NASM, will advise and assist
the museum in developing new programs in history and science.

Several major historical research programs are under way. Work

73
is progressing on a multivolume Smithsonian History of Aviation.
Scheduled to appear serially between 1986 and 1989, the volumes
will provide a comprehensive history of flight from antiquity to
the present. The series will consider not only the development of
aerospace technology but the role of flight in shaping life in the
twentieth century. As a part of this effort, major archival collec-
tion and bibliographic projects are being undertaken. The program
has also become a focal point for attracting talented interns, fel-
lows, and visiting scholars to the museum.

The Space Telescope History Project, a joint undertaking of the
museum and Johns Hopkins University, will result in a published
history of the ambitious orbital astronomical observatory of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). The book,
to appear the year the Space Telescope is launched, will explore
political, technological, scientific, and managerial aspects of this
multi-billion dollar program.

The Space Telescope History Project also includes an oral-
history effort involving the collection of more than 100 transcribed
taped interviews. This is an extension of the Space Astronomy
Oral History Program, now in its third year. A catalogue of tran-
scriptions completed to date is available.

Yet another team project will study the origins of the NASA
program to orbit a large space station. This effort will not only
result in a book but also in the identification and preservation of
papers documenting the development of space exploration.

Staff members of the Space Science and Exploration Department
and Aeronautics Department are compiling a bibliography of
secondary materials on the history of air and space. This will be a
carefully selected, heavily annotated listing of the most significant
scholarly works in the field.

In an attempt to extend the utility of museum resources, steps
are being taken to explore the opportunities for interaction with
major institutions of higher learning in the United States and
abroad. This year a successful cooperative course entitled ““Twen-
tieth Century Technology” was conducted by museum staff in
conjunction with New York University. Based on this initial effort,
a pilot course in the history of science and technology, using the
museum as a learning resource, is being designed and will be
offered by New York and Oxford universities in 1985. Discussions
with the University of Cambridge are leading to new areas of
cooperation, including possible nasm/Cambridge summer projects
in 1985.

74 / Smithsonian Year 1984
In geophysical science, the museum’s Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies continued to advance scientific research in plane-
tary and terrestrial remote sensing. Orbital remote-sensing re-
search concentrated on digital image-processing methods for anal-
ysis of diverse types of data, while terrestrial remote-sensing
research concentrated on the desert fringe areas in western Africa
and on the inland delta of the Niger River in Mali. The center also
continued terrestrial research on interpreting thermal infrared
data from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer instru-
ment on the Nimbus satellites, comparing these data with more
conventional Landsat images. Under continued support by Nnasa’s
Planetary Geology program, research into the nature and origin
of structural features on the surface of Mars was performed
during 1984.

Research at the museum was reflected not only in the seventy
articles written by staff members, but in the museum’s active and
varied publishing program. Tom Crouch’s The Eagle Aloft: Two
Centuries of the Balloon in America received the 1984 Aviation/ —
Space Writers Association national award for best nonfiction book
and was widely acclaimed as the definitive work on the subject.
Vengeance Weapon 2: The V-2 Guided Missile, by Gregory
Kennedy, and an article by Walter Boyne, “Boundary Layer:
Macho Masochism,” received awards from the Aviation/Space
Writers Mideast Region. Black Wings: The American Black in
Aviation, by Von Hardesty and Dominick Pisano, and the exhibi-
tion booklet Milestones of Flight won awards from the Society
for Technical Communication, Washington chapter.

The variety of nasm publications is reflected in the nine new
titles issued this year. The de Havilland DH-4: From Flaming
Coffin to Living Legend, by Walter Boyne, is the seventh book in
the Famous Aircraft of the National Air and Space Museum series.
United States Women in Aviation, 1920-1929, by Kathleen
Brooks-Pazmany, became the second in the continuing series on
U.S. women in aviation. Combat Flying Clothing—Army Air
Forces Clothing during World War II, by C. G. Sweeting, and
Winged Wonders: The Story of the Flying Wings, by E. T. Wool-
dridge, were the first comprehensive works published on those
subjects in the United States.

At Home in the Sky: The Aviation Art of Frank Wootton—the
first art exhibition catalogue to be published by the museum—and
a style manual for NasM correspondence, publications, and exhibi-
tion scripts added new dimensions to the publications program.

Science / 75
The fifteenth anniversary of man’s first landing on the moon was celebrated at
the National Air and Space Museum with a Lunar Landing Party on the evening
of July 20. More than 4,000 visitors enjoyed highlights tours, IMAX films, and
a selection of lunar “touchables.”

AWY AVIATION

iss

Golden Age of Flight, a major new gallery at the National Air and Space
Museum, is devoted to aviation between the two world wars. Two of the five
airplanes displayed in the gallery include a reproduction of the Gee Bee Z
(below), a distinctive aircraft of radical design that epitomized 1930s air racing,
and the Beechcraft Staggerwing (top), a luxury private and business aircraft.
Nasm’s quarterly Special Presentations Calendar was expanded
to include broader information on museum programs in a monthly
format. Naso also published its first theater booklet, highlighting
in photos the spectacular footage from the max films and describ-
ing the films and the max process. In addition, five nasm books
were reprinted this year. Planning is also under way for a new
series of monographs documenting the origins, historical and tech-
nological context, and physical characteristics of the space artifacts
in the NAsM collection.

Important steps were taken to strengthen the museum’s archival
and artifact collections. Staff members and interns inventoried
thirty-eight separate reference and archival collections on space
science, using the museum’s data processing system as a cata-
loguing aid. Finding aids were also prepared for two significant
large collections, the papers of Andrew G. Halley, space law and
space travel society pioneer; and the papers of the American
Astronautical Society. In addition, Nasm arranged to copy and
electronically store portions of the Wernher von Braun papers.

The museum remains a pioneer in the development of new
archival technologies. The nasm System for Digital Recovery (spr)
will advance the art of archiving high-quality reproductions of
manuscripts, photographs, and printed documents. The spr com-
bines a digital camera, a computer, a digital videodisc, a printer,
and software to store, retrieve, and print all types of historical
documents. The system also permits automatic indexing of printed
material. Such new technologies will extend the accessibility and
utility of the Nasm archives and enable staff members to better
serve the public.

Nasm produced a second laser videodisc in 1984. Archival
Videodisc 2, containing 100,000 photographs of aerospace per-
sonalities and events, airships, balloons, commercial aircraft, air
meets, trophies, military aviation, aerospace museums, and aero-
nautical communications supplements the first videodisc, which
contained aircraft photographs. Archival Videodisc 3, containing
U.S. Air Force World War II and prewar photographs, is near com-
pletion. Duplicate discs are available at low cost to other museums,
educational institutions, governmental agencies, and the public.

Twelve exhibitions were presented this year. A new gallery,
Golden Age of Flight, tells the story of the pilots, engineers, in-
dustrialists, and adventurers who contributed to the phenomenal
growth of aviation during the period 1919-39. As an adjunct to
this exhibition, the museum sponsored an art competition.

78 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Four major galleries were updated in 1984. Dr. Franklin’s Win-
dow: American Witnesses to the Birth of Flight, a new introductory
unit for the Balloons and Airships gallery, was opened as part of
the nasM celebration of the 200th anniversary of the first flight in
the United States. A Dassault Falcon is the centerpiece of an addi-
tion to the Hall of Air Transportation, describing development of
the air express industry. An addition to the Apollo to the Moon
gallery details the crucial space-age decisions made by The Admin-
istrators of Nasa. At Work in Space, a new unit in the Space Hall
display, highlights the inflight coveralls of astronauts Guion S.
Bluford and Sally Ride, donated by America’s first black and first
woman astronauts in space, respectively.

Smaller exhibitions this year commemorated the aerospace con-
tributions of German-Americans, on the 300th anniversary of
German immigration to America, and the first manned crossing of
the Pacific by the balloon Double Eagle V. The Berlin Airlift was
the subject of a special exhibition celebrating the centennial of the
birth of President Harry Truman.

Major art exhibitions included the works of Robert McCall and
John Amendola. In the McCall exhibition were many of that
artist’s creative visions of future cities in space, space stamp de-
signs, and several large-scale murals. The John Amendola show
featured the commissioned art for many of the nasm book covers.

Two new presentations were prepared by the nas staff in 1984.
The Oldest Dream: A Celebration of Flight, a multi-media show
using film, slides, and numerous special effects, opened in Novem-
ber 1983 in the Albert Einstein Sky Theater. Treasures of the
National Air and Space Museum, a short film on Nasm, is being
shown at the California Museum of Science and Industry in Los
Angeles and on United Airlines flights.

The growth and preservation of the nasm coliection remains at
the heart of the museum’s program. The first complete restoration
of a space artifact, the Fairchild ATS-6 spacecraft, is under way at
the Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restoration and Storage Facility.
Craftsmen there also completed restoration of the five aircraft for
the Golden Age of Flight gallery.

Among the aircraft added to the collections this year were the
Quickie, a home-built aircraft; the Beck-Mahoney Sorceress, a
racing biplane; Himat, a Nasa research vehicle; the Spirit of Texas,
the first helicopter to fly around the world; a Republic RC-3 Sea-
bee amphibian; the MacCready Solar Challenger, which made the
first solar-powered flight in history; the Hispano HA-200 Cairo jet

Science / 79
trainer, acquired from the Egyptian government; and a Grumman
Goose, a classic amphibian.

Some of the items added to the already impressive nasM collec-
tion of spacecraft and space instruments were the Baker-Nunn
satellite tracking camera used to photograph the first man-made
satellites in 1957 and 1958; the Skylab X-ray telescope, one of
two major imaging instruments aboard Skylab; and a test model
of the Pioneer Venus space probe.

Naso continued to share its collections through loans to other
institutions. Objects were lent to the California Museum of Science
and Industry in time for their special exhibitions during the 1984
Summer Olympics. Nasm also participated in the Treasures from
the Smithsonian exhibition in Edinburgh. Three sites (Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service) exhibitions include objects from the
NASM collection. In addition, the sires Black Wings exhibition was
expanded from two to three traveling units.

In a ceremony held beneath the Wright Flyer in the Milestones
of Flight gallery, director Walter Boyne accepted one of the orig-
inal propellers used on the first heavier-than-air powered flight
from Wilkinson Wright, a grandnephew of the Wright brothers.
World War I ace Ray Brooks reminisced about flying the SPAD
XIII at a ceremony at the Garber Facility, where the SPAD XIII
is being restored. In a ceremony on May 18, the Viking Lander on
Mars was transferred from Nasa into the NAsm collection, making
NASM the first truly interplanetary museum.

The popular Garber Facility open house held in April attracted
7,500 visitors. A Lunar Landing Party open house held at Nasm
on the evening of July 20, 1984, drew more than 4,000 people to
celebrate the fifteenth anniversary of the first landing on the
Moon.

A new position of associate director for external affairs was
established to oversee the museum’s publications, education pro-
grams, theater operations, and public affairs programs, and to
increase the museum’s ties to the academic and business com-
munities.

The Samuel P. Langley Theater continued to be one of the most
popular attractions in Washington, D.C. Since opening day, July 1,
1976, the theater has attracted audiences totaling well over thirteen
million. The award-winning To Fly!, the theater’s first imax movie,
remains its most popular attraction, having drawn audiences of
more than three-quarters of a million this year alone and more
than eight million since its first showing. Two evening IMAx

80 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The National Air and Space Museum’s videodisc project provides scholars and
researchers access to the museum’s vast collection of archival photographs—one
million in all. Ten discs are planned, each containing 100,000 photographs of
the aircraft, spacecraft, people, and artifacts associated with the history and
development of aviation and space flight.

festivals, featuring Volcano/Behold Hawaii and To Fly!, Flyers,
and Living Planet, were well attended, as were the annual aviation
and space fiction film series.

Financial sponsorship was obtained this year for two new IMAXx
films to be shown in the Langley Theater. Nasm will receive a
share of the income from the rental of these films, which will be
seen in theaters worldwide. The Dream Is Alive, sponsored by
Lockheed Corporation and the Smithsonian Institution, is the first
large-format film to be shot on location in space. Spectacular film
footage was obtained by the astronauts using the IMAx camera on
the Space Shuttle missions in April and August 1984. Additional
filming is scheduled for future Space Shuttle missions. The Dream
Is Alive is expected to premiere at NASM in the summer of 1985.

The second new max film, On the Wing, sponsored by Johnson
Wax, will explore man’s fascination with natural and mechanical
flight. Innovative motion picture techniques will be featured, in-
cluding the imaginative use of fiber optics and computer graphics.
This film is expected to open at the museum in the spring of 1986.

Dr. Paul MacCready, designer of the Gossamer series of ad-
vanced flying machines, has assembled a team of specialists in
aerodynamics, mechanical engineering, and paleobiology to study
the feasibility of building, for Nasm, a full-scale working replica
of Quetzalcoatlus northropi, believed to be the world’s largest
flying creature. The dinosaur replica, if built, will be featured in
the film On the Wing.

The usual heavy schedule of lectures and symposia continued
in the Langley Theater in 1984. Lt. Gen. James A. Abrahamson,
manager of nasa’s Space Shuttle Program, offered the seventh
annual Wernher von Braun Memorial Lecture. The annual Lind-
bergh lecture featured Jeffrey Quill, whose test flying played a
prominent role in the evolution of the Spitfire. Nine GE-sponsored
aviation lectures were well attended. Special presentations in the
Albert Einstein Sky Theater included seven lectures in the annual
“Exploring Space with Astronomers” series, the twice-weekly
“Noontime with the Stars” talks, and the twelve monthly sky
lectures.

The three major symposia sponsored by NasM this year offered
the public an opportunity to hear presentations by the foremost
contributors to aerospace history and the geophysical sciences.
“The Wright Flyer: An Engineering Perspective,” commemorated
the eightieth anniversary of the invention of the airplane and
underscored the technical achievements embodied in the 1903

82 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Wright Flyer. Papers offered by the five participating engineers will
be published in the Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space series.

“The Apollo Legacy,” held on the fifteenth anniversary of the
Apollo 11 lunar landing, brought together five well-known sci-
entists and four astronauts to review the scientific impact of the
Apollo missions.

“Vertical Flight: The Age of the Helicopter,” a symposium held
in conjunction with the Fortieth Annual Forum of the American
Helicopter Society, featured presentations on the history and
future of vertical flight. Selected papers, edited by Walter Boyne
and Donald Lopez, were published in conjunction with the sym-
posium.

The museum docents maintained a busy schedule, serving more
than 39,000 visitors this year. Another 24,000 visitors toured the
Garber Facility. Tours for school children reached 9,000 students.

President Reagan helped celebrate Nasa’s twenty-fifth anni-
versary at NASM. The President also delivered the keynote speech
at the annual dinner honoring General James Doolittle, held at the
museum. Vice-President Bush and the Premier of Bermuda, John
Swan, were honored at a dinner in the Flight and the Arts gallery.
The Vice-President also introduced the film Air Force One: The
Planes and the Presidents at a special premiere at the museum.
Nasm was chosen as the location for a reception in honor of the
King and Queen of Nepal when they visited the Smithsonian.

Major steps were taken toward the development of a new NASM
facility at Dulles International Airport to house and display air
and space craft that cannot be accommodated at nasm or the
Garber Facility and to serve as a location for museum functions.
The Federal Aviation Administration earmarked approximately
100 acres of land at Dulles for the proposed facility, and bills were
introduced in both houses of Congress to authorize its construc-
tion. On April 25, a B-17G Flying Fortress flew into the Dulles
site, and was donated to the museum by its owner and pilot in a
special ceremony.

Plans are under way for nasm to be the control center for a
nonstop, nonrefueled, around-the-world flight attempt of the
Voyager aircraft designed by Burt Rutan. Naso is also exploring
the possibility of being the control center for a nonstop, around-
the-world balloon flight by the Endeavor, which would begin and
end in Australia.

The success of nasM is based on a blending of the new with the
old—a creative use of modern technology and innovative manage-

Science / 83
ment strategies to solve the traditional museum problems of col-
lection, preservation, and exhibition. In charting the future of the
museum as a research institution, we hope to develop a similar
creative approach that will make the priceless resources of our
collection available to the scholarly community.

National Museum of Natural History

EXHIBITIONS

Exploring Microspace (March 16—July 15), an exhibition that
traced the evolution of the microscope from the seventeenth cen-
tury to the electronic age, and displayed video and photomural
images of the unseen microscopic world, was one of five immensely
popular Thomas M. Evans Gallery shows that helped bring a
record six million visitors to the National Museum of Natural
History (NMNH) in 1983-84. Live demonstrations of a scanning
electron microscope and a state-of-the-art optical microscope,
plugged into TV monitors, made it possible for the public to see
museum science in action. Organized by curators Drs. Frederick M.
Bayer, Richard H. Benson, and Richard S. Boardman, with assis-
tance from the Armed Forces Medical Museum, Dr. Cecil Fox
of the National Institutes of Health, the James Smithson Society,
and the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Services (sites), the
exhibition is now on a two-year tour of museums throughout the
United States.

The Art of Cameroon (February 1—June 17), a siTEs-organized
exhibition, surveyed the significance and splendor of one of
Africa’s major art traditions. Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost
Bronze Age (November 2—January 31), organized jointly by sites
and the University of Pennsylvania, exhibited archeological dis-
coveries that have changed the prevailing view of Southeast Asia’s
role in the development of civilization. The Precious Legacy:
Judaic Treasures from the Czechoslovak State Collections (Novem-
ber 9—January 1) was a sites exhibition of one of the largest and
most important Judaic collections in the world. Almost 2,000 peo-
ple a day saw the exhibition weekdays and as many as 3,000 a
day on weekends and holidays. A ticketing system was set up for
the first time in the museum’s history to prevent long lines from
forming. Treasures from the Shanghai Museum: 6000 Years of

84 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Chinese Art (August 11-November 30), the most comprehensive
major Chinese art exhibition ever to tour the United States, dis-
played 232 masterpieces from the collections of one of China’s
leading museums. This exhibition was organized by the Asia Art
Museum of San Francisco in cooperation with the Shanghai
Museum.

Rotunda Gallery exhibitions in 1983-84 featured: Roger Tory
Peterson at the Smithsonian (April 27—-September 3), a compre-
hensive retrospective of Peterson’s bird art, marking the fiftieth
anniversary of his influential book A Field Guide to the Birds (The
exhibition was organized by curator Dr. Richard L. Zusi); Draw-
ings of African Mammals (November 14—January 2) by African
naturalist Jonathan Kingdon; photographs of The Nazca Lines by
Marilyn Bridges (January 6—April 16); and Thirty Years of Scien-
tific Illustrations Drawn in the Museum of Natural History (Sep-
tember 7—November 4), a retrospective of museum scientific illu-
strator Carolyn Barlett Gast’s drawings of fossils, insects, birds,
and invertebrates.

Photographic Portraits of North American Indians: A Re-
creation of the First Photographic Exhibition in the Smithsonian
Institution (May 28—December 31) consisted of some 259 portraits
of Native Americans, most of them members of official delegations
that visited Washington, D.C., from 1857 to 1869, from the col-
lections of the museum’s National Anthropological Archives. The
exhibition was organized by the archives’ Paula Fleming. For the
celebration of the 100th anniversary of the National Gem Collec-
tion in 1984, curator John S. White placed on exhibition three
spectacular new gifts—the 182-carat “Star of Bombay” sapphire, a
bequest of film actress Mary Pickford; the 318-carat ‘Dark Jubi-
lee’ opal, donated by the Zale Corporation; and a 168-carat
emerald pendant, a bequest of Anna Chase Mackay, a former
Metropolitan Opera soprano.

In late 1983 the museum opened Fossils Galore: Life in the Early
Seas, a new highlight in its fossil exhibit complex. Fossils Galore
marks the beginning of the Paleozoic era, 600 million years ago,
when the first hard-shelled life appeared, followed by an astonish-
ing increase in the number and variety of fossilized animals. It
includes a display of the rare 530-million-year-old fossilized soft-
bodied animals of the Burgess Shale. One of the Smithsonian’s
greatest scientific finds, these fossils were discovered at a site in
British Columbia in 1910 by the Institution’s fourth secretary,
(1896-1927), geologist Charles D. Walcott. This marks the first

Science / 85
time that a large number of these curious specimens, which pro-
vide the best information we have on soft-bodied life in the early
Cambrian seas, have ever been exhibited. Paleobiology collections
manager Frederick J. Collier organized the exhibition.

OFFICE OF EDUCATION

The premiere performance of “The Beadle of Prague,” a dramatic
cantata commissioned in association with the exhibition The
Precious Legacy, was one of the many special presentations that
enlivened and added educational strength to Evans Gallery exhibi-
tions in 1983-84. A four-day festival, featuring dance perfor-
mances, film presentations, lectures, chefs’ demonstrations of
Chinese cuisine, and programs on calligraphy, kitemaking, paper
folding, brush paintings, and other traditional Chinese arts, was
presented to help late summer visitors appreciate the exhibition
Treasures from Shanghai. Fifty-six special docents were trained to
give group tours for Evans Gallery exhibitions, serving more than
13,000 persons. Teachers’ workshops were conducted to acquaint
instructors in area schools with the content of the exhibitions
Exploring Microspace and Treasures from Shanghai.

“Wandering Birds in the Southern Ocean,” by Dr. George Wat-
son; “Snorkling and Science in the Sea of Cortez,” by Dr. Mark
Littler; ‘“Native Writings of the Massachusetts Indians,” by Dr.
Ives Goddard; “Fossil Birds and the Polynesian Conquest of Na-
ture in the Pacific,” by Dr. Storrs Olson; “The Elusive Mud
Dragon and His Kin,” by Dr. Robert Higgins; and “Exploring
Microspace,” by Dr. Richard Benson were among the eleven slide-
illustrated lectures by museum curators on their research and field
work presented during 1983-84 in the regular free Friday Film
and Lecture Series. A special holiday film festival featuring out-
standing natural history films was presented during the Christmas-
New Year week.

The Discovery Room, which celebrated its tenth anniversary
with a week-long program of special events, was visited by more
than 100,000 persons in family and school groups during the year.
The Naturalist Center increased its hours, starting in April, dou-
bling its summer visitorship, and is now open seven days a week.
Workshops were held to inform high school teachers of the cen-
ter’s resources, significantly increasing student usage.

Two-hundred-and-eighty-one docents participated in the regular
school and public programs, providing services to 165,000 persons.

86 / Smithsonian Year 1984
DEPARTMENT OF VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

New evidence that the hand of man may have had a greater respon-
sibility than is generally assumed for many extinctions of island
plant and animal communities in the past 10,000 years was pub-
lished in 1984 by Dr. Storrs Olson and Dr. David Steadman. With
colleague Dr. Gregory Pregill, of the San Diego Museum of Natural
History, they reported in the Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences on their fossil finds on Antigua, Lesser Antilles, where
they discovered a mass of accumulated fossils in a sediment-packed
limestone fissure. Radiocarbon dating brackets this material into a
period between 4,300 years ago, when the island’s first human set-
tlers arrived, and 2,560 years ago. Analysis of the fossil sample
showed 33 percent of the species to be extinct on Antigua—includ-
ing lizards, snakes, birds, bats, and rodents—which if extrapolated
to the total original biota would indicate that man may have eradi-
cated one-third of the island’s fauna.

Steadman, Pregill, and Olson concluded: “If Antigua is at all
representative, then the endemic or localized distributions that
characterize many insular species may actually be more a conse-
quence of recent habitat degradation than such factors as niche
partitioning and competition, which are now popularly assumed to
regulate the kind and even number of species on islands under
natural conditions.”

Many months of work by ichthyologist Dr. Victor Springer cul-
minated in early 1984 in the Smithsonian Institution Press publica-
tion of the hand-colored plates of one of the nineteenth century’s
most outstanding illustrated scientific classics—a monumental atlas
of Indo-Pacific fishes that is the masterwork of the great Dutch
ichthyologist Pieter Bleeker. Atlas Ichtyologique des Indes Orien-
tales Neerlandaises, Plates for Tomes XI-XIV (Atlas of Fishes of
the Dutch East Indies) contains 150 color plates of Indo-Pacific fish
fauna—including sharks, rays, blennies, gobies, siganids, and jacks
—the richest and most magnificent in the world. All profits from
the sale of this work go into the Leonard P. Schultz Fund, managed
by Springer and used for research, collection and purchase of fish
specimens, and exploration and publications relating to fish.

The museum’s Marine Mammal Salvage Program, designed to
recover data and specimens of marine mammals on the U.S. Atlan-
tic Coast that would otherwise be lost to science, has been in opera-
tion since 1972, and is yielding an enormous amount of data bear-
ing on migratory patterns, size, and distribution of populations,

Science / 87
and eating and breeding habits. After recovering an average of 50
to 100 or more stranded animals a year, with a high of 200 in 1977,
the stranding frequency fell into a puzzling lull from 1980 through
1983 with only five to ten recoveries each of these years. In Septem-
ber 1984 the lull ended with a sudden influx of strandings reported
on the coast of Virginia and North Carolina: an Antillean beaked
whale, only the fortieth ever reported in the scientific literature,
stranded at Bogue Banks, N.C.; three Risso’s dolphins came ashore
on Ocracoke Island, N.C.; and seven bottle-nosed dolphins strand-
ed in the Virginia Beach area. Program director Dr. James Mead
tentatively hypothesizes that the fluctuation in strandings can be
explained by changes in the distribution of marine mammals rela-
tive to onshore currents. Data on these strandings were reported in
the department’s U.S. Marine Mammal Stranding Report, issued
quarterly to the scientific community.

Gigantism and dwarfism provide fascinating opportunities for
the study of evolutionary patterns and mechanisms. Among the
three squirrels, “giants” occur in three different lineages on three
continents, and pygmy squirrels have similarly evolved indepen-
dently on three different continents. Mammalogist Dr. Richard
Thorington is attempting to understand what factors have caused
these squirrels to be large or small and how these size changes are
accomplished. Among his 1983-84 case studies were field reports
on the ecology, behavior, and anatomy of one of the largest tree
squirrels in the world, the Malabar squirrel of India, which weighs
four to five pounds, and the fox squirrels of the southeastern United
States, the largest tree squirrels in North America.

As part of his overall study, Thorington is looking into the origin
and significance of intriguing anatomical parallels between both the
pygmy and giant arboreal squirrels and primates. The objective is
to study cases in which evolution has repeatedly followed similar
paths, and to examine the developmental and ecological constraints
that may have led to such parallel evolution. Both the smallest
monkeys and smallest tree squirrels have some behavioral and bio-
logical similarities. Giant tree squirrels would seem to have little in
common with the giant ceboid monkeys of South America—the
spider and howling monkeys—yet they have parallel specializations
of the shoulder musculature, which suggests that allometry (factors
controlling the relative growth of a body part in proportion to the
entire body) places similar constraints on large squirrels and large
monkeys.

88 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Peter J. Harmatuk (right) shows Dr. Richard Fiske, director of the National
Museum of Natural History, some fossil shark teeth he collected at the Lee
Creek Mine in North Carolina. (Photograph by Doc Dougherty)
DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY

Because so little is known about the biology, natural relationships,
and distributions of a large percentage of the insect life in South
America’s vast tropical rain forests, National Museum of Natural
History entomologists go there as often as possible to collect speci-
mens. In January, February, and March 1984, they joined scientists
from throughout the world in the first detailed multidisciplinary
biological investigation of Cerro de la Neblina, one of the largest
and highest of the unexplored mesas (tepuis) in southern Vene-
zuela’s vast “Lost World” wilderness region. Rising 7,500 feet to a
forested plateau and then onward to a 10,000-foot-high cloud-
covered peak, Neblina, the “Mountain of the Mists,” is a remnant
of a vast eroded tableland that covered the region hundreds of mil-
lions of years ago. High vertical cliffs, deep canyons, and steep rock
slopes isolate the mountain’s high plateau and peak from the rain
forests that surround its base, creating an “island in the sky” en-
vironment where flora and fauna have evolved that do not exist
anywhere else on earth.

Airplane and helicopter support was provided for the expedition
by the sponsoring Venezuelan organization, the Foundation for
the Development of Physical, Mathematical and Natural Sciences.
Expedition coordinator and leader Dr. Charles Brewer-Carias ar-
ranged to fly groups of scientists, including the Smithsonian’s Don-
ald Davis, Robert Robbins, Oliver Flint, Jerry Louton, and Vicki
Funk, and U.S. Fish and Wildlife scientists Roy McDiarmid and
Mercedes Foster, to San Carlos, a tiny military settlement on the
northern reaches of the Rio Negro, one of the major tributaries of
the Amazon. Loading their equipment into dugout canoes powered
by outboard motors, they were taken downriver to another outpost,
from which they were flown by helicopter across fifty miles of un-
broken, uninhabited rain forest to a base camp at the base of the
tepui.

From this site, collecting forays were made by scientists into
Neblina’s lowland forests and major river canyon. Davis, Louton,
Funk, McDiarmid, and Foster were among those taken by heli-
copter up to the wind- and rain-swept plateau where they set up
temporary camps and collected insects, plants, animals, and birds
in the scrub- and forest-covered boggy terrain. The plateau proved
as taxonomically enlightening as the scientists had hoped; a high
percentage of the plants and insects have structural peculiarities
reflecting their genetic isolation and sebsequent changes in form

90 / Smithsonian Year 1984
resulting from their isolated habitat. Tens of thousands of insects
were collected and are now being sorted and prepared for study.
The participation of U.S. scientists in the expedition was sponsored
by the Smithsonian Institution Scholarly Research Fund and the
National Science Foundation. Important assistance was provided by
the Institute of Tropical Zoology, Central University of Venezuela,
Caracas; the Institute of Agricultural Zoology, Central University
of Venezuela, Maracay; and the Venezuelan National Herbarium.
The exploration of Neblina is expected to continue into 1985.

At Tambopata, Peru, a wildlife reserve in the Amazon basin
lying within what many biologists believe is the richest forest
region in the world, Dr. Terry L. Erwin is studying the insect life
of the tropical forest canopy—one of the last unexplored biotic
frontiers on earth. In 1983-84 he completed four seasonal surveys
in the preserve, using an insecticidal fog to collect a million insect
specimens from the treetops of five different forest types within the
reserve. Erwin’s preliminary data show that 87 percent of the tropi-
cal-canopy insects are restricted to a specific forest type, and that
about 13 percent are confined to mostly one species of tree, a find-
ing that he believes has practical implications for the preservation
of tropical wildlife. He estimates that there are as many as 200
types of tropical forests, and to preserve the incredible diversity of
insect life they hold (possibly as many as 50 million species), as
many forest types as possible should be represented when reserves
are established—not just ones that make convenient picnic areas
for tourists. Working with Dr. Erwin, to help him document, gain
an understanding, and preserve the flora and fauna of this rich
region are scientists from the Smithsonian and other major institu-
tions in the United States, along with students and professors at
the Peruvian universities of La Molina and San Marcos in Lima and
from the universities at Callatena and Cuzco.

Among the other entomological collecting activities in South
America in 1983-84: coleopterist Dr. Paul J. Spangler brought back
more than 25,000 insects—including numerous new species—from
the Takutu Mountains of Guyana, an expedition sponsored by
EARTHWATCH; Dr. Johnathan Coddington collected arachnids and
myriapods in Venezuela and Trinidad; and Dr. Wayne Mathis
made a major collection of shore flies from Peru, Colombia, and
Belize.

Science / 91
DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY

Capitalizing on opportunities to make large documented collections
of fossils is an important priority for National Museum of Natural
History paleobiologists. At a huge open-pit mine on the south
bank of the Pamlico River, near Aurora, North Carolina, seventeen
years of collecting work led by the museum has established the
site as one of the richest known fossil deposits in the world, and
made possible the greatest single advancement ever in knowledge
of middle Atlantic Coastal Plain paleontology.

The first of three large volumes of research papers on the site
was published in September 1983 by the Smithsonian Institution
Press. Geology and Paleontology of Lee Creek Mine, North Caro-
lina (Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, No. 53), edited
by Dr. Clayton E. Ray, contains fourteen papers on Lee Creek
geology and paleontology, and a biography by Dr. Frank C. Whit-
more, Jr., of the late Dr. Remington E. Kellogg, a marine mammal
authority and former director of the Smithsonian’s U.S. National
Museum, to whom the three volumes are to be dedicated. It was
Kellogg who initiated Smithsonian studies at the Texasgulf-owned
mine in 1967 after he received a small collection of vertebrate
fossils from geologist Jack E. McClellan.

Scientists have studied curious Middle Atlantic Coast vertebrate
fossils since colonial times, but before the Lee Creek Mine existed
there was no way to learn about deposits in the critically impor-
tant Miocene and Pliocene Yorktown and Pungo Formations in
North Carolina, except through limited information that could be
gleaned by drilling. Aware that the Lee Creek Mine presented a
research opportunity that must be exploited, Kellogg enlisted col-
leagues at the Smithsonian, the U.S. Geological Survey, and other
scientific institutions, asking them to look into Lee Creek material
pertaining to their specialties and to collect at the site. The result
was that a trickle of fossils soon became a torrent; the mine to
date has yielded one of the largest fossil sea bird faunas in the
world; a superb collection of true seals, as well as an abundance of
new and different species of whales; and a remarkable assemblage
of sharks and bony fish, extensive enough to be considered the
essential reference for reconstructing the history and development
of the modern Western Atlantic fish fauna.

Although no small amount of this material was gathered by
scientists, the single most important and productive collector at
the Lee Creek Mine for the Smithsonian over the past seventeen

92 / Smithsonian Year 1984
years has been Peter J. Harmatuk. For years, every weekend or
day off, Harmatuk drove the thirty miles from his home in Bridge-
ton, North Carolina, to Lee Creek, where he spent countless hours
roaming the piles of recently excavated dirt, looking for fossils. In
1975 he retired early from his successful career as a factory man-
ager so that he could pursue paleontological fieldwork for the
Smithsonian more intensively. Dr. Ray writes: “He has collected
with unflagging enthusiasm more fossils of more kinds for science
than anyone who has ever worked the middle Atlantic Coastal
Plain, discovering specimens unprecedented in kind, quantity, or
quality. If one ever needed a reminder that paleontology tradi-
tionally has been and remains largely a field science, the enjoy-
ment and advancement of which is open to everyman to the extent
of his ability, effort, and interest, Peter Harmatuk provides irre-
futable proof.”

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper, paleobiologist emeritus, was awarded the
Penrose Medal, the highest honor given to American geologists,
at Geological Society of America meetings in Indianapolis, in
October 1983. Cooper, in his fifty-fourth year at the museum was
cited for “being the world’s foremost expert on brachiopods; for
being an inspirational teacher to generations of young paleontolo-
gists, for building a national collection of brachiopods and other
invertebrate fossils that is unparalleled in the world and for apply-
ing his rich knowledge of fossil lore to the resolution of geological
enigmas.”

Research geologists Drs. Ian G. Macintyre and Kenneth M.
Towe continued their investigation into the thousands of projec-
tions—resembling stalactites—that coat the ceiling of a huge, un-
charted limestone marine cave off Belize, Central America. The
projections, caused by the extensive precipitation of magnesium
calcite, have no known counterpart in any other marine environ-
ment in the world. In 1983-84 experiments were carried out that
will assist in establishing the role that bacteria play in the origin
of the carbonate precipitations. Large schools of fish frequent the
cave opening, fifty feet below the sea surface, including sharks
that rest on the cave floor and on ledges in the ceiling. Macintyre
and Towe believe that these fishes and sharks release organic
wastes that upon decaying produce by-products that are respon-
sible for the precipitation.

Science / 93
DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY

The luxuriant coniferous forests, meadows, and alpine slopes of the
Altai Mountains in southwestern Siberia are similar in many ways
to the vegetation of the Rocky Mountains. Dr. Stanwyn G. Shetler
in mid-1983 took part in a joint Soviet-American botanical expedi-
tion that explored this region of Asia—traveling by horseback to
reach the most rugged mountainous areas. The trip is believed by
Dr. Thomas Elias of the New York Botanical Garden, the U.S.
Team leader, to be the most important field expedition American
botanists have made in the USSR in modern times. One of the ex-
pedition’s objectives in the Altai Mountains was to expore jointly
with Soviet botanists the relationship between the plants of these
central Asian mountains and the plants of the Rocky Mountain
region of North America. During the second half of the expedition,
the field party visited the western Sayan Mountains in the Tuvan
Autonomous Republic, a wilderness where American botanists had
never collected before and where they studied the resemblances be-
tween this region’s plants and those of Alaska and boreal North
America.

The expedition, organized by the Main Botanical Garden in
Moscow and the Central Siberian Botanical Garden, Novosibirsk,
was the eighth U.S. plant collection on Soviet territory under the
auspices of a special bilateral exchange program begun in 1976.
The U.S. botanists returned with about 5,000 specimens, repre-
senting 400-500 species, which were divided more or less equally
between the Smithsonian, the New York Botanical Garden, and
the University of Alaska. The material represents an invaluable
collection of Siberian plants that will now be available in North
America to all future workers. Shetler was able to collect speci-
mens of most of the species of bellflowers (family Campanulaceae)
native to southern Siberia, and these collections and observations
will contribute greatly to his ongoing studies of this plant family.

Dr. Dan H. Nicolson spent two months in the summer of 1984
in southwestern China (Yunnan Province) collecting plants as one
of four Americans on a Sino-American exchange program. The
group did most of its collecting in the Cang Shan mountain range
west of the ancient walled city of Dali, about 400 kilometers
west of Kunning, the capital of Yunnan, on the Burma Road. More
than 19,000 specimens were collected. All collections were divided
equally between China and the United States, the Smithsonian
receiving one-third of the U.S. duplicates. The flora involved (Sino

94 / Smithsonian Year 1984
(Himalayan) is the richest temperate flora in the world and is of
great interest, not only to scientists, but to horticulturists. Four
Chinese botanists are scheduled to come to America in 1985 as part
of the exchange program worked out between the Academia Sinica
and the National Science Foundation.

In other Chinese related research, the museum’s Dr. Thomas
Soderstrom is working with Dr. Julian Campbell of the University
of Kentucky on the classification of the complex bamboos of
Sichuan. It is in the wilds of Sichuan that the last surviving popu-
lation of giant pandas live—feeding on various bamboos. Both
scientists are trying to improve our general knowledge of these
Sino-Himalayan bamboos, so important to the survival of the giant
panda.

In 1983-84 the museum became one of six multinational spon-
soring organizations of a long-term project to produce a flora of
Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana. Nearly a dozen museum
botanists—coordinated by Dr. Richard Cowan—will be involved.
The University of Utrecht, The Netherlands, will be the admin-
istrative center for the program. Other participants are the
Botanischer Garten and Museum, West Berlin; the New York
Botanical Garden; the Natural History Museum of Paris; and the
overseas research arm of the French Government.

Botanists Dr. Mark M. Littler, Diane Littler, Dr. James Norris,
and Katina Bucher made a surprising discovery in 1984 while sur-
veying the marine plant life off San Salvador Island, Bahamas, in
a research submersible with colleagues from the Harbor Branch
Foundation, Inc. Exploring an uncharted seamount at a depth of
880 feet, they found it covered with a calcareous form of red
algae, establishing a new maximum depth record for photosyn-
thetic plant life on earth. In the past it was thought that light
penetration in the ocean was insufficient for sustainable plant
growth below 100 fathoms (600 feet). The discovery indicates
that the role of macroalgae in deep-water oceanographic processes
is much greater than previously believed.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY

The oral traditions of the older Mayan men and women who live
in Chiapas, Mexico, are being lost as elderly people carry their
knowledge to the grave. Many of the younger Mayans are literate
in Spanish—but increasingly ignorant of their ancient culture.
After Indian participants in a 1982 anthropology conference at

Science / 95
San Cristobal, Chiapas, expressed concern over this loss, ethnolo-
gist Dr. Robert Laughlin began organizing and overseeing a
writer’s cooperative dedicated to preserving Mayan Indian culture.
The “House of Writers” is composed of six members, represent-
ing the Tzotzil towns of Chamula and Zinacantan, and the Tzeltal
towns of Oxchuc and Tenejapa. Laughlin, who for many years
has studied Mayan civilization and is the author of a dictionary
of Tzotzil, a language spoken by more than 200,000 Mayan
Indians, prepared alphabets in Tzotzil and Tzeltal for use by the
group and edited the first five bilingual illustrated booklets of
history and folklore published by the cooperative in 1983-84 at
the State of Chiapas Press. The books are now being distributed
in the communities. The project has the backing of Mexico’s
National Indian Institute.

The museum’s Human Studies Film Archives, the only national
organization dedicated to collecting and preserving motion picture
and video documentation of world culture, now has 1.5 million
feet of footage, including some of the most important anthropo-
logical film collections formerly in private hands. In 1983-84 alone,
the archives received in trust more than 900,000 feet of film, in-
cluding John Marshall’s substantive documentation of the Kung
bushmen of southern Africa, footage of the Yanomamo Indians
of Venezuela and Brazil by Timothy Asch and Napoleon Chagnon,
and Allison and Marek Jablonko’s research films of the Maring
people of the Papua New Guinea highlands.

Arctic, volume 5 of the Handbook of North American Indians,
was published in January 1985. The sixth volume in the series
to be completed, it describes the Arctic people and all Eskimo
groups from Siberia to Greenland. Research and editing on the
Great Basin (volume 11) are underway. All Handbook volumes
are in print, with more than 55,000 copies sold. The series is under
the general editorship of William C. Sturtevant.

Dr. Herman Viola, director of the museum’s National Anthro-
pological Archives, produced a lavishly illustrated overview of the
treasures of The National Archives of the United States, in honor
of the National Archives’ fiftieth anniversary. Dr. William Trous-
dale, curator of Far Eastern Archeology, edited an English memoir
of nineteenth-century Afghanistan that provides a valuable chron-
ical of the political events of the time as well as interesting infor-
mation on Afghan archeology, history, and industry. Drawing
heavily on the museum’s Tibetan collections, Dr. Paul Taylor,
curator of Asian Ethnology, organized an exhibition for the Smith-

96 / Smithsonian Year 1984
sonian’s Renwick Gallery celebrating the Tibetan Yak. This animal
occupies a central position in Tibetan life—somewhat as the bison
did for America’s Plains Indians—not only as a source of meat and
milk protein and of wool, hide, and horn for tents, clothing, and
utensils, but also as the pack animal on which the country’s trade
depends. Taylor was also instrumental in the acquisition of the
large private library of the late Professor John M. Echols, an
authority on Indonesian languages and developer of Cornell Uni-
versity’s Southeast Asian Studies program. This single purchase
helps fill in a serious gap in Smithsonian Asian Ethnology library
resources.

Major new archeological excavations were undertaken in 1983-
84 by Dr. Dennis Stanford at the classic Clovis paleoIndian arche-
ological site at Blackwater Draw in eastern New Mexico. Core
samples taken in 1983 determined that the site had not been com-
pletely destroyed, as feared, by twenty years of commercial gravel
mining in the area; extensive Clovis, Folsom, Agate Basin, and
Cody archeological deposits remain and are now being explored
by Stanford and geologist Vance Haynes (University of Arizona)
and other experts in the field of paleontology, palynology, and
soil analysis.

Two months of archeological surveys in Labrador in 1983-84
by Dr. William C. Fitzhugh provided a much clearer picture of
how early Maritime Archaic peoples lived. Evidence of early
single-family round or oval pithouses dug into boulder beaches
were found by Fitzhugh on the islands of Aillik, Big Bay, Natsa-
tuk, Karl Oom, Immilikuluk, and other locations. Excavation of
several of these sites produced diagnostic implements and radio-
carbon samples that should provide keys to the early develop-
mental sequence of this period (ca. 6500-4500 BP).

Dr. Gus Van Beek returned for the eleventh year to Tell
Jemmeh, in Israel’s western Negev Desert, where he excavated two
areas representing a crucial but unknown period in Philistine cul-
ture history (tenth to ninth century B.C.), recovering a fine series
of burnished red slip pottery that came from four successive
occupation periods and that should make it possible to trace the
development of pottery forms and decorative techniques during
this century.

Physical anthropologist Dr. Donald J. Ortner in July 1984 began
a detailed and comprehensive study of 300 bone specimens in the
museum’s human skeletal collections that exhibit pathological con-
ditions of special significance. The three-year study, supported by

Science / 97
a National Institutes of Health grant, is expected to shed light on
the origins and development of disease—and its relations to en-
vironmental and cultural factors—both of which remain important
in the treatment of disease today.

DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL SCIENCES

Over the past fifteen years the scattered fragments of possibly as
many as 1,000 meteorites, preserved in the Antarctic polar ice cap
for as long as 34 million years, have been found by U.S. and
Japanese expeditions. This amazing scientific bonanza amounts to
more than 25 percent of the total number of meteorites collected
on earth in the past 200 years. Drs. Brian Mason and Roy S.
Clarke have been charged for the past eight years with the respon-
sibility of characterizing and describing the largest portion of the
U.S. Antarctic material. Mason, a specialist in the mineralogy of
chondrite and achondrite meteorites, the types mostly found in
Antarctica, in 1983-84 published in the Antarctic Meteorite News-
letter descriptions of 151 specimens, including several distinctively
new and unusual mineralogical types. Clarke, a specialist in the
much more scarce iron meteorites, published on three new speci-
mens. This basic analytical work is opening up new vistas of
knowledge on the composition of parent meteoritic bodies, and
laying the groundwork for other important discoveries. For ex-
ample, scientists now believe there is evidence that the flux of
meteoritic types received by the earth may have changed over geo-
logic times. Some of the meteoritic material under study by Mason
and Clarke was found by Dr. Robert Fudali, who has accompanied
two recent National Science Foundation-funded U.S. expeditions
to Antarctica. On last year’s trip Fudali and six other scientists
logged more than 800 miles on snowmobiles during forty-two
days at remote stations on the polar plateau west of the Trans-
antarctic mountains, collecting more than 300 meteorites and me-
teorite fragments, including several rare carbonaceous chondrites.

Dr. Kurt Fredriksson is interested in developing more sensitive
equipment for quantifying chondrite meteorite trace element con-
tent and ratios. Collaborating with a group of scientists working
at the Max Planck Institute, Mainz, West Germany, in 1983-84,
he worked out an ion probe technique for this purpose that is
more sensitive than standard electron microprobe analysis. Fred-
riksson presented his findings at the 9th Symposium on Antarctic
Meteorites in Tokyo.

98 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Museum volcanologists in 1983-84 carried on research focusing
on various aspects of global volcanism. In his quest to understand
how volcanoes develop and grow, Dr. Tom Simkin is looking at
submerged seafloor volcanoes, which are many times more numer-
ous than those above sea level. Diving in the research submersible
Alvin, at depths of 1 to 3 kilometers in June 1984, Simkin investi-
gated several young volcanoes on the Pacific floor with shapes
similar to the Galapagos Islands volcanoes, 1500 kilometers to the
south, that he has studied for years. These volcano shapes, al-
though uncommon among oceanic islands, are now being recog-
nized in many detailed seafloor studies, and Simkin’s dives pro-
duced evidence that they form in much the same way as their
Galapagos equivalents.

Dr. Richard Fiske, director of the National Museum of Natural
History, is involved in a long-term project at the Soufriere volcano
of St. Vincent, British West Indies, which erupted violently in
1979, and is expected to erupt again before the end of this cen-
tury. In June 1974 Fiske and his colleagues installed a new “tilt”
station on the southwestern slopes of the volcano that will make it
possible to determine with reasonable precision the location of
swelling caused by subterranean lava surges. The project objective
is to develop an inexpensive, low-tech monitoring system that can
be used by Third World nations to determine when potentially
dangerous volcanoes will erupt.

Arenal, a highly explosive Costa Rican volcano, has been under
study by Dr. William Melson since its last major eruption in 1961.
Last year Melson started fieldwork on an intensive combined
volcanological and archeologic study of Arenal Volcano’s tephra
apron. The work has revealed that Arenal’s first major explosive
eruption occurred about 1000 B.C. Repeatedly, the region was re-
inhabited by Indians, and the study is making it possible to pre-
pare a remarkably precise chronology of their cultural changes
from the frequent catastrophic burial of habitation sites. This work
is being carried out with Payson Sheets, University of Colorado
at Boulder, and, in addition to Smithsonian funding, it has received
support from the National Science Foundation and National Geo-
graphic Society.

Krakatau 1883: The Volcanic Eruption and Its Effects was pub-
lished in December 1983 by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Volcanologists Tom Simkin and Richard Fiske, coauthors with
Sarah F. Melcher and Elizabeth Nielsen, in 1983-84 gave more
than a dozen Krakatau talks to both scientific and lay audiences

Science / 99
in the United States, Canada, Japan, and Holland. The great inter-
est in the eruption—the most famous volcanic catastrophe in re-
corded history—was also evident in the extraordinarily rapid sales

of the book.

DEPARTMENT OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Concern over the high prevalence of cancer in fish living in chem-
ically contaminated bodies of water, and the potential human
health hazard posed by consuming these fish, using the water, or
being associated with production of the polluting chemicals, fo-
cused attention in 1983-84 on the museum’s Registry of Tumors
in Lower Animals. The registry, created and funded by the Na-
tional Cancer Institute, has for eighteen years been the only clear-
ing house in the world for information on the phenomena of
cancer in fish and other vertebrate and invertebrate coldblooded
animals.

Working out of an office and laboratory in the Department of
Invertebrate Zoology, director John Harshbarger and his staff
maintain a specimen depository of more than 5,000 specimens
from the United States and forty other countries. Every week, new
material arrives for examination. In the past year, Harshbarger
studied, diagnosed, and described 450 cases of disease. Reports of
these diagnostic studies were entered into the registry’s com-
puterized databank and circulated to scientists throughout the
world. Among the cases Harshbarger studied last year with various
collaborators were tumors in the liver and other organs of a feral
population of sauger and walleye fishes inhabiting Torch Lake in
Michigan, which is heavily polluted by chemicals and residues of
copper mining; liver and skin cancer in brown bullhead catfish
from the industrially polluted Black River, Ohio; and liver cancer
in tomcod fish from the Hudson River. Testifying in October at a
congressional subcommittee hearing on the growing incidence of
tumors and cancers in polluted waterways, Harshbarger recom-
mended the initiation of systematic and regular surveys of fish
populations in waterways throughout the nation to help locate
dangerous sources of pollution so that sport fishermen and con-
sumers will be able to determine if the fish and shellfish they
catch, buy, and consume come from contaminated areas.

Spectacular video footage documenting never-before-seen be-
havior patterns of deep-water echinoderms was compiled in April
1984 by the museum’s Dr. David Pawson, Dr. Porter Kier, and

100 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Dr. Gordon Hendler, and Dr. John Miller of the Harbor Branch
Foundation, Inc. In the third in a series of dives carried out by the
four scientists over the last year off the Bahama Islands in the
Harbor Branch research submersible, Johnson-Sea-Link-II, descents
were made as deep as several thousand feet along the sometimes
steep underwater slopes, to investigate the deepwater echinoderm
fauna—starfish, sea urchins, brittlestars, basketstars, sea cucum-
bers, feather stars, and sea lillies. The rich, diverse echinoderm
fauna in this area has never been explored firsthand until now,
although scientists have long known about the animals living
there, as a result of collections made more than a century ago with
the help of dredges. The dredges, however, often brought up dead,
damaged specimens, which gave little information on the animals’
delicate structures, behavior, or lifestyle. But the highly mobile
Harbor Branch submersible, outfitted with sophisticated collecting
equipment, can pluck animals from the rugged sea floor slopes
and bring them back alive in nearly pristine condition. Eighteen
dives were made on the April cruise, each lasting about three to
five hours.

Approximately eighty species of echinoderms—500 specimens
in all—were collected; at least twenty of these new to the scien-
tists’ survey list. To date, the Bahamas survey has yielded nearly
120 deepwater species, some new to science, and thousands of new
specimens for Smithsonian and Harbor Branch collections. In addi-
tion, hours of color videotape footage and hundreds of still photo-
graphs were shot. Detailed analysis of the specimens and film is
now in progress.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

Several major collections of plankton were received in 1983-84
from the western North Atlantic, northern Caribbean, and the
eastern Gulf of Mexico, and interesting collections of fishes and
benthic invertebrates were also taken from the Gulf of Alaska
and the Caribbean. During the year the sosc staff prepared 135
shipments containing 51,916 specimens for shipment to sixty-three
specialists and to five permanent repositories. Staff research proj-
ects included Dr. Frank Ferrari’s work at the California Depart-
ment of Fish and Game’s Laboratory in Stockton, studying a
small copepod accidentally introduced from the Yangtze River
delta in China into the Sacramento-San Joaquin delta in Califor-
nia; and Dr. Gordon Hendler’s series of experiments at Carrie Bow
Cay concerning the ability of brittlestars to change color.

Science / 101
SMITHSONIAN MARINE STATION AT LINK PORT

Numerous scientists from various organizations of the Smith-
sonian, joined by colleagues from other institutions, visited the
museum’s Marine Station at Link Port, near Ft. Pierce, Florida, in
1983-84 to conduct research on a wide variety of topics in marine
sciences—from sedimentology and the spectral quality of under-
water light to systematic, ecological, reproductive, and behavioral
studies. The museum’s Dr. Robert P. Higgins and Dr. Reinhardt
Kristensen, a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellow affiliated with the
University of Copenhagen, carried out a dredging and coring sur-
vey of the meiofauna living in the sediments of a ten-square-mile
area off the coast of Ft. Pierce at depths of ten to fifteen meters.
Both scientists are authorities on the systematics and life histories
of meiofauna—diminutive multicellular organisms adapted to liv-
ing in spaces between grains of sediment and sand on ocean floors
and beaches. The fact that these organisms represent a relatively
unexplored biological frontier was underscored in October 1984
when Kristensen announced the discovery and description of a
new meiofaunal phylum—Loricifera. It was only the third time in
this century that a new phylum has been added to the animal
kingdom, bringing to thirty-nine the total of these high-level
classification groups.

Loricifera—less than one-hundredth of an inch in length—is
distinguished from the four other meiofauna phylum by a mouth
apparatus that consists of a flexible tube that can be telescopically
retracted into the animal. It also has clawlike and clubshaped
spines on its head that help keep it firmly attached to the sedi-
ment. Kristensen has documented the animal group in sea-bottom
samples from waters off France, Greenland, the South Pacific, and
the Atlantic coast of the United States. At Link Port he and
Higgins collected a wide range of meiofauna, including larval and
molting loriciferan specimens that yielded significant new informa-
tion on the life histories of this recently recognized phylum.

Among the other studies in 1983-84 were research on gastropod
systematics by the museum’s Richard S. Houbrick; a study of the
reproductive biology of brooding ophiuroids by Dr. Maria Byrne,
a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellow; and an investigation of the life
history of the rock boring barnacles by Joseph Dineen, a Univer-
sity of Maryland graduate student. Dr. Judith Winston, American
Museum of Natural History, and Dr. Eckart Hakansson, Univer-
sity of Copenhagen, continued their study of the life histories and

102 / Smithsonian Year 1984
R/V Johnson, prepares to embark with National Museum of Natural History
and Harbor Branch Foundation scientists in search of echinoderms in the Ba-
hamas. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)
population ecology of two free-living species of bryozoans. Elec-
trophoretic enzyme studies by the museum’s Dr. Kristian Fauchald
on a species of polychaete from both sides of the Florida peninsula
demonstrated apparent inherent differences in morphologically ex-
tremely similar populations. The museum’s Dr. Raymond B. Man-
ning and Darryl L. Felder, of the University of Southwestern
Louisiana, conducted a study of parasitic peacrabs (pinnotherids),
which live in burrows of mud shrimps (pinnotherids). Dr. Anson
Hines, of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, studied
the growth patterns of four xanthid crabs that differ in size at
maturity.

A study of the behavior of amphipods by the museum’s Dr.
J. L. Barnard and James D. Thomas, of the Newfound Harbor
Marine Institute, stressed the function of appendages, individually
and cooperatively in performing such tasks as tube building,
grooming, and feeding and in inter- and intraspecific confronta-
tions. With the help of time-lapse photography, supervised by
Kjell Sandved, the museum’s scientific photographer, the tube-
building behavior of two amphipod species was documented with
special attention to the production and manipulation of silk strands
by the appendages to form the tubes.

MUSEUM SUPPORT CENTER

The first full year of operation of the Museum Support Center
(msc) has been marked by the staffing of key positions, the im-
plementation of special policy procedures governing pest control
and inventory management, the installation of a sophisticated
electronic security system, and the first phase of construction of
the collection storage equipment. In addition, the initial move of
both people and collections into the center took place. The Na-
tional Museum of American History was the first to formally
take occupation of assigned space, bringing in the first collection
object, a harpsichord, for conservation treatment. Next, the Con-
servation Analytical Laboratory moved to the Support Center,
vacating its former quarters in the Museum of American History.
Subsequently, the National Museum of Natural History established
its botany plant-mounting lab, paleobiology sedimentology lab,
and vertebrate zoology histology lab at msc. An acarologist asso-
ciated with the National Institutes of Health and working in affili-
ation with the museum’s Department of Entomology has moved
his entire lab, including his scanning electron microscope and his

104 / Smithsonian Year 1984
significant reference collection of ticks, from Montana into the
center.

Until permanent storage systems are completed, msc has been
able to provide limited temporary storage for collection materials
from Natural History, as well as special space for use by the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service and the Museum of
African Art. Preparations are currently underway to accommodate
the needs of the new Sackler Gallery and the Center for Asian
Art, which will use space at msc loaned to them by the Depart-
ment of Anthropology until the new Quadrangle building is ready.
The Support Center was honored in a local competition sponsored
by the regional power companies for being one of the best de-
signed and constructed new buildings in the area as regards energy
efficiency.

National Zoological Park

In fiscal year 1984 the National Zoological Park (Nzr) continued
its commitment to education, science, recreation, and conservation
through animal exhibits, symposia, publications, research with the
collection, and research and breeding of endangered species. These
programs were accomplished through the combined efforts of the
Office of Animal Programs, the Office of Support Services, and the
Office of the Director.

ANIMAL COLLECTION AND EXHIBITS

There were many notable changes in the animal collection of the
National Zoological Park, including significant births and deaths
as well as major acquisitions. In late November 1983, Ling-Ling,
the female giant panda, was critically ill with a serious kidney
infection with associated anemia. After successful treatment by the
veterinary staff, Ling-Ling’s condition improved so dramatically
that she had a normal heat cycle in the spring. On March 19, 1984,
Ling-Ling mated twice with Hsing-Hsing and became pregnant.
After a gestation period of 139 days, she gave birth, but her cub,
a male weighing 5.3 ounces, was stillborn, as a result of a bacterial
infection.

Many of the rare and endangered species maintained by the
National Zoological Park produced offspring during this period.
The second spectacled bear cub was born and the Cuban croco-

Science / 105
diles laid twenty-nine eggs, many of which hatched, for the first
time at the National Zoo. The first pygmy hippo in seven years
was born. There were also births to the grey seals, sea lions, golden
lion tamarins, maned wolves, scimitar-horned oryx, Pére David's
deer, titi monkeys, red pandas and Goeldi’s monkeys. Several es-
tablished breeding programs of the departments of Ornithology
and Herpetology continued with hatchings by Ruddy ducks, Lay-
san teal, white-winged wood ducks, white-naped cranes, Stanley’s
cranes, rufous beaked snakes, giant day and leopard gekkos, and
red-footed and leopard tortoises. A total of 1,233 births and
hatchings were recorded for calendar year 1983 by the National
Zoo, which ended that year with 2,932 animals in its collection.

The major animal acquisition in fiscal year 1984 was an infant
Asiatic elephant presented to President Reagan on June 18, by
the president of Sri Lanka. The elephant, named Jayathu, was a
Zoo favorite, with a personality that charmed many zoogoers. Un-
fortunately, she contracted a serious digestive problem and died
on August 30, despite massive efforts by the veterinary and keeper
staff. Other significant acquisitions included black palm cockatoos
from Malaysia, birds of paradise from New Guinea and green-
winged macaws. Two new research projects were initiated on
species completely new to the National Zoo’s collection. In col-
laboration with the Duke Primate Center, the National Zoo suc-
cessfully reproduced western tarsiers, acquired from Malaysia, for
the first time. Tarsiers have been little maintained or exhibited in
zoos because of their delicate and noctural nature. Field studies
are to be conducted on behavioral ecology in order to develop a
more comprehensive understanding of the biology of tarsiers.

Dr. Eugene Morton traveled to Guam and returned with four
Guam rails, a species disappearing from the island with astonish-
ing rapidity. In spearheading an attempt to breed Guam rails in
captivity, Dr. Morton hopes that the decline of the species on
Guam can be reversed and that captive-bred rails can be reintro-
duced to the island. Eggs have already been laid and hatched by
this endangered species. Many other bird species on Guam are
endangered as well, and nzp will also be participating in a captive-
breeding program for the Guam kingfisher.

Several other staff members are deeply involved in national and
international captive-breeding programs for endangered species,
including Dr. Katherine Ralls and Jonathan Ballou, who represent
the National Zoo on the 1ucn’s Survival Service Commission’s Cap-
tive Breeding Specialist Group. Dr. Devra Kleiman and Ballou

106 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The first of the “Pennies for Pandas” is contributed by a District of Columbia
public school student with the assistance of Mrs. Nancy Reagan and Russell
Train, head of the World Wildlife Fund, outside the National Zoo’s panda yard.

maintain the International Studbook for Golden Lion Tamarins,
while Scott Derrickson has become nzp’s representative for the
Bali Mynah Propagation Group, with Guy Greenwell as special
advisor in management. Nzp is deeply involved in formulating
plans to reintroduce the Bali mynah to Indonesia, using captive-
bred stock. Other Species Survival Plan programs underway in-
clude those for gorilla, black rhino, and Indian rhino.

The animal inventory is in the process of being completely com-
puterized, which will ease nzp’s ability to maintain records and
retrieve information. Currently, all bird transactions are recorded
directly into the computer; ultimately, nzp hopes to be able to
communicate directly with the International Species Inventory
System (isis) in Minnesota through the Smithsonian computer
systems.

The outdoor furniture in the giant panda yards was completely
replaced in a unique effort that involved nzp staff and more than
400 volunteers from the Friends of the National Zoo. Included in
this building effort were swings, platforms, feeding trees, tires,
and other wooden sections designed to encourage greater activity
in the giant pandas.

The Department of Animal Health (pau) continues to strive for
furthering veterinary care of the animal collection at both Rock
Creek Park and the Conservation and Research Center (crc) in
Front Royal, Virginia. The clinical staff participates in research
and development of techniques; conducts postgraduate training;
publishes extensively; and attends and leads continuing educa-
tion—all in an effort to further zoological medicine.

International involvement is exemplified by the participation of
Drs. Mitchell Bush and David Wildt in reproductive and im-
mobilization studies in South Africa; presentations at international
scientific meetings; and involvement in ongoing field studies such
as the Golden Lion Tamarin Project in Brazil.

Reproductive research continues in endocrinology and the de-
velopment of techniques in the areas of semen and embryo collec-
tion, transfer, and cryopreservation. These programs are conducted
by Dr. Wildt and his graduate students in collaboration with the
National Institutes of Health, the National Cancer Institute, and
the Uniformed Services University for the Health Sciences.

Ongoing clinical research, intended to be directly applicable to
veterinary care, includes studies of Mycobacterium ssp. in hoof-
stock, rabies prophylaxis and vaccination response in nearly all
species of mammals, monoclonal killed canine distemper vaccines,

108 / Smithsonian Year 1984
appropriate anthelmintics for reptilian parasites, and adrenal re-
sponse to immobilization and surgical manipulation in selected
primate, ungulate, and carnivore species.

Veterinary facilities at crc are under construction to provide that
facility with a fully equipped animal hospital to provide surgical,
hospitalization, and clinical laboratory support for that portion of
the animal collection.

The computerization of the DAH medical records is proving in-
valuable in maintaining medical histories of individual animals,
allowing retrospective studies of health conditions, and providing
a monitor for preventative health care for the entire collection.

The Department of Pathology actively engages in applied re-
search and teaching as important spinoffs of the diagnostic ser-
vices that are provided to the zoo collection. Research centers
around the disease problems that exist in the collection, with
emphasis on the development of prophylactic measures against
infectious diseases and parasites that affect the animals.

This department maintains a very active residency program,
teaching pathology of zoo animals as a unique specialty at the
postgraduate level to veterinary pathology residents from the
Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and to an in-house pathology
resident as well as instructors from various veterinary colleges.

Research, supported by the Charles Ulrich and Josephine Bay
Foundation, through the American Association of Zoo Veterinar-
ians, to study viral diseases in zoo animals, has continued to be
most productive. The Walter Reed Army Institute of Research
and the Department of Animal Health have collaborated with us
in studies that have led to new information about the use of
canine distemper, parvovirus and rabies vaccine in certain zoo
animals. Nzp has also continued collaborative research of the rac-
coon rabies epizootic that has occurred in the southern and middle
Atlantic states and has engaged in joint studies concerned with
epizootiologic aspects with the National Park Service, the Univer-
sity of the District of Columbia, and the Centers for Disease Con-
trol. Information from more than three years of monitoring the
epizootic as it moved from Northern Virginia to Washington,
D.C., was presented at the North American Symposium on Rabies
in Wildlife, held at Johns Hopkins University in the fall of 1983.

Another ongoing project has been studying the effect of intra-
venous avian tuberculin on the hemogram of tuberculous and non-
tuberculous quail (Coturnix coturnix), which was funded by the
Friends of the National Zoo (FoNz).

Science / 109
Pasteurella multocida has been identified as the cause of an out-
break of septicemic deaths in southern potoroos (Potorous api-
calis), in which the organisms acted as an opportunist during peri-
ods of stress associated with aggression in the potoroo colony.
The syndrome resembled pasteurellosis of rabbits in which the
pasteurella organism is introduced by a carrier animal and becomes
overt during stressful periods.

New projects include iron metabolism studies in rock hyrax
(Procavia capensis) with hemachromatosis, and its possible asso-
ciation with gastric grassanemiasis, and the identification and
epizootiologic aspects of equine herpes virus (EHv-1) that was
recovered from an aborted onager (Equus hemionus onager) fetus
and implicated in a neurologic syndrome of a yearling zebra
(Equus burchelli). A retrospective study of sera that had been
banked from various equidae at Rock Creek Park and Front Royal
indicated exposure of most of the zebras to EHv-1 at both sites as
early as two years prior to the abortion. There were, however, no
recognizable clinical signs such as the upper respiratory infections
that occur frequently in domestic horses in any of the zebras or
onagers. The herpes virus isolated from the onager fetus was
identified as a unique subtype by virologists at the University of
Kentucky, Lexington, and is being further studied.

Dr. Richard J. Montali attended an international symposium on
the diseases of zoo animals in Brno, Czechoslovakia, and delivered
a paper on reproductive strategies in zoo animals coauthored with
Drs. Wildt and Bush of the Department of Animal Health. Dr.
Montali also attended the Primate Pathology Workshop in San
Francisco and presented a paper on special disease problems in
folivorous monkeys and their implication on the management of
these highly specialized primates in captivity. He lectured on gross
lesions of zoo animals at a C. L. Davis Foundation for Veterinary
Pathology session and presented a four-hour seminar at the Cen-
ters for Disease Control in Atlanta on the pathology of zoo
animals.

RESEARCH

There were a variety of continuing and new research projects at
the National Zoo. One of the more exciting involved the rehabili-
tation and training of captive-born golden lion tamarins prior to
their reintroduction in the Poco das Antas Reserve in Brazil. Dr.
Devra Kleiman accompanied fifteen golden lion tamarins to the
Rio de Janeiro Primate Center in November 1983. Both before and

110 / Smithsonian Year 1984
after their arrival in Brazil, Dr. Benjamin Beck, Dr. Kleiman, and
several Brazilian students worked with these animals to train
them in techniques of foraging for, finding, and exposing new
foods. At the same time, Dr. James Dietz has been working on
the behavioral ecology of wild golden lion tamarins in Brazil in
order to determine their feeding habits, home range and move-
ments, and social organization. As part of the Golden Lion Tam-
arin Reintroduction Project, Lou Ann Dietz has been coordinating
a local and national educational program in Brazil concerning con-
servation of golden lion tamarins.

Dr. Rudy Rudran held another successful wildlife management
training course at the crc with students from Peru, Sri Lanka,
China, Nigeria, and Malaysia. Dr. Rudran also conducted wildlife
management training courses in Brazil and visited Argentina and
Venezuela to follow up on previous studies. Dr. Morton continued
his research program on the evoluation of animal vocal communi-
cation, welcoming Eyal Shy from the Edward Grey Institute in
Oxford to initiate a research project on the function of bird song.
He has initiated a major work on the evolution of animal com-
munication in collaboration with Kimberly Young. Dr. Morton and
Dr. Russell Greenberg continued collaborative studies on the de-
velopment of feeding behavior in migratory warblers, relating the
differences in behavioral development in species to their feeding
adaptations as adults.

Dr. Katherine Ralls continued her studies of sea otter behavioral
ecology and held a workshop on the Genetic Management of
Captive Populations at Front Royal, assisted by population man-
ager Jonathan Ballou. Lisa Forman initiated studies on the genetics
of golden lion tamarins and dorcas gazelle, in collaboration with
Dr. Stephen O’Brien at the National Institutes of Health genetics
laboratory. These will be the first studies in which pedigrees of
known captive populations are compared with the actual degree of
biochemical heterozygosity.

Dr. Steven Thompson joined the National Zoo as a postdoctoral
fellow to initiate studies of the comparative energetics of eutherian
and marsupial mammals, with a National Science Foundation grant
and a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellowship. He will be collaborat-
ing with Dr. Martin Nicoll, a postdoctoral fellow with Dr. Edwin
Gould, concerned with the behavioral ecology and metabolic rates
of conservative mammals such as tenrecs. The research will focus
on the changes in the metabolism of marsupials and eutherian
mammals during the course of the reproductive cycle.

Science / 111
Dr. John Gittleman, postdoctoral fellow with Dr. Kleiman, con-
tinued his work on red panda development and vocalizations. He
also collaborated with Dr. Olav Oftedal in a study of behavioral
development and lactation in black bears, conducted on wild black
bears in Pennsylvania. Dr. Oftedal and Dr. Daryl Boness con-
tinued fruitful collaborations, with work on the hooded seal lacta-
tion and milk composition being initiated on the ice floes off the
southeastern coast of Labrador. They have discovered that hooded
seals have the shortest lactation period of any mammal. They also
continued their long-term studies of behavioral development and
lactation in the California sea lion in California, with the assis-
tance of Dr. Katherine Ono. Mary Allen continued her studies
of insect-eating animals and captive diets.

Dr. John Seidensticker continued the Field Studies Programs
at CRC, concentrating on the dispersal and foraging behavior of
raccoons, in collaboration with Dr. James Hallett and Dr. Margaret
O’Connell. Theodore Grand expanded his studies of functional
morphology of mammals with a comparison of the morphology
of several ungulate species as it relates to their ecology.

The animal collection of the Department of Zoological Research
was involved in several programs, including studies of marsupial
and eutherian energetics and also of the basic reproductive biology
and management of several little-known forms. Miles Roberts and
the keeper staff completed several papers for publication, one of
them on the captive reproduction and management of the little
known rock cavy.

Fred Koontz completed his University of Maryland Ph.D. thesis
on the behavior of captive elephant shrews. Susan Lumpkin and
Devra Kleiman initiated a project to develop a series of books on
the Management of Wild Mammals in Captivity, to be published
by the University of Chicago Press.

Dr. Gould continued his analysis of regurgitation in gorillas
and stereotyped behaviors in zoo animals; he also visited Malaysia
to initiate field studies there. Dr. Wolfgang Dittus and Anne
Baker-Dittus continued their long-term study of the Tocque ma-
caques of Sri Lanka; she is concentrating on behavioral develop-
ment and differential maternal investment and he is concentrating
on long-term demographic data for this uniquely well-known
population as well as on their social structure and communication
patterns.

Dr. Dale Marcellini and Tom Jenssen continued collaborative
work on lizard behavioral ecology in the Caribbean area, looking

112 / Smithsonian Year 1984

The National Zoo’s
Smokey Bear tries out
his new “feeder” tree,
which automatically dis-
penses food pellets and
honey.

In July 1984 the first
Cuban crocodile was
hatched at the National
Zoo.

both at the evolution of display patterns and interspecific com-
petition. Dr. Christen Wemmer traveled to Asia to pursue his
studies of the morphology and breeding of captive elephants, while
developing the Smithsonian research program in Nepal, deriving
from the long-term tiger studies. Dr. Wemmer has also been con-
tinuing his interest in the behavior and ecology of the Cervidae,
and Dr. Michael Stuwe is conducting in-depth studies of the
behavior of white-tailed deer at crc.

CONSERVATION

Four American zoos (National, Los Angeles, New York, and San
Diego) are attempting to develop a cooperative project with the
Wildlife Department of Sabah, East Malaysia, for the captive
propagation, as well as field research and protection, of proboscis
monkeys. Dr. Gould is serving as the project coordinator. An im-
portant part of the project will be to help Sabah develop a propa-
gation center for proboscis monkeys and eventually a wildlife park
at the Sepilok Orang Sanctuary near Sandakan.

The National Zoo joined the American Association of Zoological
Parks and Aquariums (aazPA) consortium to save the Sumatran
rhino. Dr. John Frazier went to India, Sri Lanka, and the Maldive
Islands to survey turtle-nesting areas as part of the marine turtle
conservation program. Dr. Seidensticker was a consultant for the
World Bank in developing guidelines for elephant conservation
within the context of major agricultural and forestry development
projects. The National Zoo received a grant from Resources for
the Future to assess the impact of habitat change on indigenous
wildlife populations at the Conservation and Research Center.
Dr. Rudran conducted a seven-week Wildlife Conservation and
Management Training course at crc, where thirteen biologists
from developing nations took part.

Prior to the summer course, Dr. Rudran conducted wildlife con-
servation courses for fourteen students in Brazil and nine students
in Venezuela, and supervised field projects in Argentina that were
initiated in 1982.

Drs. Ralls and Siniff received a grant to study the ecology, be-
havior, and conservation of California sea otters. In Nepal, Smith-
sonian conservation efforts have broadened from the former tiger
project to include a more inclusive study of the terai ecosystem.
Dr. Wemmer is senior research coordinator for the new Smith-
sonian Institution Nepal Terai Ecology Project. In 1984, Drs.

114 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Mishra and Dinerstein initiated research on the effects of fire and
mammalian herbivores on terai forest succession. In December
1983 Drs. Robinson, Wemmer, Gould, Seidensticker, Rudran, Sun-
quist, and Frazier, along with David Kessler, participated in the
“Bombay Natural History Society Centenary Seminar on Conser-
vation of Wildlife in Developing Countries.” Dr. Wemmer con-
sulted with members of the rucn Asian Elephant Group in India
and initiated efforts to investigate the population biology of cap-
tive elephants in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, and Nepal. The
National Zoo joined a breeding consortium with eleven other in-
stitutions and private aviculturists to establish a self-sustaining
captive population of black palm cockatoos.

Charles Pickett went to Pakistan on behalf of the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service and the Pakistan Department of Forestry to con-
sult on the establishment of a national zoo in Islamabad and to
promote crane conservation. He traveled throughout the country,
meeting with conservation officials and presenting lectures on
crane conservation, captive breeding, and current research needs.
During the same trip, he visited the Keoladeo Bird Sanctuary in
India and participated in the annual census of endangered Siberian
crane. Joan Smith began monitoring the captive population of
white-winged wood ducks in the United States as studbook liaison
for the Wildfowl Trust, Slimbridge, England. Dr. Scott Derrickson
continued to serve on the Whooping Crane Recovery Team and
consulted with a number of institutions in the United States
and abroad concerning crane propagation and reintroduction
techniques.

Jon Ballou was appointed aazpa studbook analyst for the Bali
mynah, and is completing a genetic and demographic analysis of
the U.S. captive population in preparation for a propagation/
reintroduction program in Indonesia. Drs. Kleiman, Seidensticker,
Morton, and Derrickson, along with Judith Block and Messrs.
Greenwell and Ballou, are currently cooperating with the aazpa,
the 1csp, and the Indonesian Ministry of Forestry in the planning,
coordination, and implementation of this important conservation
effort.

The most significant event in the bird collection this year was
the successful breeding and hatching of the Guam rail. Other sig-
nificant hatchings of birds included: Darwin’s rhea, Aleutian
Canada goose, white-winged wood duck, Laysan teal, white-naped
cranes, and Bali mynah.

Specimens of the following endangared species were born this

Science / 115
year: giant panda, Goeldi’s marmoset, golden lion tamerin, maned
wolf, clouded leopard, Eld’s deer, Persian onager, and Przewalski’s
horse. Of note was the ninety-eighth Pére David’s deer fawn and
the eighty-eighth scimitar horned oryx calf born at crc. Six sable
antelope calves were born in the new, large-scale breeding pro-
gram with this species at Front Royal.

PUBLIC INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The National Zoo’s Office of Education completed two major proj-
ects in 1984: writing Families, Frogs, and Fun, the final report on
the three-year National Science Foundation grant for HERPlab, a
learning laboratory in the Zoo’s Reptile House; and, with the sup-
port of the Friends of the National Zoo, organizing a week-long
workshop for zoo educators on conservation in zoos.

The uerplab project, begun in 1981 to develop model family
educational activities that other zoos could duplicate, ended July
31, 1984. The book Families, Frogs, and Fun describes how the
project grew, explains the underlying philosophy, and shares what
was learned in the process. The hope is that it will guide col-
leagues who want to start or renovate a learning lab, as well as
stimulate thoughts of others interested in families and in learn-
ing or in creating interactive exhibits.

The Zoo Educators’ Workshop, held May 14-18, 1984, brought
together educators from five U.S. zoos to look for new ways to
reach visitors with the message of conservation. Conservation and
the Zoo Visitor documents this workshop; it reports notes from all
talks and details the process of developing objectives and projects.
Limited copies of both Conservation and the Zoo Visitor and
Families, Frogs, and Fun are available through the Office of
Education.

School programs and tours continued to be extremely success-
ful. One original program on reptiles and amphibians began for
prekindergarten through sixth grades, using the nerplab facilities
and some of its activities. Guides ask questions and encourage
careful observation and discussion among students to promote
appreciation of reptiles and amphibians.

CONSTRUCTION AND SUPPORT SERVICES

Renovation of the Monkey and Elephant Houses was completed
in October and November of 1983, respectively. Both provide
additional facilities for animal management and public viewing.

116 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Construction of Olmsted Walk, which is designed to enhance
and preserve the natural and historical character of the zoo, is
beginning in the fall of 1984. It will encompass a series of small
exhibits.

At the Conservation and Research Center, a veterinary hospital
is being constructed. It should be ready to provide for the con-
tinued health and welfare of the animals at crc by April 1985.
A new west wing to crc’s Small Animal Facility will be completed
by the winter of 1984.

Updating of fire protection devices, security monitoring, and
occupational health standards by the Office of Police and Safety
has resulted in a substantial decrease in reported accidents and
crime and improved health conditions of personnel and animals
during fiscal year 1984.

The Office of Graphics and Exhibits (ocE) completed the design
and fabrication of Smokey Bear’s feeder tree, and Dr. Michael
Robinson officially welcomed the public to the exhibit on July 25,
1984. A seven-panel exhibit on the return of captive-bred golden
lion tamarins to their native habitat in Brazil was dedicated in
early August. Photos of Nepal were exhibited in June.

A new system of public information was implemented and
“building closed” signs were standardized. The first Zoo Staff
Directory was distributed in June. Design was completed on a
fundraising brochure for the crc wildlife conservation training
program. Serving in a support capacity, ocE assisted the Zoo sym-
posia, Summerfest, ronz (Friends of the National Zoo) nights, the
panda furniture project, poster exhibits, and the Sunset Serenades.

ADMINISTRATION

After thirty years of dedicated service to the Smithsonian, Dr.
Theodore H. Reed, Senior Adviser for Animal Programs and for-
mer director of the National Zoological Park, retired effective
July 3, 1984. On May 21, 1984, Dr. Michael H. Robinson, former
deputy director of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
was appointed director of the National Zoological Park.

On July 12, 1984, Dr. Devra G. Kleiman assumed the duties of
assistant director for Zoological Research and Educational Activi-
ties and Dr. Christen Wemmer was appointed assistant director
for Conservation and Captive Breeding Programs. Also on July
12, Dr. Scott Derrickson was appointed curator of birds allowing
Dr. Eugene Morton to resume his position as zoologist attached
to the Department of Zoological Research.

Science / 117
FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO
The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) celebrated its twenty-fifth
birthday in 1983 with expanded programs and increased grants
to assist NzP in education, conservation, and research projects.
Fonz has grown from a few neighborhood supporters and a $15
treasury in 1958 to a 50,000-member organization with forty full-
time employees and an annual budget of more than 4 million dol-
lars. Some $400,000 was committed to nzp-directed wildlife studies.

A principal part of Fonz support is the dedicated core of 530
volunteers who each year spend 45,000 hours to staff a dozen
different educational programs that serve tens of thousands of
zoogoers. This year, 104 volunteers spent 1,650 hours conducting
an around-the-clock watch on the giant pandas.

Recent emphasis on fundraising efforts has produced a bequest
brochure and staging of the first National ZooFari dinner-dance
benefit to launch the Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund.

Financial information for calendar year 1983 is detailed below.
In addition, a percentage of the ronz-run food, shop, and parking
services is available to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the
National Zoo and is reported as income in the Financial Report
of the Smithsonian Institution.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

Financial Report for the Period
January 1—December 31, 1983
[In $1,000s]
Net increase/

(decrease) to
Net revenue Expenses fund balance

FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/83 ....... $1,193
SERVICES
Membership tinal darian eas teste $ 566 $ 481 85
Publications 0; eh sacce es 140 135 5
Educationy Tages «scan eter 72 598 (526)
Zoo Services ti sje See ee 3,789 3,134* 655
Motale'ts, wee sera eet eee $4,567 $4,348 $ 219
FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/83 ..... $1,412‘

1 Excludes services worth an estimated $276,399 contributed by FONZ volunteers.

? Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services.

* Includes $430,586 paid during this period to the Smithsonian Institution under contractual
arrangement.

‘Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and scientific
work at the National Zoological Park.

118 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Office of Fellowships and Grants

The Office of Fellowships and Grants (orc) continued to serve as
a Smithsonian link with scholarly organizations throughout the
world, encouraging research by individuals from universities, mu-
seums, and research organizations in the fields of art, history and
science. Scientists and scholars are placed throughout the Smith-
sonian to utilize the unique resources available, as well as to inter-
act with the professional staff. At present, two major activities are
managed and developed by this office: Academic Programs and the
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program.

Academic Programs at the Smithsonian support and assist visit-
ing students and scholars. Opportunities for research are provided
at Smithsonian facilities, to be conducted in conjunction with staff
members. Residential appointments are offered at the under-
graduate, graduate, and professional levels.

The Institution further enhances the quality of its research and
extends its scholarly reach through the Smithsonian Foreign Cur-
rency Program (srcp). This program offers grants to the Smith-
sonian and other scholarly institutions in the United States to
conduct research in a limited number of foreign countries where
“excess currencies” are available. It is particularly effective in
strengthening the “increase and diffusion of knowledge” on an
international scale.

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS

Academic Programs at the Smithsonian complement programs
offered at universities. The national collections and the curators
who study them are unparalleled resources not available anywhere
else. At the Smithsonian, historical and anthropological objects,
original works of art, natural history specimens, living plants,
animals, and entire ecosystems are available for study. Educational
experience is enhanced by combining university training with field
research—and the breadth of field opportunities at the Smith-
sonian is unmatched.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants administered a variety of
academic appointments in 1984. Under the program of Research
Training Fellowships, begun in 1965, sixty-eight pre- and post-
doctoral fellowships were awarded this year. These appointees
pursue independent research projects under the guidance of staff
advisers for periods of six months to one year in residence at one
of the Institution’s bureaus or field sites. Topics of study for

Science / 119
Smithsonian fellows included: the regional patterns of settlement
and early survival of intertidal barnacles; the American landscape
in painting and prints from 1600 to 1820; observational and ex-
perimental studies in optical and infrared astronomy and radio
and geoastronomy; energetics of reproduction in eutherian and
marsupial mammals; material culture of the Mackenzie Eskimo at
contact time; goods and money in American rural life, 1780 to
1870; and a history of Black American art, 1650 to 1941.

In addition to the general program funded through the Office
of Fellowships and Grants, competitions for fellowships are also
held for specific awards. The First Ladies Fellowship, which sup-
ports the study of costume in America at the National Museum
of American History, was awarded for the third year. At the
National Air and Space Museum, the second recipient of the A.
Verville Fellowship will be studying the new American airplane
of 1934, and the Guggenheim Fellow will be doing a case study on
the nature of technological change, 1958 to 1983, emphasizing
civilian space station concepts.

In addition, twenty-one graduate student fellowships were
offered for ten-week periods during 1984.’ The participants are
usually junior graduate students beginning to explore avenues that
develop into dissertation research. This year some of these fellows
studied: metallurgy in ancient Ecuador and its role in New World
metallurgical development; the history of air conditioning in
America, 1906 to 1979; cranial variation in the beaked whale;
growth forms in two species of palms; and photography as public
image.

A number of senior fellowships continued to be offered. Smith-
sonian Institution Regents Fellows in residence this year included
Ekpo Eyo, director-general of the National Commission for Mu-
seums and Monuments in Nigeria, who was at the National Mu-
seum of African Art working on archeological excavations at Ife
and Owo and an illustrated history of Nigeria from the Stone Age
to the nineteenth century. The National Museum of American
History was host to Merritt Roe Smith, professor of the history of
technology at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, working on
an interpretive history of the mechanization of U.S. industry in
the antebellum period.

At the National Museum of Natural History, Joseph Ewan,
emeritus professor of botany at Tulane University, engaged in
research for a biographical bibliography of trail narratives of nat-
uralists in South America; and James Griffin, senior research sci-

120 / Smithsonian Year 1984
entist in the Department of Anthropology at the University of
Michigan, researched Hopewell burial mound cultures of the upper
midwestern United States; and at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum,
George Nelson, an architect, was involved in research on the
theory of the workplace.

To honor Regent Emeritus James E. Webb, the Institution estab-
lished a number of fellowships in his name designed to promote
excellence in the management of cultural and scientific not-for-
profit organizations. The second awards were offered in 1984.
Catherine Ross, M.B.A. candidate at the University of Pennsyl-
vania, worked in the Smithsonian’s Office of Facilities Services.
Three Smithsonian staff members were selected to spend training
periods away from the Institution: Elizabeth Beuck Derbyshire,
Office of Folklife Programs, as a candidate for Master of Public
Administration at George Washington University; Elizabeth
Greene, Department of Mineral Sciences, as a candidate for a
Master of Arts in Museum Studies at George Washington Uni-
versity; and Kenneth Yellis, Department of Education, National
Portrait Gallery, as a candidate for Master of Public Administra-
tion at George Washington University.

This year several new features have been added to the program.
Webb fellows will be appointed for two years each and will be-
come members of the newly formed Webb Fellows Society. They
will advise the Office of Fellowships and Grants regarding the
shape and administration of the Webb Fellowship Program and
counsel persons contemplating applying for a Webb Fellowship.
The first eight Webb fellows, who are the founding members of
the Society of Webb Fellows, are the four appointed this year
along with the following who were appointed last year: Brooks
Parsons, University of North Carolina; Deborah Jean Warner,
Department of History of Science and Technology, National Mu-
seum of American History; Rebecca Keith Webb, Smithsonian
Museum Shops; and Jon Yellin, Office of Programming and
Budget.

In 1984 the Smithsonian received a three-year grant from the
Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities for
postdoctoral fellowships at the National Museum of African Art
and the Center for Asian Art. The grant will support research in
residence at the museums in the areas of African art history and
anthropology, especially material culture, and in Asian art history
for research in the collections and on topics that may initiate
scholarly symposia, exhibitions, and other major museum activities.

Science / 121
During 1984 bureaus continued to offer support for visiting
scientists and scholars in cooperation with the Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants. These awards made possible visits to the Smith-
sonian by nineteen persons, principally scholars at midcareer, who
did not fall within the framework of the research training pro-
gram. The orc also continued the administration and partial sup-
port of the short-term visitor program. Fifty persons spent from
one week to a month at the Institution conducting research, study-
ing collections, and collaborating and conferring with professional
staff.

The expanded role of internships in the academic community
continued to be reflected within the Institution. The National Air
and Space Museum funded seven interns through orc this year.
The Cooper-Hewitt Museum again appointed four students under
the Sidney and Celia Siege] Fellowship fund. Internships in en-
vironmental studies at the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center also continued. The Smith College-Smithsonian Program
in American Studies is now in its fifth year and seven students
will participate in a seminar course and conduct research projects
under the direction of staff members through this program. Other
interns were placed through bureau internship coordinators, while
the orc administered all stipend awards for internships.

For the fourth year the orc offered academic opportunities to
improve minority participation in Smithsonian programs. These
opportunities included fellowships for minority faculty members
and faculty from minority colleges, and internships for minority
undergraduate and graduate students. Awards were made to six-
teen interns who were placed at a variety of bureaus and offices
on the Mall and at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Cen-
ter and the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum. Some of these ap-
pointments have already developed into permanent relationships.
The orc also awarded five fellowships to faculty members to con-
duct research on subjects such as the black middle class family
in historical and societal contexts, an examination of the attitude
and levels of knowledge possessed by parents concerning the role
and function of toys and play in children’s development, black
residential patterns and the city, and Cincinnati from 1802 to 1850.

The Smithsonian’s Cooperative Education Program, administered
by the orc, is a student employment program that encourages
minority graduate students to work in professional and adminis-
trative positions at the Institution for sixteen to twenty-six weeks,
separated by periods of study at their university. It offers the

122 / Smithsonian Year 1984
potential for permanent employment at the Smithsonian. Since
January 1983, when the orc assumed management, thirty-one
student co-op appointments have been made in various Smithsonian
bureaus and offices.

The position of academic network coordinator was added to the
oFG in 1984 to sustain and enhance these efforts to bring minority
scholars and students to the Institution. This position serves as a
link between the Smithsonian and the outside scholarly commu-
nity, developing communication between the two and furthering
efforts to incorporate minorities into the Smithsonian workforce
and research opportunities.

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (srcp) awards
grants to support the research interests of American institutions,
including the Smithsonian, in those countries in which the United
States holds blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of
surplus agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The pro-
gram is active in countries in which the Treasury Department de-
clares United States holdings of these currencies to be in excess
of normal federal requirements, including, in 1984, Burma, Guinea,
India, and Pakistan. Research projects are moving toward con-
clusion under program support in the former excess-currency
countries of Egypt, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.

The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1984 appropriation of
$4 million in “excess” currencies to support projects in anthro-
pology and archeology, systematic and environmental biology,
astrophysics, earth sciences, and museum professional fields. From
its inception in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1984, the srcp
has awarded about $57 million in foreign currency grants to 233
institutions in forty-one states and the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico.

This year the projects, which ranged over many disciplines,
included: ethnographic studies of northern populations in Paki-
stan; archeological investigations in the Egyptian Western Desert;
paleoanthropological studies of Later Miocene hominids in Paki-
stan; photographic documentation of the Buddhist cave paintings
at Ajanta, India; historical investigation of the depletion of tropical
forests in India; architectural survey of Indian temples; documen-
tation of contemporary architecture; studies of the reproductive
behavior of mugger crocodiles; studies of the history and move-
ment of ancient ground waters using fission tracking procedures;
and ecological and behavioral studies of the native bees of
Pakistan.

Science / 123
During this year the Smithsonian conveyed $1,040,000 equiva-
lent in Pakistan rupees, the second installment of the U.S. con-
tribution to the UNESCO campaign to salvage and preserve Moen-
jodaro, the 4,500-year-old Indus civilization city in Pakistan. This
site, first discovered in 1921, is being eroded by highly saline
groundwater and floods of the meandering Indus River. A ground-
water-control scheme to lower the water table is in place and
numerous other operations are underway.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Ever since Galileo Galilei turned his crude optical telescope on the
heavens and found that the vague cloud known as the Milky Way
was, in fact, “a congeries of innumerable stars grouped together
in clusters,” the advance of astronomical discovery has followed
closely the development of new instrumentation. During the past
twenty-five years particularly, the flight into space of detectors
sensitive to infrared, X-ray, and ultraviolet radiation has created
a vision of the universe that would astound even the remarkably
prescient Galileo.

Although the direct relationship between new instrumentation
and new discoveries is clearly recognized, it is no longer practi-
cal—or even possible—for the visionary scientist simply to patch
together magnifying lenses in a wooden tube, walk into the evening
dark, and discover unknown worlds. Not only have all the “easy”
tasks of astronomy been accomplished, but society itself has
become more complicated. In the late twentieth century, astron-
omy—all science, really—is no longer so much an individual enter-
prise as a collective activity, supported by the general public,
responding to national goals, and answering broad questions.

More practically stated, the advance of modern astronomy—
through the development of new instrumentation—requires copi-
ous funding, large teams of specialists, and, most important, many
years of careful planning and design. Indeed, the time scale for
most major instruments is a decade or more, especially if the
instrument is to be a national or international facility.

Significantly, then, planning began this year at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory (sao) on several long-range projects
that hold the promise of advancing astronomical knowledge. The

124 / Smithsonian Year 1984
largest of these potential projects, and one that has inspired con-
siderable effort by the observatory staff, is a proposed array
of telescopes for observations of submillimeter-wave radiation.
The submillimeter band of the electromagnetic spectrum is the
only wavelength region yet unexplored from the ground. The
need for sufficiently precise machining of antennas and, more im-
portant, for receivers capable of detecting such celestial radiation
efficiently, has prevented development of this promising field
until quite recently. Several single-dish submillimeter telescopes
are now either under construction or in planning stages through-
out the world, and an internal committee of observatory scientists
recommended that sao consider the more ambitious approach of
an array of six dishes, each of six-meter diameter, with the dishes
movable along several-hundred-meter-long arms of a Y-shaped
set of tracks. The scientific possibilities of such an instrument are
rich, ranging from the study of newly forming stars to the study
of the dynamic phenomena taking place at the cores of active
galaxies. The concept for the array, dubbed star for Submillimeter
Telescopes Arrayed for high Resolution, is being reviewed by
about forty scientists in the United States and Europe.

High spatial resolution, that is, the ability to discern distinct
features of individual astronomical objects located close together
is a goal of all observational astronomers. The resolving power of
an instrument increases with the size of its aperture, but practical
considerations of weight and cost limit the size of any single mir-
ror or antenna. One means of increasing aperture is by employing
the principle of interferometry in which the signals gathered by
two or more telescopes are combined to produce a resolution
equivalent to that of a single instrument with a diameter equal to
the maximum distance between any two of the telescopes. The
STAR array uses this principle in the submillimeter region of the
spectrum; but, in the optical region, several sao groups are also
investigating means for achieving unprecedented resolutions
through interferometers in space.

In space, above Earth’s obscuring atmosphere, properly posi-
tioned and finely controlled optical instruments can, theoretically,
achieve resolutions limited only by the quality of the telescopic
system. The resultant resolutions may be as much as 10,000 to
100,000 times that possible with ground-based instruments. Sev-
eral designs for such space interferometers have been suggested by
SAO scientists: a linear array of mirrors mounted on a thirty-meter-
long rigid structure; two mirrors orbiting up to ten miles apart

Science / 125
and feeding their separately received signals into a third “beam-
combiner” satellite orbiting between them; and, small, modular
interferometers that could fit into the Space Shuttle bay.

Obviously, these and other instrument development projects at
SAO require imagination, innovation, ingenuity, and not a little
institutional courage. Risks are inherent in all pioneering attempts:
careers, funds, and time must be committed many years in advance
to projects whose outcomes cannot be guaranteed—or even
guessed at. Still, sao has a long history of successful scientific
risk-taking. The tradition of innovation in engineering and instru-
ment-making can be traced from Langley’s bolometer of the 1880s
to Whipple’s satellite-tracking cameras of the 1950s to the Multi-
ple Mirror Telescope of the 1970s, a joint project with the Uni-
versity of Arizona. The concept of multiple-mirror arrays for
optical telescopes, considered radical, revolutionary, and, to some,
even foolhardy when first proposed, was recommended this year
as the preferred design for the proposed National New Technology
Telescope, a fifteen-meter-diameter optical giant. Sao’s spirit of
innovation certainly seems justified by this decision. In the next
century, astronomers may look back on sao’s submillimeter-wave
array or its optical interferometers as similarly vital milestones in
the advancement of astronomy.

The development of new instrumentation for astronomy is only
one part of the diverse research program carried out by sao in
collaboration with the Harvard College Observatory. Together
under a single director, the two observatories form the Center for
Astrophysics (cFA), where investigations of the joint staff are
organized by divisions. Some highlights of research activity dur-
ing the past year, by division, follow; for more detailed informa-
tion on specific subjects, readers are invited to consult the bibliog-
raphy of scientific papers by observatory scientists published else-
where in this volume.

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS

Because most of what is learned about celestial objects is gained
by detailed studies of the light their atoms and molecules emit
and of the modification of this light on its way to Earth, precise
and comprehensive laboratory and theoretical studies of atomic
and molecular properties are needed to understand the processes
occurring in such objects and to interpret astronomical observa-
tions made with ground-based and satellite-borne telescopes. The
Atomic and Molecular Physics Division carries out research in

126 / Smithsonian Year 1984
theoretical and experimental physics and chemistry to provide
these data and the basic understanding of the processes. Atomic
and molecular physics research benefits from the interaction be-
tween theorists and experimentalists, and members of the division
do research on processes common to the Sun, the interstellar
medium, comets, and planetary atmospheres.

The light reaching Earth from a distant star begins its journey
as a stream of X-ray or gamma-ray photons deep inside the hot
interior of the star. As this light makes its way to the surface,
it interacts with the atoms and ions in the star’s outer layer. Some
of these interactions, for example, a “recombination” in which
the electron of an atom is captured by a positive ion to produce
an “excited state,” produce a distinctive light signal that can be
used to infer the temperature, density, and chemical components
of the star’s atmosphere. In the laboratory, experiments are being
devised so that the radiation emitted by excited systems can be
used to identify and study corresponding processes in astrophysi-
cal plasmas.

The absorption of light by molecules in laboratory, atmospheric,
or astrophysical gases is an important process because in many
cases it can lead to dissociation of the molecule or to production
of energetic forms of the molecule, which can influence other
processes in the gas. Progress has been made this year in under-
standing the process in a quantitative way. For example, by mak-
ing laboratory measurements at high resolution of the absorption
of light by molecular oxygen at various pressures, we have im-
proved knowledge of the strength of the absorption at particular
ultraviolet wavelengths. These new measurements imply that sig-
nificant changes must be made in the estimates of stratospheric
concentrations of ozone, chlorofluorocarbons, and nitrous oxide.
The implications for our understanding of the effects of human
activity on the environment may prove of considerable importance.

HIGH ENERGY ASTROPHYSICS

The High Energy Astrophysics Division is primarily involved in
the study of X-ray emission from celestial sources, including some
of the most energetic and exotic objects in the universe, such as
pulsars, neutron stars, and black holes. Because X-rays cannot
pass through Earth’s atmosphere, X-ray astronomy must be carried
out from space.

At present, division members are heavily involved in the analy-
sis of scientific data from nasa’s two High Energy Astronomy

Science / 127
Observatories, the HEAO-1 and HEAO-2, the latter better known as
the “Einstein Satellite.” The Einstein observations represent the
most sensitive X-ray data available, and ongoing research programs
involve all types of known astronomical objects. A data bank has
been established at sao to allow full access to the Einstein data by
the international scientific community.

A highlight of research this year was the discovery of X-ray
emission from hot gas associated with the outer regions, or
“haloes,” of elliptical galaxies. As stars evolve, they liberate large
amounts of gas, and the fate of this gas in elliptical galaxies has
been a long-standing puzzle. Most astronomers believed that this
gas simply flowed out of the galaxies in what is called a galactic
wind. However, our X-ray observations have now shown that this
is not the case; surprisingly, the gas is still contained in the
galaxies. By processes still unknown (but possibly involving energy
provided when stars explode as supernovae), the gas is heated to
very high temperatures and glows in the X-ray band. Moreover,
the X-ray data allow us to probe, for the first time, the underlying
gravitational force required to hold this gas. Indeed, the haloes
of elliptical galaxies must contain a mass equivalent to one trillion
suns. However, most of this underlying mass is not contained in
stars observed in visible light, nor is it contained in the X-ray-
emitting gas we have observed. The nature of this invisible mate-
rial, which accounts for most of the mass of the elliptical galaxies
(and many other astronomical systems as well), is currently one
of the great mysteries of astrophysics.

Division members are also working with the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration (NASA) on the design and defini-
tion studies for the next large X-ray satellite, the Advanced X-ray
Astrophysics Facility (AxaF). The fabrication of two sets of X-ray
mirrors should allow the development and demonstration of those
techniques eventually required to build the axar telescope. Com-
pletion of these test mirrors is scheduled for mid-1985, when a
series of detailed X-ray tests will verify their performance. Im-
provements in the manufacture of X-ray mirrors and in the per-
formance of X-ray detectors suggest that axaF will be 100 times
more sensitive than the Einstein Satellite.

Work continued on the Normal Incidence X-ray Telescope
(n1xT) with design, testing, and initial fabrication of various ele-
ments, all geared to a 1986 rocket flight. Nixt uses a revolutionary
approach to X-ray imaging involving alternating multiple layers
of high and low absorption materials such as tungsten and carbon

128 / Smithsonian Year 1984
and is capable of providing very high spatial resolution imaging
and simultaneous spectroscopy for studies of the hot outer atmo-
spheres of our Sun and other stars.

OPTICAL AND INFRARED ASTRONOMY

There are two main scientific themes to the research in optical and
infrared astronomy: What is the large-scale structure of the uni-
verse, how did it get that way, and what will be its fate? How
and when did galaxies form, how have they evolved and what can
we learn about these processes from detailed studies of our own
galaxy? To pursue these questions, division scientists rely heavily
on ground-based telescopes, such as the facilities at the Fred Law-
rence Whipple Observatory on Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, the site of
the Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmr). Optical observations were
complemented by infrared measurements made from the ground,
NASA aircraft, and high-altitude balloons.

When viewed over scales as large as a billion light years, the
universe appears frothy. Galaxies tend to congregate in clusters
and sheets surrounding vast empty regions. This general picture,
which has defied easy theoretical interpretation, was suggested
most clearly by the Center for Astrophysics Redshift Survey,
which was able to map out the distribution of 2,400 of the brighter
galaxies, mostly in the northern sky. Because unexpectedly large
structures showed up in the initial survey, it is now being extended
deeper into space and into the southern sky. In the north, much
time on the 60-inch Tillinghast Reflector at the Whipple Observa-
tory is dedicated to this effort, which will take several years to
complete. In the south, a collaboration with the Observatorio
Nacional de Brasil is producing redshifts of the same quality as
the northern data from Mt. Hopkins. These efforts should enhance
the scientific value of the Redshift Survey, already considered by
many to be the most important contribution to observational cos-
mology of the past ten years.

The Century Survey, a related project that has just begun, will
ultimately provide a complete list of positions and magnitudes for
all galaxies brighter than a carefully calibrated limit in a narrow
strip running through the north galactic pole. This survey will go
much deeper into space than the Redshift Survey, and the final
catalog is expected to contain 100,000 galaxies. The importance of
this effort was emphasized recently when division scientists
showed that the principal earlier work (the Shane-Wirtaanen
counts) is inadequate for studies of the large-scale structure of the

Science / 129
universe because of previously unrecognized systematic errors
present in the data.

An important result from the mmT was the identification of
primordial clouds of gas that contain almost enough matter to
form galaxies. This was part of a general effort to study the
spectra of the most distant quasars using very high spectral reso-
lution, an area where the mmr is the world leader. In this applica-
tion, the quasars serve as bright “laboratory lamps” shining
through the intervening clouds of intergalactic gas, whose char-
acteristics may be deduced from the narrow (absorption) lines
that they introduce into the continuous spectrum of the light from
the quasar.

Several investigations focused on the structure and dynamics of
star systems in our own galaxy. One such study concentrated on
the oldest stars. Mostly the galaxy has a flattened disklike appear-
ance, but there is also a population of stars in a more spherical,
halo distribution above the galactic plane. These stars must have
formed in the earliest stages of the formation of our galaxy itself,
and in their atmospheres is preserved information about the abun-
dances of the chemical elements present ten to fifteen billion years
ago. A survey identified a few hundred new halo stars, more than
doubling the number known previously. This identification has
already led to a new determination of the rotation of the galactic
disk and, for the first time, to a precise determination of the
velocity needed by an object to escape from the galaxy. These
results are important because they will help determine the total
mass of the Milky Way.

Four major programs in infrared astronomy were pursued. In
the first, a small, helium-cooled infrared telescope has been con-
structed for space flight aboard the Spacelab 2 mission of the
Space Shuttle, now scheduled for April 1985. This instrument will
be used to map the sky for diffuse infrared sources. In the second
program, a one-meter balloon-borne infrared telescope is used, for
example, to discover star-forming regions in the galaxy. The third
program is a design study for a three-meter balloon-borne tele-
scope for far-infrared and submillimeter astronomy. The fourth
involves the use of an experimental two-dimensional infrared
camera for ground-based observations of star-forming regions,
galaxies, and planetary nebulae. A similar camera proposed by
sao, in collaboration with other organizations, was selected for
design study as one of three instruments to fly on Nasa’s Space
Infrared Telescope Facility.

130 / Smithsonian Year 1984
This image of a spiral galaxy was produced with a light-sensitive electronic
detector known as a charge-coupled device, or CCD, attached to an optical
telescope at the Whipple Observatory in Arizona. The Smithsonian has been a
pioneer in the development of these detectors. (Photograph by Rudolph Schild)

A 102-centimeter balloon-borne infrared telescope designed by the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory for photometry, spectroscopy, and high-resolution
mapping of star-formation regions in the galaxy was launched from Texas in
April 1984 as part of an on-going program of balloon astronomy.

Division scientists also were involved in gamma-ray astronomy,
using the ten-meter reflector at the Whipple Observatory to search
for high-energy gamma-rays from several sources and carrying out
design studies for a very large gamma-ray telescope in space that
would make use of the expended external tank of the Space
Shuttle as part of the Space Station program.

PLANETARY SCIENCES

Members of the division study the planets and small bodies of the
solar system in three ways: by telescopic observation, by theoreti-
cal analysis, and by examining samples of extraterrestrial mate-
rials in the laboratory.

The observation program centers on the Oak Ridge Observatory
in Harvard, Massachusetts, which is well suited for determining
the exact orbital paths of comets and asteroids in the solar system.
To do this requires that positions of the bodies be determined
very precisely on a number of different nights. Travel costs and
the intense competition for telescope time make it impossible to
use the larger western telescopes for such observations.

The Oak Ridge program of regular observations is coordinated
with the work of the International Astronomical Union’s Minor
Planet Center and Central Telegram Bureau, both of which are
directed by a division member. These facilities verify observations
of comets and asteroids, compute their exact orbit, and dissemi-
nate this information to institutions around the world in a timely
way. In the last year, 125 IAU Circulars and 900 Minor Planet
Circulars were distributed. About 200 newly discovered asteroids
were formally assigned numbers, and improved orbits were deter-
mined for about 1,000 other new objects. These functions are self-
supporting through an annual contribution from the 1au and sub-
scriptions purchased by professional and amateur astronomers.
This year particular effort has been put into the establishment of
a computer service, which allows subscribers to see the [AU Circu-
lars on the day of issue, and carry on other transactions with the
Central Telegram Bureau and Minor Planet Center, via computer
and telephone.

Data from the nasa Voyager spacecraft contributed to several
observational programs as well. A division member who is also a
member of the Imaging Team of the Voyager mission to the outer
planets investigated a variety of phenomena observed by Voyager
on Jupiter, Saturn, and the satellites of these planets. An example

132 / Smithsonian Year 1984
of these is the observation that Europa (one of Jupiter’s four larg-
est satellites; about the size of Earth’s moon) appears to be
actively erupting water at its surface. Europa is thought to con-
tain about 5 percent water, in the form of an ice crust about eighty
kilometers thick. Apparently heat from the satellite’s interior melts
the base of the ice crust and erupts the water in surface “‘vol-
canoes,” in a manner closely analogous to the melting of rock
and the eruption of lava on Earth. Another division scientist used
Voyager photographs to complete a preliminary geological map
of an area on the surface of the Jupiter satellite Ganymede.

Theoretical studies in the division included an investigation of
the way comets decay and, in some cases, break up. Comets are
masses of snow and dust a few kilometers in size: as their orbits
carry them near the Sun, the warmth vaporizes the snow; streams
of escaping vapor can act like rocket engines, changing the orbital
path of the comet. Eventually every comet’s snow is completely
vaporized away, but there is still a question of what is left: A
coherent asteroid? Or an incoherent collection of pebbles and dust
that disperses in space?

The detailed properties of meteorites and lunar samples were
studied in the laboratory, using microscopic and microanalytical
techniques. Meteorites contain a cryptic record of events and pro-
cesses associated with the origin of the solar system, and even pre-
solar system history. Lunar samples contain an equally cryptic
record of the earliest internal evolution of a small planet. The
meteorite research centered on the origin of chondrules, tiny
igneous droplets that are abundant in the most primitive class of
meteorites. These objects were somehow melted and partly vapor-
ized at the time when the solar system was being formed. Such
processes may have occurred when aggregations of presolar inter-
stellar dust fell into the primordial disk of gas that gave rise to
the solar system: as the aggregations plunged through the gas
they were heated by gas drag, much like meteors in Earth’s upper
atmosphere, and melted into droplets.

Laboratory determinations were also made of the concentration
of radioactive isotopes in meteorites collected in Antarctica by the
National Science Foundation (NsF) Polar Program, and also in
Antarctic ice samples. The levels of these radioactive isotopes
reveal how long the meteorites have lain on or in the ice since they
fell, and how long it has been since the ice formed (fell as snow)
on the polar ice cap. A division member has participated in two
of the NsF meteorite-collecting expeditions to Antarctica.

Science / 133
RADIO AND GEOASTRONOMY

Radio and Geoastronomy Division staff pursue a broad range of
research topics, including tests of Einstein’s theory of general rela-
tivity, the physical structure of other planets, chemical composition
of clouds in space, the processes by which stars are born, the mo-
tions of radio stars, physical properties of very distant radio stars,
extragalactic radio sources, measurements of continental drift, ir-
regularities of the rotation of Earth, research on atomic clocks, and
the development of new instrumentation.

Two important efforts are now under way to develop powerful
new instruments for astronomical research. First, a Centerwide com-
mittee investigated the desirability and feasibility of an array of six
radio antennas operating in the submillimeter portion of the radio
spectrum. The design calls for six antennas, each with diameters of
six meters, spaced up to several hundred meters apart along the
arms of a “Y” configuration. Necessarily located on a high moun-
tain topto reduce the interference from water vapor in the atmo-
sphere, the array’s resolution will be better than one second of arc,
or more than ten times better than any other instrument under con-
struction or planned for use at submillimeter wavelengths. Because
the submillimeter array would operate at what is called “the last
frontier of ground-based astronomy,” it promises rich scientific op-
portunities, including: probes of regions of star formation, analyses
of galactic structure, investigations of the cores of quasars and
active galactic nuclei, and studies of objects in the solar system.

Second, the ability to place optical instruments in space will al-
low an angle-measuring instrument of unprecedented accuracy.
Such an instrument, called an optical interferometer, appears feasi-
ble using currently available technology. The various configura-
tions now being investigated all offer enormous resolution ad-
vances over ground-based telescopes, whose resolution is limited
by fluctuations in Earth’s atmosphere. For example, the 1,000-fold
improvement in resolution over a ground-based telescope suggests
that an optical interferometer operating in space would allow im-
proved determination of astronomical distances, estimates of star
masses, discovery of other planetary systems, and exquisitely accu-
rate tests of Einstein’s general theory of relativity. The development
of such a system is currently supported by the construction of a
ground-based optical interferometer and related laboratory work.

Research on hydrogen masers and experiments using them for
time and frequency coordination and testing theories of gravitation

134 / Smithsonian Year 1984
and relativity continued. Two masers were completed and delivered
to the U.S. Naval Observatory in Washington, D.C., where they
are now designated as “Master Clocks 1 and 2.” The stability and
time-keeping accuracy of these clocks exceed any previously made;
indeed, their accuracy, + 0.5 X 10° seconds per month, is at least
as good as that available from the entire U.S. Naval Observatory
ensemble of some twenty-five cesium-beam clocks.

Research on electrodynamic interactions between long orbiting
wires and the ionosphere continued. In particular, Shuttle-borne
electrodynamic tethers were studied to determine the tether’s abil-
ity to draw current from the ionosphere and to generate, by conse-
quence, a substantial amount of electric power in space.

SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS

The development of new instrumentation, coupled with advances
in theoretical physics and with the improvement of computation
techniques, have altered modern studies of solar and stellar physics
in two striking ways.

Stars are no longer seen as isolated spheres of gas quietly drift-
ing through space. Their atmospheres are better described as caul-
drons of bubbling, magnetic gas being buffeted and blown into
space by waves and surges from the interior. Stars are now seen as
“open” systems that condense from the interstellar gas and dust,
then burn their nuclear fuel—often acquiring peculiar chemical
compositions in the process—and ultimately return most of their
material to space, either gradually, as in winds and breezes, or vio-
lently in explosive novae and supernovae.

At the same time, solar and stellar astronomers have come to
realize that many of the activities formerly seen only on the Sun’s
surface, and in the Sun’s outer atmosphere—the “chromosphere”
and “corona” that were originally discovered during eclipses—can
now be detected in the signals from other stars. This year, for ex-
ample, observations by division scientists using the International
Untraviolet Explorer (rue) Satellite led to the first detection of a
stellar “flare” from a giant star. For many years, solar flares have
been observed in the intense magnetic fields of sunspots, and flares
had been known among the smaller, dwarf stars; however, this
observation of stellar flares in a giant, evolved star, has added
another link in the “solar-stellar connection.” Other programs with
the ve include ultraviolet observations of faint exploding stars and
the remnants of supernovae, as well as the monitoring of emissions

Science / 135
that reveal activity cycles similar to the twenty-two-year cycle of
our Sun in several cool stars. In addition, collaborative ground-
based studies with researchers at the Mt. Wilson Observatory have
monitored calcium emission from the chromospheres of Sun-like
stars. A survey of such emission in a variety of cool dwarfs has led
to the conclusion that the magnesium and calcium emissions are
dependent, not only on the star’s mass, but on its rotational speed—
for reasons that are not understood.

Stellar observations this year were remarkable for the variety of
instruments they called into play: from studies of chemical abun-
dances in the oldest members of the galaxy—the globular cluster
stars—with the ground-based telescopes of the Whipple Observa-
tory and the Mt. Wilson Observatory, to the observations of a
young supernovae remnant in a neighboring irregular galaxy with
the Einstein Satellite. And a coordinated program of ground-based
observations of the brightness and polarization of the light of the
supergiant red star Betelgeuse (the brightest star in the Constella-
tion Orion) was initiated to provide data for diagnosing this star’s
variations. Although they are subtle, these variations may be symp-
toms of fundamental processes by which such stars return their
matter to space as their cores evolve toward a super-condensed
state. The preliminary results suggest that the heightened atmo-
spheric activity in Betelgeuse may lag the optical brightening by
one-tenth of the six-year period; and, if confirmed, this lag would
be an important clue to the nature of the motions in the star’s outer
layers.

For decades, the high temperature of the Sun’s corona has been
recognized as a key feature of the Sun’s atmosphere, requiring a
vast amount of heat to be supplied by waves from the cooler layers
beneath. Recently, the outward flow of the corona has been recog-
nized as an equally challenging enigma. Clues are being sought in
the nature of the magnetic fields of the Sun.

Like Earth, the Sun has a magnetic field reaching out from its
interior. Unlike Earth’s field, the Sun’s is widely variable (with a
full cycle of reversal in twenty-two years) and it is swept aside or
brought together here and there by the motions of the Sun’s
ionized gas. This turbulent activity is thought to be generated
by the “boiling” motions of the deep layers, and it is accompanied
by eddies and streamers, which move outward at supersonic
speeds. The cause of these rapid motions is a mystery, and the
mystery was deepened this year when, for the first time, they
were observed well down inside the dark gaps in the corona

136 / Smithsonian Year 1984
known as “coronal holes.” (These observations were made by sao
scientists in collaboration with the High Altitude Observatory by
means of an ultraviolet coronagraph that was carried aloft on a
rocket.) The outflow of coronal material was traced to within 0.5
solar radii of the surface, pointing to a source of acceleration
whose identity will be the goal of future observations.

Some of the energy required to maintain the hot corona is re-
leased in the neighborhood of coronal “bright points,” which ap-
pear to be small active regions associated with locally intensified
magnetic fields. These regions are being studied with data from
Skylab as well as a program of simultaneous observations in opti-
cal radation with the Solar Tower Telescope at Sacramento Peak
Observatory and radio interferometry with the Very Large Array
(vita). These observations are providing maps of unprecedented
spatial detail as well as rapid time resolution and are expected
to provide insights to the heat supply of the corona.

Division scientists have constructed a simulation of the solar
spectrum incorporating seventeen million atomic and molecular
transitions, and this tool has been applied to another long-stand-
ing enigma concerning solar temperature. However, this mystery
concerns the coolest, rather than the hottest, region of the Sun.
For nearly a century, it has been recognized that the temperatures
of both the solar interior and the corona reach millions of degrees,
even though the temperature of the surface layers remains a rela-
tively cool 6,000 K. Clearly, at some intermediate level the tem-
perature must reach a minimum, and the depth of this minimum
is a clue to the energy balance of the Sun’s outer layers. But the
precise value of the minimum has been an elusive quantity and
different observational techniques seemed to imply different values.
The agreement was greatly improved this year when the newly
synthesized spectrum was used as a model for interpreting the solar
observations. For the first time, data from the ultraviolet, the
visible, and the infrared agree, and this new solar profile is ready
for interpretation by theoreticians.

Progress in astrophysics has invariably been stimulated by the
use of new observational instruments, and with this in mind,
division scientists are developing several advanced detectors. This
year, a new version of the speckle interferometer, technically
called the Precision Analog Photon Address detector, and known
as the “para,” was built, tested in the laboratory, and taken to
remote sites for observing runs on the Steward Observatory 90-
inch-diameter telescope, the Whipple Observatory mmr, and the

Science / 137
University of Hawaii 88-inch telescope. Interpreting the data from
this device requires an intensive series of computations, and these
early field tests produced six ‘firsts’: images showing the rotation
of the asteroid Vesta, and new companions to the stars T Tauri,
Mu Cassiopeia, and Alpha, Delta, and Gamma Orionis.

Engineering studies of large interferometers for various space
platforms were also carried out, and they suggest that, perhaps
more than any other major civilian science project, such inter-
ferometry would depend on the servicing capability of a space
station.

Historical research in the division touched on the lives and the
many contributions of women at the Harvard College Observatory
during the years 1875-1925. Work also continued on the anno-
tated census of Copernicus’ De revolutionibus, and fewer than
twenty (of about 580) copies remain unexamined. Finally, a study
of Vincent van Gogh’s night paintings showed that they have a
strong element of astronomical reality.

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS

The Theoretical Astrophysical Division carried out research on a
diverse range of astrophysical phenomena, with studies often ap-
plied to the support and interpretation of observational data.
Division members frequently collaborate with scientists in other
institutions and with members of other divisions in their research
as well as contribute significantly to educational programs.

The research of the division is largely concentrated on studies of
the extreme states of matter, radiation, magnetic fields and gravity,
and their fundamental roles in determining the observed structure
of objects in the universe. The mode of attack on such problems
is a combination of pure analytical techniques and numerical
modeling with computers. Particular applications have included:
interstellar clouds, accretion disks, stellar winds, planetary forma-
tion, star formation, globular clusters, X-ray sources, and infla-
tionary cosmologies.

One noteworthy example of research in the division concerned
the postcollapse evolution of globular clusters. Globular clusters
are beautiful astronomical objects, containing about a million stars
in a roughly spherical distribution, relatively sparse in the outer
layers, but becoming quite dense in the center. The special shape

138 / Smithsonian Year 1984
of such clusters is largely determined by gravitational encounters
between the individual stars, especially in the central core. These
encounters cause the cluster to become ever more centrally con-
centrated; in fact, simplified analytical estimates predicted that the
central clustering of stars must become infinitely dense at some
time—a catastrophe known as “core collapse.” Furthermore, from
these studies it was clear that many of the globular clusters now
seen should have already undergone core collapse. It was generally
agreed that various physical effects, such as formation of binary
stars, would prevent any real catastrophe, but, despite much
analytical work, no one was able to state unambiguously just what
a “postcollapse” globular cluster was supposed to look like. Nor
could any existing computer program answer this question, since
each was designed to treat only a portion of the relevant physics.
However, a division member, using a clever matching of several
independent computer programs, was able to overcome their indi-
vidual limitations and to simulate numerically both the core col-
lapse and the subsequent postcollapse phase. Preliminary results
indicate that the theoretical structure of postcollapse globular
clusters is consistent with the properties of observed globular
clusters, thus removing a disturbing gap in our understanding of
these objects.

Another investigation concerned one of the most exciting recent
theories in cosmology, the “new inflationary universe.” Some
fundamental theories of elementary particle physics have sug-
gested that the universe underwent a phase of rapid expansion
at a very early time in its history, indeed, only microseconds after
the Big Bang itself, a time when particle energies were enormous.
This expansion, or “inflationary” phase, explains several previ-
ously inexplicable facts about our universe, such as its impressive
uniformity. In principle, the properties of the new inflationary
cosmology might also be used to predict the deviations from uni-
formity in the early universe, and thus to determine the very
fluctuations in density out of which galaxies and other large-scale
structures formed. This would provide a critical test of such in-
flationary theories as well as of the underlying elementary particle
theories. To carry out such a program, one division member is
using a simplified model of quantum field theory to predict the
nature of the initial fluctuations. This eventually will be supple-
mented by a detailed analysis of the subsequent development, by
gravitational instability, of the fluctuations to the point where they
become observable structures, such as galaxies or clusters of gal-

Science / 139
axies. In this project, one can see the surprising unity of theoreti-
cal astrophysics in which an explanation of the largest structures
in the universe is derived from properties of the smallest elemen-
tary particles.

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Basic scientific research aimed at understanding the processes oc-
curring in the environment and their influence on biological sys-
tems and organisms has been the principal activity of the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research Center (serc) during the first year
since its formation administratively on July 1, 1983. This research
is long-term and emphasizes both laboratory and field-oriented
studies in three major areas: Regulatory Biology, Environmental
Biology, and Radiocarbon Dating.

Serc has two principal facilities: a 50,000-square-foot laboratory
at Rockville, Maryland, and 2,600 acres of land with a small lab-
oratory and some support buildings at Edgewater, Maryland. The
Edgewater property constitutes a unique estuarine research oppor-
tunity, comprising nearly one-third of the watershed surrounding
the Rhode River Estuary, a subestuary of the Chesapeake Bay
located a few miles south of Annapolis, Maryland.

These two facilities are separated geographically by forty-five
miles. A major effort has been made during the year to inventory
all space, equipment, support, and administrative services and
research activities of serc. Following an intensive iterative process,
the first phase of a Master Plan for the consolidation of facilities
and research programs has been completed. The initial priority was
to ascertain the feasibility of locating all of serc activities at Edge-
water, and then to select a suitable site for the construction of
permanent quarters. A site near the present complex of existing
buildings has been selected for construction of a facility that will
not only enhance laboratory-oriented research, but also will not
impact unfavorably upon the long-term field sites under study
or detract from the aesthetic qualities of the estuarine setting.

The Center also maintains an educational program that includes
graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, undergraduate work/learn
students, and public educational activities. The public education
aspects emphasize teacher- and docent-led tours and activities.
Docents guide adult and family groups on a two-mile Discovery

140 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Trail through outdoor research areas. A pamphlet keyed to signs
on the Discovery Trail makes the walk self-guiding for visitors
who are not on a scheduled tour. A recently developed sound-
track slide show describes the research at both Rockville and
Edgewater.

Forty-two regular scientific seminars were held at both Edge-
water and Rockville in fiscal year 1984. This is an ongoing edu-
cational activity of seRc, serving to inform the scientific public
about src research activities as well as to inform serc staff about
the work of colleagues in universities and other governmental
laboratories.

Serc staff members were frequently invited to present seminars
and lectures to universities and laboratories and to participate in
international and national symposia and scientific meetings. The
staff also routinely served as reviewers for grant proposals to
federal agencies and as reviewers of manuscripts submitted to
peer-reviewed scientific journals.

Research is done by staff scientists who represent a diverse
number of disciplines, including biology, chemistry, physics, math-
ematics, and engineering, in the framework of two divisions:
Regulatory Biology and Environmental Biology. The principal
product of serc, its research publications, could not be achieved
without the continuing collaboration between its scientific and
support staffs. The scientific staff this year particularly wishes to
acknowledge the assistance received from technicians, students,
secretaries, and administrative staff under the sometimes difficult
and unsettling conditions of a newly formed bureau.

ACTIVITIES AT ROCKVILLE
Regulatory Biology

Regulatory Biology primarily emphasizes laboratory research to
determine how environmental stimuli such as light, temperature,
and various chemicals are perceived by plant cells and micro-
organisms. Studies are made of the mechanisms and processes reg-
ulated by these stimuli and the specific means by which they con-
trol growth and differentiation.

Plants sometimes have a control mechanism that enables them
to detect the length of the day. This process, photoperiodism, or
the control by light (photo-) of the seasonal reproduction (-period-
ism) in plants, is affected by the spectral quality of sunlight. Some
plants require daylengths greater than some critical minimum in

Science / 141
order to flower and are called long-day plants, while others re-
quire daylengths shorter than some critical maximum and are
called short-day plants. Nonphotoperiodic plants are called day-
neutral and reproduce at some fixed time relative to when germi-
nation occurred or to a change in temperature (thermoperiodic).

Many economically important crops, such as cereals (with the
sole exception of sorghum), belong to the long-day group. Experi-
ments with barley have shown that the response to increasing
daylengths is markedly stimulated by including light that is just
beyond that which the human eye can detect (called far-red or
near-infrared light). It is believed that the basis for the photo-
periodic control in these plants is the coincidence of a light signal
with an internal biological clock, which determines the sensitivity
of the plant to the presence of far-red light. Thus, not only must
light of the proper spectral quality be present, but it must be
present at the right time in order to promote flowering.

Once the proper light signal is perceived by a plant, a series of
biochemical reactions is initiated in the leaf that ultimately results
in the production of some translocatable signal that transforms the
shoot apex into a reproductive structure, a flower. This light signal
that strikes the leaf is absorbed by a pigment, phytochrome, that is
present in plants that are capable of forming the green pigment
chlorophyll used for photosynthesis.

Preliminary experiments carried out several years ago at the
Smithsonian by Dr. M. Ziv, a visiting scientist from the Hebrew
University in Israel, suggested that in peanut seedlings, the elonga-
tion of the female supporting structure (peg), which carries the
developing peanut below ground, is controlled by light. In addition,
development at the end of the peg of the ovule, embryo, and finally
mature pod is controlled by light. She suggested the peanut peg
might be an analogous model system to study signal transmission
in comparison to flowering.

This year the maturation of the peanut embryo has been demon-
strated to be strictly controlled by phytochrome located in the ma-
ternal, ovular tissue and not in the embryo itself. Thus, like the
photoperiodic signal, something produced in one tissue in response
to light must be translocated to another tissue to control develop-
ment. The localization of this phytochrome in peanut ovules and
embryos is being investigated by immunocytological staining to
determine whether the interorgan distribution of phytochrome can
explain the observed light regulation of this response.

The chemical nature of the signal produced in the leaves that

142 / Smithsonian Year 1984
brings about flowering is unknown. It moves in the phloem trans-
port system from leaves to the plant apex. Phloem sap was collected
from Perilla (Asiatic mint) leaves exposed to increasing numbers of
inductive short days. In Perilla it takes a minimum of seven short
days to induce some flowering. Extracts of this phloem sap have
been made. One peak in the neutral ethyl acetate fraction is pres-
ent in phloem from flowering plants but is not present, or is in very
low amounts, in vegetative phloem sap. This peak appears between
three and six days after the beginning of inductive short days. This
material is being accumulated by high-pressure liquid chromatog-
raphy and will be tested for its effect on flowering when added to
vegetative plants.

Extraction experiments using duckweed (Lemna) have generated
several peaks of activity from Lemna gibba G3 plants that have
flower-inducing activity when tested on Lemna paucicostata 151.
One of these active peaks was identified collaboratively with Pro-
fessors Takimoto and Takahashi of Japan as nicotinic acid. The
remaining peaks have not yet been identified. Experiments have
begun to measure nicotinic acid in flowering and vegetative plants.

When Lemna gibba G3 is grown under long days either on a
complete E (modified Hoagland’s) medium or on an ammonium-
ion-free half-strength Hutner’s medium to which ten micromoles
of salicylic acid have been added, excellent flowering of 75-80 per-
cent occurs. If plants are kept on these media for seven days and
then are transferred, still under long days, to an ammonium-ion-
free half-strength Hutner’s medium without salicylic acid being
present, the long day-induced flowering persists much more than
the salicylic acid-induced flowering. (This transfer medium used
from the beginning would bring about almost no flowering.) This
result suggests that salicylic acid does not exert its effect by caus-
ing the formation of the flowering stimulus in the same way long-
day induction does. Salicylic acid is known to be quickly inactivated
and sequestered after being taken into plants. It probably never
reaches the meristems that are directly exposed to the medium.
Therefore, we conclude that salicylic acid sets into motion some
change that can mimic the effect of the flowering stimulus and can
lead to flower formation.

In the medium lacking salicylic acid, if the phosphate concentra-
tion is increased ten to twentyfold, flowering of 40 to 60 percent
occurs. Suboptimal concentrations of salicylic acid interact syner-
gistically with phosphate to promote flowering. Salicylic acid prob-
ably stimulates phosphate uptake or alters phosphate metabolism.

Science / 143
Experiments on the uptake of carbon-14 labelled salicylic acid
continue. A peak at the origin on thin layer chromatography plates
from the acidic ethyl acetate fraction becomes very prominent with
uptake periods of longer than six hours. Earlier studies had over-
looked this material. It is being assayed to determine if it is a
bound form of salicylic acid and whether it has flower-inducing
activity.

Last year evidence was reported from radioimmunological assays
that plant extracts contain insulinlike materials. This year two
different insulin bioassays also yielded good activity. However, this
insulinlike material is different from any mammalian insulin that
has been tested. In addition, somatostatin-like activity has been
found in extracts of both duckweed and spinach. Somatostatin is
an animal peptide hormone that regulates release of insulin and
glucagon from the pancreas in man.

The light-absorbing pigment, phytochrome, that perceives these
stimuli is a protein, and it can be isolated and purified from dark-
grown rye seedlings. It can exist in two relatively stable forms. On
purified material the light activation process can be studied under
controlled conditions. An area on the surface of the protein mole-
cule changes shape after exposure to light. This area has been pro-
posed to be the chemically active site involved in the first step of
phytochrome-mediated responses. The binding of a number of de-
fined chemical probes to this site has been examined this year.
Both hydrophobic and ionic groups become more exposed to the
exterior of the protein after exposure to light. However, the chemi-
cal function of this site has not yet been identified. Phytochrome
molecules isolated from both oat and pea seedlings contain a simi-
lar site on the protein surface.

It has long been known that light energy striking red or blue-
green algal cells is absorbed by accessory pigments, phycobilipro-
teins, transferred to photosystem II of photosynthesis and then
distributed to photosystem I. Characterization has continued of the
oxygen-evolving, phycobilisome-photosystem II particles that were
isolated for the first time last year from the red alga Porphyridium
cruentum. In both red and blue-green algae, the phycobilisomes
exist on the external (stromal) surface of the photosynthetic thyla-
koid lamellae. Grana stacks and chlorophyll a/b complexes do not
exist in these organisms. Thus, the seemingly less complex thyla-
koid structure in Porphyridium and the direct energy transfer path-
way from phycobiliprotein to photosystem II provide a promising

144 / Smithsonian Year 1984
system for exploring the structural relationship of photosystem II
with its accessory pigment, phycobilisome, antenna.

The isolated particles have very high oxygen evolution rates and
a greatly reduced chlorophyll content. The average ratio in the par-
ticles is sixty chlorophyll molecules per phycobilisome as compared
to about 1,200 chlorophyll molecules per phycobilisome in the un-
fractionated thylakoid membranes. Photosystem I is greatly re-
duced in these particles. Electron microscopic observations con-
firmed that the particles are relatively homogeneous and that
typical thylakoid membranes are absent. The electron microscopic
fields showed phycobilisomes, often in clusters of two or three,
that had small appendages seemingly at the base of the phycobili-
somes. Thus, these particles from Porphyridium are different from
the other photosystem II-enriched particles in that they have one
of the highest oxygen-evolving rates thus far observed, and unlike
other preparations, they have functional coupling of the intact
phycobilisome with the photosystem II thylakoid system.

Phycobilisomes from the blue-green alga Anacystis nidulans
were studied for the wild type and several spontaneous mutants
were selected for improved growth in far-red light. By electron
microscopy, the thylakoid area of wild type and the 85Y mutant,
as well as the phycobilisome size and morphology, were deter-
mined. The size of phycobilisomes of wild type cells were larger
than those of the 85Y mutant. The number of phycobilisomes per
cell, calculated from the phycobiliprotein content and phycobili-
some size, was about the same in wild type grown in white light
and 85Y mutants grown in far-red light. However, the number of
phycobilisomes per unit area of thylakoid increased by almost two-
fold in cells grown in far-red light.

A large portion of the chloroplast is composed of membranous
sacs (thylakoids) in which the electron transport reactions of pho-
tosynthesis take place. Some of the polypeptides of the thylakoids
are made in the chloroplast on chloroplast ribosomes. These chloro-
plast-synthesized polypeptides are translated from messenger ribo-
nucleic acids (mRNAs) that are coded for by the chloroplast
genome. Chloroplast ribosomes are attached to the thylakoids, but
are also present in the chloroplast ground substance (stroma).
Spinach is being used to investigate the possibility that the thyla-
koid-bound ribosomes are specifically synthesizing polypeptides
that are cotranslationally added to the thylakoids.

Work is continuing on the site of biosynthesis and addition to

Science / 145
the thylakoids of the polypeptide that is the reaction center of
photosystem I (apo CP 1). It is an integral membrane polypeptide.
mRNA for apo CP I was found to be largely associated with thyla-
koids. Also, thylakoids with attached ribosomes synthesized apo
CP I. The newly synthesized apo CP I remained with the thylakoids
at termination of protein synthesis. Synthesis of apo CP I was
determined by immunoprecipitation of newly synthesized radio-
active apo CP I with specific antibody against apo CP I. However,
only a small portion of specific immunoprecipitable radioactive pro-
tein migrated on acrylamide gel electrophoresis in the position of
authentic apo CP I. Therefore, confirmation of localization within
the chloroplast of apo CP I mRNA, and of synthesis of apo CP I
by thylakoids with bound ribosomes, is being sought. For this pur-
pose a portion of the apo CP I gene (apo CP I probe) has been
isolated from a cloned segment of chloroplast DNA containing the
gene for apo CP I. The apo CP I probe will be used to determine
the sub-chloroplast localization of apo CP I mRNA, and for isola-
tion of apo CP I mRNA.

Work on the site of synthesis, and on the addition of polypep-
tides to thylakoids has been extended to a second integral thylakoid
polypeptide, the polypeptide of the proteolipid component of thy-
lakoid translocating ATPase (proteolipid). Proteolipid was isolated
from thylakoids and antibody (anti-proteolipid) was prepared. It
was found that thylakoids with bound ribosomes synthesized poly-
peptide that was immunoprecipitated with anti-proteolipid. The re-
sult indicates that at least some of the proteolipid is synthesized by
thylakoid-bound ribosomes.

In the fungus Neurospora crassa, blue light is required for the
induction of carotenoid pigment biosynthesis. Phytoene, a colorless
precursor of the carotenoid pigments, accumulates in dark-grown
cultures. Hence, it has been postulated that enzymes after phytoene
in the pathway are regulated by light. It has also been shown, how-
ever, that enzymes before phytoene in the pathway are photo-
regulated.

The conversion of isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP) to phytoene
in Neurospora crassa requires both a soluble and a particulate frac-
tion. The soluble fraction catalyzes the formation of geranylgeranyl
pyrophosphate (GGPP) from IPP. This activity is drastically re-
duced in an albino-3 mutant. The particulate fraction catalyzes the
conversion of GGPP to phytoene. In a wild-type strain of Neuro-
spora, a blue-light treatment of the mycelia causes a tenfold in-

146 / Smithsonian Year 1984
crease in the particulate enzyme activity, while the soluble activity
increases twofold.

This year the photoregulation of GGPP synthesis has been stud-
ied in more detail. The conversion of IPP to GGPP requires at least
two enzymes, IPP isomerase and GGPP synthetase. To assay
GGPP synthetase it is necessary to separate it from the isomerase.
This has been accomplished using hydroxylapatite chromatog-
raphy. Also by this procedure, GGPP synthetase has been sepa-
rated from farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) synthetase, an enzyme
that catalyzes the formation of FPP which is used as a substrate
for sterol synthesis.

Using hydroxylapatite chromatography, it was found that an
in vivo blue-light treatment causes an increase in GGPP synthetase
activity without any apparent effect on FPP synthetase or IPP
isomerase. Furthermore, GGPP synthetase activity is present at a
much lower level in an albino-3 mutant than in the wild type, while
the other two enzymes were present at wild type levels.

The discomycete fungus Pyronema domesticum forms apothecia
(reproductive structures) in white light in closed Petri dishes and
in the absence of circulating air in an incubator. Ultraviolet-A
radiation (320 to 420 nm) at an intensity of 104 microwatts per
square centimeter was found this year to be the effective region
of the white light that induces large numbers of apothecia in
sealed flask cultures. Mycelial growth was inhibited at intensities
that induce apothecia formation. Exposure to intense ultraviolet-A
radiation (4030 microwatts per square centimeter) results in death
of the mycelium. Apothecia was found to form also in the dark in
stagnant air in the presence of activated charcoal. Apparently,
volatile substances released by the fungus are inhibitory to apothe-
cia formation. This inhibition is removed by adsorption to the
activated charcoal but the chemical nature of the inhibitor is un-
known.

Mature sporangiophores (Stage IV) of the fungus Phycomyces
blakesleeanus give weak and erratic gravitropic responses when
placed in a horizontal position. However, it was found that if
sporangiophores are exposed horizontally to gravity during
younger developmental stages (Stages II and III) in which the cells
do not elongate or give a gravitropic response, subsequent gravi-
tropic responses observed in Stage IV have a shorter and more uni-
form latency. This early exposure to altered gravitational orienta-
tion causes the sporangiophore to develop a gravireceptor as it
matures to Stage IV and resumes elongation.

Science / 147
Sporangiophores are allowed to develop this increased sensi-
tivity by balancing a blue-light-induced phototropic response
against the gravity-induced geotropism. An optical microscopic
technique was developed to observe the spatial relationship be-
tween the vacuole and protoplasm of a living sporangiophore once
this photogeotropic equilibrium was established. The thickness of
the cytoplasmic layer is thinner on the upper surface of the cell
than on the lower surface. It is believed that this increased cyto-
plasmic thickness is involved in developing increased geotropic
sensitivity and causes increased growth on the lower side of the
sporangiophore with a subsequent positive geotropic response.

Environmental Biology

The opening of the pores on leaves (stomates) that allow for the
entry of carbon dioxide for photosynthesis has been thought to be
regulated by blue light or red light that is effective for photo-
synthesis. Newly obtained data indicate that the far-red portion of
natural sunlight interacts with an internal rhythm of the leaves to
control pore size. This far-red light has been found to be most
effective when other qualities of light are simultaneously present.
Thus, the amount of far-red light present is apparently the sig-
nificant cue enabling plants to carry out maximum rates of photo-
synthesis under natural conditions.

Measurements of the carbon dioxide gas conductivity controlled
by the stomata (pores) on primary leaves of bean seedlings dem-
onstrated that phytochrome modulates light-induced stomatal
opening. Removal of the far-red absorbing form by exposure to
far-red light decreased the time required to reach maximal open-
ing following a dark to light transition, as in sunrise. Removal of
the far-red absorbing form of phytochrome also decreased the
time required to reach maximal closure following a light to dark
transition, as in sunset. Removal of the far-red absorbing form of
phytochrome is brought about by greater quantities of far-red light
in the sunlight spectrum relative to the red portion of the spec-
trum. Sufficiently high far-red to red ratios of sunlight occur at
sunrise and at sunset.

The photosynthetic productivity of plants is regulated by the
amount of carbon dioxide available. The absolute carbon dioxide
concentration measured above the tropical forest on Barro Colo-
rado Island in the Republic of Panama indicates that there is an
annual increase of 1.5 parts per million, a value that correlates

148 / Smithsonian Year 1984
well with values found at other global stations. Measurements of
carbon dioxide exchange and monitoring of amounts of photo-
synthetically active radiation, temperature, and wind velocity have
been carried out for one year on Barro Colorado Island, sponsored
by an Environmental Science Program grant. These data will com-
prise the formation of baseline data to ascertain the effects of
changes in these parameters with other continuing ecological
studies on the island.

Initial carbon flux rates, using gas measurements and eddy cor-
relation techniques, indicate a 20 percent greater productivity rate
in the tropical forest than those measured by conventional leaf
litterbox collection techniques of gathering leaves, fruits, and twigs
that drop from trees or visual estimation techniques of ascertain-
ing the extent and change of the forest leaf canopy. The param-
eters measured were found to have a very high correlation coeffi-
cient with the carbon flux rates measured for this initial year of
operation. The measurements will continue to test the validity of
these correlations of growth as influenced by carbon dioxide con-
centrations available to the forest canopy.

Plants occupying coastal wetlands have to overcome several
stressful environmental factors, one of which is salt. The dominant
plant species in this ecosystem, Spartina alterniflora (Common
Cordgrass), has the ability to tolerate salt concentrations three to
four times that of seawater. The typical response to such high salt
levels over many seasons is for the plants to be diminished in
height by an order of magnitude.

In attempting to understand the physiological basis for this
dwarfing response, the reaction of the photosynthetic apparatus of
this plant to salinity and other factors has been examined. The
working hypothesis is that adaptations to high salt concentrations,
lack of oxygen, and perhaps other characteristics of this plant’s
habitat are at least partially an adaptation to water stress.

When the roots of S. alterniflora were flooded with water that
contained gradually increasing salt concentrations over a period
of twenty-four hours, the response of the plant’s photosynthetic
apparatus was different from a rapid, large increase in salinity.
When the step increase was large (i.e., from low salinity to sea-
water salinity) there was an immediate response in the stomata,
which limited the supply of COs to the intercellular spaces. When
the step increases were small, and the plant was given time to
adjust, the stomata played a very small role in limiting the supply
of COs. In the latter case, kinetic studies of light and CO2 showed

Science / 149
that the imposed stress affected the photosynthetic capacity (i.e.,
the maximum rate of COs assimilation) in high light conditions
and COs, but did not influence the rate of photosynthesis at low
light intensities.

Typically, increments in salinity of salt marsh soils occur over
periods of days, and are influenced by the frequency and intensity
of storms and by the tides. Thus, the ability of salt marsh species
to acclimate to changes in soil salinity within a twenty-four hour
period may be a crucial physiological adaptation for surviving
environmental stress.

Measurements of the amounts of ultraviolet sunlight received at
the earth’s surface show that there are periodic increases and de-
creases that are not caused by the activities of man or by volcanic
activity. Current data from land-based instruments operated by
SERC, indicate that these increases and decreases are due primarily
to differences in the amounts of ultraviolet produced by the sun.
Data obtained by National Air and Space Administration satellites
of solar radiation above the atmosphere support this finding.
Therefore, concerns about man’s role through the addition of
fluorocarbons that change the earth’s atmosphere by altering the
ozone concentrations, thus changing the amounts of ultraviolet
radiation transmitted, must be evaluated in terms of this informa-
tion. Instruments were installed late in fiscal year 1984 at Mauna
Loa Observatory in Hawaii in collaboration with the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to measure ultraviolet at
the 11,000-foot level. These measurements in the relatively clean
atmosphere, remote from urban pollution, will provide a better
indication of the changes in ultraviolet resulting from atmospheric
changes specifically in the troposphere.

Long-term measurements of the color quality and amounts of
visible solar radiation over a fifteen-year time period have been
completed and indicate a remarkable stability for any given geo-
graphical location. This stability is true only for the visible portion
of sunlight and since most of the visible sunlight changes so little,
measurements are no longer needed in wide bands. These data pro-
vide an extensive base line available to future researchers. Instru-
ments designed and constructed by serc that measure in relatively
narrow bands in the visible portion of the spectrum have proven
to be very reliable, and their use will continue in measuring se-
lected bands of sunlight of interest for specific biological responses
such as photosynthesis or flowering.

150 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Radiocarbon Dating

The radiocarbon dating laboratory operates within the Regulatory
Division, performing basic research in radiocarbon dating as well
as providing service datings of archeologically interesting artifacts
for the museums.

Studies of the relative rise of sea levels in the Gulf of Maine
over recent time periods has continued. A large discrepancy in the
radiocarbon dates for shell-midden sites along the shore of Passa-
maquaddy Bay in coastal Maine prompted an investigation of rela-
tive sea level rise in the area as a result of crustal warping. Tide
gauge records and documented photographic records indicate that
while the relative sea level is rising a few centimeters per century
in western New Brunswick, that rise amounts to nearly a meter
per century in eastern coastal Maine. In cooperation with the Uni-
versity of Maine, cores of salt marsh peats have been taken at
numerous sites along coastal Maine, and are being dated to pro-
vide a more extensive chronology of sea level rise. Initial evidence
suggests that a similar rapid rise took place in this region between
2,500 and 2,000 years ago. A geologic fault line separating the
two areas indicates continued geological instability.

ACTIVITIES AT EDGEWATER
Environmental Biology

The principal objective of serc’s environmental biology program is
the study of environmental processes in estuarine and watershed
systems. Observational and manipulative studies are designed to
develop and test ecological concepts at the macroscopic process
level (landscape, habitat, community, or population). Emphasis is
placed upon studies of how biological communities are developed
and maintained over time. The need for such research is increas-
ingly critical in a world where chronic disturbance is causing
major reductions in the productivity and diversity of environmen-
tal systems. The primary site for this long-term, intensive research
is the Smithsonian property on the Chesapeake Bay (tidal Rhode
River and its watershed). The site includes a mixture of land uses
typical of the Atlantic Coastal Plain, as well as freshwater and
brackish tidal wetlands, and an estuarine tributary to the Chesa-
peake Bay. This environmental diversity and the long-term control
of the property make the site exceptionally suitable for a variety
of studies of the complex processes linking terrestrial and estu-

Science / 151
arine systems. Comparative studies are also conducted at a wide
range of secondary sites, to test the generality of research results
from the primary site.

Genetic and Morphological Diversification of Salamanders

Although salamanders are often considered to be characteristic of
the north temperature zone, more than half of the world’s sala-
mander species actually live in the New World tropics. In the most
recent phase of a long-term comparative study, involving scientists
from the Smithsonian Institution, the University of California
(Berkeley), and the University of Chicago, patterns of genetic and
morphological similarity were compared in salamanders of the
genus Pseudoeurycea that inhabit the Transverse Volcanic Range
of south-central Mexico. Previous evolutionary studies of this
group had been hampered by superficial similarities in the appear-
ance of even distantly related species, but the separation of en-
zymes by starch-gel electrophoresis and the analysis of detailed
morphological measurements has made it possible to sort out much
of the complex genealogy of these salamanders.

As a result of this research, a distinctive new species (Pseudo-
eurycea longicauda), was discovered and described, and the rela-
tionships of P. leprosa, P. robertsi, and P. altamontana were clari-
fied. P. leprosa consists of a number of morphologically similar,
but geographically isolated, populations that inhabit the highest
volcanic peaks and ridges in south-central Mexico. Genetic com-
parisons indicate that some presently isolated populations have
been separated only since the Pleistocene era, while others have
not exchanged genetic material since early Pliocene times. At the
other extreme, P. robertsi and P. altamontana are sufficiently dif-
ferent in appearance to have been placed in different species
groups by previous workers, but electrophoretic comparison of
enzyme variation in these two species suggests that they have
diverged only within the last 1-2 million years.

Ecology of Cranefly Orchid

Long-term studies of the Cranefly Orchid (Tipularia discolor) in
a deciduous forest at the center’s research site in Maryland are
revealing the complex nature of a plant species’ adaptations to its
environment. Because this plant produces one corm (an under-
ground storage organ) per year, which persists for several years,
and also has distinct reproductive and vegetative seasonability, it

152 / Smithsonian Year 1984
was chosen as the subject of a study on how plants allocate their
resources in a natural population. Corms older than one year lose
weight gradually during the year and most vegetative growth goes
into current year corms. Leaves and sexual reproductive structures
account, at peak weight, for approximately 20 percent of the total
plant. The largest percentages of nutrients were found in corms
two years older, and nutrient concentrations were also high in
newly formed leaves and flowers. Analysis of the weight and nu-
trient data suggests that translocation is important, but it does not
account for all of the uptake in new growth. Plants must, there-
fore, assimilate nutrients from the soil during periods of growth.
The results suggest that large, belowground nutrient storage pools
are maintained for purposes other than providing nutrients for
pulses of growth.

Effects of Forest Fragmentation on Birds

Man’s use of the landscape often results in habitat fragmentation,
which has diverse ramifications for the animals dependent upon
the affected habitat. One of the long-term studies at the center has
addressed the question: To what extent has man’s alteration of the
eastern deciduous forest on the coastal plain impacted breeding
bird populations? Point surveys were used to estimate the abun-
dance and diversity of breeding forest birds in relation to the size,
degree of isolation, floristics, physiognomy, and successional ma-
turity of 270 upland forest patches in the coastal plain province
of Maryland. Physiognomic and floristic characteristics of the tree,
shrub, and herb layers of the forest were measured at each site.
The local abundance of almost every bird species breeding in the
interior of upland forests was found to be significantly influenced
by forest area, isolation, structure, or floristics, or combinations
of these factors. Highly migratory species tended to be most
abundant in extensive stands of mature, floristically diverse forests
that were only slightly isolated from sources of potential colonists.
Densities of permanent residents and short-distance migrants
tended to be less affected by these site characteristics, or had
responses opposite in sign to those of long-distance migrants.
The impacts of forest fragmentation on bird populations are
complex and species-specific. Many bird species respond strongly
to factors other than, or in addition to, forest patch area and iso-
lation. Dissection of the landscape into small highly isolated
patches of forest adversely affects some bird species, but struc-

Science / 153
tural and floristic characteristics of the forest are more important
than patch size and isolation for many species, given the existing
distribution of forest patches in the coastal plain of Maryland.

Agricultural Herbicides in Runoff

Today most farmers utilize preemergent herbicides (weed killers)
as a part of row-crop management. These compounds avoid the
necessity of mechanical weed control while the crop is developing
after planting. Serc has conducted extensive research upon the
fate of these chemicals in order to evaluate their potential for
nontarget effects in receiving waters. Two commonly used herbi-
cides in cornfields of the Rhode River Watershed are atrazine
(2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino,1,3,5,-triazine) and ala-
chlor (2-chloro-2’,6’-diethyl-N-methoxymethyl acetanilide). Al-
though alachlor was applied in larger quantities, atrazine was de-
tected more frequently in runoff waters and had greater concen-
trations than alachlor (0-40 vs. 0-6 parts per billion (ppb)). Atra-
zine was more persistent and more mobile in watershed soils. Con-
centrations in discharges were not closely related to agricultural
land-use. Runoff waters from forested watersheds where herbi-
cides were not directly applied were contaminated with herbicides
as a result of atmospheric transport and spray drift. During the
three-year study period, a maximum of ten ppb of atrazine, and
up to 0.5 ppb alachlor were discharged in winter runoff waters
from the eight experimental watersheds, indicating the importance
of flow degradation and complex transport mechanisms. In addi-
tion to reflecting the quantity of herbicides directly applied to land
surface, residual herbicide levels in runoff waters must be influ-
enced by other important factors such as topography and location
of croplands in relationship to drainage channel. A major portion
of atrazine was found to be in solution in runoff-water samples
collected during storm events. Percolation in subsurface flow and
dissolution in overland flow were believed to be important trans-
port mechanisms.

Displacement of Alkaline Ions by Acid Rain

In recent years, environmental scientists in several locations have
gradually perceived the importance of chemicals that enter vari-
ous ecosystems in precipitation. To a considerable extent this con-
cern has resulted from the documentation of steadily increasing
acidity in rainfall. This increased acidity in precipitation is pri-

154 / Smithsonian Year 1984
marily due to increasing concentrations of sulfur and nitrogen
oxides in the atmosphere. In such places as Sweden, the White
Mountains of New Hampshire, the Smoky Mountains of North
Carolina, the Appalachian Mountains of Tennessee, the Rocky
Mountains of Colorado, and the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of
New Mexico, research reports have documented and summarized
both ion inputs in precipitation and ionic losses in land discharge.
Differences between ionic inputs and outputs can then be ascribed
to the interactions of vegetation and soils with chemical com-
ponents in the precipitation. Most of these published studies were
conducted in mountainous regions with low human populations and
limited land management. None were in the Atlantic Coastal Plain
of the United States. An understanding of natural (i.e., unman-
aged) systems is theoretically important, but of limited value when
extrapolations must be made to complex, multiple-land-use sys-
tems. Understanding nutrient dynamics on a multiple-land-use
basis is critically important for wise management of the land. The
most abundant land uses on the Rhode River Watershed, as else-
where on the Atlantic Coastal Plain are forest, cropland, and
pastureland. Since no calcareous minerals are found in watershed
soils, the latter are poorly buffered against acid rain inputs.

Ionic inputs in precipitation and farm chemicals were measured,
as were ionic outputs in land runoff from the principal land-use
categories. Patterns of ionic composition were also traced along
pathways of surface runoff during storms and soil water percola-
tion between storms. The results from this research confirm other
studies that have found a trend of increasing acidity in rainfall, as
well as important regional differences in its effects. It is clear that
at the Rhode River site, increased hydrogen ion inputs are dis-
placing the essential plant nutrients of Mg++, Cat+, and Kt.
Although displacement rates are apparently low, available nutrient
pools in forested areas could be depleted in a few decades, causing
ecologically significant effects. Ion losses appeared to be propor-
tional to the magnitude of disturbance associated with the three
land uses studied. Thus, total cation and anion outputs were low-
est at the forest site, similar but somewhat higher for the pasture-
land, and significantly greater in the cropland discharge than in
either of the other two. Concentrations in the receiving streams
closely approximated the discharge-weighted concentrations of
surface and groundwater, indicating that analysis of these different
flow pathways through a watershed is an important key to under-
standing the origins of the final output concentrations.

Science / 155
The functional importance of streamside forest in reducing ni-
trate concentrations in discharge from an agricultural watershed
was clearly shown, raising interesting questions as to the general-
ity of this result. Other questions raised by this study are the
importance of Fe, Mn, and Al ions in intra-watershed patterns of
ion change, and the problem of what measures should be taken to
best compensate for Kt, Mgt*, and Cat? losses.

Tidal Exchange of Nutrients by Marshes

The ecological role of marshes in regulating nutrients, sediments,
and microorganisms in adjacent tidal marshes has attracted the
interest of many environmental scientists in recent years. In an
effort to help clarify this role, seErc scientists measured and com-
pared exchanges by two types of brackish tidal marshes that differ
in surface elevation and, therefore, frequency of flooding. Both
types of marsh tended to import particulate matter and export
dissolved matter, although they differed in the fluxes of certain
nutrients. Compared with tidal exchanges, bulk precipitation was
a major source of ammonia and nitrate and a minor source of
other nutrients. There was a net retention of nutrients by the por-
tion of the Rhode River that included both marshes and mudflat.
However, the marshes accounted for only 10 percent of the phos-
phorus retention and 1 percent of the nitrogen retention, while
they released organic carbon amounting to 20 percent of the re-
tention. This suggests that the mudflat, which was interacting with
the marshes by tidal exchange, acted as a major sink for nutrients.
The primary role of the marshes seems to be transformation of
particulate nutrients to dissolved form, rather than net retention
or release of nutrients. The exchange of bacteria and algae via tidal

water movements was also studied. A small net import of bacterial
and algal cells into both types of marsh was measured, but only an
insignificant portion of the total nutrient transport was due to the
nutrient content of these cells.

Bacterial Movement in Marsh Sediments

Environmental scientists have been attempting to determine mech-
anisms and pathways of nutrient movement in tidal marshes. One
hypothesis is that significant movement occurs as microbial cells
suspended in the brackish water percolate through marsh sedi-
ments. Concentrations and sizes of bacteria in sediments were

156 / Smithsonian Year 1984
determined. Their concentrations in percolating water were found
to be less than 1 percent of the number adhering to sediment par-
ticles. The concentrations of bacteria in water flooding the marshes
was also higher than in waters leaving the marshes in ebbing tides.
Thus, movement of bacterial cells doesn’t seem to be a major mech-
anism of nutrient movement in marsh sediments.

Smithsonian Office of Educational Research

Effective October 1, 1984, the Smithsonian Office of Educational
Research (sor) was established to investigate and improve learn-
ing as it occurs outside the formal educational system. Recognizing
that schools alone are not equipped to address all the educational
needs of America today, the soer is engaged in promoting educa-
tional endeavors at all levels and in diverse settings in the belief
that lifelong learning habits can only be established with the sup-
port and participation of a broad spectrum of society.

People can, and do, learn in a wide variety of situations, although
some are more conducive to the transfer and acquisition of infor-
mation than others. The soer represents a unique opportunity for
studying how people learn outside of traditional educational
venues, i.e., schools, and was created in response to the need to
investigate informal learning as it occurs in settings such as mu-
seums, zoos, and natural areas. It is notable that in the United
States, hundreds of millions of people annually visit museums. Far
exceeding in attendance all spectator sports combined, museum
visitation represents one of the most popular out-of-the-home rec-
reational activities in America, and yet an understanding of how
museums function as educational institutions is not yet fully devel-
oped.

As an environment that facilitates rather than directs learning,
a museum can profoundly influence paths of educational pursuits,
arouse interest, inspire appreciation, promote scientific and cultural
literacy, and offer an avenue for lifelong learning opportunities.
While few professionals would deny this assertion, supporting evi-
dence, based upon empirical research, is woefully lacking.

Staffed with research psychologists and education specialists, the
SOER has initiated studies to examine how people learn in a wide
variety of social and physical contexts and is particularly interested

Science / 157
in the role of the family in learning. The Smithsonian Family Learn-
ing Project (srtp), which has developed science activities for fami-
lies to do together at home, has received enthusiastic responses
from tens of thousands of families as well as unsolicited national
publicity. Srip activities will be widely available for the first time
in the form of a poster-sized wall calendar this fiscal year, and a
series of stp booklets are soon to be published.

Funded by the National Science Foundation and using a spe-
cially developed research method, a study on “The Role of the
Family in the Promotion of Science Literacy” is nearing comple-
tion, following observation research conducted at the National
Museum of Natural History. This fiscal year, the National Science
Foundation funded a Community-based Science Project that will
attempt to integrate expertise afforded by a variety of community
representatives, including teachers, scientists, technicians, parents,
and children into a concerted effort directed toward enhancing all
participants’ awareness and appreciation of science as it relates to
society and technology today.

Another project, being conducted at the National Zoological
Park, is concerned with the development and testing of orientations
for families visiting the Small Mammal House. The materials will
be tested for their effectiveness in enhancing the educational value
of family visits to a zoological exhibit. Other family-related re-
search efforts include studies at the National Museum of Natural
History in Washington, D.C., and the National Museum of Natural
History in New Delhi, India.

Results of sorr studies concerning the dynamics of behavior and
learning among museum visitors and families have been and will
continue to be useful to professionals in education, exhibit design,
and family services nationwide. Findings are disseminated through
publications, seminars, and workshops for both professional and
lay audiences.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Introduction

The comparative method plays an essential role in biological under-
standing, and the tropics, with their unparalleled diversity of plants
and animals, offer by far the most fruitful opportunity for compari-

158 / Smithsonian Year 1984
son. Moreover, tropical conditions are near the norm for most of
the earth over most of the last few hundred million years, while
conditions typical of modern “‘temperate” zones have been far more
restricted or ephemeral. Research in the tropics, where the preci-
sion of adaptation and the intricacy of interdependence reach their
height, will accordingly play an essential role in any attempt to
understand life in its full and proper context.

It is therefore an urgent duty to become sufficiently acquainted
with the denizens, plant and animal, of tropical habitats, to be able
to bring them to life for a wider public. Only if rain forests and
coral reefs come alive in people’s minds and imaginations can we
hope that tropical habitats will not be wiped out, unheeded and
unrecognized, as part of the macabre sacrifice of the “less devel-
oped” world to the “developed.” We have yet to complete Adam’s
task of naming the animals and plants; even a name, as Parmenides
saw so long ago, helps bring something to life in men’s minds, and
is a necessary first step toward understanding. There is so much
more to do.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (str1) is well placed
to help achieve the required understanding. Its primary advantages
are:

(1) Administration of, and access to, the Barro Colorado Nature
Monument, a 5,400-hectare reserve of tropical forest, some of it
primary, surrounding the central part of the Panama Canal. This
reserve offers an unparalleled array of background information and
previous research on which to build.

(2) A position athwart a narrow isthmus between two very dif-
ferent oceans, offering abundant opportunities for comparative
study.

(3) Extensive resources to support research—financial assistance
for students, suitable laboratories and equipment, a research vessel,
and an unusually good library.

(4) A staff with worldwide experience in tropical research, and
a group of students, postdoctoral fellows, and recurrent visitors
committed to intensive tropical research.

The quality of the student contribution, and the importance of
adequate support for students, cannot be overemphasized. In 1984
Phyllis Coley, now of the University of Utah, won the Ecological
Society of America’s Mercer Award for her thesis research on
Barro Colorado Island, published in Ecological Monographs. This
award is given to that young ecologist with the best ecological re-
search published in the United States or Canada during the past

Science / 159
two years, and is the “highest form of recognition for published
ecological research.” In 1981 Nigel Franks, of the University of
Leeds, won Britain’s Thomas Henry Huxley award for thesis re-
search on Barro Colorado.

Systematics

Helping others to recognize plants and animals, past and present,
is a significant part of str1’s research. Robert Dressler is continuing
his studies of orchid taxonomy. Dolores Piperno is continuing her
work with phytoliths, silica inclusions in plants that persist in the
soil when the plant decays, and whose shapes reveal the order or
family, and sometimes the species, of the plant that formed them.
Daniel Suman is studying carbonized particles from more than
forty common species of grasses and twenty species of trees to see
whether these species can be recognized from the fragments they
release into the air when the plants are burned. David Roubik,
Enrique Moreno, and Robert Schmalzel are preparing a “pollen
flora” of Barro Colorado Island, which will allow students of bees
to learn what species of plants bees are taking pollen from, students
of flowering rhythms to learn the seasons when different species
of plants are opening their flowers (by periodically sampling the
pollen bees bring back to their hives), and paleobotanists to recon-
struct the past history of vegetation from the layers of pollen de-
posited at the bottom of a lake or bog. Nancy Garwood, in collab-
oration with staff members of the British Museum (Natural
History), has begun a seedling flora of Barro Colorado Island and
adjoining parts of Panama, which will enable students of forest
regeneration to identify seedlings of dicotyledenous trees, shrubs,
and lianas. Joseph Wright and Hugh Churchill are preparing a
flora and avifauna of the Contreras Islands, just off Coiba, which
is the largest island off the Pacific Coast of Central America.

The Origin and Nature of Biological Diversity

A more prominent theme in stri’s research is to understand the
origin and document the nature of biological diversity, and to learn
how it is maintained.

William Eberhard has just completed a book on the evolution of
genitalia. He finds that in almost any animal with internal fertiliza-
tion, genitalia evolve steadily and rapidly, reflecting the advantage
of any innovation that excites fuller reproductive response from

160 / Smithsonian Year 1984
the female, even if there is no need for the species to develop sex-
ual habits sufficiently distinctive to avoid mating with members of
related species.

Genitalia accordingly provide a very convenient and effective
means for distinguishing between species. More generally, William
Eberhard’s work supports the view of Charles Darwin that specia-
tion reflects “accidental” divergence of isolated populations, reflect-
ing their different response to sexual selection, rather than direct
selection to prevent different populations from hybridizing.

Mary Jane West-Eberhard has been studying tropical insect so-
cieties, with an eye toward understanding some puzzles concerning
the apparent suddenness with which species appear in the fossil
record. Living in groups leads to social competition, which is often
intense enough to dictate alternative specializations. Animals lack-
ing the size and experience needed to “win the competition” for
mates or food often have behavior patterns that allow them to cir-
cumvent the competition. When, for some reason, one specializa-
tion becomes disadvantageous throughout the population, might
the newly unbalanced selection for the other lead to a sudden “evo-
lutionary jump?”

Robert Warner, of the University of California at Santa Barbara,
has been studying blue-headed wrasses, fish that live on coral reefs
of the San Blas Islands, off the Caribbean coast of Panama. Most of
these fish are born female, and turn into bright-colored territorial
males when large enough to compete effectively for females. Some,
however, are born as female-colored “drab” males, which secure
matings by stealth, rather than through open competition, illustrat-
ing the “alternative specializations” just mentioned. They, too, turn
into bright-colored territorial males when old enough to do so.
Warner has been concerned with how “tradition” affects where on
a reef the blue-head males set up their spawning territories. He
finds that exchanging all territorial blue-heads between a pair of
reefs does not affect where the territories are formed, and exchang-
ing all fish of both sexes requires the spawning territories to be
chosen anew. They are formed, as before, at the downcurrent end
of the reef, so that fertilized eggs will quickly be swept away from
the reef and its predators, but the territories are obviously different,
suggesting that tradition does matter.

Eric Fischer, of the University of Washington, has been studying
the social behavior of a coral reef fish, Serranus baldwinii, in the
San Blas Islands. Young adults are hermaphroditic, carrying male
and female sex organs, both functional, but when they grow larger

Science / 161
they turn purely male, assume brighter colors, and maintain harems
of hermaphrodites.

He has also been studying Serranus tortugarum, a fish that main-
tains functional organs of both sexes all its life. These fish spawn
in pairs, the members of a pair exchanging sex roles in successive
spawning bouts, as if trading eggs for each other to fertilize. They
often pair with the same mate for days on end. However, in con-
trast to the hamlets, Hypoplectrus, which Fischer studied earlier,
these fish also dart in to fertilize eggs released by other mating
pairs, and if they arrive too late to fertilize those eggs, they some-
times try to eat them instead.

Ken Clifton, of the University of California at Santa Barbara,
has been studying the social behavior of the striped parrotfish, a
small parrotfish common in the San Blas Islands. A large female
has one or more smaller females in its territory. She apparently per-
mits this because they help defend the territory against conspecifics,
rather than for any help more eyes might give in watching for
predators. This contrasts with insectivorous birds of the tropical
forest understory, some of which feed in flocks of several species
to take advantage of each other’s vigilance.

Arcadio Rodaniche has been studying the reef squid Sepioteuthis
in the Indo-Pacific, to compare their social behavior with the Sepio-
teuthis he studied with Martin Moynihan in the Caribbean. These
squid have ten times more behavioral displays than most birds or
mammals. This extensive repertoire is made possible by their daz-
zling ability to change both hue and color pattern very rapidly. He
has also been studying the social behavior of two harlequin octopi,
Octopus cherchiae and Octopus sp., in the laboratory. These octopi
are striped all over: their color pattern is more intricate, and more
permanent, than those of most cephalopods, and their capacity to
change color is restricted to adjusting the darkness of their pattern.
Their social displays are accordingly of unusual interest. He also
found that Octopus cherchiae reproduces more than once in its
life, one of the very few cephalopods to do so.

Ira Rubinoff, Jorge Motta, and Jeffrey Graham have been em-
ploying ultrasonic transmitters to track Pacific sea snakes to learn
how long and how deep they dive. They have been observed to dive
as long as four hours, and as deep as twenty-six meters. In Panama
Bay it appears that sea snakes dive to shallower depths during the
dry season, when upwelling often moves the 20°C isotherm closer
to the surface. It is not known why they dive, although they are

162 / Smithsonian Year 1984
obviously well adapted to do so: they do not feed while they dive,
and they do not dive to escape predators.

Eldridge Adams, a predoctoral fellow, has been studying man-
grove ants at Galeta, str1’s mainland Caribbean field station. First
he sampled 100 trees, ten meters apart, then 500 trees partitioned
over several forests, for their ant communities. He found that trees
with the rather aggressive small ant Azteca tended to lack Crema-
togaster and vice versa. Zacryptocerus, on the other hand, tends to
occur with Azteca, following them to food: Zacryptocerus appar-
ently has a form and odor that the Azteca cannot sense. Adams has
also been studying interactions between Azteca colonies and be-
tween Azteca and Crematogaster, employing manipulative experi-
ments where appropriate. Interactions between ant colonies are
easily studied in mangrove forest, because the ants interact above
ground where they can be seen.

Jacqueline Belwood, another str1 predoctoral fellow, has been
studying various facets of the ecology and behavior of insecti-
vorous bats, particularly bats that glean insects from foliage. She
has followed seasonal changes in the diets of various foliage-glean-
ing bats that take their prey back to their roosts before eating them:
she judges their diets from the wings the bats drop to the forest
floor while feeding.

She has also discovered that one bat, Tonatia sylvicola, is at-
tracted to calling male katydids but, instead of eating the calling
male, it eats the females the male attracts. Moreover, she has dis-
covered a bat, Myotis nigricans, whose call starts so slowly that a
“fast Fourier transform” program cannot pick up its onset (al-
though the program has no difficulty with the call when played
backward). She inferred that moths could not hear its onset either,
and verified that the bat lives entirely on moths.

She has also studied the various ways katydids attract mates
without being eaten: they may call rarely, or call from places the
bats cannot get to, or attract mates by vibrating their perches in a
manner that their conspecifics sense but the bats cannot.

With James Fullard, of the University of Toronto, Jacqueline
Belwood has been preparing a catalogue of recordings of the echo-
location calls of the various bats on Barro Colorado Island, and
they have now recorded thirty-two of the fifty-three species of bats
on the island. This is the most complete “echolocation profile” yet
given for a tropical bat community, and comparison of a bat’s echo-
location call with where, what, and how it hunts promises greatly

Science / 163
ee understanding of the function of different echolocation
calls.

Ola Fincke, a str1 postdoctoral fellow, has been studying the
ecology and reproductive behavior of three species of giant damsel-
fly, one Megaloprepus and two Mecistogaster. They all lay their
eggs in water-filled tree holes, where their nymphs live on mos-
quito wrigglers and small tadpoles. Large adult males of the genus
Megaloprepus establish reproductive territories around tree holes
in light gaps, allowing females to lay eggs in “their” holes in return
for a mating. Many more females visit tree holes in light gaps than
those in deep shade. Males cease defending tree holes in the dry
season, even if the holes are artificially replenished with water, but
they are always capable of mating. Mecistogaster adults, on the
other hand, appear to meet and mate by chance, and Mecistogaster
ornatus undergo reproductive diapause in the dry season.

Stephen Mulkey has been studying three species of small forest
bamboo, following the demography of selected populations in the
forest and testing their responses to light level and nutrient avail-
ability in the growing house. He found that the light-demanding
species is most tolerant of drought, and the shade-tolerant species
least so, while, on the average, the third species is less tolerant of
drought than the light-demander. This study is an unusually care-
ful test of Robert MacArthur’s notion that the “jack of all trades is
master of none,” and indeed, the third species grows markedly less
well in shade than the shade-lover and is somewhat less tolerant of
drought than the light-demander. The third species is also more
flexible developmentally, putting out very different leaves in sun
and shade.

David Roubik has been studying the pollen diet of honeybees,
both feral African and European, at various sites in Panama, as
part of his study of the impact of invading feral African honeybees
on native bee communities.

He also visited eleven countries in Asia during a three-month
trip, looking at stingless bees (meliponines) and honeybees. He
found that there are more species of stingless bees in southeast
Asia than in the dry forest of Guanacaste, Costa Rica, even though
the Asian stingless bees coexist with two species of honeybee.
Some Asian stingless bees forage aggressively, driving other spe-
cies of bee, and in one case, even conspecifics, away from flowers,
and some “steal” pollen without fertilizing flowers. He also ob-
served the species of giant honeybee in Nepal, the only species of
honeybee restricted to the north temperate zone.

164 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Seasonal Rhythms of Tropical Communities

It is important not only to realize the diversity of adaptation in
tropical plants and animals, but to see how they fit together in the
life of the community as a whole. On Barro Colorado, life in the
forest is dominated by a seasonal alternation of drought and heavy
rainfall, which imposes a seasonal rhythm on plant growth and
reproduction and entails a seasonal alternation of feast and famine
for the animals. Seasonal rhythms are less obvious in marine com-
munities, but are not absent there.

Peter Becker, working with Philip Rundel of ucta, has been look-
ing at seasonal rhythms of leaf production, studying the relation
between leaf production and water potential in plants illustrating
three major rhythms of leaf production:

(a) those that start putting out new leaves in February, and fin-
ish flushing about the time the rains come in April,

(b) those that flush new leaves just after the rains come, and

(c) those that are putting out a few new leaves through the year.

He finds, as one would expect, that plants have lower water
potentials (reflecting greater water stress) in the dry season, both
at dawn and at midday, than in the rainy season. More surprising-
ly, the predawn water potentials of plants in the old forest of the
central plateau of Barro Colorado Island are three to four times
lower than those of plants on slopes of Lutz Ravine, near the lab-
oratory clearing (— 12 compared to — 3 bars). Apparently liberal
watering during the dry season of four species of understory
shrubs and saplings in Lutz Ravine did not increase their growth
rate.

Eugene Schupp has been studying factors affecting the timing
and vigor of flowering and fruiting in the common understory
treelet Faramea occidentalis. Schupp finds that Faramea which pro-
duce lots of seed produce a higher proportion of good seed: an indi-
vidual with 1,000 fruits will have 300 sound ones, while an indi-
vidual with 8,000 will have 5,200 sound fruits. A large fruit crop
apparently “swamps” the insects that parasitize the seeds. More-
over, Faramea which produce few flowers and fruits one year gen-
erally produce many the next.

Iguana show a very sharp seasonal rhythm. Females come to
places with bare earth to lay eggs near the end of January and be-
ginning of February, and hatchlings emerge at the beginning of the
rains, when new leaves are most abundant. Stanley Rand and his
associates have completed a fifth season of catching and marking

Science / 165
female iguanas that have come to lay eggs on “Slothia” and other
islets surrounding Barro Colorado: some animals have nested on
Slothia for five successive years. This year’s hatching was the most
abundant and successful of the last four.

Natasha, the four-meter-long crocodile that used to nest on
Slothia and harass the iguanas digging near her nest site, died in
November 1983, and in 1984, a smaller female crocodile took over
the laboratory cove.

Enrique Font radiotracked eight iguanas for six months, and
found that they have very restricted home ranges. The six males
never ventured more than a few score meters from where they
were first marked. One adult female traveled more than a kilo-
meter, the other, over 500 meters, to nest. They returned to their
original ranges after several weeks, and stayed there.

Katherine Troyer finds that “middle-aged” iguanas lay more
eggs than either very young or very old ones. She and George Zug
have clipped the toes of several hundred iguanas, from which clip-
pings they can assess the ages of the iguanas.

In Chiriqui, Robert Schmalzel has been studying the rhythms of
flowering in plant communities along an altitudinal gradient from
sea level to 3,000 meters, periodically sampling the pollen honey-
bees bring back to their hives at a suitable variety of sites. Together
with David Roubik’s work in central Panama, this is the first at-
tempt to delineate the role of honeybees in tropical plant commu-
nities. Generally, he finds that bees do have quite an impact on
their communities. Stingless bees eat many kinds of pollen so
efficiently that a broad spectrum of flower types are restricted
either to the highlands, where stingless bees do not reach, or to
opening at night, when these bees do not fly. Coping with over-
greedy bees plays a previously unsuspected role in flower evolution.

Donald Windsor, Jeff Burgett, Ricardo Thompson, and John
Cubit have been calculating the frequency and the seasonal distri-
bution of those calm spells during low tides that expose the reef
flat at Galeta to the sun, with such devastating consequences for its
populations. They have found that wind and waves, as well as the
tidal level, affect the prospect of an exposure. Exposures are not
predictable, but are most likely to happen during a calm spell at
the end of the dry season or the early part of rainy season.

Jeff Burgett has been studying seasonal rhythms of plant cover
on the reef flat at Galeta, some of which reflect the seasonal distri-
bution of the exposures just mentioned. He finds that the alga
Laurencia dominates the reef flat for eight months of the year, but

166 / Smithsonian Year 1984
An overheating of the surface waters of the eastern Pacific during El
Nifio of 1983 resulted in die-off of the coral reefs in the Gulf of Chiriqui.
The white areas indicate Pocillopora spp. that have lost their tissues. In
1984 Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute biologists cored the reefs to
determine whether a similar die-off had occurred in the past 300 years.
(Photograph by Peter W. Glynn)

Adela Gomez, who served the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute for
thirty-nine years, is honored on her retirement. Shown here, from left to
right, are Martin Moynihan, former STRI director; Olga Linares, anthro-
pologist; Mrs. Gomez; and Ira Rubinoff, director of STRI.

that when the reef flat is exposed to the sun, the Laurencia die
back. They persist as resistant crusts, and a fuzzy mat of aufwuchs
develops in its place, providing a feast for a variety of small crabs.
The aufwuchs do not retard the regrowth of Laurencia in any way.

The Perils of Recruitment

One of the greatest problems for many tropical organisms is sur-
mounting the perils of youth. The life of pelagic larvae of marine
organisms, and the types of problems they face, are very poorly
known indeed, nor do we have any idea how events in the plank-
ton shape the distribution and abundances of the visible adult
organisms that make up a marine community. Our knowledge of
tropical tree seedlings is not much better. The major theories of
tropical tree diversity hinge on conflicting sets of assumptions
about the most important factors affecting seed and seedling sur-
vival and seedling growth, yet our ignorance of the problems these
seedlings actually face is such that we cannot decide the relative
merits of the theories concerned.

John Christy has been studying the reproductive cycles in four
species of crabs of rocky intertidal shores on the Pacific side.
When do they release their larvae? What roles does timing of
release play in helping the larvae to avoid predators?

Species with small, transparent larvae release them at high tide,
no matter what time of day the tide may occur: since the larvae
are “invisible,” the one thing that matters is to flush them out to
sea on an ebbing tide. Large transparent larvae are released only
on nocturnal high tides, when at least some predators are absent.
During the day, sardine (anchoveta) packs come inshore and feed
greedily on crab larvae, but the sardines disappear at dusk, when
their predators emerge. Species with more opaque larvae release
them only on those high tides that begin ebbing near dusk. Estua-
rine species do likewise. It was once thought that by doing so, the
estuarine species released their larvae upon the strongest tides,
ensuring the greatest chance that they would be flushed past the
inshore predators and out to sea, but the advantages of releasing
larvae when they could enjoy several hours of invisibility and of
protection from predators might also affect the timing.

Robert Richmond has been studying coral reproduction and re-
cruitment in the Eastern Pacific. He finds that Pocillopora dami-
cornis, the common branched coral of the Eastern Pacific, do not
reproduce sexually in Panama: instead, they reproduce by frag-
mentation, apparently because larvae and very small corals are

168 / Smithsonian Year 1984
invariably eaten. Fish apparently prey far more heavily on corals
in the Eastern Pacific than in the Indo-Pacific, where Pocillopora
reproduce sexually. The very few coral larvae that do appear on
settling plates in the eastern Pacific may have drifted in from the
Indo-Pacific.

David Hamill has been carrying out an experimental study of
the factors affecting survival and growth of the seedlings of the
four most clumped, and the four most evenly dispersed, species of
canopy trees on the fifty-hectare Hubbell-Foster plot on Barro
Colorado Island. For each species, he planted twenty plots of seed-
lings by large trees of that same species, ten in light gaps, ten
under Trichilia tuberculata (the commonest tree on the plot), and
one each under ten different species of rare trees, the same ten
for each kind of seedling. Early results suggest that the most
clumped species depend most on light gaps, and cannot survive
as seedlings outside those gaps, while the most evenly distributed
species are the most shade-tolerant.

As part of his study of Virola surinamensis, Henry Howe, of the
University of Iowa, has measured the survival rate of seeds and
seedlings placed at different distances from the parent tree. A
seedling twenty-five meters from the parent, well beyond its
crown, has twenty-two times the chance of surviving to twelve
weeks, and a seedling forty-five meters from the parent, forty-four
times the chance of surviving that long, as a seedling five meters
from the parent. He infers that dispersal by toucans, which carry
seeds further than smaller birds, is beneficial to Virola, and tou-
cans are indeed the primary consumers of Virola fruit and dis-
persers of Virola seeds. Eugene Schupp finds that dispersing a
Faramea seed five meters from its parent doubles its chance of
germination.

Joseph Wright has been collecting seeds to learn what insects
emerge from them. Nearly half the seventy species of plants
checked so far never have insects in their seeds, perhaps because
the seeds are too small, or too few per plant, or on too rare a
plant, to support such insect pests.

He has also continued his study of the relation between the
timing of fruit production by the palm Scheelea and the degree to
which bruchid beetles damage their seeds. He has put out seeds at
different places, and at different times of year. No bruchids come
to seeds put out far away from palms, or when no palms are fruit-
ing. Bruchid attack rate immediately steps up to a high level when
Scheelea start dropping fruit, and remains high past the peak of

Science / 169
Scheelea fruit fall, but palms which drop their fruit late in the
season escape bruchid damage.

Geographical Comparison

Not only must we set an organism’s adaptation in the context of
other plants and animals with which it interacts, we must put our
understanding of the community in the context of comparable
communities elsewhere, and of the same community at different
times.

Alan Smith visited Kenya in the fall of 1983 to continue his
study of the demography of alpine tree Senecio, as part of a long-
term comparative study of the morphology and demography of
rosette plants in Venezuela, Kenya, and New Guinea.

Marina Wong has been studying the seasonal rhythm of insect
and fruit abundance, and of the number of birds caught in mist-
nets, in the understory of old forest on Barro Colorado Island and
of somewhat younger forest on the adjacent mainland. She is
comparing these rhythms with those found in peninsular Malaysia.
There is more fruit in Panama, with more birds to eat them. More-
over, judging the season of breeding by when birds call, when
their fat is depleted, and when “brood patches” appear, she finds
that breeding of the insectivorous birds in Panama’s understory is
synchronous within species, but that the breeding seasons of dif-
ferent species are staggered all through the rainy season. In penin-
sular Malaysia (and Sarawak), where dry and wet seasons are
much less distinct, breeding of nearly all understory birds is con-
centrated at the beginning of monsoon rains, coincident with the
peak of leaf flush and insect abundance. She also finds that con-
specific plants fruit more synchronously, and more abundantly,
here than in Malaysia, and that there is a more clear-cut succes-
sion of different species coming into fruit as the rainy season
progresses than in Malaysia.

Long-Term Research

A temporal context for research at str1 is provided by our Environ-
mental Sciences Program, directed by Donald Windsor. This long-
term study monitors fluctuations in selected aspects of climate and
the physical environment, and the responses, in growth, reproduc-
tive activity, and abundance of representative biological popula-
tions, at both the reef flat of Galeta and Barro Colorado Island.
In connection with this program, Henk Wolda has completed ten

170 / Smithsonian Year 1984
years of records of nightly catches of insects at two light traps,
one in the canopy and one near the ground. By now Dr. Wolda
has ten years of data on homoptera and nine on forest cock-
roaches. He finds that tropical insect populations fluctuate as much
as their counterparts in the temperate zone. He has extended his
study to other sites, and is gradually acquiring collaborators capa-
ble of identifying additional groups of insects.

There are other long-term studies at str1. Over the last few
years, Stephen Hubbell, Robin Foster, and their associates have
mapped every woody free-standing plant over 1 cm dbh in a fifty-
hectare plot of old forest on the central plateau of Barro Colorado
Island. This year, Hubbell and Foster have rechecked the identi-
fications and locations of plants on their plot, preparing for a
second round of mapping and measurement to determine mortality
and growth rates. To assess height growth, Kenneth Lertzman
remeasured the height of canopy foliage over a series of points
five meters apart covering the plot, where Andrea Alexander and
others had measured it a few years earlier.

The popularity of such maps is spreading. Stephen Hubbell is
scheduled to assist Peter Ashton and members of the Forest Re-
search Institute at Kepong, Malaysia, in setting up a comparable
map in a Malaysian lowland mixed dipterocarp forest. Meanwhile,
Joseph Wright and Henry Howe mapped a hectare of the Mojave
Desert—7,000 plants over ten centimeters high—to judge the de-
gree of clumping within a species and the degree of association
between species, and to take the first step toward a study of the
demography of desert plants.

The Hubbell-Foster plot has attracted a variety of other projects.
Perhaps the most unusual is that of Lyn Loveless, who has been
assessing the genetic diversity of different species of trees on the
plot in conjunction with James Hamrick of the University of
Kansas. What proportion of loci in the different species are poly-
morphic? How many alleles are there per polymorphic locus?
What proportion of an individual’s loci are heterozygous? How
much do gene frequencies within a species differ from clump to
clump, or from place to place? How does the type of pollinator
affect genetic diversity or local differentiation? So far, Loveless
and Hamrick have found the average proportion of heterozygous
loci in their tropical trees to be at least 0.11, about the same
as in Drosophila melanogaster and 50 percent higher than in man-
kind. These trees are less diverse genetically than temperate coni-
fers, but about as diverse as temperate dicots. They have also found

Science / 171
that populations of the tree Alseis blackiana several kilometers
apart differ rather subtly in allele frequencies, while clumps of
Rinorea that far apart differ greatly. Rinorea has as patchy a dis-
tribution as any common species on the island.

Neal Smith has continued his long-term study of the migratory
day-flying moth Urania. He visited Guatemala, Belize, and Los
Tuxtlas, Mexico, and found that in all these countries Urania
caterpillars eat leaves of the tree Omphalea oleifera, in contrast to
Panama, where their food plant is the vine Omphalea diandra.
He saw Urania arriving at Los Tuxtlas, the northern end of their
range, where Omphalea and the rain forest stop—they were com-
ing in from the south and east—and the leaves of the Omphalea
trees were much shredded. A month later, the Urania were gone,
and the Omphalea were flushing new leaves unhindered.

After many years of sampling bird use of forest habitat in
Parque Nacional Soberania, James Karr expanded his studies to
include several of the major food resources of birds. Recent sam-
pling coincided with the 1983 (“El Nifio”) drought and the “nor-
mal” 1984 dry season. Flowering and fruiting phenologies of
understory plants differed from year to year. There was more leaf
litter but fewer leaf litter and foliage arthropods were found in
1983 than in 1984. Birds showed different patterns of breeding
but not molting phenology between the years. Clearly, the climatic
extremes of 1983 had direct impact on a wide diversity of or-
ganisms.

John Cubit and Donald Windsor have been estimating long-
term changes in sea level, and assessing their effects on the biota,
from aerial photographs and other records. The mean sea level on
the Caribbean side has increased fifteen centimeters in the past
century. It may well rise another 200 centimeters in the next,
thanks to heating of the oceans and consequent expansion of the
water contained therein, and to the melting of icecaps.

Dolores Piperno has cored several sites in the old forest of
Barro Colorado Island, in the Hubbell-Foster plot, and started an
archeological trench at the most promising site. Three of her five
cores struck pottery, beginning twenty centimeters below the sur-
face. The silica inclusions (phytoliths) that remain in the soil after
the plant matter in which they were formed decays show little
sign that the vegetation was intensively disturbed: there are few
traces of milpa vegetation, and almost no evidence that any of the
forest was burned. The top fifteen centimeters of soil, which con-
tains no pottery, also contains no evidence that farms were cleared

172 / Smithsonian Year 1984

—S
from the forest during the last several hundred years, suggesting
that some of the forest on Barro Colorado Island may be older than
previously thought. The trench shows good stratigraphic record,
with plenty of artifacts, stones, and ceramics, to document a
human presence, although populations appear never to have been
dense. Radiocarbon samples are being submitted to determine the
age and duration of the prehistoric occupations. Extension of this
work will indeed enable us to set the forest community of Barro
Colorado Island in its proper historical context.

Biological Catastrophes

As we acquire more experience of our habitats, we are better able
to recognize and appreciate the catastrophes to which they are
sometimes subject.

Harris Lessios, John Cubit, and Ross Robertson have been
studying the progress of a devastating plague in Diadema anitil-
larum, the long-spined sea urchin of the Caribbean, and its conse-
quences for reef communities. This plague was first noticed at
Galeta, our mainland Caribbean field station, where only about
three per ten thousand survived. The plague next struck the San
Blas, where it killed 99 percent of the urchins in two weeks,
mortality varying somewhat from place to place. Through ques-
tionnaires, Lessios and his collaborators have tracked the plague’s
progress around the Caribbean, where, for the first nine months
at least, it was clearly following the surface currents. Some algae
have appeared since the die-off, apparently thanks to the absence
of Diadema. The plague did not affect other species of sea urchins.

An overheating of the surface waters of the eastern Pacific dur-
ing the El Nifio of 1983 afflicted the coral Pocillopora with heavy
mortality. Peter Glynn, R. Dunbar, G. Wellington and R. Rich-
mond have been following its effects. Ramparts of the many-
branched Pocillopora often surround more massive corals, and the
commensal crabs and shrimps that live in these Pocillopora make
life so miserable for the coral-eating starfish Acanthaster that
these starfish can neither eat, nor cross, colonies of Pocillopora.
Now that El Nifio has killed the Pocillopora, causing their com-
mensals to starve, Acanthaster are wreaking havoc on the newly
accessible massive corals. Some of these coral colonies had grown
evenly and without interruption for over a century before this
El Nifio, suggesting that the last El Nifio of comparable effect
struck more than a century ago. To follow up this clue, Peter
Glynn and his associates have been drilling massive corals, check-

Science / 173
ing fluctuations in carbon-isotope ratios for evidence of previous
warm-water episodes.

Neal Smith has been following the fates of the thousands of
Peruvian boobies that came to the Bay of Panama from the nor-
mally very productive waters off the Peruvian desert, and the
15,000 blue-footed boobies that came from somewhat less pro-
ductive waters near the Galapagos, to escape the famine carried
their by the El Nifio. Some of the blue-footed boobies bred, but
eventually all the immigrants disappeared. Most of them probably
starved to death.

The Role of Man in Tropical Habitats

Finally, we are concerned with the relation between tropical man
and his habitat, both as it is, and as we hope it might become.

Olga Linares visited the archives of French West Africa in Paris,
to study the history of the Diola rice trade in Senegal from the
sixteenth century onward. The Diola were actively trading in rice
when the Portuguese were in Senegal, but the French elected to
import rice from their south Asian colonies rather than improve
local transport sufficiently to make Diola rice competitive with the
foreign imports. This is an unusually clear example of how colonial
policies have shaped present-day patterns of production and ex-
change in tropical countries.

Daniel Suman is analyzing charcoal particles chemically isolated
from two cores from a floodplain in Cocle, a core from the bottom
of the Bay of Panama and a core from the bottom of the Laguna
(Lake) San Carlos in El Valle. With the aid of his collection of
carbonized fragments from plants of known identity, he will infer
the changes in the types of vegetation that have been burned dur-
ing the last 10,000 years, in order to assess the impact of mankind
on the vegetation of Central Panama.

The W. Alton Jones Foundation gave stri a large grant two
years ago to support research in a mainland tract adjacent to Barro
Colorado Island on how to grow food in the forest without de-
stroying the forest unnecessarily. Gilberto Ocafia has been experi-
menting with “mixed crops,” growing crops of several species and
growth forms, whether exotic or traditional, mixed together in
regular array, on forest plots, some with a selection of the under-
story trees left standing, some completely cleared. Nicholas
Smythe has built the installation where he will breed pacas, and
he has fenced off a peninsula of young to medium second growth,
where he will see what schedule and manner of supplemental food

174 / Smithsonian Year 1984
will most decrease infant mortality and most increase the output
of pacas big enough to eat. Dagmar Werner has tried a more direct
way of averting infant mortality in iguanas: she incubates the
eggs and raises the young in cages at Summit Garden before intro-
ducing them to the forest. Hatching success has been very high,
and mortality among the young iguanas almost negligible. She
intends to use some of the iguanas she has raised to repopulate
areas where they have been hunted out, and to release others in
forest tracts where they can be cropped. She is conducting experi-
ments to see how well iguanas raised in captivity can survive in
the wild.

Ira Rubinoff and Elena Lombardo have been representing stRI
at meetings of the Preparatory Committee for the Study of Alter-
natives to the Panama Canal. Shuffling between Panama, Wash-
ington, D.C., and Tokyo, this committee is charged with designing
a study to examine alternatives or improvements to the Panama
Canal. Some of these options have potential for profound anthro-
pogenic effects on the tropical environment, and our objective is
to insure that a comprehensive biological inventory as well as an
ecological impact assessment is conducted.

Retirements and New Appointments

It has not been an easy year for stri1. In March, Adela Gomez
retired. During the last thirty-odd years her good sense, and her
diplomatic ability, have been essential to stri’s function and some-
times to its very survival. In May, Michael Robinson left the
Institute to assume the directorship of the National Zoo. His sure
scientific judgment and his sense of fairness made his administra-
tive role at stR1 particularly beneficial, and his scientific research
added much to the sense of intellectual excitement here. They will
both be greatly missed.

Bernadette French resigned from the library staff in December
1983 to continue her education. This September, Carol Jopling will
retire as head librarian at str1. She has presided over the introduc-
tion of new techniques of cataloguing and bibliographic searching.
She supervised the move to a new and larger building, and because
of her, these changes were much easier for users of the library
than they might otherwise have been.

Not all has been loss, however. James Karr, formerly of the
University of Illinois, has joined str as deputy director. Jeremy
Jackson, of Johns Hopkins University, and Nancy Knowlton, of
Yale University, have accepted positions on the staff as marine

Science / 175
biologists, and their presence will greatly strengthen our marine
program.

In August 1983 Jorge Ventocilla, a biologist and graduate of
the University of Panama, took charge of stri’s Office of Con-
servation and Environmental Education (ocre). Under his direction
the oceEE, in conjunction with the Department of National Parks
and Wildlife of RENARE, produced a color poster on the endan-
gered fauna of Panama. This poster has been distributed to nu-

merous educational centers and public and private offices through- ~

out Panama; it has had an acknowledged importance in promoting
the protection of endangered species. Along with his work in the
oceE, Ventocilla presently acts as a coordinator for the planning
group of the San Blas Kuna Indians’ conservation project.

Academic Training

A milestone this year was the first field course in tropical biology
organized jointly by str1 and the University of Panama. It took
place from March 9 through April 10, and was coordinated by
Yael D. Lubin, a stri research associate, and Rosemary Segistan
and Victor Hugo Tejera, professors at the University of Panama.
The University of Panama and str1 signed an agreement in
1980 to jointly support the advancement of knowledge in tropical
biology, and the course represented a tangible example of this col-
laboration during a year dedicated to scientific research at the
university. Thirteen students and thirty-one lecturers and instruc-
tors participated. The students were introduced to field research
methodology at four different sites, chosen to represent diverse
tropical habitats: tropical rain forests, Atlantic and Pacific man-
groves, and premontane forests. It proved to be an effective way
to make scientific resources at sTRI available to students in our
host country.

During the month of February, Robert Read, a visiting scholar
from San Jose State University, offered two ten-hour seminars:
Tropical Meteorology and Applied Oceanography. These were at-
tended by staff and students at str1 and the University of Panama,
and personnel from the Meteorological Branches of Panama’s In-
stitute of Hydraulic Resources and Electrification and the Depart-
ment of Natural Renewable Resources.

Robert Dressler left in July to teach an advanced course on
orchid taxonomy at the University of Costa Rica.

More than sixty young men and women at different academic
levels took part in advanced training and research activities at

176 / Smithsonian Year 1984
stRi this past year. They represented nations in the less-developed
and developed world—a sample of future tropical researchers.

Finally, this year str1 began the first phase of a master plan.
The architectural and engineering firm of Bernard Johnson of
Houston, in association with Lopez y Moreno of the Republic of
Panama, were selected to prepare the plan. This process should
lead to orderly expansion, modernization, and broadening in the
spectrum of service that str1 can provide for its staff, students,
and visiting scientists.

The initiation of the master planning process confirms the com-
mitment of the Smithsonian to develop its role as the nation’s
principal advanced study center for basic tropical biological re-
search.

Science / 177
This rare Tetela (Zaire) mask, one of two such documented examples in public
museum collections, was acquired by the National Museum of African Art with
the support of the James Smithson Society. (Photograph by Ken Heinen)

ge eat

ew 4

aR ce hs Me

Smithsonian Year - 1984
HISTORY AND ART

JOHN E. REINHARDT,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HISTORY AND ART

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

This year the primary focus of the Anacostia Neighborhood Mu-
seum (ANM) was on plans to build and furnish a new annex and
public space. Groundbreaking for this new facility, which will
adjoin the museum’s Research and Exhibits Lab, is projected for
early 1985. The annex will facilitate enrichment of the museum’s
exhibits and explanatory programs, and will allow for the presen-
tation of more diverse and active programs for the public.

For the past seventeen years, ANM has been housed in several
leased buildings. From the former Carver Theater (named for the
pioneer agricultural scientist George Washington Carver), at 2405
Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue, SE, the museum’s director and
administrative staff moved to more suitable quarters at the Re-
search and Exhibits Lab. Until the new annex is completed, ANM’s
exhibitions and education department will continue to serve the
public in this interim leased building.

A third copy of Black Wings: The American Black in Aviation
was produced by the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum for the
Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Services (sires). Scripted and
researched by the National Air and Space Museum, this popular
exhibition—enhanced by selected artifacts and memorabilia—was
seen at aNM from April 1 to August 26, 1984. In addition, ANM
completed research and scripting for the revised edition of Black
Women: Achievements Against the Odds, an exhibition widely

179
eee a | ee — eoeanieeieral a

= Anacostia Museum

haem

=f

ee as aa
Formerly a theater, skating rink, dance hall, and church, the Carver building in
recent years has been used to bring historical exhibitions and educational
activities to the residents of Anacostia. Now the Anacostia Museum—soon to
move from its present Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue site to Fort Stanton
Park—optimistically looks to the future.

PBS Rs

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM ANNEX stan OB

traveled by sires for nearly a decade; continued to work on The
Renaissance, a major exhibition scheduled to open in the fall of
1985; and began an important research project still in its pre-
liminary phase—’We Are Climbing’: The Development of the
Black Church, 1787-1900.

In the vanguard of the movement to develop quality exhibitions
that employ historical documents, artifacts, memorabilia, and vin-
tage photographs germane to Afro-Americana and ethnohistory,
ANM broadened its contacts with archival repositories and museum
professionals and offered the public unique opportunities to experi-
ence well researched, designed, and fabricated exhibits, as well as
thoughtfully conceived outreach activities.

Other priorities have been the planning for aNm’s future growth
at the Poplar Point site along the Anacostia River (Eastern Branch
of the Potomac), and the continued development of research pro-
grams that support museum and traveling exhibition programs.

Archives of American Art

Nineteen eighty-four marked the thirtieth anniversary of the
Archives of American Art, and as though in celebration of that
fact, some of the best acquisitions ever were received during the
year. The Jackson Pollock papers, a subject of protracted negotia-
tions conducted over the past decade, were donated to the Archives
by Pollock’s widow, Lee Krasner, shortly before she died. The
papers, which consist of statements, notes, and other writings by
Pollock, personal and business correspondence, and a large quan-
tity of photographs and published material, represent the chief
source of documentary information on the artist. In a separate
acquisition, the papers of the Portland, Oregon, painter, Louis
Bunce, several important Pollock letters written in 1946, add a
fascinating supplement to Pollock’s own records.

Another significant figure of twentieth-century modernism was
Mark Tobey, whose records are owned by the Seattle Art Museum.
Organized and microfilmed by the Archives, these, too, were sup-
plemented by the donation of a substantial group of Tobey letters.
A third major artist of the same period, Mark Rothko, is repre-
sented by a small but revealing set of notes from the 1930s and
1940s, including preliminary drafts of the 1943 polemical letter to

History and Art / 181
the New York Times in which Rothko and Adolph Gottlieb state
their artistic credo. Diaries, correspondence, and other records of
an earlier modernist, Arthur Dove, were also acquired in fiscal
year 1984.

Collections of papers from the nineteenth century are rarer than
those of our own time, but this year the Archives borrowed and
microfilmed several of extraordinary value. Among these is the
largest single group of Winslow Homer records—some 600 items
of correspondence, sketches, photographs, and a scrapbook—and a
splendid group of nineteen letters from Thomas Cole, written be-
tween 1826 and 1832 to the Hartford art patron Daniel Wads-
worth. Papers of three other leading early-nineteenth-century art
collectors, Robert Gilmor, Luman Reed, and James Robb, were also
filmed. The records of Samuel F. B. Morse, who achieved prom-
inence as an artist before he entered on his second career, exist in
vast quantity at the Library of Congress. The Archives, however,
has recently received seven Morse letters written to his Breese
relatives between 1816 and 1846. They include several references
to his painting, and one of them has a charming illustration of
Morse asleep in his chair. A few other Breese family letters are a
part of the group, the most interesting one, dated Philadelphia,
April 19, 1783, describing the effect of the news of peace, which
“like a Torrent, has overwhelmed all other news.”

Sketches and sketchbooks from the later nineteenth century in-
clude those of Ellen Day Hale and the black American painter
Edward Bannister. A long series of letters from Augustus Saint-
Gaudens to Frederick MacMonnies, two notable American sculp-
tors, cover the years 1884 to 1904, and in a later series, Gutzon
Borglum discusses his work on Mount Rushmore in detail. One
of the larger collections received this year is the Violet Oakley
papers, which document the long and productive career of a Phila-
delphia painter and stained-glass designer.

Art critics and art historians play their own role in art history
and their files often have substantial research value. Those of the
critic Clarence Joseph Bulliet and of the historian Edgar P. Rich-
ardson are prime examples. Bulliet was Chicago’s leading art critic
in the 1920s and 1930s and was an influential figure throughout
the Midwest. The papers, which include voluminous correspon-
dence together with his articles, drafts of his writings, and photo-
graphs, are a major source of information on the Chicago art
world over a quarter of a century.

In a particularly fitting acquisition for this thirtieth anniversary

182 / Smithsonian Year 1984
This photograph of Jackson Pollock (left) with his brother, Charles, about 1930,
was among the Jackson Pollock papers donated to the Archives of American
Art by the late artist’s widow, Lee Krasner, shortly before she died.
year, the Archives received the Edgar P. Richardson papers. An
eminent historian of American art, Dr. Richardson established the
Archives of American Art in 1954 and guided it through its first
decade of growth. His records embrace the entire range of Ameri-
can art history and thoroughly document his long career as
scholar, museum director, adviser to collectors, founding father,
and forceful presence in the museum community.

The Archives initiated several important collecting projects in
1984. A grant from the Henry Luce Foundation supported a pre-
liminary survey of American art records in Philadelphia and Rhode
Island, each with a view to microfilming selected groups of the
papers uncovered. A similar project in New Mexico concentrated
on personal and institutional collections in Santa Fe and Taos. In
a move beyond the national boundary, the Archives received per-
mission from the University Court of Glasgow University to film
its extensive group of J.A.M. Whistler papers.

A more permanent collecting venture was established this year
with the long anticipated opening of an office in Los Angeles.
This sixth regional center, housed in the new Virginia Steele Scott
Gallery of American Art of the Huntington Library and Art Gal-
lery, and supported by local contributions, will serve as a base for
both collecting and research in Southern California.

The Archives’ oral history program has been more than usually
productive. Two intensive projects, one documenting the art com-
munity of the Pacific Northwest and the other comprising an ex-
tended series of personal recollections of Mark Rothko, were con-
cluded this year. Continuing experiments with the video tape
medium brought visual interviews with David Hockney on the
West Coast and Gladys Nilsson and Jim Nutt in Chicago. An
earlier series of video tapes on three Chicago artists, made in
1983 with support from the Smithson Society, won a silver medal
award this year from the International Film and TV Festival of
New York. Among the more useful oral history interviews con-
ducted in fiscal year 1984 were ones with Aaron Bohrod, a Chi-
cago painter whose work has been well known for nearly fifty
years, with the contemporary painter Tom Wesselman, and curator
and art historian Robert Beverly Hale. In a new departure, the
Archives also interviewed an authentic visionary and folk artist,
the Reverend Howard Finster, whose swift rise to fame culmi-
nated in the presentation of his work at the Venice Biennale and
an appearance on the Johnny Carson show.

The volume of research conducted at the Archives of American

184 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Art in fiscal year 1984 rose by 10 percent over 1983, with 3,320
visits from graduate students, scholars, and independent art his-
torians. A similar 10 percent increase to 1,600 rolls of film oc-
curred in the interlibrary loan of Archives microfilm to researchers
at universities and museums throughout the country.

Publications with acknowledgements to the Archives appeared
in great quantity in 1984. These included books on Mary Cassatt,
Thomas Eakins, David Smith, and Louise Nevelson; on modernist
painting in New Mexico; on the political basis of abstract expres-
sionism; and on federal art patronage after World War II. Most
publications based on Archives materials are exhibition catalogues
and articles in scholarly journals. The Archives own publication
program brought forth The Card Catalogue of the Oral History
Collections of the Archives of American Art.

Several changes in design and content will be introduced in the
forthcoming issue of the Archives of American Art Journal. Its
appeal will be enhanced with a new look and new features, includ-
ing a book review department and a Letters to the Editor section.
As befits the quarterly publication of an archival institution enjoy-
ing an embarrassment of riches, the Journal will present an in-
creased number of particularly revealing and significant unpub-
lished documents, with introductory notes by expert authorities.
These will reflect the Archives’ important holdings in American
cultural and social history as well as in the history of art.

Many programs of the Archives depend upon private funding
and the commitment of private citizens throughout the nation.
The Archives pays special tribute to those members and trustees
who by dint of considerable effort and hard work raised in the
past year some $400,000 in general operating funds. Particular
appreciation goes to Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall of Los Angeles;
Mrs. Nancy B. Negley of San Antonio, Texas; and Mrs. Charles
Kessler of Huntington Woods, Michigan, each of whom raised in
excess of $70,000. Mrs. Kessler recently stepped down from the
chairmanship of the Detroit Committee for the Midwest Regional
Center, a position she held for nearly four years. The committee,
being the first such support group for the Archives, is one of the
most active in the country and has consistently raised major funds
for more than twenty-five years.

Further appreciation goes to A. Alfred Taubman of Troy, Michi-
gan; Mrs. Francis de Marneffe of Cambridge, Massachusetts; Mrs.
John Rosekrans of San Francisco; Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Mrs.
Robert F. Shapiro, and Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, all of New York City.

History and Art / 185
Each of them was responsible for either raising or attracting to
the Archives more than $25,000. Mrs. Spaeth, who has been an
active friend of the Archives since 1959, was named honorary
chairman of the board at the annual meeting of the trustees in
May.

Also during fiscal year 1984, the Archives acknowledged major
grants from the Henry Luce Foundation, Warner Communications,
Inc., the Brown Foundation, the Lehman Foundation, and The
Times Mirror Foundation. These funds, along with others, have
helped to support various collecting endeavors across the country
as well as several scholarly programs including a Senior Fellow-
ship and the Archives’ Journal.

Center for Asian Art
Freer Gallery of Art and Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

A sense of transition was much evident in the Freer Gallery of
Art in 1984. The beginning of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery with
the arrival of assistant director Milo C.| Beach, Islamic art scholar
and former chairman of the department of art at Williams Col-
lege, marked the transition to the Center for Asian Art, which
encompasses the Sackler Gallery. With the laying of the physical
foundation of the Sackler Gallery, the reality of its new building,
scheduled to open in 1987, appears as a turning point in the his-
tory of the Freer Gallery.

Further tangible evidence of the development of the Sackler
Gallery was the arrival of the first objects of the Sackler Collec-
tion, generously donated by Dr. Sackler to form the basis of the
new museum. Temporary space was prepared at the Museum
Support Center to hold the almost one thousand objects until their
relocation to the new building. Two groups of Sackler objects were
next scheduled to arrive after their exhibition at the Edinburgh
International Festival in Scotland. The entire collection was ex-
pected to reach Washington by the end of the calendar year.

The Freer was not without its own whirlwind of activity. Plans
for renovating the Freer building after the opening of the Sackler
Gallery began in a substantial manner. The ultimate goals of the
renovation are to provide the Freer with more collection storage

186 / Smithsonian Year 1984
This painting by the fifteenth-century Japanese artist
Sesshin shows the deity of the Kitano Shrine (the
deified courtier Sugawara no Michizane, A.D. 845-—
903) in the guise of a Chinese scholar holding a plum
branch, recalling the legend that the deity traveled
to China to receive the teachings of a Zen Buddhist
master. The painting was a gift of the Mary Living-
ston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Foundation.
space, more exhibition space, more space for conservation facili-
ties, and more teaching space.

Possibly the largest exhibition of work by James McNeill
Whistler in this country since the 1905 memorial show opened
at the Freer Gallery in May 1984, closing in December. For this
show marking the 150th anniversary of Whistler’s birth, visitors
arrived at more than double the normal rate to see the rare display
of oil paintings, watercolors, pastels, and pencil and ink drawings.
These works erased preconceptions of the artist as limited to por-
traits and nocturnes as the breadth of his interests and skills was
seen. In this exhibition a number of display techniques were used
for the first time at the Freer Gallery.

AT&T was the corporate sponsor for the Whistler exhibition
and, in particular, the exhibition catalogue, James McNeill
Whistler at the Freer Gallery of Art. Written by David Park Curry
and copublished with W. W. Norton & Company, the 304-page
catalogue was richly illustrated with over 700 photographs, in-
cluding over 200 in color, made possible by AT&T’s generous
grant. Besides clearly establishing the significant relationship be-
tween Freer and Whistler, the catalogue also describes the various
art historical connections of the works in the exhibition and will
be the primary statement on the Freer’s Whistler collection for
some time. A free color brochure, a free lecture, a scholarly sym-
posium with the National Gallery of Art, and two posters accom-
panied the show, along with special notecards with Whistler etch-
ings. The exhibition and catalogue were well received in national
as well as local media.

A photographic exhibition in the lower hall described the Freer-
Whistler relationship. This small show followed the photographic
exhibition on Charles Lang Freer and the Freer Gallery for the
sixtieth anniversary celebration.

To complement the Whistler show, a number of Chinese and
Japanese art objects in various media were selected to represent
possible pieces that either Whistler had seen or Freer had seen
while acquiring Whistler works. In addition, there were other
Chinese and Japanese exhibitions this year. Japanese Drawings
featured works by Katsushika Hokusai and Kawanabe Gyosai as
well as a large portion from the Grut Collection, acquired in 1975
and never before exhibited. Japanese Fans, which showed painted
fans of high artistic quality produced by some of Japan’s most
famous painters, was a reprise of the popular show of 1980.
Korean Influences on Japanese Ceramics exhibited fifty objects to

188 / Smithsonian Year 1984
examine the Japanese appreciation of Punch’ong ware, Korean
ceramics that entered Japan in the sixteenth century. Korean tech-
niques of applying slip to dark-bodied wares became major ele-
ments in the styles of ceramics centers founded by Korean potters
in Japan and spread in various forms elsewhere in that country.

Chinese Paintings exhibited a selection of thirty paintings span-
ning the Sung dynasty (960-1279) through the Ch’ing dynasty
(1644-1912). This exhibition included two recently accessioned
works by Tao-chi, a seventeenth-century painter with a wide repu-
tation in the West. This show was followed by Masterpieces of
Chinese Painting, exhibiting thirty important works from the Sung
through the Ch’ing dynasties to complement the Treasures from
the Shanghai Museum exhibition at the National Museum of
Natural History.

In the Near Eastern field, Islamic Manuscript Illumination ex-
hibited nineteen folios produced in Egypt, Iran, Afghanistan, and
Uzbekistan between the tenth and sixteenth centuries. The show
provided a perspective on the decoration of religious and secular
manuscripts. Pre-Islamic Metalwork from the Near East exhibited
twenty-four objects in silver, gold, and bronze, made in Iran and
Egypt, from the 4th century B.C. to the 6th century A.D., includ-
ing Sasanian Iran (224-651) and nine gold objects from Egypt.

The thirty-first annual lecture series focused on “Studies in
Connoissership 1923-1983” as a continuation of the Freer’s six-
tieth anniversary theme. These lectures included: “Early American
Collectors of Japanese Art,” by Julia Meech-Pekarik, which was
jointly sponsored with the Embassy of Japan; the Rutherford J.
Gettens Memorial Lecture, ““Red, Yellow and Blue: The Story of
Three Asian Pigments,” delivered by Elisabeth West FitzHugh;
and “New Light on the Falling Rocket: Whistler at Cremorne
Gardens,” by David Park Curry.

The inaugural lecture for the John A. Pope Memorial Lecture
Series was “Transitional Blue-and-White: Some Reflections on
Style,” by Margaret Medley, curator of the David Foundation,
London.

The Freer’s docent program proved so successful in terms of the
increased number of visitors on tours and of the warm responses
to the tours that a second docent class of ten received training to
expand the effort. Another free leaflet on one aspect of the mu-
seum’s collection—the Peacock Room and the Princess from the
Land of Porcelain—was made available to visitors.

Among the visitors to the museum this year were the Humani-

History and Art / 189
Twelve-year-old Lucy D. Stickney of Charlestown, Massachusetts, embroidered
this sampler (silk and paint on plain weave linen) in 1830. It was in the exhibi-
tion Embroidered Samplers at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, February 21—May 27,
1984. (Bequest of Mrs. Henry E. Coe)
ties Education Study Team from the People’s Republic of China, a
delegation from the Shanghai Museum, and the retiring Secretary-
General of NATO.

Professor Tadashi Kobayashi, of Gakushuin University, Tokyo,
was the fourth Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund Fellow. He spent
the summer studying the Freer’s collection of Japanese genre paint-
ings and Ukiyo-e paintings; a series of catalogues on this collec-
tion was planned.

A group of twenty-nine ancient Chinese ceramic objects, includ-
ing three pieces from the Shang dynasty (ca. 1523-1028 B.C.) that
have survived more than 3,000 years in perfect condition, was
acquired through gift and purchase. The vessels fill out the Freer’s
collection of Chinese ceramics so that it now includes the full
range of ceramic wares from the pre-Christian era. The rarest
object is a burnished, wheel-turned footed jar of black clay made
in Honan Province during the Shang dynasty; it was given in
memory of Helen Dalling Ling, who gathered the collection
together.

Other major donations include an eighteenth-century Mughal
Indian dagger by Dr. Stephen R. Turner and selected library ref-
erence works by the Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation. Donations
from the Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke Founda-
tion and from the Clark Endowment Fund enabled the Freer Gal-
lery to acquire important objects for the Japanese collections.

Subtle but substantial changes took place at the doors to the
Freer this year. New wooden doors with Honduran mahogany
and thermal glass in a design echoing the bronze courtyard doors
now greet visitors at the north entrance. Visitors are also now
able to enter the building through the south entrance on a regu-
lar basis.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

This year the Cooper-Hewitt continued to broaden its appeal to
the public with innovative exhibitions and programs that typify
the diversity of its interests. The museum has received numerous
awards for its exhibitions, publications, and programs, but the
award from the American Institute of Architects is among the

most meaningful. The citation applauds the Cooper-Hewitt’s “com-
mitment to public awareness of the importance of design that is

History and Art / 191
exemplified by the quality of its collections, its far-reaching educa-
tional programs, and its willingness to explore the boundaries of
modern thought while serving as an unmatched repository of his-
torical materials and perspectives,” and concludes that ‘“no museum
has done more to bring to the public’s consciousness the role of
architecture in the life of the nation.”

EXHIBITIONS

One of the more celebrated exhibitions in the past year was Art of
the European Goldsmith, which began its national tour at the
Cooper-Hewitt. Lent by the world-famed Schroder Collection in
England, the exhibition concentrated on European masterworks in
silver and gold from the seventeenth to the nineteenth century.
The exhibition entitled The Amsterdam School: Dutch Expression-
ist Architecture 1915-1930 was the first analysis of this important
topic prepared for English-speaking audiences. Because of its first-
time showing in this country, the Amsterdam School attracted
wide attention among the architectural profession as well as the
public, and served as an important documentation of this style
and period.

The major architectural exhibition of the summer was Manhat-
tan Skyline: Skyscrapers Between the Wars. The period between
World War I and World War II was witness to a building boom
in which the skyscraper played a dominant role, especially in New
York. This exhibition examined many factors that contributed to
the appeal of New York’s soaring structures. Four other larger
exhibitions mounted in 1984 demonstrated the museum’s ability
to explore less conventional areas of design. American Enterprise:
Nineteenth-Century Patent Models was a large selection of color-
ful and unusual examples of patent models embodying both the
history of American patent law and Yankee ingenuity. The mu-
seum staff was responsible for organizing this exhibition, which
included over three-hundred and fifty models. Embroidered Sam-
plers was a display of the finest embroidered samplers from the
Cooper-Hewitt’s own massive collection. Design in the Service of
Tea, the major fall exhibition, included major international loans.
A large survey of tea-related objects from ancient countries to con-
temporary Western forms was provocatively explored in a refresh-
ing manner. And Circles of the World: Traditional Arts of the
Plains Indians presented visitors with a rich array of native Ameri-
can design achievements in crafts objects drawn from the incom-
parable collections of the Denver Art Museum.

192 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The smaller exhibitions in the last year included one devoted to
drawings demonstrating the aesthetic theory evolved by the archi-
tectural sculptor John De Cesare, which relates musical and visual
forms; a selection from the museum’s extensive holdings of prints
by the Tiepolo family; a presentation of a recently acquired collec-
tion of European Damask textiles; an exhibition devoted to intri-
cately carved Netsuke figures from Japan; and, from the Minnea-
polis Institute of Arts’ Doneghy Collection, an exhibition entitled
Finished in Beauty, which presented utilitarian and ornamental
silverwork by Indians of the American Southwest.

Every exhibition within the past year attracted local, national,
and international press comments. New York Magazine described
The Amsterdam School as an “eye opening look at the work of a
lyrically creative group of architects, who for a while virtually
dominated public building in Holland.” The New York Times said
about Manhattan Skyline: ““a handsome exhibition . . . which
reviews the skyscrapers of the 1920’s and 1930’s with thorough-
ness, accuracy and visual delight.”

PUBLICATIONS

A major catalogue for the Amsterdam School was copublished
by Cooper-Hewitt and MIT Press. With the aid of a generous
grant from the New York law firm of Simpson, Thacher and
Bartlett, an important and award-winning publication accompany-
ing the Patent Model exhibition was produced by the museum and
continues to be a popular seller. A Stitch Guide and a collection
handbook on Samplers were published to accompany the exhibi-
tion, illustrating specimens from various European, American, and
other cultures. Another volume in the Cooper-Hewitt’s Smith-
sonian Illustrated Library of Antiques was completed on the
subject of Miniatures, and distribution of the series continues
through the Book-of-the-Month Club.

In keeping with the breadth of such wide-ranging interests, the
museum also published The Phenomenon of Change. Edited by
Lisa Taylor, director, Change includes sixty-five essays by dis-
tinguished scholars, politicians, architects, scientists, philosophers,
and religious leaders. A less expensive tabloid format (popular
with university students) and a soft-cover book were simultane-
ously published. The book is available to bookstores through
Rizzoli International.

History and Art / 193
PROGRAMS

May 1984 brought the first graduation of a class in the master’s
degree program on European decorative arts, a joint undertaking
of the Cooper-Hewitt and Parsons School of Design. Sir Francis
Watson, British scholar and a former director of London’s Wallace
Collection, spoke in a ceremony held at the museum. Sir Francis,
as a 1983-1984 Regents’ Fellow, was himself credited by director
Lisa Taylor as having been an invaluable source of inspiration to
the students and staff alike. George Nelson, one of America’s
preeminent industrial designers, was also named a Regents’ Fel-
low in 1984 and spoke at a special lecture series on the phenom-
enon of a synthetic planet.

An international group of scholars arrived at the museum for
two symposiums. One, organized by the Decorative Arts Depart-
ment, concentrated its discussions and lectures on virtuoso metal-
work in conjunction with the Schroder Collection exhibition. The
other assembled experts in the field of textiles to discuss the Euro-
pean and American samplers that were on view at the museum
at that time.

The range of programs at the Cooper-Hewitt is so broad as to
include study of life in space to the examination of Chinese pavil-
ions and their decorative arts. Many individuals—members and
nonmembers alike—register for courses at the museum every
quarter, drawn by lectures dealing with temporary exhibitions, the
history of landscape, industrial and interior design, architectural
criticism and history, and a variety of workshops and tours.

The internship program at the museum successfully continued
this year with twelve undergraduate and graduate students assist-
ing in all curatorial and administrative departments. Four of this
year’s interns were selected as Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellows.
With additional grants from the New York State Council on the
Arts, the museum continued to serve as a conservation advisory
center for smaller institutions throughout the state, and was able
to offer a paid internship in textile conservation. The Ford Founda-
tion generally sponsored the fellowship of a doctoral candidate
who researched, organized, and was responsible for the widely
acclaimed Manhattan Skyline exhibition.

COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT

The active pace of Cooper-Hewitt’s exhibition schedule required a
substantial number of loans borrowed from private lenders and

194 / Smithsonian Year 1984
domestic and international museums. Because of the museum’s lack
of space to exhibit its permanent collections, and because of the
quantity of objects it holds, loans to other museums continued at
an increasing rate. The first phase of a continuous inventory was
completed on schedule. Each of the three major departments now
possesses its own inventory technician to build more complete
location guides and new records for objects added to the collec-
tions in future years.

Additional grants from the New York State Council on the Arts
aided with exhibition costs for the Amsterdam exhibition and pro-
duction costs for the Cooper-Hewitt Stitch Guide and The Pheno-
menon of Change, and allowed the museum to have for the first
time its own in-house photographer. The latter position has been
most helpful in documenting new objects entering the collection
and replacing faded photographs and slides. In an important initia-
tive, members of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum Council and the
Board of Regents continued preparations in fiscal year 1984 for a
capital campaign that will provide the museum with important
improvements to its present facility in the near future.

More than 500 objects were accessioned by the museum in fiscal
year 1984. All of the major departments received substantial addi-
tions to their collections. The decorative arts department acces-
sioned the initial part of a gift from Marcia and William Goodman
consisting of important pieces of American art pottery. The tex-
tiles department purchased a set of linen damask napkins with
the Alice Beer Memorial Fund, and owing to the generosity of the
artists and manufacturers, most of the fabrics in the Contemporary
Continuous Pattern exhibition have been added to the collection.
An exceptional illustrated book by Humphrey Repton on the
Brighton Pavilion, published in 1808, was added to the prints and
drawings department as a gift from Mrs. Christian Aall.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (Hse), one of the
most important museums of contemporary art in this country,
maintains an active exhibition schedule and acquisitions program.
In support of these are related programs of lectures, films, con-
certs, and educational activities involving audiences of all ages.

History and Art / 195
Technical and support units include offices of conservation, regis-
tration, and photography and a reference library.

Since its opening in October 1974, the museum has organized
a great many important exhibitions, usually of material borrowed
from other institutions and from private collectors. There are also
exhibitions drawn from the museum’s permanent collection. Many
exhibitions organized by the use are circulated to other mu-
seums, and there are frequent loans of individual works of art to
other museums.

The first major exhibition for 1984 was Dreams and Night-
mares: Utopian Visions in Modern Art, December 8, 1983—Febru-
ary 12, 1984. Included were 136 works by sixty-two American and
European artists of the twentieth century. This 1984-theme exhi-
bition surveyed artists’ hopes—and fears—for the twentieth cen-
tury, beginning with the optimistic visions of Futurism, Expres-
sionism, the Russian Avant-Garde, Purism, Bauhaus, De Stijl, and
America’s utopian developments, and ending with pessimistic
images of alienation and holocaust. Artists represented included
Piet Mondrian, Fernand Léger, Hugh Ferriss, Paolo Soleri, George
Grosz, George Tooker, and Robert Morris. This was the first of
a series of Smithsonian events celebrating the Orwellian year of
1984. Valerie Fletcher, the curator who organized the exhibition,
gave a public lecture on December 11, 1983.

The next major exhibition was Drawings: 1974-1984, March
15—May 13, 1984. It was the first of a two-part celebration of the
tenth anniversary of the museum’s opening to the public. Inter-
national developments in the last ten years were the focus of this
exhibition of 148 works on paper. Thirty artists were represented,
including Avigdor Arikha, Balthus, Christo, Chuck Close, Willem
de Kooning, Jim Dine, Jean Dubuffet, David Hockney, Jasper
Johns, R. B. Kitaj, Claes Oldenburg, and Larry Rivers. The Smith-
sonian Resident Associate Program sponsored a lecture by Christo
on May 13, 1984, in which the artist described his work. This
lecture was introduced by Frank B. Gettings, curator of the
exhibition.

German Expressionist Sculpture appeared from April 3 to
June 17, 1984. This was the only East Coast showing of a major
exhibition organized by the Los Angeles County Museum of Art,
the first ever to examine German Expressionist sculpture, a little-
known but vital development in early twentieth-century art. In-
cluded were 125 bronze, wood, stone, plaster, and porcelain sculp-
tures, and twenty-five related works on paper.

196 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Artistic Collaboration in the Twentieth Century, June 9-August
19, 1984, consisted of 108 works created by some seventy teams
of artists between 1913 and 1984. Edouard Roditi lectured on
June 13, 1984, on “Memories of the Surrealists.” After closing at
the Hirshhorn Museum, this exhibition travels to Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, and Louisville, Kentucky.

Finally, a major exhibition, the second part of the tenth-
anniversary celebration, Content: A Contemporary Focus, 1974-
1984, opened on October 4, 1984. Included were 185 paintings,
sculptures, drawings, constructions, photographs, mixed-media in-
stallations, and presentations of film and video art by 147 artists,
working in a full range of contemporary styles. The exhibition’s
theme—the reintroduction of content as a central concern in recent
art—reveals an underlying continuity in the diverse art forms of
the last ten years.

The Resident Associate Program presented “Four on the Scene”
on October 4, 1984, in connection with the Content exhibition.
Introduced by curators Phyllis Rosenzweig and Howard Fox were
artists Vito Acconci, Sandro Chia, Jenny Holzer, and David Salle,
who discussed their recent works.

Smaller exhibitions, most of them organized by the museum’s
staff and drawn from the permanent collection, included: Direct
Carving in Modern Sculpture, October 6—-November 27, 1983;
Aspects of Color, October 15, 1983—March 6, 1984; Art from
Italy: Selections from the Museum's Collection, February 1—April
4, 1984; and European Modernism: Selections from the Museum's
Collection, September 13, 1984—January 13, 1985.

As the nature of the umsc’s permanent collection has become
more widely known, requests for loans from the collection have
increased. In fiscal year 1984, 254 objects were lent to sixty-three
institutions. Among these works were eleven paintings and draw-
ings to the Alexandria Museum of Visual Art, Alexandria, Louisi-
ana; eight paintings to the Hillwood Art Gallery, C. W. Post Col-
lege, Greenvale, New York; seven paintings to the Tampa Mu-
seum, Tampa, Florida; six paintings to the Mansfield Art Center,
Mansfield, Ohio; and four sculptures by Henry Moore to the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.

A sampling of loans to foreign exhibitors includes ten paintings
to the Akademie der Kunst, Berlin, West Germany, for a Willem
de Kooning retrospective; five large sculptures for an inaugural
exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, Shiga, Japan; two paint-
ings by Max Beckmann to the Museen der Stadt, Cologne, West

History and Art / 197
Germany; and a painting and a drawing by Ben Shahn to the
Ministry of Culture, Madrid, Spain.

The Museum has also lent two large groups of art works for
special exhibition: sixty-six sculptures to the Oklahoma Museum
of Art, Oklahoma City; and thirty-four paintings, drawings, and
documentary photographs to the Columbus Museum of Art, Co-
lumbus, Ohio. Finally, the museum lent twenty paintings and
sculptures to the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service for Treasures from the Smithsonian in Edinburgh, Scot-
land.

Acquisitions are vital to any museum, but especially to a mu-
seum of contemporary art. This year the Hmsc purchased thirteen
works of art, including twelve purchased with appropriated funds
and a drawing acquired with private funds. The purchases with
appropriated funds included Avigdor Arikha’s The Square in June
(1983) and James Wolfe’s Shembo (1983). Also, important addi-
tions were made to the museum’s outstanding nineteenth-century
sculpture collection, including Mother and Child (c. 1874) by
Aimé-Jules Dalou and Fruchard (c. 1832-35) by Honoré Daumier.

To increase visitor appreciation and understanding of modern
art, a variety of educational material has been produced, includ-
ing explanatory wall labels and brochures. The latter range from
a single page to illustrated minicatalogs and are distributed free
of charge to the public. A fifteen-minute slide presentation, en-
titled “Elements of Art: Color,” was installed from October 1983
until March 1984 in a small theater in the third-floor galleries of
the museum. This was the second program in the “Elements of
Art” series. Many of the works of art featured in the slide presen-
tation were displayed in the adjacent gallery for visitors’ viewing.

The museum also presents a film series, with lunchtime docu-
mentaries on art and artists, evening films by independent film-
makers, and Saturday films for young people. Whenever possible,
the film series reflects the current exhibitions. Other events in the
auditorium are concerts by the 20th-Century Consort and lectures
by artists, critics, and curators.

Joseph Henry Papers

The manuscript of the fifth volume of the letterpress edition of
the Joseph Henry Papers, documenting the years 1841-43, was

198 / Smithsonian Year 1984
delivered to the Smithsonian Institution Press. In addition, con-
siderable progress was made on the sixth volume, the last dealing
with Henry’s years at Princeton.

Preliminary efforts were made in the process of automating the
editorial procedures of the Henry Papers. This process, which will
not be completed until sometime in 1985, will streamline the
preparation of letterpress manuscripts and make information re-
trieval much easier and faster.

The project continued its sponsorship of the Nineteenth Century
Seminar, once again hosting presentations that ranged over a broad
spectrum of historical topics, including the history of art, science
and technology, and American cultural history.

Nathan Reingold, editor of the Henry Papers, organized a sym-
posium as part of the Smithsonian presence at the Edinburgh
Festival. Entitled “The Anglo-American World of Science and
Technology, 1750-1850,” the symposium was in honor of the
Smithson Bequest. Reingold was also one of the speakers. Earlier,
he gave a presentation entitled ‘“Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Meets
the Atom Bomb” at a Paris conference on the popularization of
science.

Also very active professionally was Paul Theerman, who pre-
sented a paper on Maxwell at the annual meeting of the History
of Science Society, and another, at Sweet Briar College, on New-
ton’s nineteenth-century reputation.

National Museum of African Art

Fiscal year 1984 at the National Museum of African Art (nmafa)
was devoted primarily to the consolidation and strengthening of
its resources. It was also a year for testing new ideas. Increased
professionalism, in-depth scholarship, and heightened creativity
became the touchstones for measuring the old and the new. Exhi-
bitions, collection development and use, research and educational
opportunities were and must continue to be subjected to scrutiny
as the museum prepares for its move to the Center for African,
Asian, and Near Eastern Cultures. The goal is to advance knowl-
edge and public understanding of African art traditions and
cultures.

The temporary special exhibition schedule opened with African
Islam. It was the first time this topic had been explored by a

History and Art / 199
major American museum. Prepared by curator Dr. René Bravmann,
professor of art history, University of Washington, Seattle, the
exhibition examined the social and historical dynamics, as well as
the aesthetic response of Africans, to the appearance of Islam
south of the Mediterranean littoral. More than 100 examples of
art, dating from the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, were gen-
erously lent by U.S. museums and private collectors. The objects
included textiles, sculpture, amulets, jewelry, Korans, and writing
boards. The catalogue, written by Dr. Bravmann and copublished
by the Smithsonian Institution Press and Ethnographica Ltd.,
serves as an introduction to this seriously neglected area of Afri-
can art studies.

Through its temporary exhibitions and related public programs,
the museum continued to explore the diversity and aesthetic excel-
lence of African art traditions. Included among these were
Ethiopia: The Christian Art of an African Nation, circulated by
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service; African
Mankala, organized by curator Roslyn Walker; and Patterns and
Forms, selections from the permanent collection, organized by
curator Lydia Puccinelli. In addition, four small exhibitions, focus-
ing on objects in the museum’s permanent collection, were curated
by individual staff members (G. Jennings and E. Lifschitz, Educa-
tion Department; R. Sieber, associate director for Collections and
Research; S. Williams, director). Public response to this exhibition
series was enthusiastic. Thus, the museum plans to continue the
experimental exhibition program that provides in-depth investiga-
tion of a single work of African art with extensive explanatory
labels, photo panels, and accompanying brochures prepared by the
staff. It offers a unique opportunity to increase collection accessi-
bility in spite of space limitations in the existing facility.

Institutions to which the museum lent a total of forty-four
objects for exhibitions included Kalamazoo Institute of Arts,
Michigan; Foundation for Cross Cultural Understanding, Wash-
ington, D.C.; University of Maryland Art Gallery, College Park;
Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago; Birmingham Museum
of Art, Alabama; Mt. Holyoke College, South Hadley, Massachu-
setts; Museum of Cultural History, University of California, Los
Angeles; and North Carolina Central University Museum,
Durham.

Through its acquisition program, the museum’s permanent col-
lection was significantly enriched by 137 accessions, including as
gifts a collection of twenty-six figurative metal objects from the

200 / Smithsonian Year 1984
i
Ba

Roslyn Walker (left), curator of African Mankala, was one of the participants
in the Festival of African Games in the courtyard of the National Museum of
African Art, June 23, 1984. (Photograph by Mark Avino)
western region of the Sudan, a collection of sixty-two examples
of Ndebele (southern Africa) beadwork, an unusually fine Kota
(Gabon) reliquary guardian figure, an early collection of textiles
and metal ornaments from Zaire, a Yoruba (Nigeria) fan, and an
embroidered robe (Chad).

One of the major collection accessions was a rare Tetela (Zaire)
mask collected in 1924 by an American missionary who lived in
the former Belgian Congo. Its acquisition by purchase was made
possible by the James Smithson Society. This mask, one of two
such documented examples in public museum collections, exempli-
fies a lost Tetela aesthetic, and is important historically and cul-
turally. Other important acquisitions by purchase during the year
included: a pair of Fulani (Mali) gold earrings (for which funds
were donated in part by the Friends of the National Museum of
African Art and Robert and Nancy Nooter); a Sono (Guinea)
brass staff finial; a Yoruba (Nigeria) wooden divination board;
and three additions to the Zairian textile holdings.

The Department of Education and Research continued to serve
a large audience, ranging from elementary and secondary school
groups to senior citizens and individual visitors. Their enjoyment
and education were greatly enhanced by the museum’s fifty-seven
docents, who volunteer their time and effectively share their
knowledge about each exhibition. Many of the Education Depart-
ment’s public programs, special workshops, and teaching guides
are conceived each year to increase understanding of special exhi-
bitions. During 1984 a particularly thorough guide for secondary
school teachers was developed and published to accompany the
African Islam exhibition. In addition, a number of distinguished
art historians and anthropologists were invited to lecture on a
variety of important topics, many of which were directly related
to the Special Exhibition Program. Among the universities repre-
sented were the University of Washington, Seattle; Howard Uni-
versity, Washington, D.C.; University of Iowa; University of
Ibadan, Nigeria; Bayero University, Kano, Nigeria; and the Cen-
ter for Byzantine Studies, Dumbarton Oaks/Harvard University.
Four interns (George Washington University, University of Iowa,
San Jose State University, Howard University) were placed for
museum training in the museum’s Registration, Curatorial, Educa-
tion and Research, and Public Information departments, respec-
tively.

As a part of its research activities, the museum was honored
to have in residence as a Regents Fellow Dr. Ekpo Eyo, director of

202 / Smithsonian Year 1984
the Nigerian National Museums and Federal Department of An-
tiquities, Lagos. During his residency, Dr. Eyo worked on his
forthcoming volume devoted to the art of Owo, a Yoruba town
and the site of an important excavation he conducted in 1969,
which revealed a corpus of extraordinary works of art tentatively
dated to the fifteenth century.

The Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archive is one of the museum’s
strongest research components. Through grants received from the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates and the
Friends of the National Museum of African Art, five documentary
films were acquired for the archive. Produced in 1982 by the
National Ministry of Information of the Ivory Coast in consulta-
tion with African and Western anthropologists, these films pro-
vide a sound contextual basis for understanding several of the
most important Ivory Coast visual traditions.

In association with the Smithsonian’s Office of Fellowships and
Grants, a residency fellowship program in the humanities was
awarded by the Rockefeller Foundation to the National Museum
of African Art. For the first time in its history, nMafa will be able
to make its collection and research facilities the focus of advanced
scholarly research. Postdoctoral scholars in African art history
and anthropology (emphasizing material culture) may carry out
their research in the collections or on topics that could initiate
scholarly symposia, exhibitions, or other major museum activities.
The program will be administered by the Smithsonian’s Office of
Fellowships and Grants and will begin in the fall of 1985. Ap-
pointments will extend for one year.

During 1984 the museum’s Union Catalogue Project advanced
steadily. Placing the permanent African collection holdings on
computer, coordinated by the National Museum of Natural His-
tory, provides an invaluable resource for research work within the
museum, throughout the Smithsonian, and elsewhere. The Union
catalogue has addressed the need for terminology standardization
and is using a vocabulary uniquely suited to African art research.
The Getty Art and Architectural Thesaurus Program became inter-
ested in the nmafa Union catalogue in 1984, viewing it as being
ideally suited to incorporate aaT terminology. This cooperative
effort is progressing under the guidance of Roy Sieber, nmafa
associate director for Collections and Research. Dr. Sieber and
Janet Stanley, nmafa librarian, are consultants to the Getty Pro-
gram.

On December 20, 1983, the twentieth anniversary celebration of

History and Art / 203
the Organization of African Unity was held at the museum.
Guests included ambassadors of many African nations, Secretary
Ripley, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Chester
Crocker, and the Smithsonian Assistant Secretary for History and
Art, John Reinhardt.

In addition, the museum received foreign visitors from Bel-
gium, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso (Upper Volta), Cameroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Federal Republic of Ger-
many (West Germany), German Democratic Republic (East Ger-
many), Ghana, Great Britain, Holland, Israel, Lebanon, Nigeria,
New Zealand, South Africa, Switzerland, and Tanzania.

National Museum of American Art

The public exhibition galleries of the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art were transformed during the past year, as staff designers,
work crews, and curators completed the first total refurbishment
and reinstallation of the collection since 1968, when the Old Patent
Office Building was dedicated as a museum. The project began
with the curatorial review of the entire permanent collection to
select objects for a flexibly chronological installation tracing the
development of 250 years of American art. In the process, many
artworks were cleaned and conserved; frames and pedestals were
replaced or restored. Newly constructed walls permit more art-
works to be shown than ever before; improved natural and artificial
lighting, widened doorways, and vibrant new color schemes en-
liven the appearance of the interior spaces. The new installation
opened to the public on June 11; that evening the Museum co-
hosted with other Smithsonian museums a reception for the thou-
sands of museum professionals from across the country who had
come to Washington for the annual meeting of the American
Association of Museums.

On June 11, also, the gift of 169 paintings, sculptures, and draw-
ings from the Sara Robey Foundation Collection—the most signifi-
cant gift to the museum in modern times—was announced. The
collection includes masterworks of twentieth-century art, by such
artists as Charles Burchfield, Paul Cadmus, Stuart Davis, Edward
Hopper, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, Gaston Lachaise, Jacob Lawrence, and
Theodore Roszak, among many others. An exhibition of the collec-
tion is planned for spring of 1987.

204 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Man Ray’s 1932 Self-
Portrait is one of twenty-
three works given to the
National Museum of
American Art by the artist’s
widow, Juliet Man Ray.
Referring to the death
masks of historical figures
and surrounded by the
ephemera of yesterday’s
news, it becomes a witty
interpretation of the artist’s
“entombment” in his work.

Thomas Sully’s 1812-13 oil
on canvas, Daniel MaMotte
—a superb example of the
artist’s early work—was a
gift to the National Mu-
seum of American Art from
Mr. and Mrs. Ferdinand
LaMotte III.

More than a thousand artworks were accessioned this year,
expanding considerably the museum’s already rich and diverse
holdings. Outstanding gifts include a Thomas Sully portrait of
1812-1813, from Mr. and Mrs. Daniel LaMotte III; twenty-three
artworks by Man Ray, from Juliet Man Ray; Callers, 1916, by
Walter Ufer, gift of Mr. and Mrs. R. Crosby Kemper; and a wood
construction by Robert Indiana, a gift of the artist. The museum
purchased paintings by Asher B. Durand, Hugh Bolton-Jones,
Robert Indiana, and Ed Moses; sculpture by Richard Stankiewicz;-
miniatures by Edward Malbone and John Trumbull; graphic art by
Helen Frankenthaler, Frederick Waugh, and William Wiley; photo-
graphs by Harry Callahan and Ray Metzker; craft objects by
Robert Ebendorf and Margaret Craver, to name only a few.

Before the galleries were closed for reinstallation last fall, the
museum presented Sawtooths and Other Ranges of Imagination:
Contemporary Art from Idaho. The exhibition and catalogue, pre-
pared by Barbara Shissler Nosanow, assistant director for Museum
Programs, continued the museum’s commitment to showing art
from various regions of the United States. Curator Janet Altic
Flint rediscovered the Provincetown Printers, a group dedicated to
innovative use of the wood-block printing process during the early
decades of the twentieth century, in an exhibition and catalogue
that enjoyed great popular appeal.

Other special exhibitions opened in late spring and summer,
1984, to complement the new installations. Portraits and subject
pictures by the native painter Erastus Salisbury Field appeared in
an exhibition organized by the Springfield (Massachusetts) Art
Museum, jointly sponsored in Washington by the National Mu-
seum of American Art and the National Portrait Gallery. Exposed
and Developed: Photography Sponsored by the National Endow-
ment for the Arts introduced the museum’s collection of contempo-
rary American photography. The exhibition and catalogue, pre-
pared by curator Merry Amanda Foresta, and the related sym-
posium explored issues in recent photography. Robert Indiana’s
constructions from the early 1960s were featured in Wood Works,
an exhibition and catalogue prepared by curator Virginia M.
Mecklenburg. Robert Indiana attended the opening and spoke on
the development of his art. Attitudes toward modernism during
the Truman years were the subject of Advancing American Art:
Politics and Aesthetics in the State Department Exhibition, 1946-
1948, circulated by the Montgomery (Alabama) Museum of Art.
The Prints of Howard Norton Cook, assembled by Janet Altic

206 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Flint, presented selections from the large holdings of his works in
the museum. A selection of the finest drawings and prints from
the graphic arts collection was on view from June through
December.

The National Art Gallery of Wellington, New Zealand, gracious-
ly lent for three years one of John Singleton Copley’s finest colonial
portraits—Mrs. Humphrey Devereux. Painted in 1770 and exhib-
ited that year in England, the painting has been shown only once
before in America, in 1965. In honor of the painting’s return to its
country of origin, New Zealand Ambassador Sir Lancelot Adams-
Schneider joined Ambassador Christopher H. Phillips, chair of
the New Zealand-United States Art Foundation, in a brief cere-
mony at the museum on June 12.

The Renwick Gallery presented The Flexible Medium, an in-
stallation of fabric and fiber art from the museum’s permanent
collection of craft objects. Other exhibitions at the Renwick Gal-
lery highlighted fans from the eighteenth through the twentieth
century, functional objects designed by Russel Wright, art nouveau
metalwork and furniture by Edward Colonna, art glass by Harvey
K. Littleton, and contemporary Australian ceramics.

The six soirees at Barney Studio House this season included a
talk by composer Virgil Thomson. Next year’s offerings will ex-
plore Alice Pike Barney’s contacts with England. An exhibition
has been organized by curator Jean Lewton of Pastel Portraits from
Studio House, to open in December 1984, with portraits of
Barney’s exotic acquaintances from high society and art circles.

In addition to a broad spectrum of public events presented dur-
ing the year, the Division of Museum Programs developed educa-
tional materials on “The Family in American Art” for use in pub-
lic school systems, aided by a grant from Chesebrough-Pond’s,
Inc. Performers Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis appeared at the Ken-
nedy Center in a benefit for the museum’s extensive festival of
Afro-American culture, Changing Traditions, which opens on
January 15, 1985.

Research resources at the museum continued to provide unparal-
leled opportunities to scholars of American art, including both
resident fellows—fifteen postdoctoral and doctoral candidates from
eleven universities—and eight postgraduate interns from across the
country. Plans have been laid for an Inventory of American Sculp-
ture, comparable to the museum’s much-heralded Inventory of
American Painting to 1914. The museum continued to take a

History and Art / 207
pioneering role in the computerization of collections and research
materials under the guidance of Eleanor Fink and James L. Yarnell.

The current fiscal year saw the decentralization of internal oper-
ating and program budgets, with allocations to the three museum
divisions allowing for greater flexibility and advance planning for
projects. The Division of Museum Resources, headed by assistant
director Charles J. Robertson, coordinated the new budgeting plan.
Staff restructuring, begun in the previous year, proceeded with the
creation of the position of Chief Curator and Assistant Director
for the Curatorial Division; Dr. Elizabeth Broun was hired to fill
this position. Harry Lowe, deputy director and former acting direc-
tor of the museum, retired in January 1984, and was offered mov-
ing tributes by members of the staff for his long and dedicated
service to the Smithsonian.

National Museum of American History

The National Museum of American History (NMAH) remade itself
inside and out this fiscal year, creating a more enjoyable museum
for the public, new performance and exhibits spaces, and several
new exhibitions. Its ten-year plan for a reinstallation of the main
exhibition galleries on the first and second floors proceeded with
the beginning of design and production for the upcoming exhibi-
tion After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America, 1780-1800,
and its departments and divisions continued their scholarly con-
tributions to American history.

The major remodeling projects began on March 1, 1984, with
the opening of the new Museum Shop and Bookstore. The strik-
ing design features a broad, marble, glass-walled staircase that
descends to the large, airy shop below. Renovations in NMAH con-
tinued with the opening of the new Palm Court off the first floor
Pendulum Hall on May 4. A re-creation of a turn-of-the-century
palm court, this new area gives visitors a comfortable place to rest,
relax, perhaps enjoy a soda or sundae in the adjacent ice cream
parlor, and listen to music from a newly acquired Mason and
Hamlin baby grand reproducing piano. Two exhibits formerly on
display elsewhere in the museum, the Stohlman’s Confectionary
Shop of the 1890s and a 1902 Horn and Hardart Automat, line
the walls of the Palm Court.

208 / Smithsonian Year 1984
On the museum’s west grounds, the thirty-five-ton Calder sta-
bile, The Gwenfritz, was moved from its location in the amphi-
theater to a more visible spot at the corner of Constitution Avenue
and Fourteenth Street. In its place the museum erected the Jack-
sonville Bandstand, a structure built in 1879 on the grounds of
the Jacksonville State Hospital in Jacksonville, Illinois. A gift of
the state of Illinois, the bandstand was dismantled by museum
staff at its site in May 1983 and rebuilt as originally surveyed.
The structure affords a new performance space for the museum,
and since its dedication on July 4th has already been the site of
eight concerts, with outstanding performances by musical en-
sembles such as the Bass Wingates Brass Band from Great Britain,
the Ceremonial Brass Quintet of the U.S. Army Band, and the
U.S. Marine Corps Band. The relocation of the Calder Stabile and
the installation of the Jacksonville Bandstand were both made
possible by a generous gift from the Morris and Gwendolyn Ca-
fritz Foundation.

The museum’s ten-year reinstallation program for the major ex-
hibitions on its first two floors proceeded with design and pro-
ductidn phases of After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America
1780-1800, to open in the fall of 1985. The script for the second
exhibition in the reinstallation program, Engines of Change: The
Industrial Revolution in America, has been completed and ap-
proved; the exhibition will open in the fall of 1986. Research
and conservation are under way for Materials in America, a third
major reinstallation, which will open later in this decade and ex-
plore the basic materials that are the building blocks of our
culture.

Several other important and popular exhibitions opened at the
museum this year. Nancy Knight of the Division of Medical Sci-
ences and Deborah Warner, curator with the Division of Physical
Sciences, organized Pain and Its Relief, a look at mankind’s at-
temps to understand, combat, and overcome pain. The exhibition,
which opened on October 14, 1983, was made possible by a grant
from the American Society of Anesthesiologists. October 25, 1983,
marked the opening of The Naming of America, an exhibition
featuring the only surviving copy of German cartographer Martin
Waldseemiiller’s World Map of 1507—the map on which the name
“America” was probably first applied to the New World. The
exhibition was the joint effort of Silvio Bedini of the Dibner Li-
brary, Anne Golovin of the Division of Domestic Life, and Eliza-
beth Harris and Helena Wright of the Division of Graphic Arts.

History and Art / 209
The World Map of 1507 had never before left Germany; the
Erbgraf Maximillian Willibald zu Waldburg-Wolfegg graciously
consented to loan the map to the museum for this exhivition.
Inventing Standard Time, which celebrated the centennial of the
establishment of standard time in the United States and Canada,
opened on November 17, 1983. Organized by Carlene Stephens,
newly appointed curator in the Division of Mechanisms, the exhi-
bition told the story of how in the late nineteenth century the
United States gradually came to institute a standard system of time
zones to replace a confusing welter of local times. The Christmas
season again brought the Trees of Christmas exhibition to the
museum. Produced by the Department of Horticulture, the display
featured twelve trees bedecked with handcrafted ornaments to
illustrate various crafts, traditions, and storybook themes.

From June 27 to August 19, 1984, the museum hosted South-
eastern Potteries, a temporary exhibition produced by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (sires). Objects
ranged from unglazed earthenware strawberry jars to highly fin-
ished decorative vases, and reflected continuing traditions of
nearly two centuries of pottery making as well as the evolution of
new approaches to the craft. Another sites exhibition, Yesterday's
Tomorrows: Past Visions of America’s Future, opened in the mu-
seum’s new temporary exhibition hall on August 9. Yesterday's
Tomorrows displayed more than 300 models, magazines, toys,
drawings, photographs, and other artifacts, and examined com-
munities, homes, transportation, and weapons and warfare of the
future, among other subjects. The last exhibition to open this fiscal
year was Eleanor Roosevelt: First Person Singular, a centennial
tribute to one of America’s most remarkable women. Organized by
Howard Morrison of the Department of Public Programs, with
the help of the Division of Political History, the exhibition used
more than one hundred photographs, documents, and objects to
look at the private life and the public accomplishments of Eleanor
Roosevelt. The first of the 1984-85 Doubleday Lecture Series
programs marked the opening of the exhibit. Entitled “A Cen-
tenary Tribute to Eleanor Roosevelt,” it featured radio commenta-
tor Susan Stamberg and actress Jean Stapleton examining the life
of the “First Lady of the World.”

In addition to these many larger temporary exhibitions, the
museum continued its very popular series of “Cases of the
Month,” small, one- or two-case exhibitions on a variety of
themes, divided roughly between the two curatorial departments

210 / Smithsonian Year 1984
of the museum, the Department of Social and Cultural History and
the Department of the History of Science and Technology.

The museum produced fifteen of these small exhibitions this
year, among them Geometric Models, which displayed a variety
of elegant and often intricate models used for education, entertain-
ment, and research; Early Vitamin Technology, a brief history
of the growth of the use of vitamins and the technologies that
made their production possible; Microelectronics as History, a
look at the early advances in transistors and computer components
that underlie today’s microelectronics revolution; Germans in
America: Three Hundred Years of Innovation and Tradition, which
presented some of the wide variety of inventions, scientific ad-
vances, products, and cultural traditions that Germans and
German-Americans have contributed to American culture; Lura
Woodside Watkins: Cultural Historian 1887-1982, which focused
on the life and work of a pioneer cultural historian by highlight-
ing aspects of her collecting, publications, archeological investi-
gations, and close relationship with the National Museum of
American History; and The Faris and Yamna Naff Arab-American
Collection, a case displaying a few of the objects collected by
Dr. Alixa Naff and given to the Smithsonian Institution this year
to begin an expanded effort at collecting and preserving the his-
tory of Arab-Americans in this country.

Two other divisions of the museum organized small exhibitions
of their own this past year: the Archives Center produced Valen-
tine’s Day Images in Commercial Advertising, a display that used
images from the center’s Warshaw Collection of Business Ameri-
cana to reveal how Valentine’s Day images have appeared in
American advertising over the past century; and Conservation:
Problems and Solutions, organized jointly by the Division of Con-
servation and the Department of Social and Cultural History to
show visitors how to protect valuable objects from environmental
extremes, pests, and mishaps.

In addition to creating its own exhibitions, the museum also
contributed to several shows elsewhere, most notably the patent
model exhibition at the Smithsonian’s Cooper-Hewitt Museum in
New York City and the Treasures from the Smithsonian exhibition
held as part of the Edinburgh Festival. Bernice Johnson Reagon of
the Program in Black American Culture and James Weaver and
Kenneth Slowik of the Department of Public Programs performed
at the Scottish festival. In the spring of 1984 the museum hosted
two symposia in aspects of American culture for fellows and mas-

History and Art / 211
ter teachers honored by the German Marshall Fund. Michael
Beschloss of the Eisenhower Institute produced Harry Truman: A
Self-Portrait in Film, a glimpse of the life of Harry Truman from
his Missouri boyhood to the presidency, combining Truman’s own
words with the sights and sounds of the era.

In addition to organizing exhibitions such as The Naming of
America, Pain and Its Relief, and the many “Cases of the Month,”
the two major curatorial departments of the museum moved for-
ward with the scholarly work of investigating American history,
publishing articles in their fields, acquiring important new ob-
jects, and sponsoring and attending symposia, conferences, and
seminars.

The Department of the History of Science and Technology
hosted specialized meetings on pharmacy and ophthalmology, and
sessions of the Society for the History of Technology convention.
Curators and historians from the department spoke at confer-
ences across the United States and abroad. Barbara Melosh of the
Division of Medical Sciences presented “The Iconography of
Gender: Manhood and Womanhood in New Deal Art” at the
Smith College-Smithsonian Conference on the Convention of
Gender; Pete Daniel of the Division of Extractive Industries gave
a lecture entitled ‘““The New Deal, Southern Agriculture, and Eco-
nomic Change” at the Chancellor’s Symposium on Southern His-
tory at the University of Mississippi; Harold Langley of the Divi-
sion of Armed Forces History spoke on “Churchill and Roosevelt;
The Anglo-American Relationship” to the White House Fellows at
the British Embassy; Steven Lubar, historian with the department,
traveled to England to deliver talks on the Engines of Change
exhibition at the Science Museum in London and at Ironbridge
Gorge Museum in Telford; Robert Vogel of the Division of Me-
chanical and Civil Engineering spoke on industrial archeology in
Baltimore before the Society for Industrial Archeology; Arthur
Molella, chairman of the Department of the History of Science
and Technology, spoke to the Medical University of South Caro-
lina on “Science and Technology Exhibits at the Smithsonian:
Myth or History?”; Audrey B. Davis of the Division of Medical
Sciences presented “Women and the Medical Enterprise” at the
American Association for the History of Medicine in San Francisco;
and Deborah H. Warner of the Division of Physical Sciences pre-
sented “Rowland’s Gratings, Contemporary Technology” at the
Rowland Centennial at the Johns Hopkins University. The depart-
ment also continued to sponsor Technology and Culture, the

212 / Smithsonian Year 1984
quarterly journal of the Society for the History of Technology. A
consolidation within the department combined the Divisions of
Naval History and Military History into a single Division of
Armed Forces History.

Acquisitions of the department ranged from the massive to the
minuscule, and included an RS 1 Diesel locomotive, an early ex-
ample of the first generation of American diesel locomotives, now
on loan to the Strasburg Railway Museum in Pennsylvania; an
ACTA scanner, the world’s first computerized whole body scanner,
commonly known as the cat scanner; a Whitworth engine lathe
of about 1865; a nineteenth-century mule-powered cotton gin; two
colored engraved prints of American Army uniforms of the Revo-
lutionary War era published in Germany in 1784; nineteenth-
century American surveying instruments; and a Bakelizer used to
mix the first batch of the first completely synthetic plastic. With
a $75,000 Regent’s grant, the Division of Mechanisms purchased
two Renaissance automata, a lady lute player and a reclining dog.

The staff of the Department of Social and Cultural History was
no less active or productive. The Division of Graphic Arts hosted
the biennial conference of the American Typecasters Fellowship,
which attracted participants from five countries, and at which
Stan Nelson and Elizabeth Harris of the division gave papers; the
Division of Musical Instruments helped present the national meet-
ings of the American Federation of Violin and Bow Makers in
April; the Division of Costume and Smith College of Northamp-
ton, Massachusetts, jointly sponsored the conference on Conven-
tions of Gender, held at Smith in February.

Curators, specialists, and historians in the department continued
their scholarship by presenting papers both in the United States
and abroad. Gary Kulik, chairman of the Department of Social and
Cultural History, delivered papers at Moses Brown School, Provi-
dence, Rhode Island; the University of Paris; and the Amerika
Institute, University of Munich; Elizabeth Harris of the Division
of Graphic Arts gave a one-week course on exhibiting rare books
at Columbia University Rare Book School; Margaret Klapthor,
curator emeritus of the Division of Political History, lectured on
dresses of the First Ladies of the White House at the Philadelphia
College of Science and Textiles and participated in the First Ladies
Symposium held at the Gerald R. Ford Museum in Grand Rapids,
Michigan; Barbara Clark Smith of the Division of Domestic Life
presented a paper on ways of viewing the exhibition After the
Revolution: Everyday Life in America 1780-1800 at the annual

History and Art / 213
convention of the Organization of American Historians in April
1984; Fath Davis Ruffins and William Pretzer, both of the Life
in America project, gave papers at the same conference entitled,
respectively, “History in Three Dimensions: The Exhibition as a
Medium for Teaching” and “Looking to Learn: Form and Content
in a Museum Exhibit.”

Departmental acquisitions included a Philadelphia printing press
of about 1840; a nineteenth-century pin-type writing box for the
blind; the more than one hundred objects and four hundred docu-
ments of the Faris and Yamna Naff Arab-American Collection;
a series of more than one hundred outstanding tintypes; political
campaign materials from the 1984 New Hampshire primary and
the Democratic and Republican National Conventions; original
art and posters from World War II bond campaigns; a dress of Mrs.
James Monroe; a dress worn by Ginger Rogers in the movie Top
Hat; J.R.’s hat from the television series ‘Dallas’; the red dress
worn by Dustin Hoffman in the movie Tootsie; a 1930 Steinway
grand piano fitted with Duo-Art mechanism; a Chickering-Ampico
grand piano; and a violin made by Guadagnini in 1752. Staff
changes at the department included the retirement of curator
Margaret Klapthor in December 1983 after many years in the
Division of Political History, and the appointments of Susan
Myers as vice-chair of the department and Barbara Coffee as col-
lections manager.

A reorganization at NMAH produced a newly constituted Depart-
ment of Public Programs under assistant director Josiah Hatch.
The new department comprises divisions of education, publica-
tions, the Program in Black American Culture, performances, pro-
duction, and the Office of Public Affairs.

The department presented a diverse season of concerts and pub-
lic programs that contributed new perspectives on current exhibi-
tions and topics related to the national collections. In December
the Holiday Celebration, which focused on ethnic diversity in the
United States, presented music, crafts, and foods of many ethnic
groups. The presentations and performances, held daily from
December 26 to 31, included everything from puppet shows and
woodcarving to gospel music and madrigals. Regularly scheduled
free informal concerts, lectures, films, and demonstrations were
vital aspects of the biweekly weekend series Saturday Arter
Noon, while Saturday Live and Mostly Music, coproduced with
the Division of Musical Instruments, offered weekly concerts and
demonstrations of the instruments in the museum’s collections.

214 / Smithsonian Year 1984
VV NIVERSALIS ~—COSMOGRAPHIA

This is one of the twelve sheets of Waldseemuller’s World Map—the first map on which the
newly discovered continent was named “America.” The only surviving copy of this monu-

mental work went on exhibit for the first time, at the National Museum of American History,
through the courtesy of its owner, Count Waldburg.

A table made at the Val-Kill
Furniture Shop was one of more
than 100 objects, documents, and
photographs presenting aspects of
Eleanor Roosevelt’s life at Hyde
Park, Val-Kill, the White House,
and the United Nations in the
exhibition Eleanor Roosevelt:
First Person Singular, at the
National Museum of American
History. The exhibition commem-
orated the centennial of Eleanor
Roosevelt’s birth. (Photograph
courtesy of the White House)

i
:

The Program in Black American Culture presented colloquiums
and concerts honoring Martin Luther King, Jr., and gospel com-
posers Lucie Campbell and the Reverend C. A. Tindley. The Tind-
ley tribute was presented in Philadelphia in April. During Black
History Month, February 1983, the Program in Black American
Culture also sponsored a concert and colloquium entitled “Black
American Choral Song: The Evolution of the Spiritual.” Four
evening concert series were offered during the year: The Smithson
String Quartet and the Smithsonian Chamber Players, the muse-
um’s resident ensembles, performed music from the baroque and
romantic repertoires, while Treasures from the Collection and
Piano in America featured guest artists and rare instruments from
the museum’s collection in programs devoted to major European
and American composers. Information on concerts and public pro-
grams was distributed through the quarterly calendar “Events,”
which reached more than 10,000 individuals and organizations,
including schools, libraries, and recreation and senior citizens
groups.

The Education Office of the Department of Public Programs
continued to bring the museum’s exhibitions and collections alive
for the public. With 200 docents, the Education Office conducted
programs for more than seventy thousand museum visitors in this
fiscal year. The staff developed new programs, including the Elec-
tricity Demonstration Center, funded by the Edison Electric Insti-
tute; the Pain Clinic Discovery Corner, a part of the Pain and Its
Relief exhibition; and a tour for sixth, seventh, and eighth graders
on eighteenth-century life. Visitor surveys, an evaluation system
for docent presentations, and new self-guides to the Transporta-
tion Hall and the Nation of Nations exhibition were other accom-
plishments of the office.

The National Numismatic Collection received a new executive
director in fiscal year 1984, Elvira Clain-Stefanelli. Cora Lee Gillil-
land was appointed associate curator. The year saw the rearrange-
ment of collections after inventory, a review of the entire activity
of the collection by the Office of Audits, and the continuation of
the microphotography project, with more than 52,000 frames com-
pleted during the year. The entire numismatic exhibition, more
than 6,700 objects, was dismantled, cleaned, and photographed.
In January museum specialist Raymond Hebert delivered a lecture
entitled ‘“Rome in India” at the Inaugural Seminar of the Indian
Institute in Numismatic Studies at Nashik, India. In July Cora Lee
Gillilland participated in the First International Medallic Work-

216 / Smithsonian Year 1984
shop at Pennsylvania State University. The collection acquired
1,714 objects this year, including early colonial paper money, a
large number of dies used in restriking Byzantine and Roman
coins, more than one hundred coins and medals produced by the
U.S. Mint, including gold and silver commemorative coins for the
1984 Olympic Games.

James E. Bruns, formerly of the U.S. Postal Service, joined the
staff of the National Philatelic Collection as a curator. The collec-
tion hosted the annual convention of the Confederate Stamp
Alliance and produced a new five-panel exhibition depicting the
postal operations of the Confederate States of America in con-
junction with the convention. Philatelic acquisitions included a
printing press used by the Confederate States of America to print
stamps and currency, a pane of 1861 stamps from this press, a
rural free delivery wagon used in the 1890s, a 1765 Benjamin
Franklin postal rate chart, and one of the earliest known type-
written letters to be sent through the mail.

The registrar of ten years, Virginia Beets, retired in November
1983 and was replaced by Martha Morris in January 1984. This
fiscal year the registrar’s office assumed management of collections
inventory functions, security photography, Silver Hill storage op-
erations, and the automated central catalogue, a product of last
year’s massive inventory project. The catalogue will help in main-
taining, refining, and augmenting computer records for scholarly
research and collections management. The office also coordinated
major outgoing loans for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Edin-
burgh Festival, and other exhibitions. To help museum staff ac-
custom themselves to new collections management computer sys-
tems and the new automated central catalogue, the office also con-
ducted internal seminars on collections management. Fiscal year
1984 began with an effort to preserve and update the inventory,
and continuing efforts throughout the year were aimed at match-
ing past registration and catalogue records with those produced
during the inventory to create the most accurate possible master
file, and integrating the new inventory into the everyday life of
the museum.

The Afro-American Communities Project, which studies ante-
bellum life among free blacks, acquired the records of the Allen
Temple, also known as the African Methodist Episcopal Church,
in Cincinnati, which date from the 1830s. The project has also
begun to collect wills and inventories of property to research the
question of occupation and status of the antebellum urban black

History and Art / 217
community. So far the project has collected seventy-five inven-
tories from Boston and fifty wills from Cincinnati; the collection of
documents from Philadelphia is under way. The director of the
project, James O. Horton, presented five scholarly papers during
the year, including “Beacon from the Hill: The Black Church and
the Black Community,” at the Second National Conference on
Blacks in Boston held at Boston College, and “Links to Bondage:
Northern Free Blacks and the Problem of Slavery,” at the annual
meeting of the Organization of American Historians held in Los
Angeles.

The Archives Center, established in fiscal year 1983, collaborates
with other museum units in acquiring, organizing, and preparing
archival and documentary materials for research use. Evidently its
reputation is spreading, because in fiscal year 1984 the center saw
wide use and served visitors ranging from attorneys and collectors
to a French volcanologist. Major projects of the year included the
“Pepsi Generation” advertising campaign oral history project. Sup-
ported by a grant from the Pepsi-Cola Company, the project in-
cludes interviews with executives at Pepsi-Cola and advertising
agencies and will collect relevant documents to complete a major
in-depth study of this extremely successful advertising campaign.
The center added fifty-two collections during the fiscal year, to
bring its total of collections to 117. Notable acquisitions include
documents and photographs from the Faris and Yamna Naff Arab-
American Collection, the Walter Wilkinson collection of commer-
cial art materials, and the scripts for the television show M*A*S*H.
Spencer Crew, Robert Harding, and John Fleckner of the center
attended the annual meeting of the Society of American Archiv-
ists, where Fleckner, the museum’s archivist, gave a paper entitled
“The Administration of Archives: A Common Practice?” He also
spoke on Third World archives at a Smith College conference on
resources for the study of women’s history and on native Ameri-
can archives in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Amer-
ican Library Association. Spencer Crew, historian at the center,
gave a paper on black institutions at the Camden County Histori-
cal Society in New Jersey.

Surveys by the Division of Conservation of objects in divisional
collections turned up more than 875 objects in need of immediate
attention from a conservator or technician. A total of more than
1,250 objects were treated or given safer storage. The efforts of
the Division of Conservation included special attention to photo-
graphic collections, including rehousing of the Eadweard Muy-

218 / Smithsonian Year 1984
bridge glass plate positive collection. Conservators and technicians
helped train museum staff in conservation. Deborah Hess Norris
and Peter Krause gave a well attended lecture and workshop on
conserving photographic materials, organized by conservator
Dianne van der Reyden of the division and attended by NMAH
staff and staff from other Smithsonian museums and area institu-
tions. Paper lab and objects lab staff conducted short training ses-
sions for exhibits production and curatorial staff on topics such
as safe storage housing for paper, use of ultrasonic Mylar welder,
and safe cleaning techniques. The division spent many hours
examining and treating objects for exhibitions and loans. The staff
answered 300 requests on conservation from the public and con-
ducted tours of its facilities for more than six hundred people.
Scott Odell, head conservator, was a panelist and speaker for the
“Pest Control” session for the Conservation Lecture Series of the
Office of Museum Programs, and Nikki Horton, conservator, de-
livered papers entitled “Supports and Mounts for Leather Ob-
jects,” at the Recent Developments in Leather Conservation meet-
ing; “Accession Numbering” at a meeting of the Association of
Museum Specialists, Technicians, and Aides; and “Museum Pest
Control” at the Conservation Lecture Series of the Office of Mu-
seum Programs.

National Portrait Gallery

The exhibition year at the National Portrait Gallery (npc) was
highlighted by the monumental Masterpieces from Versailles:
Three Centuries of French Portraiture, made possible through the
cooperation of the French government, the sponsorship of Guerlain,
Inc., and by a unique opportunity afforded by the restoration of
Versailles. The Versailles exhibition signalled the recognition by
the National Portrait Gallery of its affinity with sister institutions
abroad and its success suggested a series of international portrait
exhibitions in the future.

Among other noteworthy exhibitions in a busy year were the
groundbreaking Robert Cornelius: Portraits from the Dawn of
Photography, which offered an unprecedented scientific (as well as
aesthetic) study of the earliest daguerreotypes produced in the

History and Art / 219
United States; O Write My Name, the presentation of Carl Van
Vechten’s splendid photographic gallery of Black Americans, pro-
duced by the Eakins Press; and Adventurous Pursuits: Americans
and the China Trade 1784-1844, which marked the bicentennial of
the inauguration of American commerce with the Orient. Featured
as well were a collection of Time cover portraits of the Presidency,
a small exhibition reviewing the life and work of the writer Booth
Tarkington, and a lively display of caricatures of musicians, under-
scoring a new thrust in npG collecting. The Portrait Gallery
strengthened its ties to other museums through the presentation of
Artists by Themselves, an exhibition mounted by the National
Academy of Design from its own collection; Arnold Genthe: The
Celebrity Portraits, organized by the Library of Congress; and
Erastus Salisbury Field, a celebration of a major folk artist assem-
bled by the Springfield Museum of Fine Arts and presented jointly
with the National Museum of American Art.

Noteworthy among the publications produced to accompany
these exhibitions was Adventurous Pursuits: Americans and the
China Trade 1784-1844, by Margaret C. S. Christman, which won
awards from the American Association of Museums and the Art
Directors Club of Metropolitan Washington. The National Portrait
Gallery’s quarterly Calendar of Events also won an award from
the aam. Other publications included The Selected Papers of
Charles Willson Peale and His Family, vol. 1: Charles Willson
Peale: Artist in Revolutionary America, 1735-1791, edited by
Lillian B. Miller and the Peale Papers staff at nrc, the first of a
planned eight-volume series published by Yale University Press;
and American Portrait Prints: Proceedings of the Tenth Annual
American Print Conference, which contains lectures presented at
the National Portrait Gallery in May 1979, published by the Uni-
versity Press of Virginia, supported by a grant from the Barra
Foundation.

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation provided a
matching grant ($650,000) to purchase the nrc’s most significant
acquisition in a year of exceptional acquisitions: the portrait of
Mary Cassatt painted by Edgar Degas; the remainder of the pur-
chase was made through the Regents’ Major Acquisition Fund.
Other major purchases included a rare portrait of the poet Joel
Baarlow by Robert Fulton, who, like Samuel F. B. Morse, was an
artist as well as inventor and scientist; a painting of the noted
critic Sadakichi Hartmann by the Michigan artist John S. Coppin;
a striking portrait of composer Virgil Thomson by the noted

220 / Smithsonian Year 1984
2
°
—
7
{
7
‘
.
af
.
?
‘
.
t
.
2
.
bs

This was the scene on a typical day during the exhibition Masterpieces
from Versailles: Three Centuries of French Portraiture at the National

Portrait Gallery.

A portrait of composer Virgil

Thomson by Alice Neel was one
of the National Portrait Gallery's

major purchases this year.

painter Alice Neel; a rare 1860 lithograph of Abraham Lincoln by
Joseph E. Baker; a collection of rare portrait prints of Confederate
political and military figures; a photograph of the American pub-
lisher James Thomas Fields by the noted British photographer Julia
Margaret Cameron; Paul Strand’s portrait photo of Georgia
O’Keeffe; a scarce and splendid Man Ray photograph of Peggy
Guggenheim; photographs of Sherwood Anderson, George Wash-
ington Carver, W. C. Handy, and Frances Benjamin Johnson, as
well as a portfolio of informal portrait photographs by the late
Garry Winogrand.

Gifts to the Portrait Gallery included portraits of the inventor
and businessman King C. Gillette; naturalist William T. Hornaday;
civil rights activist Rosa Parks; economists Thorstein Veblen and
Milton Friedman; and a substantial group of caricatures by Aline
Fruhauf of noted Americans in the fields of music, the arts, and
fashion.

Innovation, outreach, and partnerships in public programming
have been the outsanding characteristics of npc Education Depart-
ment activities in 1984, a year in which the department served
more than 40,000 individuals. In support of the exhibition Master-
pieces from Versailles, npc docents mastered a large body of new
material to serve both an adult public and, thanks to the support
of the Washington Post, a school audience numbering 2,500. The
Portraits in Motion series continued to show capacity for growth:
three new sub-series, Portraits in Motion Showcase, Portraits in
American Song, and Portraits in Motion Studio Theater, found
responsive audiences for figures as diverse as Calamity Jane and
Clarence Darrow, Zelda Fitzgerald, and Ernie Pyle, and music
ranging from that of Irving Berlin to art songs to ragtime to folk
songs.

It was a year of unprecedented collaboration for the department:
the Portraits in Motion Showcase was offered in association with
the Resident Associate Program; “The Provincetown Plays” were
one of three performance cosponsorships undertaken with the
National Museum of American Art (NMAA), one of which also had
the participation of the National Museum of American History.
Cooperation was especially in evidence in the public programming
for the joint NpG-NMAA exhibition Erastus Salisbury Field, 1805—
1900. A broad range of activities were presented by the two
museums: “Connecticut Valley Lives” included two Portraits in
Motion programs, ““A Charles Ives Fourth of July” and “White
Ashes”; a one-woman drama about Mrs. Stowe; special lectures

222 / Smithsonian Year 1984
were presented in the Great Hall; and there was an array of
Lunchtime Lectures, films, and tours.

Nec has also provided more services to its audiences who are
unable to visit by adding to the repertoire of adult and, especially,
senior adult outreach programs “A Cole Porter Jubilee.” Similarly,
the number of school programs, most of which combine outreach
and in-gallery phases, has been expanded as well. Finally, the
department continued to play a prominent role in the museum
education community, particularly through its involvement in
Roundtable Reports: The Journal of Museum Education, its partici-
pation in the publication of Museum Education Anthology: Per-
spectives on Informal Learning, and active engagement in profes-
sional groups, meetings, panels, and workshops.

The Gallery’s “self-portrait” evenings, which resumed last year,
continued with public interviews of the journalist William L.
Shirer, who spoke of his career as witness to history and his first-
hand experience of Gandhi and of Hitler; and of Edward L.
Bernays, who recalled the origins of the profession of public rela-
tions, which he launched. These interviews by nrce’s chief historian,
Marc Pachter, were videotaped. An earlier “self-portrait” evening,
with the threatrical director and producer George Abbott, has been
edited into a finished television program with the support of funds
provided by the Educational Outreach Fund, administered by the
Assistant Secretary for Public Service. This will serve as a pilot
for a projected series of telecasts.

Office of American Studies

The Office of American Studies (oAMERS) continued its program in
graduate education throughout the year. The 1983 fall semester
seminar in “Material Aspects of American Civilization” had as its
theme “Material Culture of the Future—1984 and Beyond,” and
was taught by the director of the program and Professor Bernard
Mergen of the George Washington University.

Other seminars during the academic year 1983-1984 included
“The Decorative Arts an America,” taught by Barbara G. Carson,
and “The Gilded Age: 1865-1900,” taught by Lillian B. Miller.
Individual graduate students continued to pursue specialized re-
search under the supervision of the director of the Office of Ameri-
can Studies.

History and Art / 223
i"

phason

This group of objects from the exhibition Treasures from the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, representing the great diversity within the Smithsonian as well as in the
American way of life, drew much attention in Edinburgh. Jimmy Durante’s hat,
sheet music for “The White Cliffs of Dover,” featuring a photo of Bing Crosby,
a baseball autographed by Babe Ruth, a bat used by Walter “Buck” Leonard,
and a Tiffany lamp (left to right) provided a contrasting mixture of objects.
Smithsonian Year - 1984
MUSEUM PROGRAMS

WILLIAM N. RICHARDS,
ACTING ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

The event which, more than any other, shaped fiscal year 1984 for
the Conservation Analytical Laboratory (caL) was the move to new
quarters at the Museum Support Center, marking the beginning of
a period of changes and transition.

The new laboratories had to be adapted to meet the requirements
of the specialized staff, while at the same time cat had started a
large-scale recruitment program for new staff members. These ac-
tivities were completed successfully under the coordination of act-
ing director Alan W. Postlethwaite, who stayed on as deputy di-
rector when Lambertus van Zelst joined cat as director at the end
of this fiscal year.

Late last year senior furniture conservator Walter Angst retired
and objects conservators Nikki Horton and Kory Berrett resigned
to accept appointments elsewhere. This year three new senior con-
servators joined ca: furniture conservator Marc Williams, objects
conservator Carol Grissom, and textile conservator Mary Ballard.
Furniture conservator Don Williams and paper conservator Dianne
van der Reyden are joining cat this fall; recruitment is under way
for two more objects conservators. Early this year Ronald Bishop
became manager of the Smithsonian Archaeometric Research Col-
lections and Records (sarcar). Edward V. Sayre was appointed
senior research scientist.

225

CONSERVATION

A number of treatments took place before the move. Walter Angst
completed work on an early American cane-seated bentwood chair,
and examined and cleaned the Smithsonian Mace. He also com-
pleted a treatise on the Mace and its history, which will be pub-
lished with the aid of a grant from the James Smithson Society.
Kory Berrett finished work on a number of bronze objects and
repaired the glass dissociator tube of the first hydrogen maser,
smashed into thirty-three pieces. Ron Cunningham finished treat-
ment of two oil paintings and continued with work on three others.
Mary Lou Garbin completed work on an early English-style Ameri-
can saddle. This led her to a study of the literature, which has
resulted in her presentation of a bibliography on leather conserva-
tion treatment during a workshop on this subject. The bibliography
will be part of the published proceedings.

After the move to the Museum Support Center, the conservators
organized their laboratories and awaited final installation of equip-
ment and furniture. During this period they cooperated with con-
servators in other Smithsonian laboratories and spent time at the
various museums in an effort to establish conservation needs and
priorities.

Carol Grissom spent three days a week at the Anthropology
Conservation Laboratory of National Museum of Natural History,
substituting for their absent conservation coordinator. She reviewed
objects requested for loan by more than fifteen institutions, speci-
fied packing, shipping, and display conditions, and wrote about 200
condition reports. She also performed treatments on seventeen
objects for the exhibition The Tibetan Yak in Arts and Craft at the
Renwick Gallery, and on two bronzes from the Sackler Collection
for the Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution exhibition.

Ron Cunningham assisted the Freer Gallery of Art at its Tech-
nical Laboratory with a minor treatment of an oil painting on
canvas by James McNeill Whistler, and with extensive conservation
work on sixteen wooden staircase panels painted by the same artist.

Tim Vitale worked at the Division of Conservation at the Na-
tional Museum of American History to help complete the treat-
ments of two architectural elevations, one architectural drawing,
and a color lithograph, in preparation for the exhibition commem-
orating the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge.

At the Renwick Gallery, Marc Williams examined and proposed
treatments for a boulle cabinet and for two sideboards on loan

226 / Smithsonian Year 1984
a}
el
a
°

i}

w
U
5

a}

a}
G
a
>
65
80
=}

a}
1S
a
q

ES
w

G
as

el
c
3
)
eM
ob
+P)
i=)
°

ey
w

a)
a
c

—
|
=|
o
Ww

E

ni
wn

eo
~~
ro)
U
wa

—
|
>
5

jaa

vu
G
~~
ey
°
p>
te
au
ar
6D
&
fas}
&
cD)
ae
—
&
6D
&
xO,
U
wo
oY)
c
|
cS
oO
=
wo
ste
6D
.
i)
OQ
&
THU
ao] ast
wn
og sas
Dae hie
626
eS 4
2 8
er
xs o
veo
=o) 1a)
OAS
~~
See
= @d Oo
= > oo
wo
am =

=
S
=
S)
yn
=
=
tS
ra)
is¥)
=
~~
=
is)
~~
—
yy
i)
~~
x
yn
S
is*)
—
S
vu
&
os
_—
Leal
°
a.
wn
rs
©
iol
~
°
_—
ae
7)
w
|
wn
ov
a
rc]
U
~
AN
rt
vu
G
Cd
Se
fo)
E
fo)
a

from the Metropolitan Museum of Art; he also examined a pair
of Chinese sofas at the National Museum of American Art. Treat-
ment of these objects will take place during the next year.

Also during this period, the statue of Joseph Henry in front of
the Castle was cleaned and waxed by a contract conservator, as
part of a program to protect it from environmental hazards.

As the cat laboratories were completed, objects started to come
in again for conservation treatment. Tim Vitale treated two prints
and two drawings for the National Portrait Gallery. Ron Cunning-
ham treated a canvas wall panel from the studio of Christian
Herter for the Smithsonian Castle Collection, two murals and a
painted wooden tavern sign. Marc Williams treated several objects
for the National Air and Space Museum, among them the pro-
peller of the Wright Brothers’ Flyer. With the exception of the
textile conservation laboratory, which is presently being installed
under the supervision of Mary Ballard, cat conservation labora-
tories at the Support Center are now all operational.

Cat assisted the museums in pest control, keeping the fumiga-
tion chamber at the American History Building operational. Nine-
teen loads for seven bureaus were fumigated. Evaluation of poten-
tial fumigation activities, with a critical review by cat conservation
scientists of various fumigants, continues.

Cat continued to provide calibrated temperature- and humidity-
monitoring instruments and review service to bureaus that request
this. At present, eighty-two hygrothermographs are located in
twelve bureaus.

During this year cat’s conservators presented a number of con-
tributions at professional meetings. Tim Vitale edited the prelim-
inary papers of the Paper Conservation Catalogue, presented at the
annual meeting of the American Institute for Conservation (alc),
for which he contributed a chapter on “Drying and Flattening.”
He also gave a presentation in “Operating Parameters and Use of
Large and Small Suction Tables” at the meeting of the Conserva-
tion Committee of the International Council of Museums (Icom)
held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in September 1984. Mary Ballard
presented a paper on “Risk Assessment and the Use of Fumigants”
at the Sixth International Biodeterioration Conference in Washing-
ton, D.C., on “Ethylene Oxide Fumigation: Risk Assessment and
Results” for the Society of American Archivists, and another on
“Mothproofing Museum Textiles” at the 1com Conservation Com-
mittee meeting.

228 / Smithsonian Year 1984
CONSERVATION SCIENCE

The essential simple technical facilities of the conservation science
group were operational again within a few weeks after the move.
More complicated equipment and facilities needed somewhat more
time to set up; the only service not yet operational at this writing
is X-radiography, for which additional shielding, needed for ade-
quate radiation protection, is being installed.

With the installation of a gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer,
in addition to the installed gas chromatograph (the latter given to
caL by the Department of Anthropology, National Museum of
Natural History, together with an amino acid analyzer and other
apparatus), and the already present infrared spectrometer, CAL now
has assembled a quite powerful facility for the analysis of organic
materials, such as resins, adhesives, paint media, archeological
food residues, etc.

During the past year a large number of requests for analyses
and technical assistance were carried out. Thirty identifications of
such materials as pigments, corrosion products, varnishes, and
corrosion inhibitors were completed. One of these investigations,
a study of the changes that take place with time in a varnish often
used to protect outdoor bronze sculpture against environmental
hazards, resulted in a presentation by David Erhardt at the 1com
Conservation Committee meeting.

Fifteen test studies were done on modern materials used around
museum objects for various purposes. Examples included the an-
alysis of air in museum buildings for the concentration of amines,
which are introduced via the air conditioning system (they are
added to the steam as corrosion inhibitors for the pipes, but they
may have undesirable effects on objects) and the evaluation of the
treatment of concrete floors to improve their properties with regard
to objects storage. Environmental studies addressed control prob-
lems in both micro and macro climates. The design of a cooled exhi-
bition case in which to display General George Washington’s com-
mission as Commander in Chief of the Continental Army, under
controlled relative humidity, was the subject of a presentation by
Tim Padfield at the 1com Conservation Committee meeting. The
movements of salts and water in the walls of buildings, especially
during the winter when the interiors are humidified, are the subject
of a study for which special monitors are being designed, which
will be placed inside walls. Buildings to be monitored in this way
will include the Museum Support Center and the Renwick Gallery.

Museum Programs / 229
Two interns, John Frieman and Deborah Delauney, have worked
with Tim Padfield on this project.

David von Endt helped organize and lectured at the aic work-
shop, ‘““Protein Chemistry for Conservation”; he also contributed
four chapters to the course book that he co-edited. At the Septem-
ber meeting of the International Institute for Conservation (11c) he
presented a poster on the identification of a plant mucilage used as
an adhesive by North American Indians. At the Sixth International
Biodeterioration Conference he gave a presentation on the “Bio-
deterioration of Proteinaceous Materials in Museums.” Tim Pad-
field lectured in February on “Indoor Air Pollution” at the Center
for Building Technology workshop on “Air Quality Criteria for
the Storage of Paperbased Archival Records.”

ARCHAEOMETRY

Activities in the archaeometry program during the past year in-
cluded cooperative programs involving staff, fellows, and research
associates in a wide scope of subjects such as archeology of the
Arctic, Mediterranean, Meso American, and Near Eastern areas;
and technical studies of American and European paintings. A wide
variety of analytical techniques were used in these projects, includ-
ing neutron activation analysis, plasma optical emission spec-
troscopy, lead isotope analysis, petrography, neutron activated
autoradiography, and X-radiography.

The lead isotope analysis program for provenience studies of
archeological artifacts developed into a joint program with the
National Bureau of Standards (NBs) and the Corning Museum of
Glass. This program was originally started when lead isotope
analysis was chosen as a tool in the Freer Gallery of Art’s technical
study of bronzes from the Sackler Collection, but now has grown
into a full-scale cooperative program that supports the analysis of
samples for a number of archeological studies. Approximately 200
samples from thirteen separate projects were analyzed during this
year by research chemist Emile Deal. The neutron activation an-
alysis group at NBs, under the coordination of M. James Blackman,
characterized about 500 samples from six different archeological
projects, including work by Materials Analysis fellows Albert
Jornet, Emlen Myers, Rita Wright, and Christopher Nagle. This
cau facility bought a hyper-pure germanium detector, a fifty-posi-
tion sample changer, and new software for the vax 750 computer
around which the gamma ray spectrometry systems at NBS are
centered.

230 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Ronald Bishop developed a data storage/retrieval system for saR-
CAR, using the vax 750 computer at the Support Center. A statis-
tical softwear package interfaces with the databank. In addition to
data resulting from the work of fellows and staff, those of about
20,000 analyses done in the archaeometry program at Brookhaven
National Laboratory have now been entered in the data bank.
Recently, the uniquely important collection of samples and data
of the eminent historical metallurgist, the late Earle Caley, was
donated to sarcar. Ronald Bishop also continues his research into
archeological problems relating to the Maya civilization, making
use of the sarcar data-handling facility.

Yu-tarng Cheng continued work on the development of a facility
at the nss research reactor for neutron-induced autoradiography of
paintings. The work group for this project, which also includes
Jacqueline S. Olin, Roland Cunningham, and research associate
Susan Hobbs, continued the study of paintings by American artist
Thomas W. Dewing with two of his works, Duet and Nude. In
cooperation with the Metropolitan Museum of Art, that museum’s
earlier project on the study of the techniques used by Rembrandt,
originally done at Brookhaven National Laboratory, was continued
with the autoradiography of two paintings by Rembrandt: Man in
an Archway and Portrait of a Lady.

As a visiting scientist in caL’s archaeometry department, Dr. Ian
Brindle of Brock University, Ontario, Canada, worked with the
staff on the development of procedures for the provenience study
of North American native copper artifacts, using direct current
plasma optical emission spectroscopy. Dr. Bruno Frohlich, under
contract with cAL, carried out an electromagnetic prospecting proj-
ect in Bahrain, to identify and characterize archeological sites on
the Arabian peninsula. Two new postdoctoral fellows in Materials
Analysis, Marilyn Beaudry and Julian Henderson, were appointed.

Cat Archaeometry Department staff produced a number of
lectures and contributions to professional meetings. Four contribu-
tions were presented by Jacqueline Olin, Marino Maggetti, Albert
Jornet, and James Blackman at the Williamsburg Conference of the
Society for Historical Archaeology. Albert Jornet represented the
group with “A Study of Ceramic from the Paterna-Manises Area”
at the Pittsburgh meeting of the American Ceramic Society and
with “Study of Maiolica from Three Production Areas of Spain”
at the International Archaeometry Symposium in Washington, D.C.
Also at this meeting, Emile Deal presented “Determining the
Provenance of Works of Art and Comparative Samples by Lead

Museum Programs / 231
Isotope Ratio Analysis,” and James Blackman offered “The Use of
Interlaboratory Data Sets in Provenience Studies.”

Ronald Bishop presented “Compositional Attribution of Non-
Provenienced Maya Polychrome Vessels” at the international sem-
inar “Application of Science in Examination of Works of Art” at
the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, where Yu-tarng Cheng showed
a poster describing the proposed facility for autoradiography at
nBs. Rita Wright presented “Standardization as Evidence for Craft
Specialization, a Case Study,” at the Chicago meeting of the Amer-
ican Anthropological Association. Ronald Bishop presented “SAR-
CAR, A New Archaeometrical Resource” at the 1com Conservation
Committee meeting.

INFORMATION AND TEACHING

Staff members of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory continued
to lecture and teach, both inside and outside the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. Ronald Bishop lectured at the University of Costa Rica on
“Activacion de Neutrones de la Ceramica y Jade de Costa Rica’;
and on “Neutron Activation and the Modeling of Ceramic Com-
positional Data” at the Center for Materials Research in Archae-
ology and Ethnology (cmraer) at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. Emile Deal lectured on the archaeometrical use of lead
isotope analysis at the University of the District of Columbia, and
presented a poster on the subject for the Association for the Devel-
opment and Advancement of Black Scientists and Engineers.
Martha Goodway lectured at a National Park Service workshop
on bronze statuary; on “Forensic Aspects of Art Forgery” for the
North Eastern Association of Forensic Scientists; and on “Metal-
lurgy in the Museum” for the American Society for Metals, Wash-
ington chapter. Eleanor McMillan taught and lectured at four
different workshops organized by the Office of Museum Programs;
she also lectured on “Exhibit Design and Conservation” for the
American Association of Museums and for the Northeast Mu-
seums Conference; and on “Preventive Maintenance” for the
U.S. Army Curatorial Museum Training Course; on ‘“Conserva-
tion at the Smithsonian” at Gonzaga University in Spokane; and
on “Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution, a Closer Look”
for the Cincinnati Historical Society. Jacqueline Olin presented
lectures on the definition and goals of archaeometry at the Univer-
sity of Maryland and at the State University of New Jersey at
Rutgers. Tim Vitale spoke on “The Examination and Treatment of
a Variety of Works on Paper from the National Air and Space

232 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Museum Collection” at the Space Science and Exploration Depart-
ment. Rita Wright lectured on “Why and How Archaeologists
Study Ceramic Technology” at the Winterthur Art Conservation
Program; together with Emlen Myers she presented an Archae-
ometry/Anthropology Lunchtime Talk on “Patterns of Techno-
logical Variation and Change: Examples from Third Millennium
Pakistan and Contemporary Morocco.”

The information program for the general public handled 596
requests, referring the questions to the appropriate CAL conserva-
tors. Marjorie Cleveland of the professional information service
performed more than a hundred literature searches for conserva-
tors and researchers.

Tim Vitale coordinated the course ‘Traditional Japanese Mount-
ing Techniques for Application to Western Conservation Treat-
ments,” taught by Japanese expert Katsuhiko Masuda at cat. This
valuable course, originally presented at the International Conserva-
tion Center at Rome, had been available to only a few American
conservators; here twelve participated.

The twenty-fourth International Archaeometry Symposium was
organized by Jacqueline Olin and James Blackman and held in the
Baird Auditorium May 14-18. More than two hundred participants
from sixteen countries attended this meeting, which included ses-
sions on Stable Isotope Measurement in Archaeology, Ancient
Technology, Prospection, Mathematical Methods, Provenience
Studies, and Dating. The proceedings of the meeting will be pub-
lished in the Smithsonian Press series Contributions to Anthro-
pology.

In the series of si-NBs seminars, Helmut Schweppe of BASF
Aktiengesellschaft in West Germany presented a lecture on the
“Identification of Dyes in Historical Textiles.” He also conducted
a workshop for Smithsonian conservators at cat. Other lectures in
this series were given by Emile Deal on “The Use of Lead Isotope
Ratios for the Determination of the Provenience of Ancient Ob-
jects’ and by Ronald Bishop on ‘’The Science and Art of Classic
Maya Pictorial Ceramics.”

Preparation continued for the conservation training project,
which is expected to start in September 1985.

National Museum Act Programs

The National Museum Act (nMa), established by Congress in 1966,
responded to continuing needs in the museum field through grants

Museum Programs / 233
for researching museum-related problems, disseminating technical
information, and training mid-career or beginning professionals.
Conservation issues were again emphasized in each of the grant
categories that were offered in 1984. The Advisory Council re-
viewed 228 proposals requesting over $4 million, the largest group
of applications ever received. Sixty-two awards were made, totaling
$686,000; of that number, 70 percent concerned training and re-
search in conservation.

Training grants for beginning professionals were made to aca-
demic institutions with museum-related courses, to museums with
established internship programs, and to individuals pursuing grad-
uate or advanced training in conservation both here and abroad.
Graduate training in academic institutions included support for the
first American program in architectural conservation. Internship
programs, which enable individuals to gain valuable hands-on ex-
perience that cannot be acquired in an academic setting, involved
art and history museums as well as a major planetarium in the
Midwest, botanical gardens in New York and Missouri, and three
zoos. Grants for individuals covered various areas of conservation,
such as paintings, textiles, works on paper, and ethnographic
materials.

Seminars supported by nma are designed primarily to reach pro-
fessionals who are already employed by museums and who can
profit from state-of-the-art information on specialized topics. In
1984, awards were made to benefit individuals in history, science,
and art museums. The seminar for history museum professionals
at Colonial Williamsburg, jointly sponsored by the American Asso-
ciation of Museums, the American Association for State and Local
History, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation, has
successfully addressed changing needs for twenty-five consecutive
years. Special workshops for professionals in science museums
involved model outreach and teacher-training programs that are
relevant to the important educational role of museums. Several
seminars dealt with conservation topics, such as the care of paint-
ings, paper, and photographic collections or the use of microscopes
in determining the treatment of objects. A series of regional sem-
inars on management for staff members of museums exhibiting
African American materials was funded, as well as a three-day
workshop on issues that affect Native American museums.

Most of the research grants made in 1984 involved technical
problems in conservation. One study will investigate the effective-
ness of certain pesticides both on insects and museum specimens

234 / Smithsonian Year 1984
and another, methods of consolidating deteriorated stone. Nma
funds will partially support the development of a test that can be
used by museums to determine safe storage enclosures for historic
photographs and a project to identify fungi that endanger artistic
and historic works. An award was made to prepare a manual for
museum professionals on the latest techniques of preserving
daguerrotypes; this information is the result of previous NMA
grants on this topic.

A special category of grants concerns technical services to the
museum field that do not involve training or research. In 1984 a
museum-related organization in New York was awarded funds to
produce a series of data sheets on health hazards in museum con-
servation, and a zoological garden in the Midwest received a grant
to improve an inventory system that provides information on
captive animals, many of which are endangered species, to zoos in
the United States and abroad. The National Museum Act continued
to support important regional museum associations around the
country, enabling them to strengthen the programs of their annual
meetings, and to sustain the consultant program for history mu-
seums that has been successfully administered by the American
Association for State and Local History since 1972.

Office of Exhibits Central

This year the Office of Exhibits Central (o&c) worked with almost
every Smithsonian museum on one extraordinary exhibition: Trea-
sures from the Smithsonian Institution, which opened on August
12, 1984, at the Royal Scottish Museum in conjunction with the
1984 Edinburgh Festival. It will close and be returned to the Smith-
sonian in early November. Conceived, designed, written and edited,
produced, crated, shipped, and installed within six months, Trea-
sures from the Smithsonian Institution called on all of the talents
and in-depth experience of the orc. This, however, was but one
of more than two hundred projects worked on by the otc this year.

In June otc administrative, editorial, and typesetting offices were
relocated to the Smithsonian Institution Service Center (s1sc) at
1111 North Capitol Street, because of the roofing and restoration
work in the Arts and Industries Building. Substantial rearrange-
ments were necessary to incorporate staff and equipment into the

Museum Programs / 235
existing orc facilities at stsc but, for the first time since being
established, the entire orc staff is now located in one building. In
September the orc Model Shop began providing limited freeze-dry
services, which had been discontinued when the lab was closed in
the Natural History Building a year earlier. In October a complete
house cleaning is scheduled to upgrade all otc offices and shops.

The two hundred or so separate projects that o—c completes each
year include many exhibit-related tasks that are performed during
the inherent down-time of all exhibition programs. These tasks
utilize the same equipment and talents as exhibition work, hence
the term exhibit-related projects. This year, for instance, name-
plates used at Regents meetings were re-done, which involved
twenty work-hours and less than $75 in material costs. A new, all-
weather label was produced and installed for the Downing Urn
located on the Mall lawn of the Castle building. This required
thirty work-hours and $36.08 in material costs. The oEc’s com-
puterized accounting system records all projects and the requesting
Smithsonian office reimburses all material costs. Such projects are
routinely accepted on a time-available basis; however, more than
half of the yearly projects produced by the orc are more compre-
hensive and are scheduled on a deadline basis.

Thirty new exhibitions were produced for the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Traveling Exhibition Service (sites), three others required
updating changes, and fourteen were refurbished for extended tour.
Two special temporary exhibitions were installed in the Castle
lounge, and the orc again provided graphics for the Festival of
American Folklife. The Information Carts and summer information
pylons for the Mall were refurbished by the otc, and portrait man-
nikin heads were cast of astronauts Sally Ride and Guion Bluford
for the National Air and Space Museum. The otc Exhibits Editors
Office wrote, edited, designed, and supervised the printing of thirty
foreign and forty domestic tour brochures for the Associates
Travel Program. This year the brochure for China tours was de-
veloped as a folder describing each of the twelve tours offered.
This very successful format will now be used for other multiple
tour offerings.

Model-makers David Paper, James Reuter, and Benjamin Snouf-
fer received cash awards this year for the construction—which
required considerable research and interpretation of very limited
documentation—of a nine-foot-high model of Russian construc-
tivist Vladimir Tatlin’s Monument to the Third International for
the Hirshhorn Museum exhibition Dreams and Nightmares. The

236 / Smithsonian Year 1984
model, now in the museum’s collections, is a milestone in the
development and building of scale models of visionary art/archi-
tecture. For the same exhibition Karen Fort, chief exhibits editor,
wrote and edited a complex didactic script for the labels—an un-
usual approach in most art exhibitions. By all standards the Ex-
hibits Editors Office had an active and very involved year. Karen
Fort also wrote and edited labels for the Art of the Cameroon
exhibition, and editor Rosemary Regan wrote and edited the text
and coordinated Spanish translations for the bilingual exhibition
Age of Gold; both scripts were written from catalogue copy for
these sites exhibitions. Michael Fruitman, an otc editor, left the
Smithsonian for a writing position at the Government Accounting
Office. Fruitman’s services of top-rate exhibit-label writing and
editing over a period of nine years are much appreciated. He was
replaced by editorial assistant Diana Cohen.

The Art of Cameroon exhibition script involved interpreting as
well as identifying 125 objects; other orc participation on this
comprehensive exhibition was equally complex. John Widener,
assistant chief, o—c, supervised the construction of the cases on
contract. The Model Shop designed and produced brackets or
mounting devices for each object, ranging from life-size sculpted
wood figures and masks to extremely delicate leather and beadwork
jewelry. The Graphic Production Unit silk-screened the exhibition
labels on formica, plastic, and fabric surfaces; and the Fabrication
Unit built custom shipping crates for all of the objects and all of
the exhibition cases and fixtures. The exhibition opened in the
Evans Gallery, National Museum of Natural History, and will
travel for approximately two years in the United States.

No exhibition this year, or since orc was established in 1972,
better illustrates the experienced teamwork of this office than does
Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution. Designed, written and
edited, produced, shipped to Edinburgh, and installed within six
months’ time, this major exhibition—the Smithsonian’s first partici-
pation in the Edinburgh Festival—has been an outstanding success,
as well as the largest, most comprehensive exhibition ever traveled
by the Smithsonian Institution.

More than 260 objects, representing almost every Smithsonian
unit, were assembled by Donald McClelland, sires coordinator and
curator/organizer for the exhibition. Orc director Jim Mahoney
designed the exhibition, produced the drawings and specifications
for contracting the construction of the “set’’ by the London firm
of Wedgehand Ltd., and supervised the complete installation in the

Museum Programs / 237
Royal Scottish Museum. Karen Fort wrote and edited the exhibi-
tion labels from information provided by sources throughout the
Smithsonian. She also supervised the phototypesetting of the more
than three hundred labels by otc specialist Elizabeth Wilform.
Mary Dillon, as assistant designer, was the ultimate “girl Friday,”
coordinating design information and detailing within the orc and
between the Smithsonian and the Royal Scottish Museum. Model
Shop supervisor Walter Sorrell oversaw the making of brackets
and mounting devices for the objects and the design and construc-
tion of customized interiors for the shipping crates. Fabrication
supervisor Kenneth Clevinger measured and coordinated the con-
struction of the shipping crates—127 in all—and the fabrication
of pedestals and graphic elements. James Speight, Graphic Produc-
tion supervisor, and his staff silk-screened all of the labels. And
John Widener balanced and juggled the scheduling of all of this,
as well as okc’s other projects, through the shops.

Mary Jane Clark, sites registrar, coordinated the documentation,
packing, shipping, and unpacking at the Royal Scottish Museum.
She also served as courier on the first of three U.S. Air Force flights
that transported the exhibition to Edinburgh and worked through
the entire installation. The oec’s David Paper and James Reuter
worked on every phase of the installation; Mary Dillon served as
a courier and worked through the installation; and Christopher
Addison, of the National Museum of American Art, Barbara Cof-
fee, of the National Museum of American History, and sites
staffers Eileen Rose and Janet Freund also participated as members
of the installation team. It was an exciting and exhausting experi-
ence. On the day after the opening ceremonies, Jim Mahoney,
Mary Jane Clark, and the Royal Scottish Museum staff discussed
plans for dismantling the exhibition and taking the objects home
to the Smithsonian Institution.

Office of Horticulture

Fiscal year 1984 has been extremely productive throughout the
units of the Office of Horticulture. Our educational research and
outreach projects have expanded dramatically. Requests from
within the Smithsonian Institution as well as from other museums,
botanical organizations, educational institutions, and the general

238 / Smithsonian Year 1984
public for assistance with horticultural research, publications,
seminars, and exhibitions have been fulfilled without additional
personnel. A major factor in this accomplishment has been the
excellent work contributed by our supporting staff of volunteers
and interns.

Some of the specific projects included: the removal and trans-
planting of the plantings on the east end of the National Air and
Space Museum; the closing of the award-winning American Gar-
den at the IV International Horticultural Exhibition (1ca 83) in
Munich, West Germany; the inventory of the Burpee Collection
of rare seed catalogues; the acquisition of many labeled antique
garden furnishings for the Enid A. Haupt Garden in the Quad-
rangle; and the relandscaping of the courtyards at the National
Museum of African Art and at the American Art and Portrait
Gallery Building.

The office provided support for 394 Special Events during the
year—a 33 percent increase over fiscal year 1983. Of those, the
following events required special attention: the Regents Dinners,
Doubleday Dinners and Lectures, Musical Weekend, Renwick
Waltz for the Contributing Membership, Diplomatic Dinner, Yale
Alumni Dinner, the 20th Anniversary Dinner in honor of S. Dillon
Ripley, the Whistler Exhibition, and the ‘Smithsonian Treasures”
program.

The office assisted the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Associates with their Annual Christmas Ball, held on December 9,
1983, by transforming the rotunda of the National Museum of
Natural History (NMNH) into a “Dickens Christmas.” More than
160 poinsettias, eleven cut trees, twelve garlands, and nine “‘kiss-
ing balls” captured the holiday spirit. Village scenes were fabri-
cated by the Office of Exhibits Central with the assistance of
Warren Abbott, an Office of Horticulture gardener and artist.

The seventh annual Trees of Christmas exhibition was pre-
sented from December 15, 1983, through January 2, 1984, in con-
junction with the National Museum of American History (NMAH).
Dixie Rettig, one of our volunteers, assisted Lauranne C. Nash,
chief of Education Division, throughout the year with her coordi-
nation of this exhibit. Of the twelve trees presented, the following
nine were new: “State Birds and Flowers” from Judy Ford Hogan
and Mary I. Llewellyn; “Muslin and Lace” from Virginia C. Trus-
low; “Nutcracker Suite’ from the Washington, D.C., Chapter,
Embroiderers’ Guild of America, Inc.; “Crocheted Snowflakes”
from Helen Haywood, Dorothy Scimshaw, and Priscilla Sparks;

Museum Programs / 239
“Folk Art Tree” from the Nation’s Capital Chapter of the Na-
tional Society of Tole and Decorative Painters, Inc.; ““Red, White,
and Blue” from Sunny O’Neil; “Scandinavia” from the Scandina-
vian Council of the Washington, D.C., area; ‘“Tole and Decorative
Painting” from the National Society of Tole and Decorative Paint-
ers, Inc.; and the “American Crafters’ Tree” from American craft-
ers. The following three trees were chosen from previous exhibi-
tions: “Germany” from the Association of German-American
Societies of Greater Washington, D.C.; “Nature’s Bounty” from
four generations of the Cronin family: Blanche Williar, Jane
Cronin, Donna Cronin Fay, Teresa and Michael Fay; and the
“Legend of the Spider” (previously named the tree of ““Ukraine”)
from Helen Gunderson, Maureen Coleman, Mary G. Pister, and
Dixie Rettig. All ornaments from the new trees were donated to
the Office of Horticulture for future Trees of Christmas exhibi-
tions. Mike Carrigan, exhibits designer for NMAH, borrowed con-
temporary wooden sculptures by William Accorsi, which were dis-
played with the trees. On December 14 the office sponsored a
reception honoring the hundreds of volunteers who worked on
the exhibition.

On March 30, 1984, the Office of Horticulture transformed the
Renwick Gallery into a spring festival of flowers for the Annual
Contributing Membership Waltz. Two magnificent antique urns
from the William Adams foundry and one large rusticated tree
trunk urn bearing the mark of the Miller Iron Company were
restored for this event. The Greenhouse-Nursery Division forced
spring bulbs, cut forsythia, and other spring flowers to create
spectacular arrangements in these urns, which have been acquired
for the Quadrangle Garden through the generosity of Mrs. Enid A.
Haupt. Several hundred tubs of cymbidium orchids as well as other
specimen plants from the permanent collections of the office were
used to create this spring floral theme.

In late May-early June, floral decorations were provided for
“Smithsonian Treasures,” sponsored by the Smithsonian National
Associate Travel Program, to enhance the setting at each program
site. Potted plants and flower arrangements from Office of Horti-
culture collections decorated the many events held during the
American Association of Museums Conference (June 10-14).

The Plant and Accessioning Records System was completely
overhauled during the year. August A. Dietz IV, Greenhouse-
Nursery manager, worked with the director of the office on a
three-month detail to review and rewrite the accessioning policies

240 / Smithsonian Year 1984
James R. Buckler, director of the Office of Horticulture, and Christian Hohenlohe,
former Treasurer of the Smithsonian, view the Smithsonian Institution American
Garden at the IV International Horticulture Exhibition in Munich, West Ger-
many, from the pavilion, which was reproduced from a nineteenth-century sum-
merhouse located at the Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Home in Washington, D.C.
for our collections. In 1983 the office began reviewing all land-
scape plans of Smithsonian properties in order to accession all
permanent plant collections accurately. This mapping process has
been completed and brass labels have been made for the perma-
nent trees, shrubs, and groundcover beds. Maureen Coleman, land-
scape designer, was responsible for coordinating this project. The
horticultural records assistant, assigned to the Greenhouse-Nursery
Division in March 1984, entered the data gathered during the
mapping phase into the computer.

The Office of Horticulture Library, established as a full Branch
Library of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries in fiscal year 1983,
was increased by approximately 150-200 volumes. Many of these
are highly technical references needed to continue the research on
our orchid collection. Marguerite MacMahon, a volunteer, has
diligently continued to maintain the inventory and storage records
of the large number of periodicals received by the office each year.

The donation of the Burpee Collection was received by the
office during 1982-83. This extraordinary gift of more than 25,000
seed-trade catalogues, records, and memorabilia from the W. Atlee
Burpee Company and the late Mrs. David Burpee is rapidly be-
coming available as a result of the work of horticultural and land-
scape historian Kathryn Meehan and volunteers Sally Tomlinson,
Helen Gunderson, and Jeanne O. Shields. Working with the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Mrs. Meehan has coordinated
the unpacking, sorting, fumigating, cataloguing, and organizing of
this important collection, which will be housed in the Office of
Horticulture Library, located on North Balcony of the Arts and
Industries Building. To date, 12,715 catalogues, through the year
1913, have been processed.

In July 1984 the James Smithson Society provided a grant of
$35,000 to purchase a collection of 150 volumes on the History of
Landscape Architecture in America, 1799-1938. This rare collec-
tion, assembled by Elizabeth Woodburn, antiquarian bookseller
and horticultural historian in Princeton, New Jersey, will be invalu-
able for current and future research on the history and evolution
of horticulture and landscape design.

Another small but significant collection of seed-trade records,
correspondence, and tools was received from Gladys and Florence
Whitehead, descendants of the Bedman family who founded the
Bedman Brothers Seed Farm in 1843 near Rahway, New Jersey.
The Bedmans produced seed for many important companies, in-
cluding W. Atlee Burpee. They were noted for their development

242 / Smithsonian Year 1984
of seed for the popular nineteenth-century “bedding-out” plant,
salvia, in addition to many others.

The Interior Plant Program was transferred from the Education
Division to the Grounds Management Division for the installation,
maintenance, and rotation of all interior plants. This transfer has
streamlined our service to Smithsonian bureaus. Renovations of
the permanent galleries at the Freer, National Air and Space Mu-
seum, National Museum of African Art, and Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden were completed in 1984 along with large
installations of plants for the Whistler exhibition at the Freer;
Ban Chiang at NMNH; and the Palm Court at nmau. All plants were
selected by Lauranne Nash to complement the exhibitions and/or
decor of the particular gallery as well for their ability to with-
stand the environmental conditions. The office maintains on a daily
basis over 2,000 plants throughout the Smithsonian Institution

Volunteers Bruce Buntin, Dorothy High, and Charlene Hescock
completed another successful year of weekly maintenance and
rotation of rare and unusual plants and floral arrangements for
the exhibition A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza.

Recruitment for the Student Intern Program was conducted in
fiscal year 1984 by mailing more than 1,100 letters to horticul-
tural schools and members of professional societies. As a result,
the following interns worked with this office: Melissa Pilant,
Washington State University, referred by the Smithsonian Office
of Elementary and Secondary Education, spent five weeks as a
junior intern in all divisions; Mr. David Steingrubey, University of
Florida, registered for a one-year internship working in our orchid
collection; and Jennifer Dimling, Colorado College, began working
at the Greenhouse-Nursery Division in September 1984.

Lauranne Nash has continued to serve on the Smithsonian
Institution Internship Council and was elected to serve as cochair-
person for one year beginning in January 1985.

The Grounds Management Division, under the direction of
Kenneth Hawkins, completed many projects this year, including
the relandscaping of the courtyard at the National Portrait Gal-
lery and the National Museum of American Art; installation of
eighty rare white quince along the walls of the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden; installation of new tubbed plants on the
third-floor terrace and flower boxes for the west terrace cafeteria
at the National Air and Space Museum; relandscaping the Na-
tional Museum of African Art’s courtyard by installing a magnifi-
cent Victorian cast-iron fountain (c. 1849, J. W. Fiske), Victorian

Museum Programs / 243
benches and lamp posts, as well as tubbed plants; the landscaping
of the Victorian Bandstand and Calder Sculpture at the NMAH;
and the creation of a new garden at the Barney Studio House
in time for the American Association of Museums conference.
Through the efforts of Gerald Dobbs, an Office of Horticulture
gardener, the Fragrant Garden (East Garden) continued to evolve
as a sensory attraction for the handicapped. The Grounds Man-
agement Division, assisted by John W. Monday, assistant director,
and Maureen Coleman, completed the removal of plantings from
the east end of the National Air and Space Museum in prepara-
tion for the new restaurant. Most of the plantings were relocated
at the Museum Support Center.

In addition to these major projects, the Grounds Management
Division was responsible for snow and ice removal; replacement
of the dead hawthorns with ginkgo trees at NMNH; and the plant-
ings of 55,000 spring bulbs, 14,000 pansies, and 22,000 flowering
annuals.

The Greenhouse-Nursery Division produced 14,000 pansies,
30,000 annuals, 13,000 cut flowers, 700 tropical plants, and over
12,000 seasonal potted plants for special events, interior plant dis-
plays, and exterior flower beds and borders. In addition, the
Greenhouse-Nursery Division provided special plantings for the
Victorian Bandstand installed at the NMau, and the perennials and
woody plants for the Barney Studio House Garden.

Several improvements were made to the greenhouse-nursery
complex to improve safety conditions and to reduce temperature
fluctuations that are damaging to plant materials. The plant collec-
tions in the greenhouse continued to expand at a modest pace; at
the same time the office evaluated existing collections to allow for
the disposition of poor quality genera, species, and hybrids. In
November 1983 Paul E. Desautels, guest curator of the Orchid
Collection, and Buckler, director of the office, visited Mrs. Beverly
Pabst in Hillsborough, California, to pack the remaining orchid
collection of the late Rudolf Pabst. The 247 extremely rare “stud”
plants that were donated to the office by Mrs. Pabst this year will
be a vital addition to the 2,000-plant collection she donated in
1979. The office also acquired 200 species of orchids from Brad
Van Scriver of Garden Grove, California.

More than 40 percent of the Black River Collection, acquired in
1982, has flowered and evaluations have been made. The plants
not worthy of the National Orchid Collection are exchanged and
traded for new plants or supplies, primarily under contract with

244 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Kensington Orchids, Kensington, Maryland. In addition, the office
provided surplus plants to the National Zoological Park, the U.S.
Botanic Gardens, and the National Aquarium in Baltimore. The
office is now installing a tissue culture laboratory for the propaga-
tion of rare and desirable clones and endangered species. In Oc-
tober 1983, the office exhibited about forty mixed hybrids and
species from the National Orchid Collection at the National Capital
Orchid Show held at the U.S. National Arboretum. An exhibit has
been planned for the 1984 show.

The Bromeliad Collection was inventoried this year and the data
collected will be entered into the computer in fiscal year 1985. This
remarkable collection of over 800 plants (350 hybrids and species)
is often displayed with our orchid collection in interior exhibitions
throughout the Smithsonian Institution museums. In addition, the
office has now developed collections of 110 varieties of Hedera helix
(English Ivy) and twenty-four varieties of Hosta.

In March 1984 the office established a full-time position to
handle the records and accessioning system of the Greenhouse-
Nursery Division thus permitting the office to reduce the accession-
ing backlog by more than 80 percent. Over 18,000 accessions were
entered into the computer bank this year—primarily of the orchid
collection. Desautels will continue to edit all data from our com-
puter printouts, and an accurate inventory should be available
early in the fall of 1984. Thirty percent of the plants in the orchid
collection have been arranged in the greenhouses in alphabetical
order by scientific name so that the physical inventory of the
collection can be cross-indexed with the computer records.

The office has worked throughout the year on the new Enid A.
Haupt Garden for the Quadrangle. The completion of this garden
in 1986-87 will mark the opening of a distinguished new American
garden for public enjoyment. Director James R. Buckler and the
Office of Horticulture staff have been working closely with John-
Paul Carlhian, architect for the Quadrangle, from the Boston firm
of Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson, and Abbott, and landscape
architect Lester Collins in the development of the landscape plan.
The office has already selected specimen plants and has collected
original period garden furnishings, including vases or urns, settees,
garden sculptures, lamp posts, and wickets or lawn guards for the
garden. Many of the new garden furnishings are labeled pieces
from such important nineteenth-century foundries as J. W. Fiske,
J. L. Mott, Kramer Brothers, William Adams, and J. McLean. The
Enid A. Haupt Garden will be created as an outdoor exhibition

Museum Programs / 245
gallery of plants, garden furnishings, and accessories. The office is
now researching and designing the embroidery parterre, bedding
designs, and the plantings appropriate for the garden vases. The
Greenhouse-Nursery Division will begin production of much of
the material needed for the bedding designs in the fall of 1984.

In October 1983 the IV Internationale Gartenbau Austellung
(IGA 83) in Munich closed to the public. The Smithsonian Institu-
tion American Garden, designed by James R. Buckler and Kathryn
Meehan, was presented a silver award by the German Association
of Landscape Architects. More than eleven million visitors toured
this grand international exhibition in 1983. For her enduring sup-
port and generous financial contribution to the American Garden,
Honoré Wamsler, an American living in Munich, was awarded the
Smithson Medal and a citation of appreciation by Secretary Ripley
at a luncheon in her honor on February 7, 1984. On September 11,
1984, Dr. Detlef Marx, director of 1¢a 83, and his family visited
the Smithsonian to express his gratitude for the Institution’s par-
ticipation in the Munich show.

Staff members continued to support civic and educational pro-
grams. John W. Monday agreed to serve three more years on the
Horticulture Advisory Committee of the Northern Virginia Com-
munity College and to serve as chairman of the Eastern Regional
Advisory Council of the ‘Horticulture Hiring the Disabled.” Lau-
ranne C. Nash completed a year’s service as president of the D.C.
branch of the Professional Grounds Management Society and be-
gan serving another one-year term as chairman of the board of the
branch.

Buckler served on the board of directors of the Rockwood Mu-
seum, the finest rural Gothic estate left in America, located in Wil-
mington, Delaware; and the National Colonial Farm, a joint project
of the Accokeek Foundation and the National Park Service in Acco-
keek, Maryland; he was also elected to the board of the new
Kentucky Botanical Gardens in Louisville. For much of the year,
Buckler served on the Long-Range Planning Committee of the
National Colinial Farm to establish a workable management, edu-
cational, and research plan through the year 2005.

In addition, Buckler continued to present educational programs
to museums, botanical gardens, and historical societies throughout
the year. A lecture entitled “The Horticultural Extravaganza of the
Victorian Era” was presented to the Garden Club of Wilmington,
Delaware (January 9); Fairfax Virginia Garden Club (January 10);
the Goose Creek Herb Guild of Middleburg, Virginia (March 25);

246 / Smithsonian Year 1984
and the Golf Course Superintendents of Metropolitan, D.C. (April
24). Major presentations were given on the history and evolution
of nineteenth-century horticulture in America at the “Old Home
and Garden Fair” at the Margaret Strong Museum in Rochester,
New York (March 23); the annual meeting of the Congressional
Cemetery Association, Washington, D.C. (March 24); the first
“Art in Bloom” program, Minneapolis, Minnesota Institute of Arts
(May 10); and the Strawbery Banke Museum in Portsmouth, New
Hampshire (September 14).

On July 25, 1984, Buckler was awarded Honorary Membership
in the American Academy of Floriculture by the Society of Ameri-
can Florists (sar) “in recognition of his efforts on behalf of the
floral industry and sar-The Center for Commercial Floriculture.”
This award was presented during the 100th anniversary of sar.
For the sar centennial publication, Buckler and Kathryn Meehan
wrote an article entitled “A Victorian Horticultural Extravaganza”
that highlighted the early years of the floricultural and horticultural
industry in America.

On February 8, 1984, Lauranne Nash represented the Office of
Horticulture at the Second Annual Horticultural Career Day at the
University of Maryland, for horticultural students in the Washing-
ton, D.C., area. She provided information on horticultural careers
at the Smithsonian and other government agencies. On March 6,
1984, she lectured to the students in the Institute of Applied Agri-
culture’s Horticulture Seminar at the University of Maryland on
the Interior Plant Program at the Smithsonian. She also served as
a horticulture judge for the Arlington County Fair in Virginia on
August 23, 1984.

The office continued to work with the Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program in providing tours of the Greenhouse-Nursery
Division and the Philadelphia Flower Show.

Participants from across the United States and as far away as
China enthusiastically joined the Office of Horticulture for a broad
offering of horticultural lectures, seminars, and workshops during
fiscal year 1984.

In commemoration of the Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris, an
all-day seminar was offered by the Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program on October 20, 1983, entitled ““The Great Garden Ex-
change.” Coordinated by Buckler and Mrs. Meehan, a panel of
horticultural historians explored the dominant garden traditions
and exciting experiments that distinguished the period 1750 to
1830 in the United States, England, and France. Panelists and their

Museum Programs / 247
lectures included: Dr. Joan Challinor, chairman, National Com-
mittee for the Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris, “Historical Over-
view of the Period’; Julia Davis, garden historian, “Atlantic
Letters: The English Landscape Influence in North America”;
Howard Adams, garden historian and guest curator of the 1976
National Gallery of Arts exhibition The Eye of Thomas Jefferson,
who spoke on “The French Garden’s Influence in America’; Elea-
nor M. McPeck, landscape historian and instructor, Radcliff
College Seminar Program in Landscape Design, ‘Modern Garden-
ing in America”; and Buckler, “Gardens of American Statesmen:
Mount Vernon, Woodlawn, Williamsburg, and Monticello.”

The office also coordinated “Gardens by Design,” a week-long
in-depth seminar and tour program of major horticultural sites in
and around Washington, D.C., offered by the Smithsonian National
Associate Program, April 29-May 4. Forty-three participants
studied the arts of designing and planting large and small gardens
of historic or contemporary nature. Tours of historic properties,
estate gardens, botanic collections, and modern greenhouse-produc-
tion facilities were led by staff and guest horticultural specialists.

Through the sponsorship of the Office of Museum Programs,
“Horticulture in a Museum Setting,” a three-day workshop (June
27-29), was coordinated by the Office of Horticulture and intro-
duced twenty museum professionals to the horticultural possibili-
ties in and around museum buildings. The workshop covered such
topics as the history of gardens, the relationship of horticulture to
collections, basic maintenance, growing methods, historic horti-
cultural research, landscape design, the selection and maintenance
of interior plants, design and installation of seasonal decorations,
design and installation of signage in the garden, putting garden
plans on paper and into print, fundraising, and volunteer assistance.
The workshop included tours to a number of horticultural sites in
the Washington area.

Buckler conducted tours of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden; A Victorian Horticultural Extravangaza exhibition;
the Horticultural Research Center, Hillwood Gardens; and, together
with the staff, the Smithsonian greenhouses and collections. A tour
of Dumbarton Oaks was conducted by Donald Smith, superinten-
dent of grounds; and Erik Neuman, curator of education, led a tour
of the National Arboretum.

The Office of Horticulture entered its thirteenth year as a unit
of the Smithsonian Institution in the summer of 1984. The up-
coming two years promise to be very exciting, with the develop-

248 / Smithsonian Year 1984
ment of a new greenhouse-nursery facility at the U.S. Soldiers’
and Airmen’s Home, the continued work on the Enid A. Haupt
Garden, and the publication of research data by the director on
the history and evolution of horticulture in America during the
nineteenth century. It is anticipated that the office will continue
to expand its educational, research, and exhibition programs for
all of the museums and to offer additional seminars, workshops,
and lecture series on practical and historical horticulture.

Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs (omp) of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution provides training, services, information, and assistance for
the professional development of museum personnel and institu-
tions throughout the United States and abroad. Its goals and ob-
jectives are fulfilled by coordinated activities that are woven into
a total program of distinct but interrelated training activities, ser-
vices, and research into methods that will improve the effective-
ness of museum operations and practices nationally and inter-
nationally.

From the diverse and extensive resources and expertise of the
Smithsonian, the Office of Museum Programs offers museum train-
ing workshops, both in Washington, D.C., and on site; arranges
for internships, short-term professional visits, and foreign profes-
sional training and group projects; provides an awards program
for minority museum professionals; produces and distributes
audiovisual presentations on conservation awareness and theory,
preventive care of collections, and practices in educational pro-
gramming; provides training, technical assistance, audiovisuals,
and consultation services for Native American museums; produces
publications on museum-related topics; offers counseling, consult-
ing services, and conferences on museum careers, training, and
museum practices; and administers a special national project under
a grant from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation to “expand the edu-
cative influence of museums.” A branch of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Libraries, the Museum Reference Center provides biblio-
graphic and documentary support for the activities of omp and is
available to museum professionals, students, and researchers.

The grouping of these functions into one program facilitates
response of the Institution to the multitude of requests received

Museum Programs / 249
from museums throughout the United States and abroad for assis-
tance and guidance, and has the added benefit of keeping the staff
of the Institution informed and aware of museological develop-
ments elsewhere.

The Office of Museum Programs serves as the focal point and
clearing house for the Smithsonian Institution Audiovisual Ad-
visory committee and for metric transition activities of the Insti-
tution, and assists with planning efforts for a conservation train-
ing program to be offered by the Conservation Analytical Lab-
oratory.

The Kellogg Foundation awarded a generous three-year grant
to the Office of Museum Programs and the Resident Associate
Program “to expand the educative influence of museums” every-
where. With the guidance of a national advisory committee, the
Office of Museum Programs is implementing the program through
colloquia, workshops, residencies, and videotapes for museum pro-
fessionals throughout the United States. Interacting with col-
leagues and representatives of such community resources as uni-
versities, libraries, corporations, organizations, and school systems,
the program is emphasizing and promoting the influence of mu-
seums as educational institutions while examining and discussing
the learning process that occurs in them.

TRAINING PROGRAM

The Training Program consists of a Washington-based workshop
series, on-site workshops, the Internship and Visiting Professionals
Programs, the Awards for Minority Museum Professionals, and
two United States Information Agency / Office of Museum Pro-
grams cosponsored projects per year, supervised by Mary Lynn
Perry, Training Program Coordinator.

WASHINGTON-BASED WORKSHOPS

The Office of Museum Programs sponsors an annual schedule of
twenty-five to thirty short-term workshops in museum practices
which provide mid-career training opportunities for museum pro-
fessionals from the United States and abroad. The workshops last
from three to five days and are held at the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. They focus on current theories and practices in the field, and
make Smithsonian materials, facilities, and human resources avail-
able to the larger museum community.

Faculty for the workshop series are drawn from the Institution’s
staff, and from outside experts who join programs to offer special-

250 / Smithsonian Year 1984
ized information or speak from a particular perspective. Subject
matter covers a broad range of topics on all aspects of museum
operations; topics include museum management, fundraising, edu-
cational programming, conservation, collections management, stor-
age and handling, exhibition design and production, volunteers
and docent training, security, shop management, horticulture in
museums, registration methods, and public relations.

During 1984 over 550 museum professionals enrolled in the
Washington-based workshop series. Enrollment represented all
types, sizes, and disciplines of museums, and a broad geographic
distribution, including 43 states in the continental United States,
Alaska, Hawaii, and the District of Columbia. In addition, museum
professionals from Bermuda, Canada, France, Hong Kong, New
Zealand, Trinidad, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands
participated in the workshops.

During 1984 the training program developed a new week-long
workshop, ‘Orientation to Museum Work for Entering Profes-
sionals,” based on the recommendations of the International Coun-
cil of Museums Committee for the Training of Personnel. The
committee recommended basic museological training of museum
staff at all levels while providing an overview of sound museum
practices, especially for new museum professionals. This work-
shop gave individual museum workers an understanding of the
museum’s role in society, and an understanding of their own roles
in the museum.

Evaluations by the participants indicated the success of this new
workshop offering and “Orientation” was scheduled for presenta-
tion again in August 1984. As one participant noted: ““Not only
was there a tremendous amount of valuable information, but the
inspiration which [came] from it all [was] so great that I can
hardly wait to go back to work!”

Other new workshops in 1984 included “Horticulture in a
Museum Setting,” “Participatory Exhibitions,” “Public Programs,”
“Museum Graphics,” and “Curatorial Roundtable.”

ON-SITE WORKSHOP PROGRAM

The On-Site Workshop Program is designed to provide training
services to museum professionals at locations throughout the
United States and abroad with the cooperation and cosponsorship
of host museums, institutions, and museum-related organizations.
The workshops, which are generally two to three days in length,
draw faculty from the Smithsonian’s professional staff although

Museum Programs / 251
other on-location experts may be called upon to supplement presen-
tations and assist in developing a local resource network for the
workshop participants.

During fiscal year 1984, the program, coordinated by Pamela W.
Leupen, presented ten on-site cooperative workshops at museums
in California, Florida, Illinois, New York, South Carolina, and
throughout Virginia. Enrollment totaled 176 museum professionals
representing museums in California, Connecticut, Delaware, the
District of Columbia, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts,
Missouri, North Carolina, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Vermont, and Virginia. Cosponsors
for the workshops included the Virginia Association of Museums,
the Southern Arts Federation of Museums, the California Museum
of Afro-American History and Culture, and the New York Regional
Conference of Historical Agencies.

Sustained growth in the On-Site Workshop Program is antici-
pated for 1985, including a workshop on “Preventive Care in
Pakistan,” and the program will continue to be a strong and
beneficial response to the training needs of museum professionals.

INTERNSHIP PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Office of Museum Programs Internship Program
offers specialized training in museum practices to undergraduate
and graduate students as well as to employed professionals. Indi-
viduals from the United States and abroad are eligible to partici-
pate in the program. During 1984, the program, coordinated by
Raymond Branham, placed 111 individuals in internship positions
throughout the Institution, an increase of sixty-one over the
previous year. Eleven of these interns were from foreign countries.
The internships often carry academic credit from a university and
the average duration is from three to six months, with shorter or
longer programs available.

The focus of the internships is on musuem practices; the intent
is for the experiences to be mutually beneficial to the intern and
to the Institution. Intern assignments may involve training in
administration, education, collection management, registration,
exhibition design and production, and curatorial practices. Interns
may attend Office of Museum Programs workshops while in resi-
dence at the Smithsonian. Long-term interns, especially those from
foreign countries, often elect to travel as part of their program. In
such cases, the Office of Museum Programs prepares itineraries
and contacts staff at appropriate museums throughout the United

252 / Smithsonian Year 1984
States; in some cases, arrangements with foreign museums may be
made. The Office of Museum Programs coordinates meetings,
lectures, and special presentations by foreign interns to supple-
ment the interns’ museum experiences. In 1984, special presenta-
tions were given by Des Tatana Kahotea of New Zealand and
Dr. Fawzi Sweha Boullos of Soloman, Egypt.

In addition to fulfilling regularly assigned responsibilities, interns
participated in the annual Office of Museum Programs Museum
Careers Seminar Series, a seven-week program, from June 20 to
August 1, which offered Smithsonian and other museum interns
in the Washington area exposure to professional career choices in
the museum field. After the success of last year’s program,
attendance in the seminar in 1984 increased to thirty-eight partici-
pants, with a waiting list. To further enrich the seminar, special
tours were offered, including a behind-the-scenes exploration of
the exhibition design and production areas of the National Museum
of Natural History and the new Indian House at Hillwood Museum.
Evaluations, which students completed at the end of the seminar,
indicated that the experience was extremely useful in understanding
the duties, responsibilities, and qualifications required in the
careers that were discussed.

VISITING PROFESSIONALS PROGRAM

A specialized service is offered to museum professionals interested
in shorter periods of training and study than is required by the
Internship Program. Through the Visiting Professionals Program,
museum professionals gain access to collections and Smithsonian
staff for concentrated discussion and consultation. The program
is designed to serve individuals who are available for training
periods of up to one month and consists of a combination of
meetings, workshop activities, demonstrations, research oppor-
tunities, and visits to museums selected to meet special training
needs. During 1984, one hundred and sixty individuals representing
museums in the United States and seventy-five from abroad
participated in the program. The number of participants in this
year’s program nearly doubled last year’s enrollment.

EXTERNSHIP PROGRAM

The Office of Museum Programs responds to special requests for
programming related to museum studies and the museum profes-
sion, and in 1984 continued a program, initiated in 1983, for high

Museum Programs / 253
school and college students who are interested in learning more
about a museum career by being exposed to the duties and respon-
sibilities of museum work.

This year, fifty-eight students participated in the program, most
of whom were enrolled in the Multicultural Bilingual High School
of Washington, D.C., a national model which offers English as a
second language. Ten countries, including El Salvador, Guatemala,
and Cambodia, were represented by these students.

The students are referred to as externs since their experience is
generally one week in duration and emphasizes the daily operations
of the working world as it relates to the museum field. A general
orientation session begins the externship, which concludes with an
evaluation and resumé-writing session.

COSPONSORED PROJECTS

With the United States Information Agency, the Office of Museum
Programs cosponsored a project on “Museum Administration” for
European museum professionals in the fall of 1983. The project
included curators and directors from Belgium, Czechoslavakia, the
Democratic Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, Italy, Romania, and Yugoslavia. The group members
attended an Office of Museum Programs seminar designed to
introduce them to diverse techniques of museum administration in
the United States. Participants visited museums of varying sizes
and disciplines in New York, Boston, Chicago, Santa Fe, and
San Francisco. The group had an opportunity to view museum
collections and to exchange ideas and information with staff
members concerning a variety of topics related to museum admin-
istration. Participants also attended the Northeast Museums Con-
ference Annual Meeting.

The fifth annual ‘Education in Museums” multiregional project,
cosponsored by the Office of Museum Programs and the United
States Information Agency, was held in May and June, 1984.
Thirteen museum professionals representing nine foreign countries
participated. Directors, educators, and curators from Costa Rica,
the Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Mexico, Palau,
Senegal, Syria, and Tanzania were included. A seminar addressing
various facets of museum education at the Institution included
sessions on ‘““What and Why—Museum Education,” “School Pro-
grams,” “Scholarly Research,” “Public Access to Collections,”
“Museums and the Community—Inhouse and Outreach Programs,”
and “Museum Education and Special Audiences.” Following the

254 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Theresa Singleton (left), historical researcher from the South Carolina State
Museum, and Deborah Willis-Thomas, photograph specialist, Schomburg Center
for Research in Black Culture, New York City Public Library, use the resources
in the Museum Reference Center while visiting the Smithsonian as participants
in the Office of Museum Programs’ Minority Awards Program.
seminar, the group visited museums in five other American cities
to view museum education programs in action and to discuss
mutual interests with staff. A final “Education Forum” was held
in San Francisco to permit discussion of the foreign participants’
observations and reactions to the programs observed in the Amer-
ican museums. The group returned to Washington to attend the
annual American Association of Museums meeting.

The two Office of Museum Programs / United States Information
Agency cosponsored programs represent a continuing effort on the
part of both sponsors to make possible an international profes-
sional exchange between American museum professionals and their
international colleagues. Following the success of these two pro-
grams, the Office of Museum Programs has been requested by the
United States Information Agency to coordinate a newly developed
third project concerning conservation and preventive care of collec-
tions in fiscal year 1985.

AWARDS FOR MINORITY MUSEUM PROFESSIONALS

A new activity in 1984 conducted jointly by the Training Program
and the Native American Museums Program was “Awards for
Minority Museum Professionals,” providing up to $500 for seven-
teen museum professionals to stay in residence for two weeks at
the Smithsonian. The professionals attended a selected workshop
from the Washington-based series and spent the remainder of
their time in individual study at the Institution. During the second
week the professionals had access to Smithsonian collections, staff,
and facilities on a scheduled basis. Their programs incorporated
meetings, tours, demonstrations, visits to laboratories, and obser-
vations of specialized techniques and programs in action. The
participants represented fourteen states and included three Native
Americans, two Hispanics, one Asian, and eleven blacks. Matching
funds were provided by the Office of Equal Opportunity.

AUDIOVISUAL PROGRAM

In fiscal year 1984, the name of this program was changed from
Conservation Information Program to Audiovisual Program. The
new name reflects the broader range of topics now covered by the
audiovisual productions of the Office of Museum Programs. In
addition to conservation, these topics include museum interpreta-
tion, visitors, and careers; protection; historic preservation; and

folklife.

256 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The Audiovisual Program, coordinated by Laura Schneider, pro-
duces and distributes training and educational videotapes and
slide/cassette packages on these subjects for use by museums,
libraries, universities, cultural institutions, and interested individ-
uals. Most programs are accompanied by a printed text. Their
primary purpose is to increase awareness of current techniques and
practices in preventive care of museum collections and cultural
property.

New audiovisual programs include a videotape on security
entitled “On Guard: Protection Is Everybody’s Business”; a
slide/cassette program called “Photographic Negatives in the Juley
Collection: Their Care and Preservation”; and a slide/cassette
program designed as an introduction to the Office of Museum
Programs.

Programs being completed include a videotape on the preventive
conservation of outdoor sculpture at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden and a slide/cassette program on lighting for the
care of collections. Plans for productions in 1985 include videotapes
on gilding and historic preservation. “Tribal Archives II,” a con-
tinuation of the instructional tape for Native American groups, is
also projected. Translations of several audiovisual programs in
other languages are planned for 1985 as well.

Since 1974, when the Audiovisual Program began, 5,874 presen-
tations have been distributed on short-term loans. In 1984, 261
slide programs and 421 videotapes were loaned to museums, other
institutions, and individuals.

In 1984, forty slide programs and 147 videotapes were sold to
museums in Italy, Australia, and Taiwan. In addition, 1,092 sep-
arate texts were disseminated to institutions and individuals on
request. Copies of the texts were also sent free of charge to libraries
requesting them. Two slide/cassette programs on preventive care
of collections were donated to Saudi Arabia. An inventory of the
Office of Museum Programs audiovisual materials was completed
for the use of Smithsonian Institution staff.

NATIVE AMERICAN MUSEUMS PROGRAM

The Native American Museums Program was established in 1977
to provide information services and educational opportunities to
employees of tribal and urban Native American museums and
cultural centers and others who work closely with Indian, Eskimo,
and Aleut collections. The program offers workshops, short-term
residencies, technical assistance, publications, and audiovisuals

Museum Programs / 257
that enable participants to understand and implement the basic
operations and research functions of cultural institutions. It serves
as the point-of-contact for Native Americans requesting profes-
sional training and museological assistance from the Smithsonian.
The program actively fosters a network of communication and
support among members of the Native American cultural com-
munity and the museum field; it promotes liaison with allied
disciplines and professions, and with public- and private-sector
organizations and agencies on national, regional, and state levels.

Three special outreach projects highlighted the 1984 Native
American Museums Program year:

National Program Residencies, supported by the Smithsonian
Educational Outreach Program and designed to complement the
educational activities of the 1983 national workshop for Native
American museum and cultural center directors, were offered to
eight employees of tribal museums. Each resident received two
weeks of training at the Smithsonian on an individually selected
topic.

The editing and publication of the National Workshop Proceed-
ings, also made possible by the Outreach Program, is in progress.
These Proceedings make important information available to those
who are unable to attend the workshops. Dissemination will occur
in 1985.

A slide/tape program, “Tribal Archives: Basic Responsibilities
and Operations,” is being completed. It describes ways to organize
and administer a program for the care of historical records. Case
studies, model forms, and procedural manuals from Indian pro-
grams are used to illustrate the main points. An evaluation of the
program was conducted by Indian archivists at on-site training
conferences in Santa Fe and San Francisco, and by archivists and
educators at professional meetings throughout the country. This
is the second audiovisual program produced in collaboration with
the Native American Archives Project for use by Indian com-
munities. The first, “Tribal Archives: An Introduction,” defines
basic archival concepts and provides examples of its value to the
community. It was selected for presentation at the Tenth Inter-
national Congress of Archives held in West Germany during
September.

Nancy J. Fuller, coordinator of the Native American Museums
Program, organized and chaired the session, “Minorities and the
Profession: Developing Actions to Encourage Broader Minority
Staff Representation,” for the American Association of Museums

258 / Smithsonian Year 1984
annual meeting, and served as a panelist for the “Tribal Archives”
session at the Midwest Museum conference conducted by the
Oneida Nation Museum. Other projects included the publication
of the bibliography, “Native American Museums and Related
Issues,” in the Council of Museum Anthropology Newsletter, the
updating of “Some Resources Useful to Native American Mu-
seums,” and preparing new issues of the Native American Mu-
seums Program newsletter.

THE KELLOGG PROJECT

The goal of the Kellogg Project, which is supported by a grant
from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, is “to expand the educational
role of museums.” During its second year, increased emphasis was
placed on the importance of collaboration among museums, leading
to the creation of active, continuing networks of museum profes-
sionals.

In 1983-84, the Project arranged six regional workshops and
twenty-two professional residencies at the Smithsonian and else-
where and began educational demonstration programs at twelve
participating museums. Four-day workshops, entitled “Museums
as Learning Resources,” were organized in each of the six regions:
New England (Boston, Massachusetts); Northeast (Bronx, New
York); Southeastern (Charlotte, North Carolina); Midwest (Toledo,
Ohio); Mountain-Plains (San Antonio, Texas); and Western (Port-
land, Oregon). These workshops succeeded in bringing together
within each region twenty-two museums and other educational
institutions (involving 132 participants) to discuss current issues
and problems in museum education and, most important, to form
the nucleus of an active and ongoing network of museum profes-
sionals both regionally and nationwide.

Two categories of professional residencies were designed to ful-
fill Kellogg Project objectives. First, the “Kellogg Museum Profes-
sionals at the Smithsonian” program brought to the Smithsonian
for individualized residencies ten museum professionals who were
involved in the regional workshops. During a week of study these
professionals met with Smithsonian staff and area professionals to
exchange program ideas and expertise. Second, the twelve museums
participating in demonstration projects developed residencies, based
on aspects of their educational programs, which took place at the
Smithsonian and at other appropriate museums.

Examination of the learning process in museums and evaluation
of the effectiveness of all activities are part of the continuing ac-

Museum Programs / 259
tivities. The twelve demonstration programs, designed as practical
applications of Kellogg Project philosophies, will be the focus of
activity in 1984-85. There will also be a colloquium, specialized
workshops and residencies, and production of a videotape to con-
tinue to explore the educational process in museums. Planning for
dissemination of results of the program activities is underway.

Two meetings of the National Advisory Committee were con-
vened for review of the progress of the Kellogg Project.

MUSEUM REFERENCE CENTER

The Museum Reference Center, a branch of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries associated with the Office of Museum Pro-
grams, and the only comprehensive museological documentation
center in the United States, centers its activities around searching
and providing information, bibliographic services, and distribu-
tion of materials to museum professionals and students research-
ing specific aspects of museology and to the public in need of
museum administrative guidance. Administrators, curators, trust-
ees, friends of museums, educators, exhibitors, registrars, con-
servators and students of the field have received assistance with
their investigations, problems and studies.

The Museum Reference Center’s staff, volunteers, and interns
answered over fifteen hundred inquiries originating from museum
professionals, researchers, and students in the United States, Can-
ada, and forty-eight foreign countries. Over five hundred persons
visited the Center to study, tour, and learn about its unique col-
lections. Special tours were provided for delegations and individ-
uals from Bangladesh, Belgium, Chile, Denmark, France, Hungary,
India, Ireland, Japan, Sudan, the Netherlands, and the United
Kingdom.

In response to a request sent by the Kellogg Project staff to
6,000 museums, educational materials were received from thou-
sands of institutions throughout the country. The materials were
recorded, classified, and filed in the Museum Reference Center, and
many of these program publications are now in use by the resi-
dents of the Kellogg Project.

In April, the Museum Reference Center published the inaugural
issue of Muse World, which lists new books being acquired and
new journal titles. Issues will be published on a quarterly basis
as a current awareness service within the Smithsonian and to
museum professionals upon request.

260 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Nineteen bibliographies and resource guides were compiled and
published. Among the new titles are:

Participatory Exhibits

Museum Directories in the United States

Technology and Computers in the Museum Environment

Evaluation Studies in Museums and Art Galleries

Selected List of Periodicals in English of Interest to Museum
Professionals

Traveling Exhibition Organizations: A Resource List

The Use of Audiovisuals, Holography, and Videodisc/Optical
Disc in Museums and Other Related Institutions

Horticulture and Gardening in the Museum Setting

The following bibliographies were completely revised and updated:

Museum Security

Museum and Exhibition Lighting

Education in Museums

Labeling: The Words You Exhibit

Museology

Museum Architecture and Adaptive Use: Bibliography and
Resource Guide

Museum Insurance

Exhibit Design

Museums and the Handicapped

Museums and Minorities

A total of sixty bibliographies on museum-related topics are now
available free of charge.

Interns were Jodi Wesemann, Anne B. Wheeler, Dawn Scher,
Theresa Courke (South Africa), and Dorothy Foster. The regular
volunteers, Carolyn Shugars, Barbara Bowen, and Renata Rut-
ledge, worked one day a week throughout the year to complete
several projects, in addition to their duties of classifying incoming
documents, typing, and researching inquiries. Muse World was
compiled by Carolyn Shugars, and Renata Rutledge assisted in the
compilation of the bibliography of ‘““Museum Security.”

New staff member Ed Johnson joined the Museum Reference
Center as a library assistant in May 1984. His duties include serial
control and the organization of the documentary files, which in-
cludes updating the records and disposing of outdated material and
duplicates in the collection.

Museum Programs / 261
The Librarian and staff addressed twenty-one workshops spon-
sored by the Office of Museum Programs, explaining the services
of the Museum Reference Center to the participants. Bibliographies
on all workshop topics were distributed and many of the partici-
pants either toured the Center or took time to conduct private
research.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The Office of Museum Programs offers career counseling for per-
sons interested in the museum field or career changes, undertakes
organization of national and international conferences, provides
consultation services for museum studies programs at universities,
and advises units of the Smithsonian Institution (including Inter-
national Activities, Symposia and Seminars, Smithsonian Institu-
tion/aLt1aBA Museum Law Conference, and Programs for the Dis-
abled) on museum aspects of their work.

Over one hundred consultations on museum practices and or-
ganizations were provided to individuals and to delegations dur-
ing 1984, many from other countries, including the People’s Repub-
lic of China, India (3), Mexico, the Federal Republic of Germany,
Nigeria, Belgium, Hungary, Denmark (2), Australia, Austria (2),
Spain (2), Saudi Arabia, Gabon (2), Sudan (2), Bangladesh, Pakis-
tan, Poland, France (2), Costa Rica, South Africa, Benin, Israel,
Dominican Republic, United Nations (2), Cameroon, Egypt, Japan,
Korea, Taiwan (2), Shanghai, Brazil, Haiti, New Caledonia, as well
aS UNESCO, an inspection team from the United Nations, and a
group representing fourteen Latin American countries.

Staff members of the Office of Museum Programs annually
serve as speakers at regional and national museum conferences,
provide consulting services, and are actively engaged in inter-
national museum activities. They attended professional meetings of
the International Council of Museums, International Council of
Museums Advisory Committee, International Council on Monu-
ments and Sites, Art Table, Smithsonian Institution/uNEsco Con-
ference on Preservation, National Art Education Association,
Smithsonian Institution Budget Seminar, Foreign Service Institute,
American National Metric Conference, the Midwest, Northeast,
Southeast, New England, Western, and Mountain-Plain Museum
Conferences, American Association of Museums, and the Kennedy
Center meeting on Media and the Arts.

Director Jane Glaser serves on the board and is secretary of
the International Council of Museums Committee on Training of

262 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Personnel; serves on the International Council of Museums Ad-
visory Committee; serves on the scholarship committee for Smith-
sonian Institution/ALIABA Museum Law Conference; serves as an
American Association of Museums senior examiner for accredita-
tion and reaccreditation; serves as chairperson of the Smithsonian
Institution’s committee for planning of the Conservation Training
Program at the Smithsonian Support Center; chairs the Smith-
sonian Institution Audiovisual Advisory Committee; and serves as
the Coordinator of metric conversion at the Smithsonian, attend-
ing the governmental interagency meetings. A Smithsonian Institu-
tion metric exhibition is under consideration. The Office of Mu-
seum Programs is represented on the Smithsonian Institution In-
ternship and Conservation Councils and on the pan-Institutional
Native American coordinating committee.

In 1984 the Office of Museum Programs director made presenta-
tions to: the District of Columbia Multi-Cultural Program, the
International Council of Museums Committee for Training of Per-
sonnel in Leiden, the Office of Museum Programs Careers Sem-
inar Series, the Office of Museum Programs / United States Infor-
mation Agency projects participants, the Kellogg Workshops, the
American Association of Museums sessions on national collabora-
tion and on certification of curators, District of Columbia high
school students, the Sietar international meeting, the National
Council on the Aging, the National Art Educators Association,
Mount Vernon College, the Southeastern Museum Conference,
international visitors, the Office of Museum Programs, the Mu-
seum of American History Museum Technicians, George Mason
University, Smithsonian Institution interns, and George Wash-
ington University classes in museum studies.

Mrs. Glaser represents museums as subcommission chairperson
on a Commission for the Social Sciences organized by the Inter-
national Research and Exchanges Board which is exploring the
possibilities of exchanges of personnel, publications, and research
with the German Democratic Republic. Meetings have been held
in the German Democratic Republic and the United States. She
organized a Museum Management Seminar, conducted in the Ger-
man Democratic Republic, and presented a paper on “Museums as
Learning Resources.” She served as consultant to the Blenner-
hasset Island Commission, to the Beckley, West Virginia, Muse-
ums, and to the National Museum of Denmark, and as evaluator
for the University of Oklahoma Museum Studies program.

The Office of Museum Programs published and distributed a

Museum Programs / 263
“Survey of Audiovisual Programs Produced by the Smithsonian
Institution” which lists and describes all film, video, slide record-
ings, and filmstrip programs produced by units of the Smithsonian
Institution. The Office of Museum Programs publishes and dis-
tributes brochures on its programs and in 1984 distributed ap-
proximately two thousand copies of Museum Studies Programs in
the United States and Abroad and approximately five hundred
copies of the Proceedings of the Office of Museum Programs’
“Children in Museums” International Symposia. A revised and
updated edition of Museum Studies Programs in the United States
and Abroad will be published with the cooperation of the Interna-
tional Council of Museums in 1984.

Office of the Registrar

This year saw the culmination of a long period of policy formula-
tion and final approval of collections management policies for all
Smithsonian museums. However, since policies of all types must
be updated regularly to reflect changes in circumstances, the mere
existence of collections management policies does not mean termi-
nation of this effort. It means that policy documents must be
reviewed regularly and revised as necessary. The Office has been
assigned responsibility for conducting such reviews and also for
monitoring compliance with existing policies.

The shift from implementation to updating activity also applies
to inventory, which is an integral part of collections management.
Having completed its initial baseline inventory effort last fiscal
year, the Institution has moved from implementation to perpetual
maintenance in that area as well. In a sense, this implies a return
to the regular practices of accessioning, cataloguing, and deacces-
sioning which existed prior to the start of the baseline inventory
effort in 1978. As in the past, the purpose of perpetual mainte-
nance of collection records was to insure that any item could be
either located or accounted for upon demand. However, the re-
quirements now have been tightened. Whereas specific time limits
were not usually placed on responses to accountability demands,
now museums must be able to locate or account for an item within
specified periods. One of the Office’s current responsibilities is to
solicit plans from the various collecting bureaus for complying
with the new requirements.

264 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The activities of the Office, though peaking as a result of these
milestone accomplishments by the Institution, nevertheless con-
tinued to follow patterns already established. Coordinating the
affairs of the Registrarial Council continued to occupy much of
the Office’s attention and this year featured a concerted effort to
correct a long-standing need for security back-up of vital collec-
tion accountability information, this time through concentration
on more modern photographic and electronic techniques.

The annual workshop on registration methods was offered
again, and its presentation on the formulation of collections man-
agement policies was included as a regular feature of the work-
shop on management of collections. The semiannual workshops on
computerization for museum collections were updated to include
material on applications of microcomputers to collections infor-
mation needs.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (s1A) is the repository of
official records of historic value documenting Smithsonian activi-
ties in science, art, history, and the humanities. S1a is responsible
for physical care of and intellectual access to records and pro-
ceedings of the Smithsonian. Supplementing official records in
the Archives are collections of personal papers of staff members
and records of professional societies associated with work of the
Institution through the years. These rich and diverse holdings are
essential sources for American intellectual history and develop-
ment, and they are a primary data base for Institution policy and
legal and administrative reference. A guide, published periodically,
is widely distributed to libraries and research centers in the United
States and abroad.

A new Smithsonian Archivist, William W. Moss, was appointed
on December 11, 1983. Formerly the chief archivist of the John F.
Kennedy Library in Boston, he brings to the position fifteen years’
experience with the National Archives. A past president of the
Oral History Association, he is also the Society of American
Archivists’ liaison with the Chinese Archives Association of the
People’s Republic of China.

Museum administrators and curators throughout the United
States will become better acquainted with opportunities and proce-

Museum Programs / 265
dures for improving archives and records management through a
new manual, Museum Archives: An Introduction, written by
Deputy Archivist William A. Deiss and published by the Society
of American Archivists. S1a’s Guide to the Smithsonian Archives,
1983, was cited in May 1984 for “excellence in archival finding
aids,” and an award to that effect was presented by the Mid-
Atlantic Regional Archives Conference. For the 1984 meeting of
the Society of American Archivists in Washington, D.C., sia
coordinated and directed the publication of a new brochure,
Smithsonian Institution Archival, Manuscript, and Special Collec-
tion Resources. It describes the holdings and operations of the
Archives of American Art, the Archives Center of the National
Museum of American History, the Catalog of American Portraits
at the National Portrait Gallery, the Collection Archive of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Human Studies
Film Archives of the National Museum of Natural History, the
National Aerospace Reference Collection of the National Air and
Space Museum, the National Anthropological Archives of the
National Museum of Natural History, the Office of Printing and
Photographic Services, the Office of Research Support of the Na-
tional Museum of American Art, the Smithsonian Institution
Archives, and the Smithsonian Institution Libraries. The brochure
and a booth with photographic displays and catalogues of these
eleven centers were designed and developed under the direction of
Associate Archivist Alan Bain with contributions from staff mem-
bers of all eleven offices.

NEW PROGRAM DEVELOPMENTS

Three new projects were begun by sia during fiscal year 1984.
In cooperation with the Office of Information Resource Manage-
ment and Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Associate Archivist
Richard V. Szary developed and coordinated plans and procedures
for the application of the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic
Information System (s1Bis) to the Smithsonian’s archives and manu-
script collections. Upon completion of the project in 1986, re-
searchers will be able to get on-line automated information about
principal archives and manuscript collections throughout the Insti-
tution. Implementation of sis1s for archives should make possible
future sharing of basic information with distant research centers
through the Research Libraries Group.

A second major project, to survey and collect descriptive data
on photographic collections throughout the Smithsonian, was be-

266 / Smithsonian Year 1984
gun in March 1984. The project, expected to take a minimum of
two years for the more than ten million images estimated to be
at the Smithsonian, will make this information available on a par
with manuscript and archives information through the s1sis net-
work. A printed ‘finders’ guide” to still photographic resources
of the Smithsonian Institution is also planned as a project product.

A parallel project has been started to survey and gather data on
collections of scientific illustrations and drawings in the National
Museum of Natural History. In addition to gathering basic descrip-
tive information on location, contents, and conditions, consulta-
tions are being held with scientists and illustrators to develop
criteria for appraising the scientific, artistic, and historical value of
the collections.

These three projects, when completed, will go far toward ful-
filling a goal expressed in Smithsonian Year for 1969, which called
for a “central information bank on manuscript and photographic
materials in the Smithsonian” and a “computerized information-
retrieval system.”

BASIC ARCHIVAL PROGRAM

The basic archival program promotes and facilitates systematic
and continuing identification, appraisal, and appropriate disposi-
tion of official records of the Institution generated and assembled
by offices throughout the Smithsonian. The basic archival pro-
gram also includes acquisition of professional career files of prin-
cipal staff members.

In 1984, sta developed general disposition schedules for six
major classes of Smithsonian records. Offices of record, responsible
for keeping master sets of each class of record, are designated in
the schedules, and guidance is given on the proper disposition of
redundant copies no longer needed by other offices. This is the
first time that this basic records management device has been
developed for application on an Institution-wide basis.

On-site records surveys and appraisals and design of specific
records disposition schedules for individual offices and divisions
were continued in 1984. Surveys were conducted in the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research Center; the departments of Verte-
brate Zoology, Invertebrate Zoology, Paleobiology, and the Smith-
sonian Oceanographic Sorting Center of the National Museum of
Natural History; the National Zoological Park; the National Por-
trait Gallery; the Freer Gallery of Art; the Renwick Gallery; the
Office of Plant Services; Smithsonian magazine; and in the Ex-

Museum Programs / 267
hibits Division, Office of Public Affairs, and Department of Space
Science and Exploration of the National Air and Space Museum.

Accessions of records of professional societies and personal
papers in 1984 included records of the Chesapeake Research Con-
sortium and the Estuarine Research Foundation, the papers of
geologist Ellis L. Yochelson, historian Margaret B. Klapthor, and
astrophysicist Riccardo Giacconi. Also of particular interest was
the accession of a “Book of Dates” compiled by Elliott Coues,
honorary head of the Department of Mammals, 1880-83, meticu-
lously detailing world and national events that occurred through-
out his life and family history.

Security preservation microfilming of deteriorating and vital
records continued in 1984, with sixty-three thousand images put
on microfilm. Notable among these were the specimen and acces-
sion record catalogues of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum; outgoing
letterpress correspondence of Secretary Samuel P. Langley, 1877—
1907; and outgoing letterpress correspondence of directors of the
National Zoological Park, 1889-1927.

ORAL HISTORY

Oral history interviewing with significant Smithsonian figures con-
tinued in fiscal year 1984, and interviews completed and transcribed
during the year brought the collection total to more than two
hundred hours of recording accompanied by more than thirty-
eight hundred pages of typewritten transcript. A significant by-
product of the oral history project in 1984 was the scripting of
narrations for films of Smithsonian expeditions to Panama, based
on the recollections of Watson M. Perrygo, late taxidermist, field
collector, and exhibits specialist of the Smithsonian. Assistance
and advice were provided to other Smithsonian bureaus, notably
to the Archives Center of the National Museum of American
History and to the National Gallery of Art, on the initiation of
new oral history projects. Plans are underway to develop a video-
taping capability to augment the present audiotaping mode of
recording employed by the oral history project.

CONFERENCES AND SEMINARS

Smithsonian Archives presented eight lectures in 1984 based on
research in progress using the Archives. Topics included ““Objec-
tivity and Bias in Science: The Controversies over Phenetics and
Cladistics,” by David L. Hull of the University of Wisconsin at

268 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Milwaukee, “Artistic Sources for John Abbot’s Watercolor Draw-
ings of American Birds,” by Marcus B. Simpson of the Duke
University School of Medicine, and ‘Predator Control or Predator
Extermination: Attitudes and Policy, 1880-1980,” by Thomas R.
Dunlap of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
S1a’s historian, Pamela M. Henson, cohosted the 1984 Joint Atlantic
Seminar in the History of Biology, held on April 13-14 in the
Presidential Reception Suite of the American History Building.

REFERENCE SERVICE

More than fourteen hundred research inquiries were directed to
the sia and more than sixteen thousand reference service trans-
actions were accomplished by sia during fiscal year 1984, a 25
percent increase over 1983. Previous research using Smithsonian
Archives sources resulted in a number of publications during 1984,
among them Edward P. Alexander’s Museum Masters, Their Mu-
seums and Their Influence (Nashville: American Association for
State and Local History, 1983), Kenneth Hafertepe’s America’s
Castle: The Evolution of the Smithsonian Building and Its Institu-
tion, 1840-1878 (Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1984), and Gerald Killan’s David Boyle: From Artisan to Archaeol-
ogist (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1983). In 1984 several
researchers concentrated their studies on materials relating to the
U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-42 (the Wilkes Expedition), some
of which will be used in a major exhibition on that expedition at
the National Museum of Natural History in 1985. Other topics of
note included North American Arctic exploration, 1818-20, and
the employment of science in that exploration, a biography of
Jeffries Wyman, the early history of the museum movement in the
United States, 1773-1870, and a biography of N. Gist Gee, includ-
ing comparisons of biological typologies employed by American
and Chinese scientists. Research was also done on the history of
the Natural History Building of the Smithsonian, in preparation for
the seventy-fifth anniversary in 1986 of its completion.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (stL) embodies and continues
a tradition of library service provided for in the Foundation Charter

Museum Programs / 269
of 1846. In the mid-1960s Secretary Ripley recognized the Smith-
sonian’s need for orderly, speedy access to information and orga-
nized most quasi-independent library units and collections into an
institution-wide system—the Smithsonian Institution Libraries (srr)
—under the leadership of one director.

The sit is a member of the American Association of Research
Libraries and is organized on the model common in major North
American universities, effecting the economies of centralized ad-
ministration, collections processing, and systems planning. In 1984,
branches of the sit operated in thirty-five locations, including the
Washington, D.C., area, New York City, the Republic of Panama,
and Cambridge, Massachusetts. To meet growing research needs,
a new sit branch opened at the Museum Support Center in Silver
Hill, Maryland, in October 1983 and plans are being formulated to
establish a new branch in the Office of Horticulture.

The libraries at the Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port,
the Freer Gallery of Art, the Joseph Henry Papers, the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the National Museum of
American Art/National Portrait Gallery—representing about 20
percent of the Institution’s library expenditures—are not part of
SIL Organizationally, and are discussed elsewhere. However, the sit
assists these libraries in many ways and devotes approximately 5
percent of its budget to their direct support.

The sit is organized in three operational divisions: Bibliographic
Systems, concerned with standard descriptions and automated con-
trol of all sm collections; Collections Management, responsible for
collection development policies, budgeting and selection for acquisi-
tions, preservation, and housing of library collections essential to
Smithsonian work; and Research Services, charged with direct,
personal assistance to and interpretation for the scholarly clientele
of the Libraries. Each division reports to a manager who is a mem-
ber of the sit executive staff. The sit, led by the director and asso-
ciate director, is also assisted by staff for planning and administra-
tion and for publications.

RESOURCES

The sit is financed chiefly from the federal budget granted by
Congress; in fiscal year 1984 these federal monies were about
$3,678,000, or 93 percent of sit funding. The remaining 7 percent,
or $290,000, came from Smithsonian Institution trust funds. The
st. budgets represent 2 percent of all Smithsonian expenditures,
federal and trust.

270 / Smithsonian Year 1984
During fiscal year 1984, the Libraries received a grant of
$300,000 in special foreign currencies from the Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants to support its Translation Publishing Program.
The sit also obtained two grants from the Atherton Seidell En-
dowment Fund: one of $31,500 for the retrospective conversion of
library records and the second of $12,500 for the purchase of
scientific serials on microfilm. The Women’s Committee provided
a grant of $3,000 to assist with cataloguing manuscripts in the
Dibner collection and $6,000 was donated by the Dibner Fund,
Inc., of Norwalk, Connecticut, to assist with the publication of a
guide to the manuscripts in that collection. In addition, $45,000
was allocated from trust funds for the purchase of the Echols
collection.

As part of the Libraries’ concern with future needs, the siL
engaged the New York City firm of Mitchell-Giurgola Architects
to begin studies of sit’s requirements for an enhanced research
library by the year 2000 and of models for an ideal branch library.
On the issue of preservation needs in the Libraries, Pamela W.
Darling, Special Consultant to the Library of Congress National
Preservation Program, reviewed the condition of the Libraries’
general collections. John Thomas, a consultant for the Office of
Protection Services, produced a security management survey on
physical security in the sit.

Dr. Margaret S. Child, Manager of sit’s Research Services, began
serving as consultant to the Council on Library Resources in May
1984 to assist in developing a national strategy for the preservation
of documentary resources. Dr. Robert Maloy, Director of the sm,
spoke on “The Book, Computers, and Futures for Humans” at a
seminar on “Computers and Human Learning” in Baird Auditori-
um, in December 1983. Silvio A. Bedini presented the keynote
address at the annual convention of the American Congress of
Surveyors and Society of Photogrammetry in September 1983. Mr.
Bedini also was instrumental in preparing for the exhibition “The
Naming of America,” which opened in the Museum of American
History in October 1983. Dr. Enayateur Rahim, another member
of the six staff, is currently on leave of absence to work on a hand-
book, The Smithsonian Focus in India, 1985. In the first months of
1984, Phyllis Meltzer conducted research and compiled material
which will be used for a history of the sm. Jean Chandler Smith
was the Libraries’ Research Associate in 1984. In the summer of
1984, the sir welcomed Dr. Ivan Rebernik of the Vatican Library
School, who came as a Visiting Professional to observe the admin-

Museum Programs / 271
istration of an automated library. The sit also had ten interns and
participated in the Stay-in-School employment project.

The sit was authorized ninety-eight work years in 1984. In addi-
tion to federally funded positions, the st. supports nine employees
with Smithsonian trust funds. Strenuous recruitment and increased
involvement in minority recruiting resulted in improved staffing
in both the branches and centralized services.

The ability of the siz to provide a basic level of service and also
to initiate and continue special projects is due in large measure to
the dedication and constant, hard work of the sit staff and the
forty-eight sit volunteers.

BIBLIOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS DIVISION

In addition to continuing to provide bibliographic services to the
Institution, the Bibliographic Systems Division has devoted time
this year to preparations for and the implementation of an inte-
grated automated library system for all library functions. In the
autumn of 1983 after several years of planning, the sit selected a
system provided by ceEac Computers International, an international
library automation company. Shortly before the vendor was chosen,
plans for a wider application of the automated system were made
in cooperation with other bureaus of the Institution and the system
evolved into the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Information
System (s1pis). The sipis system offers an automated authority
control, the design of which was pioneered by sm staff working
with the staff of other major research libraries who are GEAC cus-
tomers. The development included the design of standards, dis-
plays, and formats for a fully automated authority control of name,
subject, and series headings in the bibliographic records.

The automated library system began to be installed in stages.
Thomas Garnett, a systems administrator, joined the staff when
the implementation process began. The initial step was to create
the sit data base by loading into the system records which already
existed in a machine-readable format. Additionally, efforts con-
tinued to convert those records which had been kept on traditional
catalogue cards. These processes required revisions of sit standards
and procedures for the efficient operation of the new system. All
Bibliographic Systems staff has been involved in in-depth analyz-
ing of the existing manual procedures and efforts to translate them
into the automated system. Extensive testing and revision of the
SIBIS system consumed hours of staff time and many problems
relating to loading older data into the system have now been re-

272 / Smithsonian Year 1984
solved. These efforts have resulted in an updated work flow and
a new procedure manual. Members of the sit staff were trained to
use those modules which they will be using in their work.

On-line cataloguing, functional in the fall of 1984, continues
to be linked with a national bibliographic utility, Online Com-
puter Library Center (octc), and is now also used for direct data
input and manipulation.

Since the automated library system will not be fully effective
until all sm records are included in the data base, manual records
are converted on a continuing schedule as funding permits. This
year it was possible to convert the Cooper-Hewitt Museum branch
library’s records as well as the records of older serials, the latter
conversion accomplished with the aid of a grant from the Atherton
Seidell Endowment Fund. For many titles, the conversion includes
changing the classification from the Dewey decimal system to that
of the Library of Congress system, a process that has required
extensive work in record changing and labeling. Future plans in-
clude reshelving the affected works, a move which will bring the
collections into proper sequence as a convenience to users.

With the assistance of grants from the Dibner Fund and the
Women’s Committee, 1,612 manuscripts were catalogued, input
into octc, and indexed for a forthcoming illustrated publication.

The indexing of trade literature continues, with the index added
to sit’s data base on siBis. The collections of the W. Atlee Burpee
and the Warshaw companies are among the trade catalogues that
have been indexed and protected in acid-neutral covers. Most of
the work is performed by sit volunteers.

The productivity of the division continues to increase, allowing
more time for sit staff to begin to process previously uncatalogued
collections.

The on-line public access catalogue, accessible from terminals
placed in all sit locations, became available in the fall of 1984.

The beginning of fiscal year 1985 will mark the implementation
of the fully automated acquisitions system. In preparation for this
change, sit staff conducted thorough studies of existing procedures
and systems, placing particular emphasis upon the areas of finan-
cial controls and management reporting from the acquisitions
system.

COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

A change in leadership, substantial increases in specialized collec-
tions, continued emphasis on collections security, and exploration

Museum Programs / 273
939 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION - GEAC LIBRARY SYSTEM -  SAUTHOR

AUTHOR: Qurtis, Edward S., 1068-1962.
TITLE: The Morth American Indian (prospectus) : being « series of volumes
picturing end describing the Indians of the United States, end Aleste

/
IMPRINT: (Seattle, Wash.) : E. S. Curtis ; (Cambridge, Ness. : The University

CAL FEATURES: 17 p» $ port. ; 29 cm.

NOTES: tus for tbe tamnty volume set published from 1987-1938.

OTHER AUTHORS, ETC: Hodge, Frederick Webb, 1864- * Roosevelt, Theodore
1858-1919. * Morgan, John Pierpont, 1837-1913.

SUBJECTS: Indians of North fmerica. * Indians of North fimerice -- Languages.

BAF - see locations and call numbers CIT - return to your citation list
TW - see list of headings FOR - see next citation in list
BAC - see previous citation CAT - begin a new search

Then press SEND

Enter code: §j

Terminal screen of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries’ automated library
system. Processing on the system began on June 20, 1984, and terminals were
soon installed in Central Reference and some of the branch libraries.
of new preservation technologies were highlights of a busy year
in the Collections Management Division. Jack Goodwin, division
manager and twenty-five-year employee of the sit, retired in Oc-
tober 1983. The position was reorganized and, in April 1984, Nancy
E. Gwinn joined the staff as Assistant Director for Collections
Management. Ms. Gwinn previously served as Associate Director
for Program Coordination of the Research Libraries Group (RLG)
of Stanford, California, where she was responsible for developing
multi-institutional, cooperative programs in collection development
and preservation.

The Institution purchased three collections for the libraries,
adding richness and depth in several areas. The first was a private
collection that had been assembled by the late Professor John
Echols, a distinguished linguist, lexicographer, and bibliographer
at Cornell University. Nearly half of the material in this Southeast
Asian collection is Indonesian and the materials in this purchase
will support programs of the new Smithsonian Center for African,
Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures, now under construction.

The second collection, purchased for the sit by the National Air
and Space Museum, consists of records pertaining to French aero-
nautical history which were assembled by a Frenchman, Georges
Naudet, who died in 1983.

Finally, the James Smithson Society provided funds through the
Office of Horticulture for a collection of 158 books illustrating the
history of nineteenth-century landscape gardening. These volumes
were published between 1799 and 1938.

Several items of note appear among the gifts and purchases for
the siz Special Collections branch. Secretary Ripley donated a copy
of John Withering’s The Orders, Lawes and Ancient Customes of
Swanns (London 1631), a rare work describing the marking and
management of swans on the Thames. A private fund supported
the purchase of Galileo Galilei’s Trattato della Sfera (Rome 1656),
a posthumous edition of Galileo’s lectures in Padua.

Trust Fund purchases included rare books on the topics of math-
ematics and entomology, and on Newton’s discoveries. J. Loir’s
Théorie du Tissages des Etoffes de Soie may be the only complete
copy in the United States of this monumental five-volume set of
design charts and swatches from one of the traditional textile
centers of the world. Leonardo da Vinci’s studies of optics is the
central theme of G. B. Venturi’s Essai sur Les Ouvrages Phisico-
Mathématiques de Léonardo da Vinci (Paris 1797).

Museum Programs / 275

As the year drew to a close, the chiefs of the fourteen si
branches began to develop new collection policies.

The siz Book Conservation Laboratory moved into its seventh
year of work to restore valuable but deteriorating materials in siz
collections. By the third quarter the conservators had treated nearly
250 rare volumes and had constructed over 1,800 protective en-
closures and boxes. The laboratory also published and distributed
a handsome brown and yellow poster outlining emergency water-
damage procedures, a cautionary step taken in reaction to several
minor floods in the Libraries. A professional visitor, Anthony
Zammit, conservator with the State Library of South Australia,
completed a two-month internship under the guidance of Johannes
Hyltoft, stt’s Chief Conservator.

Preservation of library materials involves numerous techniques,
ranging from full restoration of bound volumes to rescue of a
book’s intellectual content through microfilming or photocopying.
In June, the sit formed an Optical Disk Working Group to explore
the possibility of using this new technology. The method under
study, which combines storage on optical digital disk and access
through high-resolution terminals and printers, has potential for
increasing access to library materials as well as preserving their
contents.

RESEARCH SERVICES DIVISION

The Research Services Division of the sit provides reference sup-
port to Smithsonian scientists, curators, and other staff as well as
to a broad range of users from outside the Institution. The division
is organized in fourteen branches dispersed over thirty-five separate
locations around the Mall and throughout the Washington, D.C.,
area, and in New York City, Panama, and Cambridge, Massachu-
setts.

The division continued to expand its provision of core services,
such as on-line searching of bibliographic data bases, the prepara-
tion of special-subject bibliographies, and tracking down in re-
positories throughout this country and abroad documentation need-
ed by its patrons. Communication and the rapid dissemination of
information was facilitated by the installation of telefacsimile ma-
chines in the branch libraries of the Museum of Natural History,
the Museum of American History, and the Museum Support Cen-
ter. The installation of an 1m Pc at the stri branch library has
made it possible to search piatoc and other on-line bibliographic
data bases in the United States.

276 / Smithsonian Year 1984
One highlight of the year was a massive effort to eliminate the
backlog of overdue loans from the Library of Congress. As of mid-
August 1984, only forty books remained outstanding on the current
list of overdue volumes, and the backlog of some two thousand
old loans, some dating back to the 1960s, had been reduced by half,
exclusive of Smithsonian Deposit volumes.

A review of the activities of the division during the past year
underlined the increasingly prominent role which several sit
branches are coming to play as national resources in their respec-
tive fields. The branch at the Museum of African Art distributes
its monthly acquisitions list to about 170 libraries in this country
as well as to eighty abroad, including libraries located in Eastern
Europe, Africa, and Australia. The branch librarian, Janet Stanley,
completed for publication the manuscript of African Art: A Biblio-
graphic Guide, received the published version of an earlier bibliog-
raphy, Ife, the Holy City of the Yoruba, prepared in collaboration
with Richard Olaniyan, and wrote four articles and three reviews.
In addition, she has been serving as the consultant on African Art
terminology to the Getty Trust’s Art and Architecture Thesaurus
Project. The Trust has made two grants to the sm during the past
year to cover the costs of Ms. Stanley’s participation in that project.

The librarian at the National Zoological Park branch library,
Kay Kenyon, continued her efforts to organize the librarians of
zoos throughout the country. She led roundtable discussions at the
annual meeting of the American Association of Zoological Parks
and Aquariums and continued to write and edit issues of Library
News for Zoos and Aquariums which now has a mailing list of over
170 interested readers throughout the United States, Canada, and
abroad. She also published an article on “Zoological Libraries” in
Sci-Tech News and produced a bibliography, “Why Zoos?” which
commanded a wide readership.

The Museum Reference Center (mrc) serves as the primary
source of information about every aspect of museum administra-
tion for museum professionals, researchers, and students. Five
hundred visitors from outside the Smithsonian used the Center’s
unique collections and another 1,300 inquiries were received by
mail and telephone from around the world. Forty-eight foreign
countries were represented in these visits and queries.

The vertical files of the mrc branch library are the heart of the
Center’s resource materials. The collection was greatly enriched by
the addition of a profusion of educational materials, brochures,
programs, and announcements sent in response to a request from

Museum Programs / 277
Paul Perrot, former Assistant Secretary of Museum Programs, to
thousands of museums throughout the country. In addition to over-
seeing the organization of this flood of material and dealing with
the constant heavy reference use of the Center, its librarian, Cath-
erine Scott, aided by a half-time technician, Edward Johnson, and
three loyal volunteers, Renata Rutledge, Carolyn Shugars, and
Barbara Bowen, compiled eight new bibliographies and revised and
updated ten others. Finally, the mrc branch launched a quarterly
list of new acquisitions as a service for museum professionals
within the Smithsonian and for those outside who use the Center.

The Museum Support Center (msc) branch library which sup-
ports the Institution’s Conservation Analytical Laboratory is also
becoming more well known nationally and internationally as a
source of information for specialists. Although its constituency has
a more restricted field of specialization than some other branches,
the msc branch received seventy-five mail and telephone inquiries
on conservation issues from scientists outside the Institution, a
quarter of them from overseas. Of the two dozen on-site research-
ers who visited the library, a third were foreign visitors. The staff
of the msc branch conducted detailed, in-depth literature searches
and produced reading lists on the topics in question for all these
inquiries. The appointment of the msc branch librarian, Karen
Preslock, as publications editor of the Newsletter of the American
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works was an
acknowledgement of the growing role of the msc branch in support-
ing research in conservation outside as well as within the Smith-
sonian.

PUBLIC PROGRAMS

The siz supports a number of scholarly outreach programs. During
1984 these included seminars and lectures, exhibitions, and publica-
tions.

The sit Seminars and Lectures Series opened its 1984 program
on November 1, 1983, with a seminar on “Bibliography: Its Use,
Abuse and Future.” Speakers from the National Endowment for
the Humanities, the Museum of Natural History, the National Air
and Space Museum, and Lehigh University were featured in a
panel discussion on the changing role of bibliography in scholar-
ship.

The Research Libraries and New Technologies Annual Lecture
was held on January 25, 1984. Ellen Hahn of the Library of Con-
gress Optical Disk Pilot Program and Dana Bell of the National

278 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Air and Space Museum Aviation History Archival Disks Manage-
ment Office spoke on “Optical Disk Technology and Its Research
Applications.”

A third program in the Seminars and Lectures Series, “stt Collec-
tions and Preservation: Can We Save the Nineteenth Century?”
was held on September 25, 1984, in the main auditorium of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. A panel moderated by
Nancy E. Gwinn, sit Assistant Director for Collections Manage-
ment, featured as speakers Pamela W. Darling, Special Consultant
to the Library of Congress National Preservation Program, Caro-
lyn Clark Morrow, Conservation Librarian of Southern Illinois
University and Project Director of the Midwest Cooperative Con-
servation Program, and Dr. Margaret S. Child, s1t Assistant Direc-
tor for Research Services and Consultant to the Council on Library
Resources.

The sit held an Open House in several of its branches on June
11, 1984, for members of the American Association of Museums
who were in town for their annual meeting.

Of the seven sit exhibitions this year, the five held in the Dibner
Library were: “History of Pharmacy, From the Fifteenth to the
Nineteenth Century: Sources from the Squibb Deposit”; “Donor
Exhibition: Gifts to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1982”;
“Binding: Styles and Conservation Practices”; “Sources for the
History of Biology: An Exhibit’; and “Astronomy: Men and
Letters.” The National Air and Space Museum branch presented
an exhibition on “Naval Aviation” in the spring of 1984 and the
National Zoological Park branch featured “Animals in Color
Plates: G. H. von Schubert’s Naturgeschichte des Thierreichs
(1897)” through 1984.

Under the Publications Program, the sm announced a new cycle
in its Translation Publishing Program in June 1984. This program
to translate and publish scholarly works of enduring value was
made possible by a srcr grant of $300,000. The Libraries solicited
from departments throughout the Institution proposals which will
be evaluated by a Translation Publishing Review Committee.
Members were chosen from nominations submitted by the Assis-
tant Secretaries for Science and for History and Art.

The stmt Publications Program also continued to administer the
operation of the translation-publishing program which began in
1959. Publications completed in fiscal year 1984 include N. N.
Tsvelev’s Grasses of the Soviet Union (2 volumes, 1983); A. I.
Tolmachev’s The Arctic Ocean and Its Coast in the Cenozoic Era

Museum Programs / 279
(1982); and G. A. Mchedlidze’s Main Features of Paleobiological
Features of Cetacea (1982). Further, four volumes of completed
translations were received by the sit for technical editing prior to
final editing for publication.

The sit appointed Dr. Nancy L. Matthews as its Publications
Specialist in May 1984. Dr. Matthews has worked with two docu-
mentary publishing projects and has taught at local universities.

Sit publications in fiscal year 1984 included the The Aerospace
Periodical Index 1973-1982, Smithsonian Institution Libraries Re-
search Guide Number 3 (G. K. Hall, 1983), compiled by the staff
of the National Air and Space Museum branch library. A library
guide brochure for the new Museum Support Center branch was
published, as was a Loan Policy Brochure, the latter designed to
provide information to users on the sit’s uniform loan policies. A
catalogue for the Donor Exhibition was also published.

GENERAL ADMINISTRATION

The Planning and Administration Office (PAo) was reorganized
in June, and Mary A. Rosenfeld was appointed pao Manager in
August. Ms. Rosenfeld also held the responsibility for the over-
sight of renovations which began in Central Reference, in acquisi-
tions and binding, and in supply services. The first phase of the
planned renovation required the temporary storage of nearly
40,000 volumes in a hall loaned by the Museum of Natural His-
tory. The books and journals placed there will remain fully acces-
sible to scholars. Future plans include a space reorganization
which will place many centralized functions of the sit in one sec-
tion of the Natural History Building and will more than double
the capacity of the Natural History branch library.

The pao provides support for all sz programs and units through
fiscal monitoring, management of supply services, personnel assis-
tance, provision of travel and training information, and system-
wide delivery. New adjustments this year included streamlined
procedures and the development of specialized functions among
staff members.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

The August 11, 1984, opening of Treasures from the Smithsonian
Institution at the Edinburgh International Festival in Scotland
capped an unusually productive year for the Smithsonian Institu-

280 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service’s The Art of Cameroon
began its tour at the Evans Gallery, National Museum of Natural History, in
February 1984. Featured in this photograph in the foreground is a memorial
grave figure, the only freestanding life-size beaded figure known from Bamum.

tion Traveling Exhibition Service (sites). Thirty new exhibitions
opened, among them four of the most complex exhibitions ever
organized by sites: The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from
the Czechoslovak State Collections; The Art of Cameroon; Yester-
day's Tomorrows: Past Visions of the American Future; and
Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution.

Sites was asked to organize the Smithsonian’s special exhibition
for the Edinburgh Festival and decided on the theme presented in
the Smithsonian Institution Press’s magnificent book Treasures
from the Smithsonian. Sttes worked closely with numerous Smith-
sonian bureaus to orchestrate the exhibition and its associated
events. The exhibition was the largest ever mounted by the Smith-
sonian for tour abroad and the first to combine materials from all
of the constituent museums—260 objects in all.

The opening at the Evans Gallery in November 1983 of The
Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from the Czechoslovak State
Collections marked the culmination of lengthy international nego-
tiations with Czechoslovakia and displayed shared scholarship
and resources with museum colleagues in Prague. Sites worked
closely with Project Judaica and with national corporate sponsor
Philip Morris Incorporated; published a major catalogue, a chil-
dren’s book, four exhibition posters; and collaborated with the
Smithsonian Museum Shops in their development of replicas and
reproductions. During its seven-week showing at the National
Museum of Natural History, The Precious Legacy was viewed by
105,000 visitors.

The Art of Cameroon began its United States tour at the Evans
Gallery in January 1984. This first major exhibition of works from
the Cameroon grasslands was sponsored by Mobil Oil Corpora-
tion. Sires published the extensive catalogue and a brochure, and
produced a 30-second television public service announcement.

Yesterday's Tomorrows: Past Visions of the American Future
opened in August 1984 at the National Museum of American
History. Jointly organized by sites and the nMaH, the exhibition
was sponsored by Champion International Corporation. S1TEs co-
published the exhibition book with Summit Books, and invented
and produced a card game—*Futurevision’”—to accompany the
exhibition.

With funding support from the James Smithson Society, sITEs
organized a special participatory exhibition, Sculpture: Exploring 3
Dimensions. A number of sites exhibitions were developed jointly
with other Smithsonian bureaus: with the National Museum of

282 / Smithsonian Year 1984
American History, In Touch: Printing and Writing for the Blind
in the 19th Century, Marconi, and Building Brooklyn Bridge; with
the Renwick Gallery, Threads; with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum,
Matchsafes; with the Folklife Program, Family Folklore and South-
eastern Potteries; and with the National Air and Space Museum,
25 Years of Manned Space Flight.

Other art exhibitions for fiscal year 1984 included Master Euro-
pean Drawings from the Collection of the National Gallery of
Ireland; The Biblical Paintings of J. James Tissot; and Edgar
Chahine: La Vie Parisienne. Science and natural history exhibi-
tions included A Flowering of Science; Native Harvests; People
of the Forest; Early Flight; South of Winter; and Unfamiliar Fauna
of the Open Sea.

Two sites exhibitions toured exclusively overseas. American
Porcelain was shown in four countries in the Far East and also in
India. Threads was shown in five countries in the Middle East.
Both tours were organized jointly by the Renwick Gallery, sites,
and the U.S. Information Agency.

Among future major exhibitions in various stages of develop-
ment were Hollywood: Legend and Reality, for which sires re-
ceived substantial corporate support from Time, Inc.; From Ebla
to Damascus, a collection of archeological treasures from Syria;
and Renaissance Bronzes from the Kunsthistorische Museum,
Vienna, which will begin its United States tour in 1986 at the
National Gallery of Art.

TOURS FOR PERIOD OCTOBER 1, 1983, THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 30, 1984

Pumniser vor bOOKINGS: 2. ined nies aha Stipe ceeete sear 419
Number of states served

ineludine Washington, JOG.) \, 6. Von. eee «oe 47
Estimated: audience -»% & a5 amare ute wate eae eteine 7.5 million
Exhibitions listed in last Update

(catalogue of sires exhibitions) .............. ilaly4
Exhibitions produced for tour during the year .... 31

EXHIBITIONS BEGINNING TOURS OCTOBER 1, 1983, THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 30, 1984

An Age of Gold: Three Centuries of Paintings from Old Ecuador
America’s City Halls
The Art of Cameroon

Museum Programs / 283
Arte/Objeto: Sculpture from the Tane Silversmiths Collection

The Artist and the Space Shuttle

Beaumont Newhall: A Retrospective

The Biblical Paintings of J. James Tissot

Building Brooklyn Bridge

Early Flight

Edgar Chahine: La Vie Parisienne

Family Folklore

A Flowering of Science: Plants from Captain Cook’s Voyage,
1768-71

In Touch: Printing and Writing for the Blind in the 19th Century

Jacquard Textiles

The Long Road Up the Hill: Blacks in Congress, 1870-1983

Marconi

Master European Drawings from the Collection of the National
Gallery of Ireland

Matchsafes: Striking Designs

Native Harvests: Plants in American Indian Life

People of the Forest: Photographs of the Chiapas Maya by
Gertrude Blom

The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from the Czechoslovak
State Collections

Radiance and Virtue: The R. Norris Shreve Collection of Chinese
Jades

Sculpture: Exploring 3 Dimensions

South of Winter: Scenes from Aransas Wildlife Refuge

Threads: Seven American Artists and Their Miniature Textile
Pictures

Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution

25 Years of Manned Space Flight

Unfamiliar Fauna of the Open Sea

World Print IV

Yesterday's Tomorrows: Past Visions of the American Future

PAPER PANEL EXHIBITION PRODUCED FOR PURCHASE

Getting the Picture: The Growth of Television in America

284 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Dolly Spencer, an Inupiaq Eskimo dollmaker from Homer, Alaska, displays
three of her dolls at the 1984 Festival of American Folklife. She often fashions
her dolls after people she admires.

Office of Telecommunications producer Ann Carroll and cameraman John Hiller
capture a behind-the-scenes moment in the National Museum of Natural His-

tory’s Discovery Room for “Here at the Smithsonian . . .,” the office’s series of
short features for television.

Smithsonian Year + 1984
PUBLIC SERVICE

RALPH C. RINZLER,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE

International Center

Secretary Ripley established the International Center as the or-
ganizing unit of the Quadrangle in October 1983. Throughout
the year, numerous individuals within and outside the Institution
were consulted on both the philosophy behind the International
Center and the possibility of undertaking collaborative research
projects involving Smithsonian staff, other scholars and scientists,
and experts from around the world. Foremost in all plans for the
Center has been an interest in identifying and determining ways
in which the Center may facilitate and enhance the research of
Smithsonian scholars and scientists. It is anticipated that such
research will lead to symposia, exhibitions, and various types of
public programs which the Center will coordinate.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

A firm belief in the power of museum objects as educational re-
sources is the guiding principle behind the activities and programs
of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (ose). With
the conviction that it is equally important for students to learn to

287

use works of art, natural history specimens, historical artifacts,
and other museum objects as research tools, as it is for them to
learn to use words and numbers, oEsE continues to serve the
Smithsonian’s education offices while working to meet a solid
commitment to foster the educational uses of museums in the
Washington, D.C., area and throughout the nation.

For several years orse has offered a number of programs and
publications to help teachers use museums and other community
resources with their students. Orse continues to offer these ser-
vices, proven successful by those who use them. Let’s Go to the
Smithsonian, a newsletter, informs local teachers of the ever-
growing variety of Smithsonian services available to teachers and
students. Multiple copies are sent free-of-charge to approximately
twelve hundred schools in the Washington, D.C., area. Through
Looking to Learning: The Museum Adventure serves as a guide-
book for teachers to the various Smithsonian museums. Copies
are sent free to all schools in the Washington metropolitan area
as well as to any other schools planning a trip to Washington.

For teachers nationally, Art to Zoo, a free, six-page publication
to promote the use of community resources, reaches approximately
fifty-five thousand classrooms. The Museum Idea, a slide/tape
curriculum kit, helps fifth- and sixth-graders learn what museums
are and what the students can do themselves to make a classroom
museum. Of Kayaks and Ulus, a curriculum kit for high school
students developed in conjunction with the Department of Anthro-
pology, teaches young people how to use primary and secondary
research materials while at the same time learning about the cul-
ture of the Bering Sea Eskimo of one hundred years ago. These
materials, all giving students the opportunity for first-hand learn-
ing, have proven very popular. For example, one teacher com-
mented about her use of Of Kayaks and Ulus, “It can be quite
difficult to teach students to form good research habits (and to
steer them away from copying out of encyclopedias!), but I think
the organization and activities of this unit went a long way toward
building such skills.”

Because of the popularity of these materials, OESE is now pre-
paring two new curriculum kits for teachers to use with students
in grades five and six—one on using museums to teach critical and
creative thinking skills and the other on using objects to teach
writing. Similarly, in fiscal year 1984 oEse in collaboration with the
Office of Public Affairs developed a new publication to be piloted
in 1985: Smithsonian Journeys is designed to bring the Institution,

288 / Smithsonian Year 1984
util

Stationed in the Smithsonian Institution Greenhouse, Melissa Pilant learned
about careers in horticulture during the summer internship program offered by
the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. (Photograph by Jon Dicus)

its work, and its excitement to junior high school students across
the United States.

Special events during the year introduce school teachers and
administrators to the educational possibilities of museums. For
example, in December a conference on ‘Computers and Human
Learning” was attended by more than three hundred school ad-
ministrators. Cosponsored by the Office of Symposia and Sem-
inars, this event explored the impact of computer technology on
education. A videotape based on conference materials is now avail-
able to help schools around the country better address ways of
making computers useful in the classroom. Also in December OEsSE
again conducted a Holiday Reception for teachers, where partici-
pants learned about the origin and meaning of the Afro-American
harvest celebration, Kwanzaa, and about behind-the-scenes plan-
ning for the Institution’s annual Trees of Christmas exhibition.
Then in April a special presentation in the Discovery Theater
showed how the dramatic arts can be used to teach many disci-
plines, including science and social studies.

From June 25 through August 3, a series of five-day seminars
provided professional training for Washington, D.C., area educa-
tors. Close to two hundred teachers chose from one- and two-week
courses on subjects such as “19th-Century Architecture,” “Rocks,
Fossils, and Geologic Time,” and “Insects in the Classroom.” In
addition, a three-credit graduate course on “Using Museums to
Teach Writing’”’ was offered to teachers from across the nation.
Given in cooperation with the University of Virginia, this seminar
brought teachers from as far away as Florida and Oregon to the
Smithsonian to develop a variety of writing assignments that they
could use with their own students. As a final project, the teachers
were required to develop curriculum units based on the resources
of their own communities. Comments from teachers attest to the
value of orse’s workshops, both local and national; as one of the
participants wrote, the national seminar “has changed my life. I
was considering leaving teaching because of the curriculum ruts
one gets into, personally, as well as the terrible ruts created by
department chairmen and administrators. Now I see that what I
know instinctively about teaching writing and other things is really
true. My students and I are going to have a marvelously good time
learning this year!”

Because of its commitment to assist teachers in the teaching of
writing, OESE this year became an affiliate member of the National
Capital Area Writing Project. The project—based on the model of

290 / Smithsonian Year 1984
the National Writing Project—is a nonprofit organization of local
educational institutions committed to the cooperative sharing of
resources in an effort to improve writing instruction and student
writing in all subject areas and at all grade levels (kindergarten
through university).

To assist school teachers and museum educators, OESE has estab-
lished a Regional Workshop Program, providing Smithsonian sup-
port and assistance to communities throughout the nation. At the
invitation of a community’s museums, oESE will set up and help
coordinate a one-day special event that will bring the community’s
teachers and museum people together, enabling them to find ways
to work with each other productively long after the original pro-
gram is over. In the first of its two pilot years, the Regional Work-
shop Program held two events, serving a total of over eight hun-
dred teachers—one in Tidewater Virginia (in October 1983) and
the second in New Orleans, Louisiana (in March 1984). Regional
Workshop programs have been scheduled for additional communi-
ties for fiscal year 1985: Oakland, California (in November 1984),
Charleston, South Carolina (in November 1984), and Oak Ridge,
Tennessee (in March 1985).

In addition, ofsE continued its progress in making Smithsonian
programs accessible to disabled visitors. The Office’s Special Edu-
cation Program maintained such services as providing sign lan-
guage and oral interpreters for special events and regular program
offerings, as well as giving sign language courses and ‘disability
awareness” sessions to Smithsonian staff and volunteers.

In addition, the program published a curriculum kit, Museums
as Storytellers. Funded by a grant from the Women’s Committee
of the Smithsonian Associates, the kit will help teachers of hear-
ing or deaf youngsters improve their students’ language skills.

The program also held two special events to assist disabled peo-
ple. “To Photograph Is To See,” cosponsored with the Polaroid
Corporation, introduced visually impaired persons to photography
as a tool for sight. As one participant wrote, ‘““The presentations
were interesting, the workshop materials useful and well done, and
the experience was a very positive one. It’s always nice to partici-
pate in a program which emphasizes what visually impaired peo-
ple CAN do, instead of CAN’T do.” The other program, “Orien-
teering: A New Route to Travel Skills,” was offered in conjunc-
tion with the National Park Service and the Administration of
Developmental Disabilities of the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services. The workshop taught parents, teachers, and

Public Service / 291
school administrators how to translate skills from the sport of
orienteering to provide mentally retarded individuals with an
enjoyable way to find their way around Washington and the
Smithsonian museums.

During the 1983-84 school year, oEsE expanded its programs
that bring young people to the Institution. The Office’s new Career
Awareness Program (car) worked with three District of Columbia
public high schools to develop and teach a series of programs intro-
ducing minority young people to career opportunities at the Smith-
sonian. This school year, participants worked with staff members
from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the National
Museum of Natural History, and the National Museum of Ameri-
can History. In the museums, the students participated in a number
of activities, including behind-the-scenes tours, career workshops,
and special projects. The car is directed to ninth- and tenth-graders,
because most young people at these grade levels have not yet
locked themselves into the kinds of curriculum decisions that ulti-
mately determine career options and choices. To maintain the
students’ interest in museum careers, the cap follows up on its
graduates, encouraging their continued planning for museum-
related careers.

“Exploring the Smithsonian,” a program for seventh- and eighth-
grade teachers and students in the District of Columbia public
schools, brought more than thirty-five hundred youngsters to spe-
cially developed, curriculum-related lessons in the Smithsonian
museums. In addition, oEse’s annual high school summer internship
program was opened to students from all fifty states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia. The thirty-four interns selected to participate
this summer worked under the guidance of curatorial and technical
staff members in various parts of the Institution, discovering new
directions for collegiate study and for possible careers. As one
intern wrote, “I’m so glad that I have been able to have such an
experience. It has helped me in making a definite career choice and
I now see all the opportunities that are here and the many univer-
sities I will be able to attend. The program has helped me in making
some major decisions that will affect my future. I loved it!”

Through participation in national and regional conferences and
workshops, oese staff members have helped expand the scope and
understanding of teachers and professional museum educators.
Orse staff members also helped to plan and teach seminars on
museum / school relations and on museum interpretation offered
by the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Programs.

292 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Office of Folklife Programs

Most Americans would agree that the richness of the nation’s
culture lies in the impressive diversity of its people and in their
creative responses to historical conditions. Research, presentation,
and preservation of this cultural wealth is the goal of the Office
of Folklife Programs, an effort that entails, among other activities,
the presentation of living folk traditions in the context of the
national museum. Since its inception, the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams has directed its attention to the identification and study of
folk traditions and to the development of methods for presenting
them in a national setting to general audiences. The Office of Folk-
life Programs also cooperates with other Smithsonian bureaus in
research and exhibit production; it publishes documentary and
analytic studies; its staff undertakes both exhibition-oriented and
publication-oriented research and may engage in teaching at Wash-
ington area universities.

FESTIVAL OF AMERICAN FOLKLIFE

The Office of Folklife Programs planned and produced the eigh-
teenth annual Festival of American Folklife in fiscal year 1984. The
festival was held on its original site on the National Mall outside
the museums of American History and Natural History. It took
place over a two-week period, June 27—July 1 and July 4-8, 1984.
Alaskan folklife, the folklore of America’s older generation, expres-
sive traditional culture of urban Blacks from Philadelphia, and
traditional foodways were all featured at this festival.

On the occasion of Alaska’s twenty-fifth anniversary of state-
hood, ninety representatives of the state’s ethnic, regional, and
occupational communities brought their music, culinary traditions,
work skills, dance, crafts, and lore to the National Mall. Native
Alaskan basketry and doll making, wood and ivory carving, gold
mining, logging, music, and dance were among the traditions from
Alaska that were presented.

“The Grand Generation: Folklore and Aging” program explored
the role that older generations play in preserving and perpetuating
America’s traditional culture and identity. Among the traditions of
the sixty participants were Hawaiian hula dancing, African-Ameri-
can hymns, spirituals and work songs, quilting, hide tanning, and
stone carving. A Learning Center provided thematic focus for the
program with photo-text panels, elders’ life review projects, and
an oral history collecting project.

Public Service / 293
The program on “Black Urban Expressive Culture from Phila-
delphia” presented performance traditions that demonstrated un-
derlying aesthetic unities in several genres of Black American
traditional cultural expression. Performances of the nearly sixty
participants included tap and break dancing, collegiate stepping,
street drills, blues, gospel and do-wop singing, rapping, and DJ
“scratching” skills.

For the first time in the festival’s history, traditional foodways
were presented in a unified program with a structured approach
to research in and presentations of culinary traditions in the three
festival areas. Demonstrations included Alaskan fish smoking,
fishing boat cookery, and uses of seaweed and sourdough; tra-
ditional ethnic recipes that have been passed down through gen-
erations, such as Armenian stuffed grape leaves and fruit leathers;
and Black American cuisine, which included fried chicken, biscuits,
greens, and sweet potato pie. Food concession stands located ad-
jacent to each demonstration area sold food prepared according to
participants’ recipes.

The festival was cosponsored by the National Park Service, and
the Smithsonian received funding support from the Music Per-
formance Trust Funds, the American Association of Retired Per-
sons, the Atlantic Richfield Foundation, the National Institute on
Aging, the National Institutes of Health, the State of Alaska De-
partment of Commerce and Economic Development through its
Division of Tourism and the Alaska Seafood Institute, and other
private and corporate donations from Alaska.

SPECIAL PROJECTS

In cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service (sites), the Office of Folklife Programs developed a
traveling exhibition on the surviving traditional potteries in the
southeastern United States entitled Southeastern Potteries. The re-
search for this project was sponsored by the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams and was conducted according to a model developed in previ-
ous pottery research by the Office. The exhibition, which was
mounted in the National Museum of Natural History from June 27
through August 18, was accompanied by the publication of a book,
Raised in Clay: The Southern Pottery Tradition, by Nancy Sweezy,
a researcher for the Office and guest curator for the exhibition.
Smithsonian Institution Press published the book, which serves
also as a catalogue for the exhibition.

294 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Collaborative work with the American Folklife Center at the
Library of Congress began in the summer of 1979 on a project to
preserve more than thirty-five hundred wax-cylinder recordings
principally held by the Library of Congress. These contain Native
American songs and stories recorded prior to 1930. The project
involved the transfer of fragile cylinder recordings to magnetic
tape, the preparation of accompanying written material, and the
development of suitable means for the dissemination of these
historical cultural documents. The project is nearing completion
with the Library’s publication in fiscal year 1984 of two of the ten
volumes, entitled The Federal Cylinder Project: A Guide to Field
Cylinder Collections in Federal Agencies.

Research and programming has also reached an advanced stage
for an exhibition from India depicting an individual’s cycle of life,
with two thousand objects and forty traditional craftsmen and
performing artists. The exhibition, entitled Aditi: A Celebration of
Life, will be mounted in the Evans Gallery of the National Museum
of Natural History from June 4 to July 28, 1985.

RESEARCH

Research, writing, and production have continued on five mono-
graphs and accompanying films included in the Smithsonian Folk-
life Studies Series. This series was established in 1978 to document,
through monographs and films, folkways still practiced or still
within living memory in a variety of traditional cultures. Drawing
on more than a decade of research accruing from fieldwork con-
ducted for the Office’s annual Festival of American Folklife, the
studies are unique in that each consists of a monograph and a film,
conceived to complement each other. In fiscal year 1984, the docu-
mentary film At Laskiainen: In Palo Everyone Is a Finn was com-
pleted. This film grew out of research for a program held at the
fourteenth annual Festival of American Folklife and documents a
Finnish-American midwinter festival in Palo, Minnesota.

In addition to the series, a film about the traditional craft of
stone carving was completed during this past year. Entitled The
Stone Carvers, the film had its genesis in a program organized for
the 1978 and 1979 Festivals of American Folklife and was spon-
sored by the Washington Area Film and Video League and was
produced in cooperation with the Office of Folklife Programs. The
film documents stone carving as practiced by the carvers at the
Washington Cathedral, some of the last remaining stone carvers
in America.

Public Service / 295
Office of International Activities

From the earliest years, the Smithsonian Institution has followed
the spirit of James Smithson, who was quoted by Founding Secre-
tary Joseph Henry as having said of the man of science, “The world
is his country—all men, his countrymen.” Particularly in the sci-
ences, but in important ways in the arts and cultural history, the
Smithsonian Institution has traditionally carried its scholarly inter-
ests to the whole world and beyond. The Office of International
Activities (o1A) was established almost twenty years ago to assist
all levels of Smithsonian staff in the pursuit of international inter-
ests. Ora does so by advising program managers; by maintaining
liaison with the United States and foreign governments, with pri-
vate institutions around the world, and with international organiza-
tions; and by providing certain passport, visa, communications,
information, and reception services.

With the resignation of Assistant Secretary Perrot on January
25, 1984, o1A was transferred from Museum Programs to Public
Service. This reflected the placement of responsibility for the de-
velopment of the International Center, as part of the Quadrangle
project, with Assistant Secretary Rinzler. For 1984, much of the
energies of o1a were turned to the assistance of those members of
the Smithsonian senior staff who were most concerned with the
garnering of international support for the International Center,
especially Secretary Ripley, Assistant Secretaries Perrot and Rinz-
ler, and Membership and Development Director Symington.

In 1984, o1a has been compiling a profile of the Smithsonian’s
international activities. Preliminary data shows the Smithsonian
active in 120 countries in the past two years, or something over
two-thirds of the countries carried in our files. On the basis of
numbers of Smithsonian contacts with these countries, our inter-
ests have in recent years been (in descending order) highest in
Great Britain, Panama, West Germany, France, India, Australia,
Italy, Japan, and Mexico. Subjects of Smithsonian interest have
been quite diverse, but natural history dominates activities with
Australia, Mexico, and Panama (site of the Smithsonian’s major
tropical research facility, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute), and astrophysics is the major interest in Italy. Other interests
include art and cultural history research, exchanges of museum
objects, and exchanges of scholars. Major activities in Great Britain

296 / Smithsonian Year 1984

and West Germany were associated, respectively, with the Edin-
burgh Festival and the German-American Tricentennial.

In April 1984, ora organized and coordinated, in collaboration
with the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Orga-
nization (UNESCO) and the National Trust for Historic Preservation,
an international conference at the Smithsonian on historic preser-
vation, “Why Preserve the Past?’”” The conference featured panel
participants and speakers from many countries, and included the
Director-General of unesco. The Proceedings will be published
jointly by the Smithsonian and unesco through the Smithsonian
Institution Press.

The office arranged major revisions in the Smithsonian exchange
program to include certain categories of performing arts and to
permit Smithsonian sponsorship of foreign exchange visits to other
museums and similar institutions when Smithsonian interests are
served.

Ota services to Smithsonian bureaus during 1984 included ob-
taining 95 official passports, and 923 foreign visas (this latter figure
including considerable travel sponsored by the Smithsonian Foreign
Currency Program). O1a handled 87 foreign students and exchange
visitors during the year. Also during the year, o1aA performed an
additional estimated 400 liaison services that included the facilita-
tion of Smithsonian overseas research and exchanges, liaison with
foreign affairs agencies, immigration problems, and the reception
of foreign official visitors to the Smithsonian, for an overall total
of 1,500 services of all types. This is almost double the figure for
1983.

Among the many distinguished visitors received by o1a during
the year were the Dalai Lama and the President of Austria, who
visited the Smithsonian and participated in Resident Associate
programs on their respective cultures; and the Indonesian Minister
of Culture, who signed a cooperation protocol with the Smith-
sonian.

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

The Smithsonian’s eighth international symposium, “The Road
After 1984: High Technology and Human Freedom,” dominated
the year for the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars.

Public Service / 297
Scheduled for December 1983 in anticipation of the Orwellian
Year, the symposium’s design touched on warnings of Big Brother,
totalitarian techniques, mind control, doublespeak, and other of
the novel’s forebodings. Attention, however, centered on the
acceleration in scientific advancements revolutionizing technology
and communications.

Organized in cooperation with Wake Forest University on the
occasion of its 150th anniversary and with the Center for the
Humanities, University of Southern California, the meetings probed
the overall social and political dynamics now at work in the world
and attempted to identify both the blessings and the dangers in-
herent in our new “high tech” society. An official activity of the
World Communications Year, the calendar’s activities were made
possible by the financial support and participation of more than
twenty-five American and foreign corporations and professional
associations. Nearly one hundred scholars, government officials,
and business representatives donned academic dress for a tradi-
tional procession from the Castle across the Mall to the formal
opening ceremony in the National Museum of Natural History.
Against a musical background of the Ditchley Bells ringing from
the Old Post Office tower, bagpipe peals en marche provided by
the Washington Scottish Pipe Band, and an interlude played by
the Century Brass, the Honorable J. William Fulbright, Regent
Emeritus of the Smithsonian, welcomed symposium contributors,
sponsors, official guests, and the public audience in Baird Audi-
torium. Acting Secretary Phillip S. Hughes introduced the sym-
posium’s honorary chairman, T. R. Fyvel, close friend to Orwell
and author of George Orwell: A Personal Memoir (New York,
1982) and other distinguished participants.

Included among the four-day program segments were: “Com-
puters and Human Learning,” ‘Significance of 1984 as a Universal
Metaphor,” “American Law and the Effects of Technology on
Privacy,” “Loose and Tight Controls: Techniques of Governance,”
“Learning the Responsibilities of Citizenship in an Open Society,”
“Can the Mass Media Control our Thoughts?” and “Can High
Technology Be Managed for Human Freedom?” Wilton S. Dillon,
director of Smithsonian symposia and seminars, and Eliot D.
Chapple, a pioneer in anthropological studies of business, industry,
and hospitals, and former editor of Human Organizations, journal
of the Society for Applied Anthropology, were chief architects of
the project. Lewis Lapham, editor of Harper's, is editor of the

298 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Sh HELE Dog ey iq

Clare Boothe Luce raises a point during the Smithsonian’s eighth international
symposium, “The Road After 1984: High Technology and Human Freedom.”
Looking on is T. R. Fyvel, honorary chairman of the symposium organized by
the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars.

volume to be published by the Smithsonian Institution Press in
1985.

On December 29, 1983, the office received the first deposit into
the Barrick W. Groom Endowment Fund established to support its
interdisciplinary activities. In accepting the $50,000 check on behalf
of the Institution, Assistant Secretary for Administration John
Jameson expressed sincere appreciation for Mr. Groom’s long-
standing contributions of time and energy, as well as for his gen-
erous financial assistance. The Domestic Life of Thomas Jefferson
(Charlottesville, 1979)—Groom is descended from Jefferson by
marriage—was presented to him in return, along with a quill pen
with which to write future checks, as whimsically noted by director
Wilton Dillon. Mr. Groom, who has been associated with the
Smithsonian for a number of years, lives in Upperville, Virginia.

“Smithsonian’s Prestige Boosts Durham Festival” headlined the
May 1, 1984, Durham Morning Herald lead editorial. Cosponsored
by the Smithsonian and the North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources, the British American Festival marked the 400th anni-
versary of the arrival of the first British expedition to North Amer-
ica, at what is now Roanoke Island, North Carolina. Celebrating
the occasion with folklife programs, sports events, concerts, exhibi-
tions, and a series of symposia held in Durham June 2 through
June 16, attended by some 75,000 people, the festival also explored
persisting cultural links between the United States and Great
Britain. Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars associate
director Carla Borden represented the Institution at the project’s
planning meetings, identified Smithsonian scholars and others who
could contribute to the development of the festival, and served as
liaison between the festival staff and concerned Smithsonian bu-
reaus. As noted by Secretary Ripley in the official program, the
commemoration provided an “occasion through which we come to
a deeper understanding of our evolving traditions and our shared
concerns for the future.”

The Edinburgh Festival of 1984 included director Dillon’s chair-
ing and speaking at several sessions of an international conference
on “Art and the Human Environment,” at which he drew upon
earlier Smithsonian symposia related to the theme. Dillon carried
the Smithsonian mace in a procession from Edinburgh’s City
Chamber of St. Giles’s Church at a ceremony opening the Edin-
burgh Festival, and later met with officials of the University of
Edinburgh and the University of Glasgow to discuss long-term
ways and means of encouraging scholarly cooperation between the

300 / Smithsonian Year 1984

~~
Smithsonian and Scottish universities and research centers. Such
cooperation would include research on the Scottish Enlightenment
as it related to the intellectual roots of the United States Constitu-
tion and Bill of Rights, their 200th anniversary to be marked
beginning in 1987. Liaison also was established with the University
of Strathclyde, Glasgow, where important research is under way
on artificial intelligence. Other areas of cooperation were explored,
such as the centennial of the birth of James Audubon (whose folios
were published in Edinburgh) and Scottish participation in future
seminars on Patrick Geddes, naturalist and town planner (whose
ideas have much influenced Lewis Mumford’s work on urban
civilization).

As part of the Festival of India, the office will present on June
21-25, 1985, an examination of “The Canvas of Culture: Redis-
covery of the Past as Adaptation for the Future.” This symposium
will reflect concern with both natural and cultural conservation of
scope corresponding to India’s size and complexity, especially in
relation to the Smithsonian’s multifaceted activities in India rang-
ing from the physical and natural sciences to the arts and humani-
ties. The passing of time, migration of people, and variations in
ecosystems affected by social change and developing technology
have left indelible marks on traditional Indian cultures. Have some
aspects been forgotten and lost entirely? Or are they latent and
renewable in a contemporary context? Or are they replaced com-
pletely? And if so, in what forms? Why is this re-creation process
important and to what uses are its results put? Modern India’s
significant historical and current experience with such “amnesia,”
reacquisition, and adaptation offers a rich opportunity for analysis
and speculation about her future civilization and identity. Cochair-
ing the symposium are S. Dillon Ripley, also chairman of the
American Committee for the Festival of India, and Pupul Jayakar,
also chairman of the Indian Advisory Committee for the Festival.

The office also regularly provides resource services to other
Smithsonian bureaus and units and to outside specialists in plan-
ning symposia and seminar programs. Its educational outreach
helps link the humanities and sciences through interdisciplinary
activities both in Washington and elsewhere. The Secretary of the
Institution awarded Carla Borden a Fluid Research grant to study
the experience of European refugee scholars who came to the
United States and taught at black colleges in the 1930s and 1940s,
an unexplored chapter of new dimension in our history. As a pan-
Institution center, the office is working closely with others on the

Public Service / 301
1985 tricentennial of the births of Bach, Handel, and Scarlatti and
on further cultural exchange of foreign scholars and artists, e.g.,
Eduardo Marturet, prominent Venezuelan composer and orchestral
conductor. Emphasis is being given to the forthcoming Bicentennial
of the Constitution and Bill of Rights; the office is designing a
citizenship education program culminating in 1987 in the Smith-
sonian’s ninth international symposium tentatively titled “Our
Constitutional Roots.”

The office had the benefit for nearly sixth months of two recent
college graduates who served as consultants on a range of projects:
Andrew Langhoff, Tufts University, and Craig Myers, Oberlin
College, before pursuing graduate work at the University of Vir-
ginia and Oxford University, respectively.

Certificates of appreciation signed by the Secretary were pre-
sented to staff members Dorothy Richardson, Carla M. Borden,
and Helen F. Leavitt in recognition of service to the Institution.
Director Wilton S. Dillon was awarded the “Chevalier de l’ordre
des Arts et des Lettres” by the French government for personal
contributions to Franco-American relations and for the office’s
work in bringing public attention to the Bicentennial of the Battle
of Yorktown and the subsequent Peace of Paris formally ending the
Revolutionary War.

Office of Telecommunications

The Office of Telecommunications (oTc) extends the Institution’s
reach nationwide and abroad by bringing the museums to people
through films, radio, and television programs. During fiscal year
1984, the otc expanded its role in reaching greater audiences
through involvement in new broadcast and film ventures, through
the significant growth of its ongoing programs, and through ser-
vices to Smithsonian bureaus.

This year, the orc broke new ground with a special four-part
radio miniseries, “American Stories.” Inspired, in part, by a Smith-
sonian book, Celebration of American Folklife, this miniseries fea-
tures true tales and tall tales from across America. Funded by the
James Smithson Society, ““American Stories” was the first radio
series of this magnitude produced by the office. For nearly a year,
the producers traveled from Maine to California recording the

302 / Smithsonian Year 1984
personal stories and remembrances of people they met along the
way. From movie cowboy Gene Autry to the family around the
corner, the stories told represent a cross section of American ex-
periences and ideas. Production was completed in September 1984
and the programs are being made available to all radio stations
throughout the country as well as to schools and libraries.

Orc’s film producers were found working extensively in the field
in Europe and in the Caribbean. Major shooting for The Work of
Peace, a half-hour film which tells the story of the signing of the
1783 Treaty of Paris, occurred on location at historic settings in
Paris and London. This film is a follow-up on otc’s productions
relating to the Bicentennial of the United States. The Work of
Peace premiered in Washington, D.C., on June 7, 1984, and will
be distributed to high schools across the country. Plans are under-
way for a nationwide telecast on pss. Filming for The Sea: A Quest
For Our Future, a one-hour documentary on the complex ecosys-
tems of tropical coral reefs, took place throughout the Caribbean
including the Virgin Islands, the Bahamas, the British Colony of
Turks and Caicos, and Belize. The film focuses on research projects
conducted by the Smithsonian’s Marine Systems Laboratory. The
Sea: A Quest For Our Future was completed in September 1984. It
is the first hour-long film produced by the orc for pss broadcast.
We are working closely with commercial film distributors in order
to market these films actively to educational and cultural institu-
tions.

Still advancing in new directions, the otc received a $23,000
grant from the James Smithson Society to produce a pilot program
of a potential television series geared for children aged nine to
twelve. Going behind the public areas of the museums, the half-
hour pilot will feature Smithsonian curators, scientists, or histori-
ans sharing their areas of expertise. Based on a recent report which
concludes that the electronic media are the “most important me-
dium of informal learning today,” this project has the potential to
stimulate children and awaken an interest in science, art, and our
heritage.

The office’s ongoing programs experienced unprecedented growth
during 1984. “Radio Smithsonian,” the nationally broadcast 30-
minute weekly radio series, added eighteen new subscribing sta-
tions to its roster, bringing the total to seventy-five radio stations
throughout the country, including eight in the top ten markets. Its
companion, “Smithsonian Galaxy,” a series of 2!/2-minute radio
features designed for commercial stations, celebrated its fifth anni-

Public Service / 303
versary on the air. This popular series continues to be broadcast
on 230 stations in forty-eight states, Canada, New Zealand, and
the Virgin Islands. The newest series is “Here at the Smithsoni-

an...,” an award-winning series of 2-minute features for televi-
sion. After completing its third season, ‘Here at the Smithsoni-
an...” boasts an impressive roster of seventy subscribing televi-

sion stations here and abroad. These rapidly growing programs
offer an effective and practical way of reaching millions of people.

The office’s standard of excellence and its commitment to quality
broadcasts and films is evident not only from the comments and
responses of stations, listeners, and viewers, but also from the
broadcasting and filming industries. “Radio Smithsonian” and
“Smithsonian Galaxy” each clinched a Gold Screen Award for
excellence in the electronic media category from the National
Association of Government Communicators in May 1984. “Here
at the Smithsonian . . .”” received a Gold Award for excellence in
the television series category from the Houston International Film
Festival also in May 1984. American Picture Palaces, otc’s 22-
minute film on the “golden age” of movie theaters of the 1920s and
1930s, continued to receive major film awards during 1984, bring-
ing the total to fourteen, including a Gold Award from the Inter-
national Film and TV Festival of New York and a cine Golden
Eagle.

To strengthen the coordination and effectiveness of film and
video activities within the Institution, the orc provides regular
support services to all bureaus. During 1984, the orc created many
productions for other units, including a film to accompany an
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s exhibition on Lou Stovall, a
Smithsonian orientation film for the Visitor Information and Asso-
ciates’ Reception Center, an introductory film for the Museum
Support Center, and a film to accompany a Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition on the future.

Smithsonian Institution Press

The past year has been an important one in the growth of the
Smithsonian Institution Press (sip) as a major publisher of both
scholarly and popular books and records that reflect on a lasting
basis the research interests, collections, and activities of the Insti-
tution. Publishing activity continues to increase in quality and

304 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Vincent MacDonnell, Nancy Mottershaw, and Gail Grella set up the Smithson-
ian Institution Press display booth at the Washington Convention Center in
preparation for the May 1984 American Booksellers’ Association convention.

quantity as the three principal divisions of the Press meld into a
unified and complementing organization.

Production during the year reached a total of 300 “jobs’—192
of these federally funded—including catalogs, journals, scholarly
monographs, brochures, museum and exhibition guides, the annual
report of the Institution, and miscellaneous productions. The bal-
ance of 108 works were published with nongovernment funds—
books, records, newsletters, annual reports, and smaller publica-
tions. The high quality of the Press’s publishing effort was evident
in the sixteen awards for editorial and design excellence received
during the year from six different organizations (ranging from the
Blue Pencil Competition of the National Association of Govern-
ment Communicators to the publications competition of the Avia-
tion/Space Writers Association) as well as a continuing series of
highly favorable book reviews in leading literary and scholarly
magazines and journals.

Further evidence of the Press’s continued growth in publishing
and marketing important books was demonstrated by sales figures
for the year. Gross sales totaled $7.5 million compared to less than
$6 million in fiscal year 1983 and $4 million the previous year.
The most noteworthy productions were Smithsonian Books’ Trea-
sures of the Smithsonian, which is being reprinted after the entire
first printing of 70,000 copies sold out, and the Recordings divi-
sion’s album Big Band Jazz: From the Beginnings to the Fifties,
sales of which have also exceeded 70,000 in its first year. (The
performance of the Recordings division in the marketing area was
especially impressive, net sales for the year having exceeded
$3,500,000.) While scholarly books never reach comparable mar-
kets, sales of University Press division books totaled over 100,000
copies during the year, achieving a record gross sales income figure
in excess of $1 million.

A major highlight of the Press’s year occurred in the production
area with increasing use of automatic data processing techniques
and equipment in manuscript preparation. Word processing ter-
minals have been installed at the Press for editorial use with suit-
able manuscripts. Each of the Series Publications editors has had
an opportunity to learn the process of editing on these terminals,
and the contract typesetter for Series Publications has been refining
its programming of the manuscripts produced this way. Results
have been so satisfactory in terms of both time and costs of pro-
duction that the Press is now strongly encouraging all Institution
authors to prepare their manuscripts for the Contributions and

306 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Studies series for this process. In addition to the Press’s advances
in practical use of automatic data processing, Series Publications
Supervisor, Barbara Spann, and Production Manager, Lawrence
Long, have coauthored a manual, SI Press Instructions for Word
Processing to Typesetting, which has been widely distributed both
within and outside of the Smithsonian Institution, and throughout
the year they conducted seminars on this procedure for authors,
publications coordinators, and support staffs at a number of Smith-
sonian museums.

The three publishing divisions of the Press were fully integrated
during the year under centralized direction, business and adminis-
trative management, production, and marketing. The Press has
functioned smoothly despite the challenge early in the year of
having to move principal operations from the Arts and Industries
Building to new quarters in L’Enfant Plaza while former offices
undergo major restoration. There are still a few rough spots in the
areas of warehousing, order fulfillment, and control of the three
widely separated inventories of popular books (17 titles with an
inventory of 148,746 copies), scholarly books (332 titles with
306,248 copies in inventory), and records (50 titles with a stock
of over 35,000 records and cassettes), but these areas are receiving
priority attention. An additional challenge to management stems
from the fact that the new quarters are not large enough to accom-
modate either the editorial and design staffs of Smithsonian Books
division or the distribution and order fufillment division.

Finally, the Press took on a new role commensurate with its
growing image and reputation when it organized and acted as host,
representative of all book-publishing elements of the Institution,
at a Smithsonian Institution booth at the American Booksellers
Association convention in the Washington Convention Center in
May. In addition, the Press was selected by the Association of
American University Presses to act as host and program organizer
for the annual regional meeting of the aaur held in Washington
from September 29 through October 2.

Smithsonian Magazine

Fiscal year 1984 was a very successful year for Smithsonian maga-
zine. During the year the magazine exceeded 2,000,000 in circu-
lation. Advertising was better than in 1983 and along with in-

Public Service / 307
creased membership contributed to the greatest surplus in the
magazine’s history. Once again the magazine made a significant
contribution to the unrestricted funds of the Institution.

During this growth the magazine passed on to other divisions,
by the transfer process, members who became Contributing Mem-
bers, Resident Associates, and Cooper-Hewitt Associates. The sys-
tem works well: it introduces people to Smithsonian membership
through the National Associates, then for the course of their
National Associates membership tells them about other member-
ship opportunities within the Smithsonian.

The Smithsonian is an institution of marvelous variety: Smith-
sonian magazine is a generalist publication which reflects, for the
layman, that variety. But nearly every person has a special interest
also, and the Smithsonian can satisfy those special interests as well
as the general interests of the educated lay person.

The Resident Associates Program affords Washington area resi-
dents the chance to participate in programs of the Smithsonian
itself; the Cooper-Hewitt offers the same opportunities for New
Yorkers. The Contributing Membership Program, geared to a
nationwide constituency, enables a person to have a deeper connec-
tion with the Smithsonian. Whatever decision an individual makes,
Smithsonian magazine goes to all members and it is through
Smithsonian magazine that the initial contact is made with the
Smithsonian Institution.

Among the year’s editorial highlights was a two-part series on
Antarctica with special emphasis on scientific research and re-
sources. The author, Michael Parfit, spent more than four months
on the continent, not only visiting McMurdo Sound and the South
Pole station, but also visiting American and foreign bases on the
Palmer Peninsula, and traveling the offshore waters on American
research vessels. Also in 1984, a major effort from the previous
year—James Trefil’s two-part series on the universe—was recog-
nized with the A.A.A.S.-Westinghouse award for science journal-
ism.

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

This was an exceedingly busy and productive year for the Visitor
Information and Associates’ Reception Center (viarc). Newer pro-
grams made significant progress toward project goals, while a

308 / Smithsonian Year 1984
number of enhancements enabled established activities more fully
to serve the needs of the public, Associate members, and Smith-
sonian staff, volunteers, and interns.

A limited amount of additional office space eased crowded work-
ing conditions for several viarc units while displacement from the
South Tower Room due to construction projects posed an unantici-
pated challenge for others. Thanks. to the cooperation and effi-
ciency of the Institution’s Communications and Transportation
Services Division, the relocation of the Seven-Day Information
Units’ Telephone Information Program to temporary accommoda-
tions in the west range of the Castle was accomplished without
missing a call. This program gained twelve new telephone volun-
teers and a weekend program assistant to aid in the task of re-
sponding to some 320,000 phone inquiries. Telephone traffic esca-
lated to an all-time high during The Precious Legacy exhibition
when a record 1,300 calls were received on December 26. As in
the past, the Washington Craft Show, the Festival of American
Folklife, and nasm special events also generated considerable tele-
phone inquiries.

The Museum Information Desk Program, serving fourteen desks
in eight museums, added fifty-seven new volunteers to the Infor-
mation Specialist corps; extended desk services to the National
Portrait Gallery for the duration of the exhibition Masterpieces
from Versailles: Three Centuries of Portraiture; aided in the de-
sign and implementation of a crowd control system at the National
Museum of Natural History for The Precious Legacy exhibition;
staffed the National Air and Space information desk for fourteen
hours during a day-long symposium and the “Lunar Landing
Party” which followed it. Information Specialists were also called
upon to greet and direct guests at the installation ceremony of the
Institution’s Secretary Robert McCormick Adams.

Achievements of viarc’s Information Outreach Program, estab-
lished in fiscal year 1983 to increase the Institution’s capability to
inform and orient prospective visitors and to promote Associate
membership, were perhaps the most broadly based. Participation
in local, national, and international tour and travel industry
marketplaces, including World Travel Market, provided an oppor-
tunity to disseminate trip planning information and to identify
the Institution as a complex of museums rather than a single
museum on the Mall, for some twenty thousand journalists, travel
writers, and tour trade representatives. The booklet Planning a
Smithsonian Visit: A Guide for Groups was produced specifically

Public Service / 309
Summer visitors get a head start on planning their day at the Smithsonian by
attending a 9:30 a.m. slide/lecture orientation presented by the Visitor Informa-
tion and Associates’ Reception Center. Some 6,000 visitors were able to attend
the early morning sessions after temporary space was assigned in the Great Hall
of the Castle for such presentations.

to meet the needs of group travel planners. With the permission of
Smithsonian Books, the colorful graphics on the dust jacket for
The Smithsonian Experience were incorporated into the design of
a collapsible display unit and presentation folder used at travel
industry functions. An orientation videocassette was produced in
cooperation with the Office of Telecommunications for use at
tourist sites, including four Mall museums, and travel market-
places. Other cooperative ventures included participation in the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Regional Events
programs to promote previsit trip planning and the use of Smith-
sonian magazine as a classroom resource, and, with Smithsonian
magazine, the design of a tote bag embellished with a montage of
magazine covers, for use as a membership marketing tool. A cam-
paign to promote the sale of National Associate memberships
throughout the Institution resulted in a 600 percent increase in
these sales, primarily in the Museum Shops.

Another important accomplishment under the aegis of the Infor-
mation Outreach Program was completion of a design study by
the George Washington University Department of Urban and
Regional Planning. Titled The Smithsonian: Enhancing the Visi-
tor’s Experience, the study made recommendations for an exterior
graphic information system to assist visitors in locating the Smith-
sonian, understanding its scope, and making informed use of their
time in the museums.

A tremendous boost was given Group Information Services,
another component of the Information Outreach Unit, with the
temporary assignment of much needed public orientation space
in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian Institution Building. For the
first time the Castle was opened at 9:15 a.m. to admit some six
thousand visitors to the early morning presentations. Regular
access to this space netted an overall 75 percent increase in visitor
attendance at the daily 30-minute slide/lecture overviews of the
Institution. A 20-minute variation of this presentation for young
visitors was inaugurated in the fall. The Castle Docent Program
conducted 112 behind-the-scenes tours for National Associates
participating in the “Washington Anytime Weekend,” and addi-
tional tours for participants of other special programs. The Mobile
Information Program’s units were redesigned to make them easier
to maneuver on the walkways outside Mall museums. Operating
during the peak visitation period between Memorial Day and
Labor Day, their assistance to visitors complemented viarc Infor-
mation Desk services within the museums.

Public Service / 311

The Staff/Volunteer/Intern Service Unit (svis), another princi-
pal vrarc component, undertook a major new responsibility with
the initiation of the Intern Information/Registration Program. In
its first year of operation, the Program compiled a central registry
of 379 interns, 26 of whom began their internships prior to the
beginning of the fiscal year. An analysis of year-end figures
showed that 310 interns were United States citizens while 43 were
foreign-born; 241 were females and 112 were males; the largest
contingent of interns, 55 percent, was in residence from June to
August. In addition, the Program produced new printed materials,
including a Handbook for Smithsonian Interns and Housing Infor-
mation for Interns and Fellows.

One of svis’s established programs, the Independent Volunteer
Placement Service (1vps), registered an all-time high of 964 behind-
the-scenes volunteers, a 14 percent increase over fiscal year 1983,
and responded to 184 staff requests for qualified volunteers to
assist in curatorial and technical projects. In answer to an increas-
ing demand for foreign language proficiency, a Translation Ser-
vices group was formed. During the annual reception honoring
behind-the-scenes volunteers, twenty-four individuals were recog-
nized for ten or more years of continuous service.

The annual Institution-wide survey of volunteer involvement,
also a svis responsibility, showed that 5,648 individuals contrib-
uted 449,933 hours.

An additional svis function, the Special Magazine Files—the cen-
tral fulfillment center for reduced-rate staff and volunteer National
Associate memberships—included the processing of 1,496 appli-
cations, and conversion of the Courtesy Mailing List, consisting
of 885 records, to an automated system.

The Public Inquiry Mail Service (prms), viaRc’s central research,
response, and referral point for the Institution’s unsolicited mail,
handled more than 42,000 letters, an increase of 13.5 percent over
last year. In cooperation with other bureaus and offices, prms pro-
duced 172 new and updated fact sheets, bibliographies, and pre-
printed pieces to aid in responding to mail inquiries. Pims was
designated as the clearinghouse for the mail resulting from the
“Smithsonian World” television series and prepared, in coopera-
tion with the series research staff, nineteen bibliographies for these
mail inquiries alone. This viaRc unit again conducted an Institu-
tion-wide mail survey and continued to update regularly and pro-
duce a master Institution-wide reference list of sales merchandise.

Viarc’s Information Resources Division continued to compile

312 / Smithsonian Year 1984
the variety of reference and information aids used by museum and
telephone Information Specialists in answering questions about
the Smithsonian. In addition, Guide to the Nation’s Capital and
the Smithsonian Institution was updated and reprinted in coopera-
tion with Smithsonian magazine. Two new maps were created:
one, in cooperation with the Office of Public Affairs, shows the
location of Smithsonian museums in Washington, and the other,
a regional map, indicates major highway arteries into the capital.
The addition of a Metrorail subway map in color was among the
refinements made in a new edition of Planning Your Smithsonian
Visit, one of the numerous brochures and flyers produced by the
division to support VIARC programs.

No summary of the year would be complete without mention
of the involvement of viarc in the 1984 annual meeting of the
American Association of Museums in Washington, D.C. The des-
ignation of vrarc’s director as Volunteer/Hospitality Chairman
saw the enlistment of several viarc and other Smithsonian staff
members to work with museums and cultural institutions city-
wide to coordinate the recruitment, training, and scheduling of
some six hundred volunteers for assistance at special events and
regular sessions of the four-day gathering.

Public Service / 313
Dik 1AM Ad, eee chen tol idereein Bre
mM yi Ouida: Anti heretic vere eat bene
eM om ek
CP Oy) briodw ct ok et dg nae ea
sau 4% ‘et cael ae era
ol Wati*be'w oc hRhl Sony eli ee ’

M vi OR Gere TAY Lia Se Gat Tae
a ,
Baal. & 4 ye iis rs:
wh ' i 7) pai
{ { v7 Lat
' ail joy
‘
‘ }
¢
if@y
~~
Smithsonian Year » 1984
ADMINISTRATION

The administrative, technical, and other central support services
work behind the scenes to help assure the effectiveness and effi-
ciency of the Institution’s research, collections management, and
public programs. These organization units include accounting and
financial services, audits, congressional liaison, contracts, equal
opportunity, facilities services, grants and risk management, infor-
mation resource management, general counsel, management anal-
ysis, personnel administration, printing and photographic services,
programming and budget, special events, supply services, and
travel services. The costs of these central services are controlled
tightly and consequently amount in total to only about 8 percent
of the Institution’s total operating expenditures exclusive of the
expenses of maintenance, operation, and protection of facilities.

As described in greater detail in the following sections, progress
in administrative support was made in a number of areas. Com-
puter and word processing technology were increasingly extended
to bibliographic, collections management, financial management,
and office automation applications. Important progress was made
on construction projects, energy conservation, communications
management, security, and employee health services. Affirmative
action efforts showed results. Internal controls were assessed and
photographic services programs were strengthened.

The International Exchange Service continued to serve as a
transshipment point for books and journals being sent by United
States educational and cultural organizations to foreign institu-
tions and for similar materials coming to institutions in this coun-
try from abroad.

315
Administrative and Support Activities

JOHN F. JAMESON, ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION

Planning and budgeting activities continued to receive much atten-
tion during the year in a coordinated effort to identify, present,
and meet the Institution’s goals and objectives. The Five-Year
Prospectus, FY 1985-1989, was approved by the Board of Regents
at its January 23, 1984, meeting. This planning document pre-
sented future year building requirements and described directions
in research, education, and other public service activities as well as
requirements to improve information handling, security, and main-
tenance of collections and facilities. Preparation of the plan in-
volved staff in all areas of the Institution. Subsequent to Regents’
approval, work started on the next cycle of preparation resulting
in a draft prospectus for fiscal years 1986-1990 submitted for
Regents’ review at the September 17, 1984, meeting. The Office
of Programming and Budget (ors) concentrated on expanding the
application of automated systems to the budget process, both in
budget analysis and monitoring and in budget presentation. In
addition, the ops improved its capability to transmit federal budget
schedule data directly into the Office of Management and Budget’s
computer system. The fourth Budget Formulation Workshop, held
in December 1983, attended by over fifty Smithsonian staff at
the middle management level, addressed the budget formulation
process from the submission of bureau requests through the dy-
namics of the congressional hearing. Other workshops sponsored
by the office provided bureaus with a better understanding of trust
fund budget procedures and federal budget execution. Work con-
tinued on the development and preparation of a Smithsonian
budget procedures handbook.

The Office of Information Resource Management (o1rrm) began
to implement elements of its forward plan aimed at improving
access to information systems, services, and sources. The existing
computer communications network was extended, a new broad-
band network capable of carrying data, images, and voice was
introduced, and plans were made for the extension of these net-
works through an Institution-wide communications pathway over
the next five years. A new mainframe computer was selected on
the basis of requirements for user access to Institution data bases.
An information center was established to provide support and
training to staff throughout the Institution who were making

316 / Smithsonian Year 1984
direct use of microcomputer-based systems and linkages to the
mainframe to support program objectives. Institutional licenses
were negotiated to some widely utilized microcomputer software
packages and on-line tutorial and video courses were acquired to
train staff in the use of this and other software.

Orem initiated a program to support integration of specialized
systems to meet the particular requirements of the Institution’s
research and collections inventory management. A workstation to
satisfy a wide range of scientific automation requirements, includ-
ing automated acquisition and analysis of data, was introduced.
Funds were provided to assist the National Air and Space Museum
in the development of an optical digital videodisc system for arch-
ival recording and retrieval of texts and images. Technical assis-
tance was provided to test and implement an automated security
system.

The first major Institution-wide Bibliographic Information Sys-
tem was installed to support access to and control over information
in libraries, archives, and research files throughout the Institution.
During the first several months of its operation, the system held
over 300,000 records with on-line access from over one hundred
terminals. Work continued on definition of a Collections Informa-
tion System to provide access to information about the Institution’s
object collections and the exhibitions, tours, courses, and public
programs which interpret them. Some of the software integral to
the Collections Information System was acquired, including an
institutional data dictionary/directory package. The full system,
which will become operational in 1985, ultimately will provide
potential access to over 100 million artifacts and specimens in the
Institution and make possible staff and public exploration of the
vast holdings of the Smithsonian.

O1rm provided guidance to offices throughout the Institution in
the selection and acquisition of automated equipment. It set direc-
tions for office automation and microcomputer systems’ integration
predicated on integration with the new mainframe hardware. It
established a plan and a schedule for transition to the new main-
frame which will result in converting and upgrading all in-house
developed software over the next two years.

In a statement of its mission, orrm placed an equal emphasis on
its policy development, planning, data administration, and informa-
tion services roles alongside its traditional systems development
and computer operations function. A reorganization of the office
was initiated to achieve the stated balance.

Administration / 317
Highlights for the Office of Facilities Services and its com-
ponents included planning and development of a major food fa-
cility at the National Air and Space Museum (where construction
is projected to start in early fiscal year 1985), and completing of
the exterior foundation wall, excavation, and mat foundation on
the Smithsonian Quadrangle project. Construction of the Quad-
rangle is expected to be completed in early 1986. Other activity
during the year, under the direction of the Office of Design and
Construction, included continuation of major exterior restoration
of the Arts and Industries Building and of the Renwick Gallery
facade. Work also continued on major fire protection projects in
the Museums of American History and Natural History. In addi-
tion, work started on master facilities plans for the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute and the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center. Major energy improvements were also made in
the heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems at the Mu-
seum of American History. Also at the Museum of American His-
tory, other major construction activity during the year included
the completion and opening of the ice cream parlor and the mu-
seum shop / bookstore.

Major activity in the Office of Plant Services included a reorga-
nization of the Crafts Service Division to strengthen internal
management controls, and initiation of a program that combined
physical plant inspections with gathering Smithsonian real property
data for over three hundred and fifty buildings and structures.
Energy conservation efforts this year focused on greater controls
over the use of lighting throughout the buildings. Efforts in reduc-
ing long-distance telephone calls continued to be successful, as
evidenced by usage reductions of about 16 percent during the year.
Further savings in communications expenses will be realized in
1985 and beyond through the purchase of telephone equipment.
The office has also developed a pilot vehicle-replacement program
that when fully implemented will provide for planned, phased
replacement of over three hundred Smithsonian vehicles.

Significant progress was made in the Office of Protection Services
during the past year. As part of the comprehensive occupational
health services program for the staff, employee assistance counsel-
ing was expanded to a full-time basis. Health Services Division
has assumed full responsibility for health programs at the National
Zoo, expanding the number of services available to Zoo employees.
To allow nurses to concentrate on occupational health programs,
emergency medical technicians have been appointed to provide

318 / Smithsonian Year 1984
first aid services. Employee medical records are now being auto-
mated along with safety and industrial hygiene records.

The Safety Division continued its phased program to control or
abate asbestos throughout the Institution’s facilities and learned
through an independent study that its program was one of the best
of its type in the country. Safety committees have been established
wherever required to keep employees involved in the effort to
maintain safe and healthy work places. A major program to train
supervisors and managers in occupational safety and health re-
quirements has begun, and presentation of the first classes is
expected in mid-1985. Development of fire protection master plans
concentrated on the installation of automatic sprinkler protection
and smoke detection in nine facilities.

The security system designed for the Institution was placed into
operation at the Museum Support Center and at the central control
station in the Smithsonian Institution Building. The system will
next be extended to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
with work expected to begin in June 1985. More than sixty projects
to upgrade security devices throughout the Institution were begun,
and twenty-six projects were programmed for fiscal year 1984 in
an upgrade program that is projected for completion in fiscal year
1987. As always, the Smithsonian’s guard force continued its effec-
tive service to the visiting public and to the security of buildings
and collections.

Other administrative services continued their strong support for
the Institution’s programs. The Office of Personnel Administration
took a number of steps to strengthen its recruitment efforts espe-
cially for minority persons. Information on employment opportuni-
ties was presented at twelve job fairs and the office completed work
on a number of pamphlets describing particular categories of
employment. Efforts at community contacts and networking with
the historically Black colleges and universities continued. In order
to achieve improved control and reduce costs to the Institution, the
personnel office contracted for the management of unemployment
insurance claims. The labor relations program was active with the
renewal of a contract with the National Maritime Union and the
initiation of negotiations with the United Food and Commercial
Workers Union.

The Office of Equal Opportunity emphasized special recruitment
of minority professional candidates with some improvements in the
representation of minority persons and women in professional jobs
and in upper grades. Program and facility accessibility for disabled

Administration / 319
persons continues to improve. Accessibility self-assessment surveys
were completed by the bureaus and evaluated by the Equal Oppor-
tunity staff. Preliminary analysis of the data showed many com-
pleted and ongoing program and facility accessibility projects.
Nevertheless, data was further developed into four major areas of
concern: publicity and publications; exhibitions, programs, and
activities; Smithsonian staff education; and exhibit labels. Next,
task forces composed of bureau personnel were established to make
recommendations in their respective area of concern. Outreach
efforts to minority and women’s organizations and communities
continued with equal opportunity exhibition displays at conferences
held by the National Council of Negro Women, National Associ-
ation for Equal Opportunities in Higher Education, Federally Em-
ployed Women, LaRaza, and the President’s Committee on Employ-
ment of the Handicapped. In addition equal employment messages
were placed with four major minority and women’s publications
that reach an audience of approximately one million people.

During 1984 key projects in the Office of Printing and Photo-
graphic Services centered on archival storage of photographs,
expanding and improving services, sponsoring photographic edu-
cation programs and exhibitions, and supporting the continuing
collections management priorities of the Institution.

The office’s cold storage room for processed film was improved
with backup systems for both cooling and humidity control. The
office’s 35mm color slides from 1977 to 1984 were placed on video-
disc for reference use. This disc also contains test subjects from
black and white files and a variety of files from other Smithsonian
bureaus. During the year a new branch office was opened at the
Museum Support Center and a new office was established and
staffed at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. The office
cosponsored for the sixth year a free photographic seminar for
students with the White House News Photographers Association.
The office also conducted a training program for museum profes-
sionals through the Office of Museum Programs. In addition, for
the first time the office proposed the development of a photo
exhibition based on its photodocumentary work. The exhibition,
covering twenty years of activities on the Mall, opened in August.
The office also continued the management of the photodocumentary
project in Numismatics, and also continued support of inventory
projects in several bureaus.

The Management Analysis Office (Mao) continued its program of
regularly scheduled and special reviews and analyses of manage-

320 / Smithsonian Year 1984
ment and organization problems. It also continued its program,
begun in 1979, of bringing to the Smithsonian for the summer
small numbers of carefully selected students in graduate schools of
business administration to work on management projects of inter-
est to Smithsonian offices for which an education in business
administration is particularly appropriate. In 1984 three such
graduate students worked in the Office of Audits, the Office of
Fellowships and Grants, and the Museum Shops bringing the total
since 1979 to twenty-four. The Office of Audits played a key role
in the planning, development, training, and implementation of an
internal control assessment program spanning all organization
units and their functions and involving managers at all levels.
Oversight of the program was made the responsibility of the mao
and results of the assessment and a plan for necessary strengthen-
ing actions was prepared for the management of the Institution and
for Board of Regents’ review.

The Office of Supply Services took prompt action to implement
the new Federal Acquisition Regulations which govern federal
fund purchases and contracts. This office also exceeded its high
goals for procurement and contracts with small and minority busi-
ness. The Travel Services Office provided an unusual level of
support for programs including arrangements for Folklife Festival
participants from remote areas of Alaska and for the Institution’s
scholarly, exhibition, and performance programs at the Edinburgh
Festival.

Financial Management Activities

On November 23, 1983, Mr. Christian C. Hohenlohe resigned as
Treasurer, having directed the Institution’s investment, accounting,
and business management activities with thoughtfulness and out-
standing achievement for over five years. Mr. John F. Jameson,
the Assistant Secretary for Administration, served additionally as
Acting Treasurer until the Board of Regents’ appointment of
Ms. Ann R. Leven. Formerly an officer of the Chase Manhattan
Bank and Treasurer of the Metropolitan Museum, Ms. Leven joined
the Smithsonian staff on August 1, 1984.

The expanded use of computers and related equipment during
the past year has enabled major progress in the management and
analysis of the Institution’s financial resources. Through develop-

Administration / 321
ment of an innovative software and communications systems
design, the Accounting Office can update financial files on a daily
basis and disseminate information electronically to selected other
offices. Introduction of microcomputers into the Office of Account-
ing and Financial Services, along with an intensive training pro-
gram on their use and capabilities, has resulted in improved
financial reports and the elimination of much manual preparation.
Cash forecasts are now more comprehensive and timely owing to
the use of the microcomputer in tracking and analyzing cash flow
and investments; electronic monitoring of banking transactions has
contributed to an increase in current fund investments income.

A new training course was developed on accounting policies and
procedures for secretarial, administrative, and clerical personnel.
Courses were also given jointly with the Travel Services Office on
travel regulations and requirements. These courses were designed
to enhance staff understanding of the financial management system
and to improve the processing of related financial documents.

Staff training was also a focus of the Office of Grants and Risk
Management, which continued its efforts to improve grant adminis-
tration with the development of a new seminar format and creation
of a grants administration handbook. Efforts to increase awareness
of risk management concepts by Smithsonian staff, as well as the
museum community, continued as a priority. Reviews of con-
tractual requirements such as loan agreements and vehicle leasing
resulted in eliminating or reducing risks and administrative burden.

Following a comprehensive study and management review, the
Smithsonian-managed food service operations in the National Air
and Space Museum building and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden were restored to concession management, effective in
October 1983. During the past year, a proposal to improve sig-
nificantly the quality of all Smithsonian food services was devel-
oped. Approval of plans to construct a new restaurant at the east
end of the National Air and Space Museum was requested and
received from the National Capital Planning Commission and the
Commission of Fine Arts. Work was also initiated on plans to
renovate and upgrade other Smithsonian restaurant facilities.

Sales in the museum shops and through the mail order catalogues
were exceptionally strong this past year, reflecting wide acceptance
of Smithsonian merchandise. A greatly expanded and modernized
museum shop was opened in the Museum of American History.
The shop in the Museum of American Art was renovated as were
the theater and spacearium shops in the Air and Space Museum.

322 / Smithsonian Year 1984
New electronic cash registers were installed in all shops, greatly
facilitating inventory and cash control. Major improvements were
made in the mail order fulfillment facilities to expedite the delivery
of merchandise. Increased emphasis on extending the Institution’s
outreach through the licensing of reproductions and other products
closely related to the Smithsonian’s collections led to new agree-
ments with several manufacturers. Revised parking guidelines and
administration resulted in improved parking availability for both
the public and employees.

Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council

SUSAN KALCIK, CHAIRPERSON

The newly elected Council began its two-year term in October,
1983, and continued efforts to identify and study the concerns of
employees, serve as an advisory group on women’s issues to the
Secretary and administration, and work for the general advance-
ment and improvement of conditions for employees.

The Council’s standing committees reflect its major areas of
concern: Day Care (Katherine Sprague, chairperson), Newsletter
(Susan Jewett), Information Processing (Victoria Hershiser), Ser-
vices and Benefits (Susanne Owens Koenig), and Training (Mar-
gery Gordon). The Training Committee sponsored its annual
two-part tax preparation seminar for employees. The Day Care
Committee focused its efforts on the location of an appropriate
space for a center. The 4 Star newsletter adopted a quarterly for-
mat. Its issues on professionalism among museum support staff
and the M*A*S*H exhibition received the most positive and
supportive responses.

The Council reviewed and organized the Council’s papers and
materials presently housed in the Smithsonian Institution Archives.
A senior advisory group of eight women in upper management
was formed to advise the Council on special issues. In a departure
from its annual Women’s Week in September, the Council is recog-
nizing March as Women’s History Month at the Smithsonian. It
will publicize exhibitions and activities presented throughout the
Institution in conjunction with this theme. The Council is also
working on plans for a two-day conference about women in
museums to be cosponsored with the Office of Museum Programs.

Administration / 323
Mary Ripley, Barbara Bush, and Jane Hart, chairman 1983-84 of the Women’s
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, are shown at a coffee at the Vice-
President’s Residence honoring Mrs. Ripley as founder of the committee.
Smithsonian Year « 1984

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

JAMES MCK. SYMINGTON,
DIRECTOR

Office of Development

The capital campaign to raise $37.5 million for the Quadrangle’s
construction was successfully completed June 30, 1984. Major
credit for this achievement can be ascribed to the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates and, in particular, to William S.
Anderson, former board chairman, who served as chairman of the
Quadrangle Campaign. Directly, through members’ individual
contributions, and indirectly, through members’ corporate relation-
ships, nearly $4 million in contributions is to be attributed to the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates with the able leader-
ship of Mr. Anderson and Board Chairman W. L. Hadley Griffin.
Mr. Anderson, in addition to his capable management of the
Quadrangle Campaign, generously made available the NCR Cor-
poration’s Tokyo office as headquarters for the Friends of the
Smithsonian Institution in Japan Committee, which generated
sizable contributions to the Quadrangle from corporations and
foundations in Japan.

With the construction of the Quadrangle now assured, and in
recognition of ever more competition in the philanthropic field, the
Development Office staff is being increased in size and restructured
so as to provide closer and more effective cooperation with the
bureaus and offices of the Institution. Individual development offi-
cers have been assigned to specific Smithsonian units, to work
more intimately with their respective directors, curators, and
scientists. A third research associate has joined the staff, and
Ilene Rubin has been appointed development officer at the Archives

325
of American Art in New York City. Yet another development
officer is soon to be added to the Washington staff, together with
a fourth secretary for the office.

A new development brochure is about to be published, and
this, together with the outstanding brochure on Smithsonian
science activities produced by the Office of Public Affairs, will be
especially useful in generating private support for the Institution.

With the enlargement of the development staff, there is now an
opportunity to place new emphasis on such deferred giving pro-
grams as the Smithsonian Pooled Income Fund, Unitrusts and
Annuity Trusts. Additional efforts will be made to encourage
friends of the Smithsonian to consider bequests and gifts of life
insurance to the Institution.

The new museums of the Quadrangle can be expected to require
substantial funds to support their exhibition programs in the
years ahead, adding to like needs of the Evans Gallery of the
National Museum of Natural History, temporary exhibitions of
the other Smithsonian museums, and siTEs’s traveling exhibitions.
Corporate sponsorship of such programs is essential. At the same
time, the demands upon corporate contributions committees have
intensified, especially from human services organizations in their
own headquarters and plant communities. Recognizing these new
developments, the Smithsonian has created a Major Exhibitions
Fund, from which financial support can be drawn, in whole or in
part, for specially selected exhibitions. This will be of the greatest
assistance to the Development Office as it seeks corporate spon-
sorships, making possible appeals for corporate contributions to
match the Smithsonian’s own funds and permitting such sponsor-
ships at lower corporate expenditures.

As international educational and research activities of the Smith-
sonian take form and substance, it is expected that they will be
attractive to leading national foundations. New focus on world
peace by the Council on Foundations suggests that this is a strong
possibility, and appropriate measures are planned for 1985 and
beyond, under the leadership of Secretary Adams.

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

This board remained under the able leadership of W. L. Hadley
Griffin, in his final year as chairman. Board members’ interest in

326 / Smithsonian Year 1984
the Institution and most especially in the Associate programs con-
tinues strong.

The close association between the National Associate Board and
the Board of Regents continues with Chairman Griffin having
attended the Regents’ meetings.

New members elected to the board in 1984 were Frank Cary,
Charles Dickey, Jr., Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr., Howard Love, Alex-
ander McLanahan, and Charles Murphy, Jr.

The board met in St. Louis in spring 1984 and, as usual, in
Washington in the autumn of 1984. The board at its autumn
meeting elected Seymour Knox to assume the chairmanship as of
January 1, 1985. The Executive Committee of the board, subsequent
to the meeting, proposed they meet with Secretary Adams in
October to explore areas in which the board could help the
Institution.

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates

The Women’s Committee supports a major objective of the Smith-
sonian Associates by assisting the Smithsonian Institution through
volunteer service. The committee was able to award $70,414 to
twenty-five different programs throughout the Institution as a
result of the extremely successful 1984 Washington Craft Show
and the 1984 Christmas Dance. From these two fundraisers, the
committee provided funds in amounts varying from $1500 to
$6000 for the following: five anthropological films of Ivory Coast
tribes for the National Museum of African Art’s education pro-
gram; seed money for satellite photographs of the Niger Delta for
the National Air and Space Museum; 2,000 slides of works by
American artists for the National Museum of American Art;
“America on Film: A Free Film Theater” which is coordinated with
the National Museum of American History; the reprinting of
Space for Women for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory;
the producing of video documentaries on the Maser atomic clock
from the outtakes of the television program, Here at the Smith-
sonian .. .; the complete microfiche archive of Christie’s Auction
Catalogues for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Decorative Arts
and Design; kits of Museums as Storytellers for the Office of

Membership and Development / 327
Elementary and Secondary Education; the producing of a slide
show, brochures, and signs for the Discovery Trail at the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research Center; the developing of a
prototype educational packet on India entitled: Aditi—A Celebra-
tion of Life; the cataloguing of scientific manuscripts and entering
of data into computerized library files for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries; exhibition and slide show on conservation of con-
temporary works of art at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden; the developing of an exhibition on the Golden Age of
Radio at the National Portrait Gallery; the conserving of thirty-six
paintings of outstanding Black Americans for the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service exhibition, Portraits in
Black; the producing of a deforestation poster in Panama for the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute; a set of color transparen-
cies for the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center’s
introduction to the Smithsonian Institution; and the assisting of
the Wilson Center to obtain a collection of four hundred Russian
books written in English from 1669 to 1917.

Additionally, funding was provided to the National Museum of
Natural History for entering taxonomic information on recent and
fossilized remains in its computer system, completion of a research
project on riffle beetles, purchase of the Whirligig beetle collection
and Australian and New Zealand beetle collection, and underwater
artwork and illustrations for ecological study of coral reef and
mangrove islands in Belize. The National Zoological Park received
funds to purchase a spotting scope to be used for the study of
Californian sea otters, equipment to establish a bird hand-rearing
lab, development of a bibliography of zoological films, and stipends
for three research students to study reproduction in zoological
animals.

The second annual Washington Craft Show was held April 27—
29, 1984, in the Departmental Auditorium. One hundred craft
artists were chosen by a distinguished jury composed of Michael
Monroe, curator at the Renwick Gallery; Ed Rossbach, Professor
Emeritus of Design at the University of California at Berkeley;
Gerry Williams, potter and editor of Studio Potter; James Carpen-
ter, glass artist from New York City; and Jackie Chalkley, ceramist
and gallery owner. Nearly 10,000 people attended the exhibition
and sale during the three-day event which is now recognized as one
of the finest craft shows in the nation. In addition to a fundraising
preview party, a Young Collectors Evening and a Designers Lunch-

328 / Smithsonian Year 1984
eon were held. “Crafts Today—The 1984 National Forum on 20th
Century American Glass,” held concurrently, was sponsored by
the National Associates Travel Program, the Resident Associate
Program, and the James Renwick Collectors Alliance. The forum
offered three days of lectures, tours of galleries, studios, and
private collections in addition to the Craft Show preview party.

In the spring, members of the Women’s Committee extended
the hospitality of their homes with dinner parties for a special
Contributing Members weekend in Washington.

In December, Mrs. George Bush held a coffee at the Vice-Presi-
dent’s residence for the Women’s Committee membership to honor
Mrs. Ripley as founder of the Women’s Committee by giving
recognition to her active interest and gracious support of the
‘committee and conferring on her the title of honorary life member.

The year ended with a tribute from Mr. and Mrs. Ripley to the
Women’s Committee, at the Fourth of July celebration held on the
rooftop of the National Museum of American History, acknowledg-
ing the committee’s hard work and successful support of the Insti-
tution over the past eighteen years.

James Smithson Society

Since the inception of the James Smithson Society in 1977 as the
highest level of the Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian
Associates, the society has granted more than $1,300,000 in sup-
port of Smithsonian projects and acquisitions. This year, through
the contributions of Annual Members, the society made the follow-
ing awards: To the Archives of American Art in support of the
republication of From Reliable Sources; to the National Museum
of African Art for the acquisition of a ‘“Mwadi” headdress by the
Tetela Peoples of Zaire; to the National Zoological Park, in coop-
eration with the National Museum of Natural History, toward the
publication of a book on discovery rooms and learning labs; to the
National Anthropological Archives for an adjunct symposium on
the Wilkes Expedition; to the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute for the project Management of the Green Iguana: Alterna-
tives to Destruction; to the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service for the proposed educational publication, Move

Membership and Development / 329
It!; to the Office of Telecommunications to create a pilot program
for a Smithsonian television series targeted at children; and finally,
to the Office of Horticulture to purchase a book collection on
American Landscape Architecture. The Smithsonian Institution
gratefully acknowledges the generous support of the James Smith-
son Society.

The annual weekend for members of the society, held every
year in conjunction with the autumn meeting of the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates, was scheduled September 15-16
this year in order to honor Secretary Ripley prior to his retirement
on September 17. At a formal dinner held at the National Museum
of American History, National Board Chairman W. L. Hadley
Griffin announced the 1984 Smithson Society grants. The next
morning, a behind-the-scenes tour of the National Air and Space
Museum offered members a private showing of unedited max film
footage photographed by astronauts for the upcoming film The
Dream Is Alive; a preview of the exhibition The Art of Robert
McCall; and demonstrations of innovative computer technology
designed by wnasm staff. Following the tour, Ambassador and
Lady Wright of Great Britain invited Smithson Society and Na-
tional Board members to a luncheon in their honor at the British
Embassy residence.

Smithsonian National Associate Program

The Smithsonian National Associate Program (sNaAP) was estab-
lished in 1970 in conjunction with Smithsonian magazine. The
program provides educational and cultural activities for Smith-
sonian Associates across the nation and around the world through
seminars, workshops, films, and lectures in the arts, sciences, and
humanities—both live and through cable television. Domestic and
international study tours are arranged with premier educators on
all continents. In addition, the program’s fundraising activities
have resulted in a significant source of revenue for the Institution’s
unrestricted funds.

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP

The Contributing Membership of the National Associate Program
provides unrestricted funds for Smithsonian research and educa-

330 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Contributing members of the National Associates study archeological treasures
at the opening of Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age at the National
Museum of Natural History, November 1, 1984.
tion programs through six levels of annual memberships: Sup-
porting ($50), available only to members living outside the greater
Washington, D.C., metropolitan area; Donor ($100); Sponsoring
($250); Sustaining ($500); Patron ($1,000); and the James Smith-
son Society ($1,500).

Membership in the program continues its steady expansion. The
20 percent growth experienced in fiscal year 1984 brought to over
27,500 the total number of Contributing Members participating in
and encouraging the work of the Smithsonian. Income from these
members amounted to $2,700,000 in 1984, a 25 percent increase
over fiscal year 1983. This total includes more than $225,000 from
members who responded to special appeals from Secretary Ripley
for additional contributions, over and above their annual mem-
bership dues. Also included are corporate matching gifts, which
increased 25 percent over last year, to $50,000.

Eleven complimentary special events were offered as benefits for
Contributing Members during the year. These included an opening
night reception and visit to the Golden Age of Flight Gallery at
the National Air and Space Museum; an after-hours visit to the
National Zoological Park for a picnic and special demonstrations of
animal training; and an exclusive evening viewing of the new
exhibition James McNeill Whistler at the Freer Gallery of Art and
an elegant courtyard reception. An exhibition of eighteenth-
century painted French fans at the Renwick Gallery provided the
theme for the annual membership ball. French Ambassador and
Mrs. Vernier-Pailliez served with Secretary and Mrs. Ripley as
cohosts of the gala evening.

For the first time, Contributing Membership worked with the
Associates Travel Program to plan a special behind-the-scenes
weekend at the Smithsonian exclusively for Contributing Members.
The tour offered a unique series of special experiences: candlelit
dinner in the Commons, with Secretary Ripley and Edwards Park
welcoming members to the Smithsonian; after-hours tours of and
dinners in the Air and Space Museum and National Portrait Gal-
lery; and access to other areas of museums normally off-limits to
visitors. Enthusiastic participant response suggests that this tour
will become an annual event, enforcing even more these members’
special relationship with the Institution.

Through careful selection of other benefits for Contributing
Members, the program works to assist other Smithsonian bureaus.
The commitment to purchase catalogues of the traveling exhibition
Treasures from the Shanghai Museum: 6,000 Years of Chinese Art

332 / Smithsonian Year 1984
proved a significant element in the funding for that show, which
concluded its successful United States tour at the National Museum
of Natural History. Members within the Washington metropolitan
area are automatically enrolled in the Resident Associate Program,
supporting its monthly newsletter and classes. Those outside the
area receive “Research Reports,” published three times a year by
the Office of Public Affairs to highlight special research and educa-
tional projects underway throughout the Institution.

Contributing Members have for some years received priority in
registering when Regional Events Programs visit their home com-
munities. In 1984, Contributing Members were offered compli-
mentary tickets to one lecture and an invitation to an informal
gathering planned in conjunction with the lecture. Such special
treatment reinforces the message that these members are important
to the Smithsonian, and increases their participation in the Regional
Events offerings.

REGIONAL EVENTS

Since 1975 the Regional Events Program has served Associates and
the American public living beyond the Washington, D.C., area by
presenting lectures, seminars, and performances in their home
communities. In 1984 Smithsonian curators and scientists discussed
their current research activities in Princeton, Trenton, Hopewell,
Roanoke, Salt Lake City, San Antonio, Midland, Winston-Salem,
Spokane, Fargo, Moorehead, Rapid City, Sioux Falls, Albuquerque,
Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, and Pullman. Nearly two hun-
dred events were offered to approximately 300,000 Associates and
members of 106 cosponsoring groups.

Examples of recent programs include: ‘“Adventurous Pursuits:
Americans and the China Trade” with Margaret Christman, Na-
tional Portrait Gallery (npc) ; “The Golden Age of Flight’ presented
by Claudia Oakes, National Air and Space Museum (Nasm), which
highlighted the museum’s newest exhibition gallery that opened
in April 1984; Richard Fiske, National Museum of Natural History
(NMNH), described the cataclysmic eruption of Krakatau in an
illustrated lecture; Mark and Diane Littler (nmNu) offered seminars
on marine plant communities of the tropics; Charles Millard,
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (Hmsc), presented an
in-depth seminar on the paintings of Friedel Dzubas.

During the past year, the Regional Events Program has continued
to expand its audience by working with national cosponsors who

Membership and Development / 333
invite their chapter members to participate in the program. In 1984
the World Wildlife Fund—U.S. and Sigma Xi, the Scientific Research
Society, joined as national cosponsors. Several corporations—
United Airlines, Piedmont Airlines, the Kroger Company, the
Hertz Corporation, and Hilton Hotels—demonstrated their con-
cern for public education by assisting the program with in-kind
services.

College and universities continue to play a major role in the
cosponsorship of the Regional Events Program. The University of
Texas Institute of Texan Culture at San Antonio, Wake Forest
University (Winston-Salem), Case Western Reserve University
(Cleveland), and Washington State University (Pullman) served
as primary cosponsors for the programs held in their communities.

The Regional Events Program drew salutatory notice from the
press with more than 120 feature articles. Speakers were also in-

vited to describe their research interests on sixty-seven television
and radio broadcasts.

Over the past nine years the Regional Events Program has re-
ceived many invitations to return to host cities. In 1984 the pro-
gram returned to five cities: San Antonio, Spokane, Cincinnati,
Cleveland, and Columbus. New topics were introduced during each
return visit and for the first time, the program offered extended
seminars which were fully subscribed.

SELECTED STUDIES

Selected Studies, an intensive education program of snap, conduct-
ed fifteen week-long seminars in fiscal year 1984. Drawing upon
the collections and expert staff of the Smithsonian, as well as visit-
ing scholars and scientific and cultural authorities, the programs
combined illustrated lectures, films, special behind-the-scenes tours,
and field trips to offer National Associates comprehensive courses
on a wide variety of topics in the arts, humanities, and sciences.
Responding to demand and the necessity of limiting enrollment
to assure a personal seminar atmosphere, some seminars were re-
peated. Among these were ‘Genealogical Research: How To”
taught by leading genealogists, and “Aircraft Restoration: How
To” which featured hands-on workshops with the master crafts-
men who restore pieces for the outstanding collection of the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum. In the seminar “Connoisseurship of
American Antique Furniture, 1650-1840,” participants learned
through direct contact with the collection of the National Museum

334 / Smithsonian Year 1984
of American History. The “Masterpieces of American Painting’
seminare was developed to use the Corcoran Gallery of Art exhibi-
tion of that title while “French Impressionist Painting’ was linked
with the collection at the National Gallery of Art.

Two sessions of “The New Astronomies” were held at the Smith-
sonian’s Whipple Observatory in Tucson, Arizona, where partici-
pants toured the world’s greatest concentration of observatories
with the directors and scientists who shared their latest research.

Lectures and creative workshops enabled Associates to learn
the “secrets of success” from Edwards Park in a new course, “‘Irre-
sistible Magazine Writing.” Other new courses included “Lost
America: Myth and Reality” which featured the American anthro-
pological exhibitions at the National Museum of Natural History,
and “Connoisseurship of Rugs” cosponsored with the Textile Mu-
seum. The special summer exhibition at the National Gallery of
Art, which brought many of Watteau’s famous paintings to the
United States for the first time, was the focus of the unique pro-
gram, “18th Century French Art: Age of Extravagance” taught by
William Kloss.

In late 1984, the Selected Studies seminars and the Regional
Events Program were combined to form the National Associates
Lecture and Seminar Program.

ASSOCIATES TRAVEL PROGRAM

The Associates Travel Program presents educational study tours
that mirror the interests and concerns of the Institution. Tours are
designed for members who are particularly interested in the work
of the national museum and the subjects in Smithsonian magazine.
The educational content of both foreign and domestic tours is
enhanced by study leaders; each trip is led by one or more Smith-
sonian staff. Since 1975, more than 47,000 Associates have partici-
pated in study tours throughout the world; in 1984, 3,600 members
traveled on one hundred tours.

In 1984, Associates chose from forty-six Domestic Study Tours—
to all parts of the United States—to experience first-hand the
natural wonders and regional heritage of America. The Colorado
Rockies was the setting for a week-long program on geology.
David Steadman (NMNH) led two camping trips to the Hawaiian
Islands where he was conducting research on bird fossils. In Cortez,
Colorado, Associates joined archeologists in the field to dig for
artifacts at an Anasazi Indian site. Other Associates visited the

Membership and Development / 335
Hopi and Navajo reservations to see traditional dances. The Crow
and Sioux Indian tribes were featured on a trip led by Herman
Viola, Director of the National Anthropological Archives.

Tours in private homes of the period were offered on trips fea-
turing architecture and decorative arts in Charleston and Savannah,
Philadelphia, and Boston. Out west, Associates relived the excite-
ment of the gold rush era en route from San Francisco to Sacra-
mento. Railroad buffs traveled to Colorado to ride the historic
steam trains with local historians who related the history of Colo-
rado’s silver mines.

Special programs were also offered for Associates at the Smith-
sonian. The twelfth annual Christmas weekend featured the trim-
ming of the Associates’ Christmas tree and children ages 7 to 14
attended a special family weekend. A glass seminar was planned
in conjunction with the second annual Washington Craft Show,
and for the first time, a program was designed especially for Con-
tributing Members to visit with museum directors and curators.

Foreign Study Tours included a variety of activities and a num-
ber of new destinations. The residential countryside program was
expanded to include Lenk, Switzerland, as well as the towns in
Austria, France, and England. Tours were based on art history and
museums in Belgium and the Netherlands and on churches and
castles along the Rhine River. Associates lived in a villa and
monastery while studying the art and history of Florence. Others
returned to England for our sixth annual Oxford/Smithsonian
Seminar. Donald Lopez (Nasm) led aviation enthusiasts on a study
tour of airfields and air museums in England, Germany, and Swit-
zerland.

The China series expanded with a tour studying decorative arts
led by Julia Murray (rca), and an overland journey traveling to
China’s more remote areas by train. Train buffs also enjoyed
traveling east to west across the Soviet Union on the Trans-Si-
berian Express. Associates studied archeological sites in and around
Mexico City and El Tajin on a new program in the Mexico series,
and learned about geology and indigenous plant and animal life
in Iceland. They photographed animal migrations in Kenya and
visited Berber villages in Morocco.

Study voyages allowed Associates to visit archeological sites
along the Nile, to study the countries bordering the Baltic Sea,
and to circumnavigate the British Iles. Clyde Roper (NMNH) led a
group of adventurous sailors on a two-week Atlantic Crossing,
studying marine biology and maritime history while sailing from

336 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Spain to the Caribbean aboard the tall ship Sea Cloud. Members
visited sites of historical importance in Egypt, Jordan, Israel, and
Greece, and participated in the Smithsonian’s first India and Sri
Lanka study voyage. In New Delhi, the late Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi welcomed the group to her home and led a discussion of
India’s current politics and economics.

More than 3,400 Associates participated in the “Washington
Anytime Weekend,” designed to give members an opportunity to
visit the nation’s capital and the Smithsonian any weekend during
the year. The program is executed in cooperation with the Visitors
Information and Associates’ Reception Center, which provides a
behind-the-scenes tour of the Castle and is available for informa-
tion and guidance during the weekend.

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program—the private, cul-
tural, continuing education, membership, and outreach arm of the
Smithsonian Institution for metropolitan Washington, D.C.—is
considered a model for museum membership and educational pro-
grams both nationally and internationally. Established in 1965 by
Secretary Ripley to provide opportunities for residents of the
Washington area to participate actively in the life of the Smith-
sonian, the program offers an extensive range of innovative, high
quality, and timely activities that complement and enhance the
exhibitions, collections, and research of the Institution.

The Resident Associate Program (rap) draws its membership
from the District of Columbia, Northern Virginia, and Maryland.
Membership has grown from 8,000 with a retention rate of about
50 percent in 1972 to 56,000 (up 1,000 from 1983) in 1984, with
a retention rate of 81 percent in fiscal year 1984 (up 2 percent from
1983). During fiscal year 1984, the more than 2,000 on-site activi-
ties offered—many with multiple sections—were attended by more
than 272,300 persons, a substantial increase in number of both
events and participants from the previous year. Many hundreds
of thousands more persons heard and/or saw courses through
audio-bridge or television broadcasts of lectures.

Self-supporting, except for Discovery Theater and performing
arts, with occasional small grants to help fund special outreach
events, the program reimburses the Institution for office space

Membership and Development / 337
rental, computer and audiovisual support, labor and guard service,
and administrative support.

In fiscal year 1984, the Resident Associate Program instituted
or assimilated seven new programs: pan-Smithsonian ticketed per-
forming arts; Discovery Theater; Discover Graphics; foreign lan-
guage courses; Tuesday Mornings at the Smithsonian; “The Cut-
ting Edge of Science’; computer courses; and telecommunication
outreach. These new projects, combined with the ongoing scholar-
ships for inner-city children and adults, the collaboration with area
national and international cultural and educational institutions, and
the commissioning of works of art have broadened the Resident
Associate Program’s mission considerably. While membership con-
tinues to be a vital component, service to the community and en-
abling new audiences to enjoy Smithsonian resources are equally
strong commitments.

COOPERATION WITH SMITHSONIAN BUREAUS

A primary focus of the program continues to be planning activi-
ties that enhance popular appreciation of Smithsonian exhibitions,
collections, and curatorial research. This year’s collaborations with
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden included the Octo-
ber “Anniversary!” lecture by art critic Frank Getlein, organized
as a preliminary event for the museum’s tenth anniversary. The
extraordinary conceptual artist Christo attracted a sell-out audience
in May, marking the conclusion of the exhibition Drawings 1974—
1984, and inaugurating the anniversary festivities. Accenting the
German Expressionist Sculpture exhibition, the noted Brecht/Weill
singer Martha Schlamme’s ““Cabaret-Concert” was also a sell-out.
In connection with the Resident Associate course, “Italy Today
and Tomorrow,” an exhibition was organized by Hirshhorn Direc-
tor Abram Lerner, Art from Italy: A Selection from the Museum’s
Collection. Students in the course attended the exhibition opening,
which was also attended by His Excellency Rinaldo Petrignani,
Ambassador of Italy, and Secretary Ripley. The Resident Associate
Program joined the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in
presenting one of the country’s leading interpreters of contempo-
rary music, the Twentieth Century Consort, in a series of four
concerts.

Among the many courses, lectures, seminars, and special events
organized in cooperation with the National Museum of Natural
History was the gala celebration in April of the one-hundredth

338 / Smithsonian Year 1984
anniversary of the National Gem Collection, “Baubles, Bangles,
and Beads!”, featuring a concert, reception, and viewing of the
collection, and an all-day seminar, ‘“Gemstones and Jewels: Mas-
terpieces of the Mineral World,” introduced by nmnu Director
Fiske. The exhibition at the National Museum of Natural History
honoring the fiftieth anniversary of Roger Tory Peterson’s A Field
Guide to the Birds was marked by the program’s sold-out lecture
by Peterson, cosponsored with the National Museum of Natural
History, the Audubon Naturalist Society, and Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo. Popular Young Associate classes, such as “Mammal
Lab” and “Summer Nature Diaries,” were conducted in the Nat-
uralist Center, as were a number of adult courses, including
“Everything You Wanted to Know about Trilobites’” and “Collect-
ing Rocks and Minerals.” A seminar on evolution in March and a
series of lectures by National Museum of Natural History curators
on research conducted with the scanning electron microscope
drew an enthusiastic audience in April, May, and June. Lectures, a
gala opening, a concert, studio art classes, and courses were or-
ganized by the Resident Associate Program to complement the
National Museum of Natural History’s Treasures from the Shang-
hai Museum: 6,000 Years of Chinese Art.

Guest curator Rene Bravmann drew a sizable, enthusiastic audi-
ence to his lecture, “African Islam,” cosponsored with the National
Museum of African Art. Newly reinstalled exhibition halls at the
National Museum of American Art were discussed in a fine slide-
illustrated lecture in July by Director Charles Eldredge. An all-day
seminar, “Glorious Glass,” tracing the history of twentieth-century
American glass, was organized this spring in conjunction with the
James Renwick Collectors Alliance, the Smithsonian National As-
sociate Program, and the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Institution.

The Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra, led by renowned Dutch
violinist Jaap Schroeder, performing on authentic instruments from
the National Museum of American History collections, and the
Smithsonian Chamber Players series held in the museum’s Hall of
Musical Instruments were cosponsored by the program and the
National Museum of American History. “Portraits in Motion
Showcase” and “Portraits in Song,” cosponsored with the National
Portrait Gallery, included virtuoso performances of “An Inde-
pendent Woman” by gifted actress Peggy Cowles and “Clarence
Darrow Lives!” by David Fendrick.

Many cooperative programs were held with the National Air

Membership and Development / 339
and Space Museum during the year and included a tour of the
Golden Age of Flight in a new exhibition gallery in April, “Space
Shuttle Flight Films” augmented by a slide lecture by Gregory
Kennedy, Assistant Curator, and two lectures by prolific author
and nasm Director Walter Boyne. This year, Rap and Nasm began
an ongoing cosponsorship of a series of concerts in the Albert
Einstein Sky Theater.

Among the several events planned in conjunction with the
National Zoological Park were “Last of the Giants: Saving the
Elephants,” an engrossing lecture by Curator of Mammals Edwin
Gould, and art classes and projects conducted on site at the zoo
for studio arts and Young Associate Summer Camp participants.
Each summer several thousand Resident Associates enjoy “Sum-
mer Evenings at the Zoo,” featuring live music and an opportunity
to view the animals at sunset.

Enhancing the Freer Gallery of Art exhibition of James McNeill
Whistler’s work, curator of the exhibition David Park Curry lec-
tured on the artist’s achievements and association with Charles
Lang Freer. The course, “James McNeill Whistler and the Expa-
triates,” presented in a series of distinguished lectures, attracted a
sizable group of students in July. Freer Gallery of Art Director
Thomas Lawton lectured for “Tuesday Mornings at the Smith-
sonian” on “Beginnings of Western Connoisseurship of Chinese
Art” in September.

Programs organized in cooperation with the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars’ Kennan Institute for Advanced
Russian Studies included “Russia After Andropov: The Future of
U.S.—Soviet Relations” and “Recent Russian Films.” In coopera-
tion with the center’s Latin American Program, experts discussed
“The United States and the Crises in Latin America and the
Caribbean” in a stimulating fall course. Thomas A. Sebeok, Re-
gents Fellow and Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars Fellow as well, taught “Introduction to Semiotics: The
Science of Signs and Symbols” in the spring.

The Resident Associate Program responded to the Smithsonian’s
request to participate in the celebration of the Harry S Truman
Centennial with many activities—all very popular and well re-
ceived—including a video portrayal of Truman by consummate
character actor James Whitmore, an all-day seminar with dis-
tinguished Truman scholars, a film series, a course, performances
featuring music of the Truman years, and The Buck Stops Here!,
an original musical based on the life of Harry S Truman, first pro-

340 / Smithsonian Year 1984
duced in New York, which drew capacity crowds to five perfor-
mances in September and received critical acclaim.

Twice each year the Resident Associate Program offers its mem-
bers private viewings of major exhibitions. In November, approxi-
mately 6,000 members enjoyed Masterpieces from Versailles:
Three Centuries of French Portraiture at the National Portrait
Gallery and The Capital Image: Painters in Washington, 1800-
1915 at the National Museum of American Art. In August, ap-
proximately 9,000 members attended six gala openings of Trea-
sures from the Shanghai Museum: 6,000 Years of Chinese Art
at the National Museum of Natural History.

The program conducted its tenth annual photography contest
for Resident Associates, young and old. Subjects of the entries are
Smithsonian-related (museum buildings, objects in the collections,
or people at the Smithsonian), and the winning photographs are
displayed in the Associates Court and published in the Associate
newsletter.

The program continued to commission original works of art to
commemorate Smithsonian events. The latest work, commissioned
in the fall, is a panoramic view of Smithsonian museums on the
Mall by the well-known New York artist Richard Haas, whose
work will be featured in the new Quadrangle.

OUTREACH

The Resident Associate Program works closely with civic, cul-
tural, and educational institutions in the Washington area to offer
activities that are open to the public as well as to members, and,
through scholarships and special interest projects, seeks to expand
its accessibility to all segments of the public. The objective is to
reach the community at large and to increase public awareness of
both the quantity and the quality of programming.

Discover Graphics

Discover Graphics is a free program providing talented high school
students and their teachers opportunities to study etching and
lithography. A master printmaker conducts student and teacher
workshops at the Union Printmakers Atelier in the Lansburgh
Cultural Center.

During the first full year of operation under the aegis of the
Resident Associate Program, over 150 secondary school students
and their art teachers from the District of Columbia, Maryland,
and Virginia received studio and seminar training in this lively

Membership and Development / 341
program, and several have been awarded major art school scholar-
ships and national prizes, based on their portfolios assembled in
Discover Graphics. A student exhibition of selected prints, juried
by curators from three Smithsonian museums, was held at the
National Museum of American History May 12 through July 5.
A new term began in fall 1984, and is fully subscribed.

Scholarships

For the twelfth consecutive year, tuition-free scholarships to
Young Associate courses were awarded to inner-city youngsters in
the District of Columbia schools. Adults also received scholarships
through the District of Columbia public schools, as well as high
school students attending the Ellington School for the Arts, the
Gifted and Talented Program, and the School Without Walls, for
adult courses. This year 154 adult scholarships were awarded, and
in addition, in fall 1983, thirteen teachers from the District of
Columbia public schools received scholarships to attend the spe-
cial course “Basic Computer Literacy.” Fifty-eight scholarship stu-
dents from the District of Columbia public schools attended Young
Associate classes in 1983-84.

The Cutting Edge of Science

This lecture series, conducted by eminent Smithsonian and uni-
versity scholars, was offered free to area high school students
proficient in science who were recommended by their science
teachers. The series attracted over 3,000 students for five monthly
lectures on such current and controversial topics as “Life in the
Universe,” “Genetic Engineering,” and “The Continental Puzzle.”
This kind of outreach will be repeated.

Smithsonian Kite Festival

The eighteenth annual festival open to members and the general
public took place in April with hundreds of participants entering
colorful kites of all sizes and shapes and representing countries
from as far away as New Zealand—and thousands of interested
spectators.

Tuesday Mornings at the Smithsonian

This inexpensive ticket fee series of twelve weekly lectures, sched-
uled three times a year—spring, summer, and fall—is presented

342 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Performers of the Central Traditional Orchestra of China
presented a rare evening of Chinese classical and folk music
in a program to complement the exhibition Treasures from
the Shanghai Museum: 6,000 Years of Chinese Art, in the
Evans Gallery, National Museum of Natural History. The
troupe was the first traditional orchestra to visit the United
States from the People’s Republic of China. (Photograph by
Robert de Milt)

A local high school student listens to the answer to his ques-
tion at a lecture on space technology delivered by Kerry Joels,
of the Office of Research Support, National Air and Space
Museum. The lecture was part of “The Cutting Edge of Sci-
ence,” a free series open to highly motivated area students
recommended by their high school science teachers. (Photo-
graph by Lillian O’Connell)
by Smithsonian scholars, and preceded by complimentary coffee,
tea, and rolls. Specifically designed to engage the interest of older
citizens during daytime hours, the series is planned for all who are
interested in learning more about art, science, history, foreign cul-
tures, and politics. The lectures each attract between 250 and
400 people. This year a total of 11,600 attended.

Minority Focus

The Resident Associate Program observed Black History Month
by presenting “Langston Lives!,” a program honoring poet Lang-
ston Hughes, specially assembled by the Rod Rogers Dance Com-
pany and guest artists and cosponsored by the Office of the Mayor
of the District of Columbia and the D.C. Commission on the Arts
and Humanities. Geoffrey Holder (described below) also per-
formed. Discovery Theater opened its fall season with bilingual
productions of Journey to Dodoland, presented in Spanish and
English to accommodate Washington’s population of Hispanic stu-
dents. Discovery Theater also offered two productions to com-
memorate Black History Month: Boley, a new play by D.C. play-
wright Karen L. B. Evans, and Critter Chat, an enchanting per-
formance of animal tales from Africa, the West Indies, and black
America.

Performances

The Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program contributed fund-
ing to performances by Samul-Nori, Korean dance-drummers;
Kapelye, a revivalist klezmer band specializing in East European
music (in conjunction with Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from
the Czechoslovak State Collections mounted at the National Mu-
seum of Natural History); and “Bamboo and Silk: The Music of
China,” a concert by the Central Traditional Orchestra of China
and introduced by the Deputy Chief of Mission to the Chinese
Embassy, with a welcome and greetings from President Reagan
conveyed by the Ambassador-at-Large for Cultural Affairs, Daniel
James Terra. This concert, a Washington premiere, attracted a
capacity audience with a sizable number from the Washington
Chinese-American community.

Collaboration with Community and Regional Organizations

For the second year, a five-evening subscription to the Folger
Theatre’s season of fine plays, embellished by special pre- and

344 / Smithsonian Year 1984
post-performance events, was arranged for Resident Associates.
Folger Shakespeare Library Director O. B. Hardison inaugurated
the season with a distinguished lecture on Shakespeare as person
and artist.

For the eleventh consecutive year, the Resident Associate Pro-
gram cosponsored the nine monthly Audubon Lecture series with
the Audubon Naturalist Society and the Friends of the National
Zoo. This year’s series attracted more than 615 subscribers and
over 7,200 persons for all the lectures.

Architectural Design Seminars

In March, the Washington Chapter of the American Institute of
Architects, the Resident Associate Program, and the Virginia Poly-
technic Institute and State University’s Washington-Alexandria
Center of the College of Architecture and Urban Studies joined to
present the third in an annual series of architectural design sem-
inars. These provide a forum for the study and application of
basic design principles for professionals and students of a specific
site in the Washington area. This year’s focus was the “Portal”
area, located at the 14th Street Bridge entrance to the city. Among
the guest lecturers were eminent architects Kevin Lynch and
Peter Cook.

Telecommunications

In an innovative outreach effort, ““The Telecommunications Revo-
lution” fall course was linked by audio-bridge to several campuses
of the California State University system each week for the dura-
tion of the course. The audio-bridge enabled the students to inter-
act directly with instructors and students in Washington. A spec-
tacular highlight of the summer term, “Toward 2001: Visions of
America’s Future,” in collaboration with the American Society for
Personnel Administration, was broadcast nationwide almost in its
entirety by the C-Span television network, and this exposure re-
sulted in hundreds of requests for transcripts and videotapes of
individual lectures by such experts as Jeffrey Hallet and S. Norman
Feingold.

AWARDS

The Resident Associate Program received two awards from the
National University Continuing Education Association, Region
II, for its fiscal year 1984 programs “Architectural Design Sem-

Membership and Development / 345
inar: The Portal’’ and “The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures
from the Czechoslovak State Collections.” The latter included a
course, lecture, performance, and exhibition tours.

INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

The Resident Associate Program was active in a variety of interna-
tional arenas during the year. The President of Austria spoke at a
reception during the course, “Vienna at the Turn of the Century”
in February. As part of the Institution-wide celebration of the
two-hundredth anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Paris
in 1783, the course ‘The American Revolution: New Insights and
Revisions” was offered in the fall, as was “Britain’s Best,” a six-
week series of double-feature films of the past fifty years; a sem-
inar; free film; and a concert. The Treaty of Paris commemorative
poster was made available for purchase to Resident Associate
members.

The Resident Associate Program hosted an “Oktoberfest” eve-
ning of music and dance at the Embassy of the Federal Republic
of Germany as the final element of its celebration of the German-
American Tricentennial. Director Janet Solinger received the Offi-
cer’s Cross of the Order of Merit from the government of the
Federal Republic of Germany in February. In September, His Holi-
ness the fourteenth Dalai Lama, spiritual and temporal leader of
the Tibetan people, inaugurated the course ‘Tibetan Buddhism:
Living Heart of the Land of Snow” in a special evening lecture; he
was welcomed and introduced by Secretary Adams.

Thirty courses, lectures, seminars, films, and film series were
cosponsored with embassies or the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars and/or featured international speakers. Six
performances starred international performing artists or troupes.

COURSES

The lively and provocative curriculum of arts, sciences, humani-
ties, and studio arts for educated adults—offered four terms per
year—provides opportunities for serious study with Smithsonian
and visiting scholars during evenings, noontimes, mornings, and
weekends. In 1983-84, 173 lecture courses were offered, and at-
tendance reached 57,100.

Among the best attended fall courses were ““The Listener’s Art,”
which focused on guided interpretations of classical music; “The
Precious Legacy: Jewish Life and Art in Czechoslovakia,” held in

346 / Smithsonian Year 1984
conjunction with the exhibition installed at the Evans Gallery of
the National Museum of Natural History, organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. “Frank Lloyd
Wright: America’s Master Builder,” a course in which many
schools of architecture cooperated, featured noted guest lecturer
Bruce Brooks Pfeiffer, Director of the Archives of the Frank Lloyd
Wright Foundation, and Roger Kennedy, Director of the National
Museum of American History, and drew accolades in the winter
term. Best-selling author Paul Starr lectured for the course “The
Face of American Medicine,” planned in conjunction with the Na-
tional Museum of American History exhibition Pain and Its Relief.
The year’s outstanding guest lecturers included world-class photog-
raphers Jay Maisel and Barry Seidman; philosopher and author
John Searle; Truman scholars Robert Donovan, Walter LaFeber,
and Harold Saunders; and noted constitutional authorities Max
Isenbergh and Joseph L. Rauh, Jr. New courses explored facets of
computer literacy and computer animation. A Foreign Language
Program was launched, featuring classes in Spanish, French, and
Italian.

STUDIO ARTS

The studio arts program seeks to enhance appreciation of age-old
crafts, keeping alive techniques now rapidly disappearing from
the modern world, as well as introducing contemporary arts and
crafts. Courses and intensive workshops in such areas as draw-
ing, sculpture, photography, and needlework were offered seven
days a week, morning, noon, and evening. The program was the
recipient of assistance from the Hechinger Foundation given for
the purpose of enriching the studio arts curriculum in the area of
fine carpentry and woodworking.

An expanded selection of workshops and courses were offered
in fiscal year 1984, including sessions on bookbinding, using a
newly acquired turn-of-the-century bookbinding press; archival
matting and framing, a highly specialized area of archival studies
taught by the head of exhibition matting and framing at the Na-
tional Gallery of Art; the art of perfumery; Ikebana, Japanese
flower arranging; and several open studio classes in etching and
figure drawing.

A special lecture/demonstration by master jewelry designers
in October, cosponsored with the Embassy of Belgium and aug-
mented by a private viewing of the exhibition, Belgium Jewels

Membership and Development / 347
Today at the Inter-American Development Bank, filled quickly.
Another successful workshop, “The Quick Self Portrait,” was
offered in March in conjunction with the National Portrait Gallery
exhibition, Artists By Themselves. In all, 220 programs were pre-
sented throughout the year, with an attendance of 13,500.

LECTURES, SEMINARS, SYMPOSIA, FILMS

Single lectures, intensive one- and two-day seminars, and schol-
arly symposia led by distinguished authorities addressed a wide
range of cultural topics during the year. Individual films and film
series featuring foreign cultures, saluting well-known artists, or
highlighting different techniques were an expanding feature of
the program.

Lectures

Notable speakers and guest artists included computer animation
expert Judson Rosebush; Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the
Seychelles Islands Foundation Maxime Ferrari; author and ad-
venturer Arlene Blum; Professor of the Year Peter Beidler (co-
sponsored by the Council for Advancement and Support of Edu-
cation); Director of the National Museum of Natural History
Richard Fiske; and choreographer, artist, designer, and actor Geof-
frey Holder. “A Video Visit with Dumas Malone and Thomas
Jefferson” was the occasion for the Resident Associate Program’s
first public use of the new Novabeam video projector. More than
28,600 persons attended 106 Resident Associate Program lectures
in fiscal year 1984.

Seminars and Symposia

Nineteen intensive seminars and symposia enabled 2,200 partici-
pants to examine a rich selection of subjects in depth. Eminent
scholars and professionals discussed the history of the Roman
emperors, fashion design, the rise and fall of the Aztecs, the social
and scientific implications of advances in artificial intelligence, the
genetics revolution, gemstones and jewels, and Harry S Truman:
“The Man and His Years.”

Films

Berlin Alexanderplatz, a two-day film marathon, was screened for
a sell-out audience in December and received critical accolades as

348 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Washington film coup of the year. Memories of Old Beijing, a
Chinese-produced international award winner, was also extremely
well received. The Washington premiere of the new opera film,
Parsifal, was introduced to a full house by former Washington Post
music critic Octavio Roco. A riveting Australian documentary
about a remote highland area in New Guinea in the 1930s, First
Contact, was introduced by the filmmakers. January audiences
enjoyed a double booking of an eloquent film tribute to Marc
Chagall, Homage to Chagall. Nadine Gordimer’s South Africa, the
Washington premiere of seven new films based on Gordimer’s
stories, attracted capacity crowds. Mel Blanc, creator of Bugs
Bunny’s voice, drew over 1,200 participants to the Departmental
Auditorium, as he reminisced about his fifty-year career; Blanc’s
appearance was included in a “Smithsonian World” feature aired
in fall 1984. In the spring, actor William Powell was commemorat-
ed in a series of classic films in which he starred. In conjunction
with the twenty-fifth anniversary of Alaska’s statehood, a new
documentary on Alaska’s Denali National Park, where Mt. Mc-
Kinley looms above the wilderness, was screened. Simone de
Beauvoir, a cine-portrait, provided a fascinating glimpse into the
mind and thoughts of the famous author and philosopher. Films
shot from the space shuttle thrilled December audiences. Amadeus,
the spectacular film version of the stage hit, was screened in 70mm
on the max screen at the National Air and Space Museum in a
benefit premiere in September. Over eighty film showings attracted
22,500 people—members and the general public.

PERFORMING ARTS

An outstanding season of theater, music, and dance was presented
in the first year the Resident Associate Program took over the
majority of Smithsonian performing arts events requiring tickets.
Many were held in conjunction with Smithsonian museums; others
were selected for special quality and popular appeal. The NoHo
Theatre Group of Japan appeared in March, cosponsored with the
Japan-American Society of Washington, and the Gewandhaus Bach
Orchestra of Leipzig, a virtuoso ensemble drawn from the ranks
of the famous Gewandhaus Orchestra in its first North American
visit, appeared in February.

The Emerson String Quartet played to full houses in a series of
memorable concerts held in the Grand Salon, Renwick Gallery,
the first season under the aegis of the Resident Associate Program.

Membership and Development / 349
Smithsonian Salutes Washington Dance, a series of performances
celebrating the vitality of the Washington dance scene, culminated
in ‘Dancers’ Choice,” in which established stars selected the new
dancers.

Summer outdoor concerts in the courtyard of the National Mu-
seum of American Art / National Portrait Gallery featured out-
standing jazz, classical, bluegrass, and ragtime music and attracted
capacity audiences, as did fall and winter brunch concerts held in
the National Museum of American History. John Eaton performed
the compositions of Porter, Arlen, Gershwin, and Ellington in eight
informative and entertaining concerts, his sixth season of jazz
piano for the Resident Associate Program. In the 1983-84 season,
89 performances were presented, with more than 26,000 members
and the general public in attendance.

TOURS

On-site learning experiences are organized for small groups in the
fields of art, architecture, archeology, history, industry, and science,
lasting from one hour to three days. Tours are designed to appeal
to a wide variety of age groups, financial circumstances, and inter-
ests, and range in content from Virginia winemaking to the Balti-
more Museum of Art’s fall session, to Tall Ship cruises on the
Chesapeake Bay. Art and architecture continue to be among the
most popular subjects, with specialized science tours gaining
steadily.

For the first time, members attended the Spoleto Festival in
Charleston, South Carolina, a tour featuring concerts, lectures,
and local history. An overnight art study tour to New York’s Soho
and Wall Street and one tour led by six architects commenting at
the sites of their own work were filled. Tours to historic areas
included a survey of Baltimore markets, regional counties, and
Civil War sites. An enthusiastic group attended “Visually Impaired
in the Seeing World” led by the Washington Ear Radio Reading
Service. In a joint venture with the National Air and Space Mu-
seum, the Goddard Space Flight Center, and the Space Telescope
Science Institute at Johns Hopkins University, space telescope
facilities were toured, and, on a rare occasion, participants—led by
National Air and Space Museum staff—traveled to southern Vir-
ginia to witness the solar eclipse in May. Natural history tours,
especially those on birding and botany, were quite popular. Free

350 / Smithsonian Year 1984
tours, most led by museum docents, attracted over 6,500 partici-
pants during the year. In 1983-84, 724 tours took place, with total
attendance by more than 27,300 people.

YOUNG ASSOCIATE AND FAMILY ACTIVITIES

Through Young Associate and Family Activities, the Smithsonian’s
resources are enhanced for young people, ages four to fifteen, and
their parents. Classes, workshops, monthly free films for families,
tours, and performances exploring history, art, science, and studio
arts are tailored to their ages and interests. Innovative parent-child
classes and workshops enable parents and children to work to-
gether on projects of mutual interest, as in the class “Urban Nature
Study” held on the Mall; “Geology Close-Up,” taught by a geolo-
gist in the Naturalist Center of the National Museum of Natural

History; and “Scissor Art,” a workshop in producing paper-cut art
for Hanukkah.

In November, the first Resident Associate Program event exclu-
sively for teens was well received—‘Science Fiction Writers Tell
All: Meet the Authors,” and the first grandparent-child event,
“Granny’s Kitchen,” also drew enthusiastic participation. ‘““Renais-
sance Sampler,” a parent-child tour planned in collaboration with
the Folger Shakespeare Library, incorporated history, drama, dance/
movement, and music into a behind-the-scenes theater class.

For the second season, Summer Camp classes met all morning,
every weekday for one, two, or three weeks, in July and August.
Classes were team taught, combining the talents of teachers of
different disciplines. One outstanding example was “TV Smith-
sonian: The Quad,” in which a video production expert and a
painter/designer/sculptor teamed for a class mural painting project.
The mural was painted on the construction barricade surrounding
the Quadrangle’s future Center for African, Near Eastern, and
Asian Cultures, the process being filmed by class members. The
story of the completed project was aired on a Metromedia television
news program. In 1984, over 180 Young Associate and Family
programs attracted an attendance of more than 12,900 individuals.

Discovery Theater

Discovery Theater, presenting entertainment and educational ex-
periences for young people and their families, conducted its first

Membership and Development / 351
full season under the auspices of the Resident Associate Program
from October through June. Two performances a day were present-
ed, Wednesday through Sunday. The series theme for 1983-84
was ‘Myths, Fables, Legends, and Tales.” Ten performing groups
demonstrated the full spectrum of theatrical styles, including mime,
puppetry, dance, music, storytelling, and original plays. Among
the highlights were a live stage performance by the local Children’s
Radio Theatre, a marionette version of Hansel and Gretel by David
Syrotiak’s National Marionette Theatre, and performances by two
acclaimed Canadian companies—Kaleidoscope Theatre and Theatre
Beyond Words. In order to facilitate an educational as well as
entertainment experience for young people, Learning Guides, which
include information about performances, suggestions for classroom
activities, a listing of resources, and other Smithsonian activities,
were produced by Smithsonian staff and furnished free of charge
to all leaders who brought groups to the theater. Over 47,300 indi-
viduals attended the 369 performances during the season; approxi-
mately 75 percent consisted of groups from local school systems.

VOLUNTEERS

A total of 425 volunteers provided invaluable assistance to the
program, monitoring films, special events, lectures, courses, and
tours, and performing vital office duties. The 94 volunteer office
workers represent the equivalent of six full-time staff members,
and the hours contributed by monitor volunteers amount to the
work of six full-time staff members. Office volunteers were honored
at a luncheon on May 3, and all volunteers were feted at a special
reception at the Arts and Industries Building Rotunda on Septem-
ber 20.

SUMMARY

Fiscal year 1985 marks the Resident Associate Program’s twentieth
anniversary. During the coming year, many observances are
planned that will lend special enhancement to the program. In
addition the program will continue to present museum-quality
educational and cultural activities and add new projects as it is
able, with consideration of staff size, Smithsonian facilities, and
budget. The Resident Associate Program will continue to endeavor

352 / Smithsonian Year 1984
to reach new audiences, to increase membership by emphasizing
modest growth, keeping service to members at a premium, and to
increase income without sacrificing quality. The program will also
continue its outreach activities for the Washington area community.

Membership and Development / 353
Two dozen youngsters, gathered around Uncle Beazley, the popular dinosaur
model, served as the supporting cast for actress Sandy Duncan during the film-
ing of a Smithsonian television public service announcement produced by the
Office of Public Affairs.
Smithsonian Year - 1984
PUBLIC INFORMATION

LAWRENCE E. TAYLOR,
COORDINATOR

Office of Public Affairs

The Office of Public Affairs (ora) participated in and helped coor-
dinate publicity for several historic events during the year, includ-
ing the announcement of Robert McC. Adams’s selection as the
Smithsonian’s ninth Secretary and the subsequent installation cere-
monies, the observance of Secretary Ripley’s twentieth anniversary
at the Institution, the launching of the Smithsonian’s first major
venture in public television, and Institution participation in the
1984 Edinburgh Festival, the world’s oldest and largest annual
cultural festival.

The Board of Regents unanimously elected Dr. Adams as the
Smithsonian’s ninth Secretary on January 23, 1984. Following the
vote, the Office of Public Affairs organized a news conference,
which was attended by representatives of the Board of Regents
and the Search Committee, Secretary Ripley, Secretary-designate
Adams and reporters and photographers from the national, inter-
national, and local media.

In February, Secretary Ripley celebrated his twentieth anni-
versary at the Smithsonian with a reception for the entire Smith-
sonian staff at the National Museum of Natural History. To com-
memorate the anniversary, public affairs staff members produced
a special six-page supplement on the events and accomplishments
of the Ripley years for the February issue of The Torch, the

355

monthly newspaper for employees and friends of the Smithsonian,
and prepared a chronology of the Ripley years for the media.

The Office of Public Affairs planned and implemented a public
relations program for the ceremonies marking the installation of
the ninth Secretary September 17 on the National Mall. The his-
toric event was given broad coverage in the media and resulted as
well in major articles in the national press on Secretary Ripley
and the new Secretary. In addition, the opa produced an expanded
issue of the monthly staff newspaper to commemorate the occasion.

The Smithsonian’s new television series, “Smithsonian World,”
coproduced with the Washington, D.C., public television station
WETA-TV with a $3.5 million grant from the James S. McDonnell
Foundation, premiered in January to positive reviews from the
media and the public. Public affairs staff members provided
“Smithsonian World” staff with background materials and infor-
mation and coordinated for the Institution the extensive publicity
and advertising campaign that accompanied the series.

A major new project began in the opa with a grant from the
Educational Outreach Fund to encourage visits to the Smithsonian
by members of minority communities. Emphasizing the theme
“Explore Your Heritage,” the ora staff produced both an illustrated
brochure and a 30-second public service announcement (psa) for
television, featuring areas of the Institution of particular signif-
icance to members of the Black community as the first effort in
the project. The brochure was distributed to schools, churches, and
civic organizations in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area,
to tourists at the information desks of the museums, and in re-
sponse to requests generated by the television announcement.
Colonel Guion “Guy” Bluford, the first Black American astronaut
in space, appeared as narrator in the psa.

As part of the outreach project, advertisements were placed
throughout the year in Washington/Baltimore Afro-American
newspapers calling attention to special exhibitions and activities
related to Black History Month and holiday seasons and to pro-
mote a performance sponsored by the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art to benefit a future Black History Festival. The latter adver-
tisement also appeared in the Washington Post.

As part of the office’s continuing mission to encourage visits to
the Smithsonian, the opa produced a television public service an-
nouncement package (a 30-second psa and a 20-second psa) aimed
specifically at showing the Institution’s exhibits that children can
touch and participate in. Noted television and stage actress Sandy

356 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Duncan became a real-life Smithsonian Peter Pan as forty children,
ranging in age from 3 to 17, followed her lead in the filming. The
hard-working cast labored from dawn to dusk just as any Holly-
wood crew would do to complete the Tv announcements, which
were distributed to the three hundred largest television stations in
the country, reaching every state.

Public affairs staff members also produced and placed advertise-
ments in the Washington Post every two weeks during the summer
calling attention to the Smithsonian’s extended summer hours and
encouraging visitors to “Spend an Evening” at the Smithsonian
during those relatively uncrowded times. Ads also appeared during
one week of extended hours in April. Attendance at the Smith-
sonian in April 1984 increased by more than 15 percent over 1983,
and overall attendance for the year was expected to break last
year’s all-time record high.

The Office of Public Affairs is the central Smithsonian clearing-
house for reporters from newspapers, magazines, television, and
radio. In fiscal year 1984, the opa issued more than five hundred
news releases on Smithsonian exhibitions, events, and activities;
staff members answered hundreds of phone calls from members of
the print and electronic media and arranged dozens of interviews
with Smithsonian officials, scholars, scientists, and curators. The
office also provided assistance to other Smithsonian bureaus and
offices in the planning and implementation of major publicity pro-
grams. To publicize the Edinburgh Festival, which included the
exhibition Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution as well as
32 concerts given by nine performing groups and individual artists,
the Office of Public Affairs cooperated with the Office of the As-
sistant Secretary for Public Service in a media campaign that
resulted in international media coverage for the Smithsonian’s
Edinburgh programs.

Articles covering Smithsonian programs in Edinburgh appeared
in the New York Times, the Washington Post, the Christian Sci-
ence Monitor, the Times and the Sunday Times (London), the
Glasgow Herald, The Scotsman (Edinburgh), and the International
Herald Tribune. Smithsonian representatives also were interviewed
on BBC radio and television and on local media outlets in Scotland,
as well as by the national television and radio networks of Aus-
tralia, Ireland, and South Africa.

In an effort to reach a more diverse audience than those at past
Edinburgh Festivals, the Smithsonian participated in an experiment
that took Festival concerts to the Scottish city’s housing projects

Public Information / 357
and working-class neighborhoods; publicity of this effort by an
on-site opa staff member helped to offset criticism by the Edin-
burgh city government that the Festival was too “elitist.”

Other major publicity campaigns planned and conducted by the
OPA in conjunction with other Smithsonian bureaus during the year
focused on the exhibition James McNeill Whistler at the Freer
Gallery of Art, an exhibition organized in celebration of the one
hundred and fiftieth anniversary of Whistler’s birth; the Eighteenth
Annual Festival of American Folklife; and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service exhibition, The Precious Legacy:
Judaic Treasures from the Czechoslovak State Collections. The of-
fice also planned workshops on public relations and organized and
helped coordinate publicity for the American Association of Mu-
seums annual meeting, which was held in June in Washington, D.C.

The office assisted with the media arrangements for an April
conference for North American journalists on “The Challenge to
Our Cultural Heritage: Why Preserve the Past?” The conference
was sponsored by unesco and the Smithsonian with cooperation
from the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the United
States Committee of the International Council on Monuments and
Sites. The conference was covered widely by the media, including
the Christian Science Monitor, the Boston Globe, Newsweek, and
United Press International.

The Smithsonian News Service, a free monthly feature-story ser-
vice produced by the opa for daily and weekly newspapers nation-
wide, completed its fifth successful year of operation. In fiscal year
1984, 1,554 newspapers (808 dailies and 746 weeklies) in all fifty
states and the District of Columbia regularly used the News Ser-
vice’s monthly articles covering Smithsonian activities in the arts,
sciences, and history. These papers have a total combined circula-
tion of 40 million and a potential readership of 100 million. The
prestigious Los Angeles Times joined the list of Smithsonian News
Service subscribers, as did smaller newspapers such as the Trouble-
some Creek Times in Hindman, Kentucky, and a number of major
newspapers, such as the St. Louis Post Dispatch, began using color
artwork with the stories on a regular basis. International usage of
the News Service expanded with the addition to the subscriber list
of the Japan Times of Tokyo. The News Service continued to in-
crease its efforts to reach out to special constituencies in a number
of ways: The Braille Institute of Los Angeles began featuring News
Service stories in the magazine that it distributes free of charge to
visually handicapped United States citizens, and stories on design

358 / Smithsonian Year 1984
for disabled individuals and on Black scientists highlighted the
“Decade of Disabled Persons” and Black History Month, respec-
tively.

During the year, the News Service distributed forty-eight fea-
tures covering such major newsworthy and timely subjects as the
four-hundredth anniversary of the first manned balloon flight; the
preservation of Aldabra, a tiny tropical island and natural labora-
tory in the Indian Ocean; the space telescope; presidential elections
and campaigns; the one-hundredth anniversaries of the birth of
Harry S Truman and of the Statue of Liberty; the Olympic Games;
and American folk art.

Recognizing the outstanding quality of the News Service, the
National Association of Government Communicators awarded the
first, second, and third prizes in the “feature” category of its na-
tionwide “Blue Pencil Contest’”’ to News Service stories. The Smith-
sonian monthly staff newspaper, The Torch, also received a first
place in the same contest in the in-house newspaper category;
Research Reports, a three-times-a-year periodical describing Insti-
tution-related research in the arts, history, and science, received
second place in the newsletter category. These publications, as well
as others produced by the ora, also won major awards in writing
and design contests sponsored by the American Association of
Museums and the Society for Technical Communications.

In addition to the new Explore Your Heritage brochure, the office
produced a new 32-page publication, titled Science at the Smith-
sonian, which describes the process and benefits of the Institution’s
scientific research programs. The Smithsonian’s general information
Welcome brochure was revised in a new format with an easy-to-
read map, and the Guide to the Smithsonian for Disabled Visitors
was also updated. To aid journalists covering Smithsonian activi-
ties, the office revised the publication The Smithsonian Institu-
tion—Yesterday and Today, a 100-page general reference booklet
on the history, organization, and programs of the Institution.

As construction proceeds on the Center for African, Near East-
ern, and Asian Cultures, the Office of Public Affairs continues to
work with other bureaus at the Institution to formulate public
relations programs and policies and to publicize noteworthy events
connected with the center.

Public Information / 359
Art Buchwald, the noted humorist, was master of ceremonies at festivities mark-
ing RIF (Reading Is Fundamental) Week. (Photograph by Rick Reinhard)
Smithsonian Year « 1984

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

MRS. ELLIOT RICHARDSON, CHAIRMAN
RUTH GRAVES, PRESIDENT

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F), a private nonprofit organiza-
tion, celebrated its eighteenth anniversary in 1984 as the nation’s
largest reading motivation program. Since 1966, when RIF was
founded by the late Mrs. Robert McNamara, this program has put
more than 58 million books into the hands of young people. Today
there are 3,000 rIF programs, each staffed by volunteers, in all
fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Is-
lands, and Guam.

Reading Is Fundamental addresses an urgent problem—the fact
that record numbers of young people are not learning to read and
that many more, who can decipher words, simply do not choose
to read. There is evidence that rir is altering the reading habits
of America’s children. In a 1983 survey of r1F projects, local project
leaders reported that the program has significant long-term effects
on children’s interest in reading. Several other benefits of the RIF
program were also reported: riF improves children’s self-image,
increases children’s use of the library, improves attitudes toward
school, helps teachers motivate children to read, and increases
parent involvement in the school.

The r1iF Method

Two principles underlie the r1F method of motivating youngsters
to read. The first is that each child be allowed to choose his own
book—a factor that inclines him to take the pains to read it. Sec-
ond, each child gets to keep the book he chooses, to reread and
ponder and share with family and friends. Book ownership has

361

multiplied r1r’s impact by drawing the entire family into the act
of reading. Study after study has shown the significant relationship
between reading achievement and books in the home.

In addition, rir relies on its volunteers—some 96,000 at last
count—to lead children into successful reading experiences. These
local citizens volunteer millions of manhours to choose and order
those books likely to appeal to local children, raise money to pay
the project’s operating expenses and some or all of book costs, and
devise intriguing ways to tempt youngsters to read more.

The Diversity of the rrr Program

The rIF program is vitally heterogeneous. On the plains of Kansas,
rural schoolchildren hold a rir young authors’ conference where
they write, illustrate, and bind their own books. On the floor of the
Grand Canyon, the children of the Havasupai tribe hear a story-
teller chant ancient legends of earth and sky, as part of a r1F book
distribution. In the drab, gray surroundings of Los Angeles’ Skid
Row, youngsters discover the enchantment of children’s books
through a RIF project at a child development center. In an intensive
care unit of a New York Medical Center, the mother of a seven-
year-old child finds what she describes as “something active and
positive” to do for her son—reading aloud his rir book while the
boy undergoes kidney dialysis.

Rit books are especially treasured by the children of migrant
farm workers. In seventy projects from Maine to Florida, some
71,242 children carry their books from town to town as their
parents follow the harvest. An added bonus: semiliterate mothers
and fathers who discover the magic world of reading through their
children’s r1F books. In short, the RIF program serves children at
more than 10,000 sites—public and private schools, libraries, In-
dian reservations, hospitals, schools for the handicapped, trauma
centers, housing projects, boys’ ranches, migrant worker camps,
and juvenile detention centers.

Rit: A Public/Private Partnership

The basis for r1F’s rapid growth over the last eighteen years is the
broad support the organization has received from both public and
private sectors. In 1976 Congress created the Inexpensive Book
Distribution Program, modelling it on rir. Reading Is Fundamental
continues to operate this program under a grant from the Depart-
ment of Education. Since the Ford Foundation gave RiF its start
with a sizable grant, the private sector has been generous to this
grassroots reading motivation program. Today, some 6,200 busi-

362 / Smithsonian Year 1984
nesses and organizations support RIF projects.

To stretch its resources further, r1F has formed partnerships
with corporations, foundations, the media, book publishers, and
civic and youth groups. Over the past thirteen years, the broad-
cast and print media have given more than $20 million in free
time and space to RIF’s campaign to promote reading. Many of
riE’s publications for volunteers and parents have been under-
written by corporations and foundations. For example, rir’s highly
popular pamphlet for parents on how to promote reading in the
home was published under a grant from a children’s clothing man-
ufacturer, General Sportwear. More than a million parents have
used this guide to lead their preschoolers and school children into
enjoyable reading experiences.

Recognizing the importance of rir in encouraging children to
read, some 350 booksellers and publishers give riF’s local programs
the best possible discounts and services, advise RIF on trends in
juvenile literature, and donate books for special occasions.

Rir’s chairman, president, and board members regularly speak
before a variety of audiences on the importance of creating a lit-
erate citizenry. On International Literacy Day, rir chairman Mrs.
Elliot Richardson joined Secretary of Education Terrel Bell and
former U.S. Senator James Symington as keynote speaker at a
Jefferson Memorial ceremony, where she told listeners: ““We need
to motivate children to want to learn. For unless a child wants to
learn the most adept teaching techniques will run into a stone
wall.”

Since 1969 all U.S. Commissioners of Education and a host of
service, literacy, education and youth organizations have endorsed
the rie program. Included among those organizations are the
American Association of School Administrators, the Association
for Library Services to Children of the American Library Asso-
ciation, the National Catholic Education Association, the National
Association of Elementary School Principals, and youth clubs such
as the Boy’s Club of America, Girl Scouts of America, and Camp-
fire Girls, Inc.

Highlights of 1984

In May 1984 rir held a national celebration of reading called
“Reading Is Fun Week.” Young authors’ conferences, reading com-
petitions, book fairs, and many other special events took place in
local r1F projects across the country. For their work in promot-
ing literacy, thousands of local citizens and organizations were
honored with the Margaret McNamara Certificate of Merit, com-

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. / 363
memorating riF’s founder. To cap the week, rir held a book dis-
tribution for 600 children at the Washington, D.C., convention
center, as part of the American Booksellers Association conven-
tion, the largest English-language book convention in the world.
Art Buchwald, humorist and syndicated columnist, presided over
the event and thirty book publishers donated 1,500 books for the
occasion.

The children were entertained by Sesame Street’s Kermit Love;
authors and illustrators Ashley Bryan, John Langstaff, and Nor-
man Bridwell; a Ringling Brothers clown; mimes; and the surprise
of the day, television star “Mr. T.,” who urged the children to
stay in school and “read, read, read.”

In 1984 New American Library (NAL) established a donation
program with rir to mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of NAL’s
Signet Classics imprint. For every Signet Classic sold in 1984, one
cent was earmarked to rir. The publisher inaugurated the program
with an initial donation of $25,000, presented to R1F at the Ameri-
can Booksellers Association convention. Moreover, NAL encour-
aged booksellers to donate one cent for every Signet Classic sold
at the retail level, and agreed to match each penny with an addi-
tional penny. Since more than 250 Signet Classic titles are in
print, including George Orwell’s 1984, this contribution is ex-
pected to be significant.

During the year, r1F expanded its efforts to involve parents in
their children’s learning and reading. This parent outreach fol-
lowed naturally from the fact that some 36 percent of riF’s volun-
teers are parents.

A grant from the MacArthur Foundation enabled rir to publish
a guide, Books to Grow On, tailored to meet needs cited by par-
ents in an earlier survey conducted by rir. In 1984, the General
Electric Foundation provided rir with funds to hold a series of six
parent workshops. Conducted by educators, authors, and chil-
dren’s literature experts, these workshops are being held in six
cities nationwide and address such topics as how to read aloud
to a child, reading activities for families to share, and how to
match books to children’s ages and interests.

A RIF puppet show, produced by Sesame Street’s Kermit Love
and underwritten by Lever Brothers, toured three major cities—
Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas City—reaching nearly 2,000 chil-
dren. The show featured Love’s latest creation, Snuggle the Bear,
a bear who reads and cares about reading. Love, who also created
Sesame Street muppets Big Bird, Mr. Snuffleupagus, and Oscar
the Grouch, left the children with this message: “Reading is fun

364 / Smithsonian Year 1984
and it’s not hard. It’s as easy as making instant soup. All you add
is imagination.”

At a Parents’ Rally held at the International Reading Associa-
tion’s (IRA) annual convention, riF held a special book distribu-
tion and offered a workshop for parents, entitled “The rir Experi-
ence.” The event culminated in a play produced by youngsters
from RIF projects.

Last year, RIF was selected to receive the Valley Forge Certifi-
cate for Excellence in Community Programs from the Valley Forge
Freedoms Foundation. During the last eighteen years, RIF and
members of its staff have won dozens of private and government
awards, including the highest civilian award made by the Presi-
dent of the United States to rir’s founder, Margaret McNamara,
for her work in promoting literacy.

In 1984, a Boston corporation started a new kind of riF project.
The company—emr Corp., of Fidelity Investments—donated funds
to hold a spotlight distribution for the children of its 2,000 em-
ployees. Corporate executives and Harvard University adminis-
trators viewed the event with an eye to replicating it.

Keeping America’s Young People Reading

In 1984 rir was featured in two widely read publications and one
syndicated column. As a result, thousands of parents and con-
cerned citizens from all walks of life wrote rir headquarters ask-
ing how they could ensure that their youngsters became avid
readers. A “Frustrated Mother” from Connecticut had written Ann
Landers about her two children. Though they were “bright,” she
confided, “reading a book would never occur to them.” Landers,
in her reply, referred to RIF as an “organization that speaks to
your needs exactly.” Shortly thereafter, r1F was deluged with mail
from parents whose children had also turned their backs on books.
Articles about rir in Parade magazine and the Mini Page, a news-
paper insert for young people, also resulted in a barrage of mail
from parents and from groups seeking information on how to
start reading motivation programs.

Over the coming year, riF will continue to forge new coalitions
to ensure that America’s young people keep reading. As Ruth
Graves, RIF president, said in a speech to the book division of the
International Periodical Distributors Association (1ppA): “Despite
the dismal statistics on literacy, children are demonstrating daily
that they are interested in acquiring knowledge and skills if the
process is fun.”

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. / 365
THE
WILSON
CENTER

Jimmy Carter came to the Wilson Center March 5, 1984, for an evening dialogue
on the modern presidency. Shown here with the former President are Senator
Mark Hatfield (left), who moderated the discussion, and Jack Walker, professor
of political science at the University of Michigan.

Smithsonian Year + 1984

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

JAMES H. BILLINGTON, DIRECTOR

Tue Witson CenteR—with the Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts and the National Gallery of Art—is one of three institutions
with mixed trust/public funding created by the Congress within
the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., fulfilling a na-
tional mission under a board appointed by the President of the
United States. The Wilson Center is an active workshop and
switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels. Since its opening
fourteen years ago this fall, it has gained widespread recognition
for the work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of Wash-
ington, for its many meetings that bring together the world of
affairs and the world of ideas, and for its democratic openness to
all comers through its annual fellowship competition.

Each year, some fifty fellows are brought in through open inter-
national competition involving ever-increasing numbers of appli-
cants from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines, cultures, and
nations. A broad spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a non-
specialized national audience through The Wilson Quarterly, which
has more subscribers than any other scholarly quarterly journal
in the English-speaking world.

The Wilson Center seeks to render a service to the world and to
the Washington, D.C., community by throwing open its core
fellowship program to all interested individuals. Fellows are selected
for the promise, importance, and appropriateness of their projects
on the recommendation of broadly based academic panels outside

367
the center. The fellows come for limited periods, not only in the
broadly inclusive program entitled History, Culture, and Society,
but also in special programs in Russian and Soviet studies (the
Kennan Institute), Latin American studies, international security
studies, Asia studies, a program in American society and politics,
and a European program. Each program is directed by a scholar
on the staff.

Following its mandate to symbolize and strengthen the fruitful
relation between the worlds of learning and of public affairs, the
center sponsors conferences and seminars on topics of special cur-
rent interest to both worlds. In 1984, for example, the center
brought together scholars from many different disciplines, mem-
bers of Congress, representatives of the executive branch, busi-
nessmen, journalists, military experts, writers, politicians, educa-
tors, and diplomats to consider a variety of issues, examine current
questions, enjoy celebrations, and participate in evaluative discus-
sions.

Increasingly, people from different regions of America meet and
interact with foreign scholars and the growing intellectual commu-
nity of Washington itself. In January 1984 the center sponsored
a major conference in cooperation with the Folger Shakespeare
Library on “The Treaty of Paris in a Changing States System.”
Speakers included Claude Fohlen, professor of American history,
Sorbonne, and former Wilson Center Fellow, on “A French View
of the Treaty of 1783”; A. P. W. Malcolmson, of the Public
Record office of Northern Ireland on “Irish Responses to the
Treaty”; Peggy Liss on ‘The Impact of the Treaty on the Spanish
Empire”; and Alison Olson, professor of history, University of
Maryland, on “Later British Responses to the Treaty.”

At an all-day workshop on “Cinema and Society in the Devel-
oping World,” organized by the center’s Latin American and His-
tory Culture and Society programs, film critics considered the im-
pact of the popular cinema on national identity in Third World
countries as well as the powerful outside influence of Hollywood.
Speakers were Pat Aufderheide, freelance film critic; Mbye Cham,
professor of African-Studies, Harvard University; and film critics
Luis Francis and Chidananda Das Gupta, Wilson Center Fellow.

The center’s Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies
organized a major conference on ‘’U.S.-Soviet Exchanges,” assess-
ing the variety of exchanges that have continued between the two
countries despite continuing tensions. Joining foundations and
government officers were administrators of scholarly exchanges, of

368 / Smithsonian Year 1984
bilateral science and technology exchanges, of programs that pro-
mote dialogue between United States and Soviet citizens, and of
Russian language programs. President Reagan, speaking to the
group in the White House, praised the efforts of the conference
and supported the continuation of exchanges between the two
superpowers.

One hundred specialists in Southeast Asia met at the center in
March 1984 to evaluate changes in research over the last decade,
and to make plans for more practical results. Participants included
Leonard Unger, former U.S. ambassador to Laos, Thailand, and
Taiwan, now professor of diplomacy at the Fletcher School;
Benedict Anderson, associate director of the Southeast Asia Pro-
gram, Cornell University; and William Frederick, professor of
history, Ohio University.

A two-day conference on “Policy Dialogue on the United States
and Colombia in the 1980’s” brought together a cross-section of
high-level opinion leaders from the United States and Colombia
including: Honorable Alvaro Gomez Hurtado, vice-president and
ambassador of Colombia; Rodrigo Botero Montoya, editor of
Estrategia; Howard Howe, vice-president, Wharton Econometrics;
Gabriel Melo Guevara, director, El Siglio; Frederick D. Seeley,
senior vice-president, J. Henry Schroder’s Bank; Honorable Viron
P. Vaky, Research Professor in Diplomacy, Georgetown Univer-
sity; Honorable Michael D. Barnes, United States Representative
from Maryland; Fernando Cepeda Ulloa, dean of the Law Faculty,
Universidad de los Andes; Bruce M. Bagley, associate director,
Latin American Program, Johns Hopkins University; and Marco
Polacios Rozo, cultural adviser, Banco Popular.

As an intellectual contribution to the various events celebrating
the “Harry S Truman Centennial,” the center held a two-day
symposium in cooperation with the National Museum of American
History. Among the speakers and commentators were Robert
Griffith, professor of history, University of Massachusetts; Alonzo
L. Hamby, professor of history, Ohio University; Craufurd D.
Goodwin, dean of the Graduate School, Duke University; Nelson
Lichtenstein, professor of history, Catholic University; William
H. Chafe, professor of history, Duke University; Paul Boyer, pro-
fessor of history, University of Wisconsin; David Rosenberg, Na-
tion Defense University, Washington, D.C.; Bruce Kuniholm, In-
stitute of Policy Studies, Duke University; Robert McMahon, pro-
fessor of history, University of Florida; John Gaddis, professor of
history, Ohio University, Athens; Charles Maier, professor of his-

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars / 369
tory, Harvard University; John W. Dower, professor of history,
University of Wisconsin; Barton Bernstein, professor of history,
Stanford University; Clark Clifford, former personal adviser to
President Truman; Robert Donovan, former Wilson Center Fel-
low and author of Conflict and Crisis and Tumultuous Years, both
on the Truman presidency; and I. F. Stone, journalist and author
of The Truman Era.

In addition to these large conferences and workshops, the center
sponsors small, informal discussions that bring together states-
men and scholars—an evening on “The Modern Presidency” with
former President Jimmy Carter and a small dinner for the incom-
ing president of Panama, Nicolas Ardito Barletta, who had previ-
ously participated in many events at the center.

The center’s fellows continue to come from all over the world,
from many disciplines, and from many areas of the United States.
Among its 1984 fellows and guest scholars were Persio Arrida,
professor of economics, Pontifica Universidade Catolica de Rio de
Janeiro; Shlomo Avineri, Herbert Samuel Professor of Political
Science, Hebrew University of Jerusalem; Warner Bement Bert-
hoff, professor of English and American literature, Harvard Uni-
versity; Mary Brown Bullock, director of the Committee on Schol-
arly Communication with the People’s Republic of China’s Na-
tional Academy of Sciences; Betsy Erkkila, assistant professor of
history, University of Notre Dame; Mario Garcia, associate pro-
fessor of history and Chicano Studies, University of California,
Santa Barbara; Michael Howard, Regius Professor of Modern His-
tory, Oxford University; Samuel Huntington, Frank G. Thompson
Professor of Government, Harvard University; Byong-ik Koh, pro-
fessor of history, Hanlim College, Ch’unch’on, Korea; William
Young Smith, usar (Ret), former deputy commander in chief, U.S.
European Command; Peter B. Reddaway, senior lecturer in politi-
cal science, London School of Economics; Massimo Salvadori, pro-
fessor of contemporary history, University of Torino, Italy; and
Robert C. Tucker, director of the Russian Studies Program, Prince-
ton University.

The result of this broad and heterogeneous mix of fellows is an
intellectual life greater than the sum of its parts: the collegial
atmosphere provides an opportunity for learning and communi-
cation that transcends national and academic boundaries for the
benefit of all.

370 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Smithsonian Year » 1984

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

ROGER L. STEVENS, CHAIRMAN

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, organized
by an Act of Congress in 1958 as a self-sustaining bureau of the
Smithsonian Institution, is both a presidential memorial under the
aegis of the Department of the Interior and a performing arts
center directed by a board of trustees whose citizen members are
appointed by the President of the United States. Six members of
Congress and nine designated ex officio representatives of the
executive branch complete the roster of forty-five members. This
annual report of the center’s activities encompasses all the pro-
gramming presented in its five theaters by the National Symphony
Orchestra, the Washington Opera, Washington Performing Arts
Society, and American Film Institute, as well as by the Kennedy
Center itself.

During its 1983-84 season, the Kennedy Center observed a
number of milestones in its programming, its theater operations,
and its legislative history. The renovation of the Opera House was
completed at a cost of $2 million, raised entirely from private
sources. After thirteen years of continuous use by the world’s
leading artists and companies, the Opera House that had been
inaugurated with Mass was rededicated by another Leonard Bern-
stein premiere—A Quiet Place and Trouble in Tahiti. Immediately
following this American premiere, the brilliant Vienna Volksoper
continued the tradition of outstanding companies from abroad
that have been presented to America at the Kennedy Center.

371
The observance of the twentieth anniversary of the death of
President John F. Kennedy was marked by a moving memorial
concert on November 22, 1983. Not only was the late President
actively involved in fundraising on behalf of the National Cultural
Center before his death, but Congress also chose to designate the
center as a “living memorial” in his honor. When Congress unani-
mously voted in 1964 to rename the center for John F. Kennedy,
it reaffirmed the specific performing arts and public service pro-
gramming mandate under which the center continues to operate.

Unlike other regional performing arts centers, the Kennedy
Center is specifically directed by its authorizing legislation to pre-
sent a broad array of performing arts programming, including
theater, music, opera, ballet, and dance, and to sponsor educational
and public-service activities in order to provide the broadest pos-
sible public access. The center must, however, annually seek mil-
lions of dollars in private contributions in order to meet these
goals since no direct federal appropriations are provided to fulfill
this mandate of Congress.

The Ninety-Eighth Congress enacted legislation restructuring
the center’s original construction debt. When, in 1964, Congress
created the Kennedy Center, it specifically provided for federal
funding to be comingled with voluntary contributions to assist in
its construction. Ultimately, the center’s trustees raised $34.5 mil-
lion from the private sector and foreign governments to exceed the
the federal matching requirement of $23 million. The Secretary of
the Treasury was authorized to issue $20.4 million in revenue bonds
to help complete the substructure.

While the principal of the bonds thus issued was not due for
payment until 2017-2019, rapidly accumulating federal compound
interest on them has adversely affected private fundraising. The
1984 amendments to the Kennedy Center Act waive past and
future interest while requiring the center to begin early repayment
of the principal beginning in 1987. This important congressional
action, carried out with the full support of the executive branch,
will significantly improve the center’s financial stability and enable
it to launch a long-delayed endowment drive. Thus the center’s
operation as a performing arts center will continue to be firmly
rooted in private sector support. With a total of 50 million visitors,
the Kennedy Center remains one of the most popular tourist sites
in the Nation’s Capital.

372 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Performing Arts Programming

The 1983-84 season at Kennedy Center was attended by 1.2 mil-
lion people in the Eisenhower and Terrace Theaters, Opera House,
and Concert Hall. Programming highlights are described in the
sections that follow.

DRAMA AND MUSICAL THEATER

The theatrical season at the Kennedy Center addressed, as it has
in previous seasons, the past as well as the future. Twenty produc-
tions—revues, lavish musicals, one-person shows, farce, tragedy,
premieres, and revivals—featured such diverse artists as Elizabeth
Ashley, Lauren Bacall, Anthony Quinn, Carol Channing, Dustin
Hoffman, and Jack Klugman in an extraordinarily diverse array of
theatrical offerings: Agnes of God, Woman of the Year, Zorba,
Jerry's Girls, Death of a Salesman, Lyndon.

New plays were well represented: Arthur Kopit’s End of the
World, the American premieres of Michael Frayn’s hilarious com-
edy Noises Off, David Pownall’s Master Class, Vinnette Carroll’s
When Hell Freezes Over, I'll Skate, and A. R. Gurney, Jr.’s The
Golden Age, starring Irene Worth.

Consistent with its efforts to assist mainstream programming
reflecting this country’s ethnic diversity, the Kennedy Center’s
National Committee on Cultural Diversity provided significant
financial support for the presentation and audience development
of When Hell Freezes Over, I'll Skate.

This past year also marked box office records for the Terrace
Theater and Opera House. Anthony Quinn in Zorba broke all
previous one-week box office totals in the Opera House, and the
Denver Center Theater Company production of Quilters set new
Terrace Theater records for attendance as well as receipts.

Finally, on the international scene, the Kennedy Center land-
mark revival of Rodgers and Hart’s On Your Toes began a long,
successful London engagement with the production’s original star
and Tony Award winner, ballerina Natalia Makarova. The ac-
claimed Vienna Volksoper, making its premier American tour,
presented The Merry Widow, The Gypsy Princess, and Die Fleder-
maus, following in the path of earlier seasons’ enthusiastic audience
reception for the Vienna Staatsoper and Vienna Philharmonic. The
Concert Hall housed one of its rare theatrical offerings when the
National Theater of Greece presented its contemporary staging of

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 373
Oedipus Rex, directly following the company’s appearance at the
Los Angeles Olympic Arts Festival.

DANCE

During the 1983-84 season, the Kennedy Center once again offered
a ballet and dance series that brought outstanding American repre-
sentatives of this art form to the Nation’s Capital. An exciting
first engagement by the John Curry Skating Company offered a
unique blend of ballet choreography and championship ice skating.

Opening the season was the Kennedy Center debut of one of
the country’s outstanding regional companies, the Houston Ballet,
under the artistic direction of Ben Stevenson; works offered in-
cluded a lavish and highly praised new full-length production of
Sleeping Beauty.

American Ballet Theatre made its annual Kennedy Center
appearance during the December holiday season. For the first time
in many years, the company did not dance its famed Nutcracker;
rather, the center offered ast’s world premier of Mikhail Baryshni-
kov’s new production of the full-length Prokofiev ballet Cinderella,
choreographed by Baryshnikov and Peter Anastos. The work was
an immediate audience hit—sold out for sixteen performances—
and captured press coverage across the country. Also widely
acclaimed were the world premiere of Twyla Tharp’s Partita, as
well as appearances by Mikhail Baryshnikov in several Tharp
works, including Sinatra Suite, first danced in Washington at the
1983 Kennedy Center Honors.

The New York City Ballet offered a critically acclaimed two-
week engagement beginning in February. It was the company’s
first Washington appearance under the leadership of its new
co-ballet masters in chief, Peter Martins and Jerome Robbins,
following the death of the company’s founder, George Balanchine.
Robbins offered the world premiere of his new work, Antique
Epigraphs, as well as Washington premieres of his Glass Pieces
and the remarkable I’m Old Fashioned, fusing a dance sequence
from an Astaire-Rogers film with live dancers. Also praised was
Peter Martin’s new work A Schubertiad. The Balanchine legacy
was represented by a large number of works ranging from his first
American-created ballet, Serenade, to one of his last masterpieces,
Vienna Waltzes.

Dance Theatre of Harlem, under the leadership of artistic
director Arthur Mitchell, made its annual appearance under the

374 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Triple-medal-winner John Curry brought his company of exceptional skaters
and a blend of ballet choreography and ice skating to the Kennedy Center for
a critically acclaimed and sold-out engagement.

sponsorship of the Washington Performing Arts Society, offering
the Washington premiere of its production of Agnes de Mille’s
study of Lizzie Borden, Fall River Legend, as well as Swan Lake,
Act II and the company’s always popular production of Firebird.
Also in the repertory was Geoffrey Holder’s intense “voodoo”
ballet, Dougla.

The Joffrey Ballet closed the season with a challenging and
exciting repertory including William Forsythe’s acid study of con-
temporary male-female relationships, Love Songs; Gerald Arpino’s
sunny Italian Suite; and Jiri Kylian’s sophisticated homily to folk
dancing, Dream Dances.

Modern dance was well represented in the Terrace Theater,
with sold-out performances by the Joyce Trisler Danscompany,
Crowsnest and Elisa Monte, all included in the Dance America
series, which is cosponsored by Kennedy Center and the Washing-
ton Performing Arts Society. The latter organization also spon-
sored a week-long engagement of the Paul Taylor Dance Company
in the Eisenhower Theater.

Many choreographers familiar to Washington’s ballet and dance
patrons—Twyla Tharp, Laura Dean, Peter Martins, Lar Lubo-
vitch—contributed to the astonishing repertoire of the John Curry
Skating Company. The stage of the Opera House—and backstage
areas—were literally frozen to create a vast surface for the com-
pany, led by triple medal-winner John Curry. Hailed as “the
supreme artist on ice,’ Curry led the company, which featured
Jo Jo Starbuck, David Santee, and special guest artist Dorothy
Hamill, to enthusiastic reviews and sold-out performances.

The magnificent Spanish dancer Maria Benitez and her company
were presented in the Terrace Theater for two sold-out evenings,
and the remarkable Hungarian State Folk Ensemble for an evening
in the Concert Hall.

Finally, an unusual special attraction was offered for one week
in the Opera House: the Antologia de la Zarzuela, from Spain.

MUSIC

After its creation as a “living memorial” to John F. Kennedy in
1964, the Kennedy Center opened its doors in 1971 with Leonard
Bernstein’s Mass, a theatrical work with music and dance com-
missioned by the late President’s widow.

The 1984 musical season at Kennedy Center paid heed to the
past, even as it continued to encourage young concert artists of the

376 / Smithsonian Year 1984
future. A moving musical tribute commemorating the twentieth
anniversary of the death of President Kennedy on November 22,
1983, was a gift to the public from the Kennedy Center and the
Kennedy family. Artists from all over the world donated their
appearances, including soprano Grace Bumbry and accompanist
Jonathan Morris; the chamber trio of Eugene Istomin, Isaac Stern,
and the late Leonard Rose; cellist Mstislav Rostropovich; actor
Cliff Robertson; baritone Stephen Dickson and flutist Priscilla
Fritter, with the Norman Scribner Choir. A capacity audience filled
the Concert Hall and an overflow audience was able to watch and
hear the concert from the Grand Foyer via large-screen sound and
video relay.

A new operatic work by Leonard Bernstein, A Quiet Place and
Trouble in Tahiti, reopened the Kennedy Center Opera House
after its extensive renovation. Commissioned jointly by the Ken-
nedy Center, the Houston Grand Opera, and Milan’s Teatro alla
Scala, the work significantly revised and extended Bernstein’s
one-act opera of the early 1950s, Trouble in Tahiti. First presented
in Houston, the new opera was then substantially reworked prior
to its triumphant world premiere at La Scala. It made its East Coast
debut at the Kennedy Center in July.

Audiences for the 1983-84 Terrace Concerts were larger than
ever before. Twenty-seven concerts were offered, including the
first five concerts in the Fortas Chamber Music Series, an endowed
series in memory of the late Justice Abe Fortas, a trustee of the
Kennedy Center with a lifelong commitment to chamber music.
Performing in the Fortas series were clarinetist Richard Stoltzman;
Jody Gatwood and Friends; the Brandenburg Ensemble conducted
by Alexander Schneider, with Peter Serkin; the Guarneri String
Quartet; and Tashi, featuring musicians Richard Stoltzman, Ida
Kavafian, Fred Sherry, Theodore Arm, and Toby Appel. There
were also performances by pianists Shura Cherkassky, Byron
Janis, Paul Badura-Skoda, and Jean Bernard Pommier; chamber
music concerts by the Lausanne Orchestra; a Brahms cycle of three
concerts by the Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson Trio; flutist Paul
Robison and pianist Ruth Laredo; song recitals by Judith Blegen,
Barbara Hendricks, Lucia Popp, and Peter Schreier. The American
Composers Series honored Elliott Carter, Morton Feldman, Conlon
Nancarrow, Laurie Anderson, and Gunther Schuller.

For the fourth summer, the Kennedy Center also presented the
Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra, under the direction of Pinchas
Zukerman, and Lincoln Center’s Mostly Mozart Festival. Appear-

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 377
ing with the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra were soloists Ralph
Kirshbaum (cello), Kathryn Greenbank (oboe), and Rudolf Fir-
kusny (piano).

In addition, Zukerman was the viola soloist in Hindemith’s
“Trauermusik” and violin soloist in Bach’s Concerto in C Minor for
Oboe and Violin and Vivaldi’s ‘The Four Seasons.’”” The Mostly
Mozart Festival Orchestra performed five concerts, including five
preconcert recitals, with soloists Misha Dichter (piano), Elmar
Oliveira (violin), Young-Uck Kim (violin), Philippe Entremont
(piano), Richard Stoltzman (clarinet), Lillian Kallir (piano), Mena-
hem Pressler (piano), and Janos Starker (cello). Conducting the
orchestra this year were Gerard Schwarz and Eduardo Mata. One
of the five concerts was an entire program by the Tokyo String
Quartet.

The Friedheim Awards, which recognize American composition
in symphonic and chamber music in alternating years, awarded
first prize for 1983 in the category of chamber music to Thomas
Oboe Lee for his Third String Quartet. Second place was awarded
to George Perle for “Sonata A Quattro,” and third place to Karel
Husa for “Recollections.”

Theater Chamber Players, Young Concert Artists, and the
Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center returned for their annual
concert series in the Terrace Theater and Concert Hall. The
Handel Festival for 1983 featured the Washington premieres of
the opera Orlando and oratorio Alexander Balus and the third
annual Hallelujah Handel concert. The latter is one of the season’s
most popular music events and this year included an appearance
by the well-known soprano Roberta Peters.

The National Symphony Orchestra, under music director Msti-
slav Rostropovich, presented a full thirty-seven-week season in
1983-84, with soloists and guest conductors and new works. The
Washington Opera season in the Opera House and Terrace Theater
offered seven productions, including Rigoletto, Cosi Fan Tutte, and
Semele.

The Metropolitan Opera, celebrating its Centennial Season,
returned for two weeks to the Kennedy Center for its fifth con-
secutive engagement. Highlights included Placido Domingo and
Renata Scotto in Tosca and Francesca da Rimini, Jon Vickers and
Johanna Meier in Peter Grimes and Die Walkiire, Leona Mitchell,
Sherrill Milnes, and Ermanno Mauro in Ernani, Gail Robinson and
David Rendell in The Abduction from the Seraglio, and Marilyn
Horne and Benita Valente in Rinaldo. The performances were

378 / Smithsonian Year 1984
conducted by James Levine, David Atherton, Mario Bernardi, and
Thomas Fulton.

One of the highlights of the annual Kennedy Center Christmas
Festival was a “kick-off” celebration for the holidays during which
tickets to the ever-popular free ‘Messiah Sing-Along” were
distributed to the thousands of people who stand in line every
year to receive them. While “Sing-Along” tickets were being
distributed, entertainment was provided, and leading arts figures
awarded additional tickets to other popular Holiday Festival pro-
grams.

As in previous years, there were many free public performances
in the Grand Foyer, attended by more than 10,000 people. There
were also performances by the New York String Orchestra under
the baton of Alexander Schneider. A Night in Old Vienna was
once again a tremendous success, with waltzing in the Grand Foyer
on New Year’s Eve to the music of Alexander Schneider and
Friends following their customary holiday concert in the Concert

Hall.

FILM

Through a series of national programs emanating from its offices
at the Kennedy Center, as well as from its campus in Los Angeles,
the American Film Institute (arr) serves as the single national
institution devoted to the advancement and preservation of film,
television, and the related media arts. Established as an indepen-
dent, nonprofit organization in 1967 by the National Endowment
for the Arts, the Film Institute strives to increase recognition and
understanding of the moving image as an art form, to assure
preservation of that art form, and to identify, develop, and encour-
age new talent.

In its 224-seat theater at the Kennedy Center, the American
Film Institute has, since 1973, presented 7,500 motion pictures to
a total audience of more than one million people. Classic films,
independent features, foreign films, and contemporary video works
comprise the daily programming, often accompanied by guest
artists and lecturers. The Exhibition Services division at AFI this
past year toured a variety of special services to selected sites around
the country, featuring such diverse programming as Arab films,
British independent features, and the films of China.

In addition to the art Theater, the Kennedy Center also houses
the offices of the Film Institute and the AFI Resource Center, one

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 379
, Which was made

oe he
ie aw awemee ay
gle LA I eM

,

x ; 9 A y ae 6 = y | 24 [ z : ; aie Ei - al 7
SD os ND ‘o 7 a py bi Smee 5 /
~ ie Ce ri w\ j 4 Fem: z Redesalereni

> = -y kins TD; : : Py

cf * ; s

4 y
a ac x } g - ~
2 * ezeas

. ie ew mi, YY y i
: — S Preven *

A
Pana

Y Ww

al f

1
&
3
wn

ac]
=
Ls}
bo
Ss
Z)
a
yn
7)
<
~
bo
&
&
3
ac]
ov
w
3
°
<0)
is}
al
Vv
QO.
O
el
ov
2
c
uv
OU
>
a>)
Vv
S
c
7)
%
vu
S
ae
oO
aS
ra
bo
A=
se
°
be
is]
17]
5)

mer of 1984 as the hall underwent a $2 million renovation

possible through private fundraising.

of the area’s leading libraries and information clearinghouses on
the media arts. The ari staff in Washington publishes American
Film: The Magazine of the Film and Television Arts, a monthly
magazine with a circulation of more than 140,000, and further
serves the national membership through the Membership Services
division, which publishes the ari newsletter Close-Up.

During the past year, the ari Special Events program hosted a
number of fundraising benefits and premieres at the Kennedy
Center and elsewhere in Washington. Highlights included the
world premiere of The Right Stuff in the Eisenhower Theater and
the first annual ari ball last spring, honoring dancer and actress
Ginger Rogers.

Professional conservatory training for film and videomakers is
provided at the Center for Advanced Film Studies on the ari
campus in Los Angeles. Also operating from its Los Angeles
offices are the institute’s Public Service program, which conducts
film and video workshops and seminars across the country, and
the Education Services program. The institute also administers
NEA funds for production grants to independent filmmakers; con-
ducts the Directing Workshop for Women; coordinates an intern
placement program with major film directors; and annually pre-
sents the ari Life Achievement Award to an individual “whose
talent has in a fundamental way advanced the filmmaking art...
and whose work has stood the test of time.” The 1984 award was
presented in March to pioneer film actress Lillian Gish and was
televised nationally on CBS.

Working with the National Endowment for the Arts, the insti-
tute has created the National Center for Film and Video Preser-
vation to preserve film and videotape and to coordinate a compre-
hensive preservation effort serving film archives around the coun-
try. Included in these preservation activities is the continuation of
the ari catalog project, which, when completed, will provide a
comprehensive listing of American films made since 1893.

Public-Service Programming

The Kennedy Center is specifically directed by Congress to carry
out a broad range of educational and public service programs, in
addition to its principal performing arts-programming responsibil-
ities. These congressionally mandated broad social purposes remain

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 381
unfunded by the federal government, except for partial Depart-
ment of Education funding of three national education programs.
During 1984, therefore, the board of trustees once again raised
private contributions to fulfill its Section 4 mandate as stated in
the Kennedy Center Act, to support the national education pro-
grams, cultural diversity activities, and the privately subsidized
presentation of theater, music, and dance. Five million dollars was
allocated from contributions by individuals, foundations, and
corporations during 1984 for these purposes, including 450 free
and low-admission performances and events enjoyed by 400,000
people in Washington, D.C., and in cities around the country.

SPECIALLY PRICED TICKET PROGRAM

Since it opened in September 1971, the Kennedy Center has main-
tained a Specially Priced Ticket Program through which tickets
to center-produced and presented attractions are made available
at half price to students, handicapped persons, senior citizens over
sixty-five, low-income groups, and military personnel in grades
E-1 through £-4. The attendant costs, in terms of reduced revenue
potential and administrative overhead, are borne by the center
itself and are viewed as a part of its educational/public service
responsibilities.

During the twelve-month period ending September 30, 1984,
69,167 tickets for attractions produced and presented by the center
were sold at half price. The sale of these tickets at full price would
have resulted in additional gross income to the center of $714,791.
Independent producers are also required to participate in the pro-
gram by making a percentage of their tickets available for sale at
half price. During the twelve-month period ending September 30,
1984, combined half-price tickets sales totalled 89,490. The sale
of these tickets at full price would have resulted in a total addi-
tional gross income of $1,167,790 to the center and the inde-
pendent producers.

Education Programming

Section 4 of the Kennedy Center Act directs the board of trustees
to develop programs for children and youth in the performing
arts. The center’s Education Program, designed toward this end,
provides national leadership in arts education through educational

382 / Smithsonian Year 1984
networks across the country, through cooperative programming
with regional performing-arts centers, and through the presenta-
tion of performances for young audiences. During 1984, 3.5 mil-
lion students, their families, and teachers were involved in the
three primary components of the Education Program: the Ameri-
can College Theatre Festival (actr), Programs for Children and
Youth (rcy), and the Alliance for Arts Education (AAE).

The United States Department of Education provided $675,000
in funding for national outreach components that was matched
overall by $1.6M in-kind support. Additional matching contri-
butions, in excess of the federal support provided, are provided
principally through the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, with ad-
ditional assistance from corporations, foundations, and individuals.
At both the state and national levels, the Kennedy Center Educa-
tion Program seeks to promote the incorporation of the arts into
the education of every child by identifying and supporting exem-
plary arts education projects. As part of this commitment, the
Kennedy Center works closely with the National Committee, Arts
with the Handicapped, and the National Information Center, Arts
Education and Americans.

ALLIANCE FOR ARTS EDUCATION

The Alliance for Arts Education (aat) is an information network
comprising fifty-three state and territorial committees, funded in
part by the Kennedy Center Education Program, that attempts to
identify, develop, promote, and maintain quality arts education
programs throughout the nation. It is the only such national net-
work that speaks for all the arts for every student. Each aa com-
mittee is unique, reflecting local conditions. The national sae,
therefore, has allowed for flexibility in the structure and operation
of these committees, within established guidelines. On the national
level, the AaE serves as an information exchange; identifies and
spotlights notable achievements of the aaE committees and exem-
plary local arts programs and individuals; provides technical assis-
tance; develops arts education advocacy materials for use at state
and local levels; oversees the management and leadership of the
entire AAE network; and develops and conducts programs of na-
tional significance. AAE committee members are artists, educators,
parents, and administrators affiliated with professional arts edu-
cation associations, state departments of education, state and local
arts agencies, university and college arts departments, cultural
arts centers, and public school systems. A major thrust for many

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 383
of these state committees has been the development and implemen-
tation of Comprehensive State Arts Curriculum Plans.

Through awards and recognition, the aae brings visibility to
outstanding educators and quality programs in arts education. The
Summer Fellowships for Outstanding Teachers of the Arts Pro-
gram is a method, begun this year, of rewarding excellence in
teaching, while allowing arts teachers to further pursue their
artistic areas. Teachers selected from applicants nationwide re-
ceived a stipend and a three-week residency in Washington, D.C.,
to work, exhibit, and perform. Recognition awards are also given
to elementary school principals and other individuals for excel-
lence of effort in fostering the arts in their schools. National recog-
nition of talent in youth is also an important concern of the AAE.
The national office coproduces, with the annual Presidential Schol-
ars Commission and the National Foundation for Advancement in
the Arts, the Presidential Scholars in the Arts Showcase perfor-
mance in the Kennedy Center Concert Hail. Twenty outstanding
high school seniors, representing dance, music, creative writing,
and the visual arts, are selected from throughout the nation and
are brought to Washington for a week of activities, highlighted
by their performances at the center.

The sat is primarily an information exchange network with
various means of distribution. Interchange is a bimonthly publica-
tion—made available upon request, free of charge—that provides
information on arts education activities and events that may be of
interest and assistance to various educators and organizations
across the country. Other publications on a variety of arts educa-
tion topics are made available from the national office through the
National Information Center, located at the Kennedy Center.

Town Meetings on Arts Education are produced twice a year
at the Kennedy Center by the saat. This gathering of arts educa-
tors and arts education association directors addresses topics of
mutual interest outside the educational framework. Other special
projects and services provided by the aag include the coordina-
tion and planning of conferences and meetings.

In short, the AAaE serves as a bond between the arts and arts
education; between government and the private sector; between
arts associations and institutions; and between professional arts
education organizations and educational associations. It has estab-
lished a wide network of people working toward the development
of the arts and arts education as basic to the cultural vitality of
their communities.

384 / Smithsonian Year 1984
PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH

The commitment of the Education Program to quality performing-
arts programming for young people is clearly expressed through
the work of the Programs for Children and Youth (pcy), which is
committed to developing new performing works for young people
and accompanying materials for teachers and others, to help inte-
grate performance into the student’s overall education.

During the past season, pcy presented nearly 500 free perfor-
mances and related events to audiences of more than 400,000 in
Washington, D.C., and cities around the country. An ongoing
series of programs for young people are produced at the Kennedy
Center by prcy, which is resident in the center’s Theater Lab.
Events include a Fall Series of performances, a special Holiday
Show with a cast of young performers, the Cultural Diversity
Festival, and—the highlight of each year—IMAGINATION CELEBRA-
TION.

IMAGINATION CELEBRATION, an annual national children’s arts
festival at the Kennedy Center, is produced by rcy, and key ele-
ments are replicated in selected cities throughout the United States
in outreach IMAGINATION CELEBRATION festivals. This program not
only provides a model for performing-arts festivals for young peo-
ple but enables the center to contribute to the development of new
works, to involve noted artists in programming for young people,
and to serve as a catalyst for the development of programs for
young people at performing-arts centers throughout the country.

Programs for Children and Youth provides technical assistance
and core professional productions for each outreach festival, featur-
ing such well-known artists as Sarah Caldwell, Jacques d’Amboise,
Leon Bibb, and Gian Carlo Menotti. Each year at the IMAGINATION
CELEBRATION Gala held at Kennedy Center, an Award for Excel-
lence is presented to an outstanding artist or individual for his or
her contribution to young people and the arts. The recipient of
this year’s award was Fred Rogers of the popular and long-running
public television program, “Mr. Rogers’ Neighborhood.” Pcy also
offers an Arts Education Workshop series to Washington area
elementary and secondary teachers. The workshops are offered
annually in the fall and spring and were created to provide greater
awareness and appreciation of all art forms, thus enhancing
teacher commitment to the arts in education. A series of drama
classes for young people is also offered. Children aged five to
eighteen may register for classes taught by professional actor/
teachers on Saturdays at the Kennedy Center.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 385
Nineteen eighty-four marked the eighth programming year for
pcy. In that time more than 3,000 performances have been pre-
sented to more than 1.4 million young people and their families.
There were twenty-five IMAGINATION CELEBRATION festivals in nine
states and the District of Columbia in 1984. Since 1977, pcy has
commissioned and/or produced sixteen new works, including
plays, operas, and dance pieces.

During 1983-84, Programs for Children and Youth was sup-
ported by the U.S. Department of Education and the Kennedy
Center Corporate Fund, with additional funds provided by the
Alvord Foundation, Mobil Corporation, the German Orphan
Home Foundation, and the Corina Higginson Trust.

AMERICAN COLLEGE THEATRE FESTIVAL

The American College Theatre Festival (actF) is presented an-
nually by the Kennedy Center to provide national recognition of
the efforts of college and university theaters throughout the United
States. Nearly 13,500 students and 2,500 faculty members from
460 schools participated in actr-xv1. Their productions across the
country drew audiences of more than two million. The festival
seeks to encourage new styles of theatrical presentation and meth-
ods of staging, innovative approaches to the classics, original plays
by young writers, and revivals of significant plays of the past.
It emphasizes excellence of total production, including acting,
directing, design, and writing.

Nearly sixty productions were presented in twelve regional festi-
vals. Of these, seven were chosen for showcase presentation at the
two-week national festival in the Kennedy Center Terrace The-
ater: Working, Illinois Wesleyan University, Bloomington; Eleven-
Zulu, University of Missouri, Columbia; Arrah-Na-Pogue, State
University of New York at Binghampton; Angel City, University
of Puget Sound, Tacoma, Washington; Mindbender, Rhode Island
College, Providence; The Taming of the Shrew, California State
University, Fresno; and American Buffalo, Clemson University,
Clemson, South Carolina.

The Michael Kanin Student Playwriting Award and other actF
awards and scholarships in acting, theatrical design, theater criti-
cism, and theater management offer students vital professional
experience and cash awards totaling more than $30,000.

This past summer, twelve outstanding students from across the
country were selected for training at a two-week career-develop-

386 / Smithsonian Year 1984
ment symposium and performance showcase. The students spent
July 16-28 at the Coolfont Conference Center, a residential recrea-
tion and conference center in Berkeley Springs, West Virginia,
where they were coached in how to audition professionally and
received other assistance in preparing for a career in the theater.
The program culminated with a performance for producers and
casting agents in the Theater Lab at the Kennedy Center and at
the Douglas Fairbanks Theater in New York City. David Young,
producing director of the actr, served as director for the program.
Marshall Mason of Circle Repertory in New York was artistic
director. Nationally recognized theater professionals served as
coaches, advisers, and symposia leaders.

The American College Theatre Festival is presented and pro-
duced by the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in
cooperation with the University and College Theatre Association, a
division of the American Theatre Association, and is supported in
part by the Amoco companies and the Kennedy Center Corporate
Fund.

Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center is a nationwide organization
of volunteers and donor members founded in 1966 to raise grass-
roots support for the building of a National Cultural Center.
Today, thirteen years after the doors of the center first opened,
the Friends continue to promote its programs and activities.

As a result of an ongoing effort to increase community and
national involvement with the Kennedy Center, Friends member-
ship has grown from 6,000 to more than 26,000 in the last three
years, with members in every state.

In the Washington metropolitan area, 350 Friends volunteers
contributed more than 65,000 hours of service during the past
year to provide visitor and information services 365 days a year.
The volunteers staffed the Friends gift shops, provided special
assistance to handicapped visitors, and administered the Specially
Priced Ticket Program. Volunteer guides offered free tours every
day of the year to more than 6,000 people who visit the Kennedy
Center on an average day. Tours are also conducted in several
foreign languages to accommodate the large numbers of visitors

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 387
from abroad. Group tours, including those arranged through mem-
bers of Congress, are also offered on a regular basis. Other areas
of involvement for Friends volunteers include a Speakers’ Bureau,
benefit committees, and participation in community outreach
programs.

Kennedy Center News, published bimonthly by the Friends,
serves as the public relations newsletter for the Kennedy Center
and is received by thousands of Friends members, members of
Congress, arts organizations, government agencies, and libraries
across the country. Revenues from the Friends membership, gift
shops, and fundraising activities help support such public service
and national outreach programs of the Kennedy Center as the
American College Theatre Festival; the IMAGINATION CELEBRATION
festivals for children; the National Very Special Arts Festival of
the National Committee, Arts with the Handicapped; organ re-
citals and an annual organ concert, free to the public; arts career
workshops and special tours of the center for more than 5,000
4-H participants in the annual summer Washington, D.C., pro-
gram; and the Specially Priced Ticket Program.

Members of the National Council of the Friends of the Kennedy
Center are listed in Appendix I.

Performing Arts Library

March of 1984 marked the completion of five full years of opera-
tion for the Performing Arts Library. During its most recent year,
the library served a widening circle of readers interested in all
aspects of the performing arts. These readers represent not only
professional artists, scholars, writers, and administrators, but also
a broad cross section of the general public, whose questions range
from the casual to those requiring extensive research. As a work-
ing arts information center, with a direct computer link to the
collections and resources of the Library of Congress, the Perform-
ing Arts Library assists directors, designers, and artists on a con-
tinuing basis.

The Performing Arts Library was visited and used by nearly
20,000 readers, while an additional thousand people used the
library by telephone or by letter, calling or writing from all over
the country and from several foreign nations.

388 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The major exhibit this year was The Grand Interpreters: Per-
sonalities in Opera in America, which opened on April 24 and
remained on view through the end of the year. This was the
product of several experts, not only in the Library of Congress
Exhibits Office, but also at the National Portrait Gallery and the
Metropolitan Opera. Donor Charles Jahant’s collection formed the
core of the exhibition, which featured costumes, costume designs,
music manuscripts, and Jahant’s incomparable photographs among
its many treasures. An earlier exhibition, All Singing, All Talking,
All Dancing, featured posters from Hollywood musicals of the
1930s and 1940s drawn from the poster collection in the Prints
and Photographs Division of the Library of Congress.

The Performing Arts Library participated in conferences and
meetings with a variety of groups in the fields of the arts, arts
education, and librarianship from several parts of the United States
and from countries around the world. Of particular note were a
group of dance scholars from Mexico, performing-arts specialists
from the Society of American Archivists, and teacher-fellows from
the Alliance for Arts Education Summer Fellowship Program.

Kennedy Center Honors

The Kennedy Center Honors were first awarded by the board of
trustees in 1978 to recognize lifelong achievements by this nation’s
performing artists. An annual event, the Honors Gala is the cen-
ter’s most important fundraising benefit; the 1983 gala raised
$600,000 in net proceeds to support Kennedy Center program-
ming. The 1983 honorees were Katherine Dunham, Elia Kazan,
Frank Sinatra, James Stewart, and Virgil Thomson. Preceding the
1983 Honors Gala in the Opera House was a reception at the
White House, hosted by President and Mrs. Ronald Reagan.
Among the performers who participated in the evening’s tributes,
later broadcast by cps during the holiday season to more than 30
million viewers, were Mikhail Baryshnikov, Warren Beatty, Carol
Burnett, Perry Como, Geoffrey Holder, John Houseman, Carmen
de Lavallade, and Agnes de Mille. This broadcast was awarded an
Emmy as the outstanding variety, music, or comedy program for
the year.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 389
Funding

The Kennedy Center’s operating budget for 1984—from its theater
operations, concession income, and contributions—was $31 million.

During 1984 the Kennedy Center completed the first phase of
its centralized automation, made possible in part by major con-
tributions from Digital Equipment Corporation for hardware and
American Digital Systems Corporation for software. By the end
of the year marketing, membership, and development as well as
the financial payroll and accounting were on line. Automation of
the center’s box office operations, the second phase, will be under-
taken in later years.

The National Park Service is responsible for much of the main-
tenance and for ensuring the security of the Kennedy Center,
which, as a presidential memorial, is open to the public without
charge every day of the year. The center, however, must reimburse
the National Park Service a 23.8 percent pro rata share of
maintenance, utility, and housekeeping expenses allocated to its
operation as a performing arts center. Beyond its 1984 reimburse-
ment to the National Park Service of more than $1 million, the
center additionally bears the complete cost of maintaining its five
theaters and extensive backstage and office facilities, for which
more than $1.4 million in privately raised funds were expended
during fiscal year 1984 for the Opera House and other theater
renovation.

A total of $2 million in private gifts were raised by the Kennedy
Center for renovation of its 2,318-seat Opera House. Included in
this much-needed facelift were replacement of the wall fabric,
carpeting, and seat cushions; improvement of the sound and light-
ing systems; installation of a portable ballet floor; repair of the
pit lift; and automation of stage curtain machinery. Donations
included $670,000 from the Robert Wood Johnson Jr. Charitable
Trust; $400,000 from the Kresge Foundation; $150,000 from the
Pew Memorial Trust; $100,000 from the Atlantic Richfield Foun-
dation; and $25,000 from both the James G. Hanes Memorial
Fund/Foundation and the William Randolph Hearst Foundation.
A special benefit featuring Placido Domingo netted an additional
$200,000 for the project and nearly $100,000 was raised from a
benefit with Wayne Newton, sponsored by the President’s Ad-
visory Committee. Proceeds from the Kennedy Center’s 1983
Honors Gala provided the remaining funds needed to complete
the project.

390 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Since the Kennedy Center opened in 1971, foundations, cor-
porations, and individuals have contributed more than $31 million
to its support. A major portion of the private support has been
provided by the Kennedy Center Corporate Fund, which was
organized in 1977 by the principal officers of thirty-six major
American corporations. It currently represents more than 300 cor-
porations committed to the support of the national cultural center.
Funds contributed to the Corporate Fund enable the Kennedy
Center to extend its national outreach through programming and
public service activities, to foster new works, and to offer per-
forming arts programming at reduced prices or, in many instances,
at no admission charge whatsoever.

Participation in the Corporate Fund is open to any corporation
that contributes to the Kennedy Center. Roger B. Smith, chairman
of General Motors Corporation, served as chairman of the 1984
Corporate Fund. The members of the board of governors and a
listing of fund contributions received during the past year can be
found in Appendix 8.

Board of Trustees

The Kennedy Center is independently administered as a bureau
of the Smithsonian Institution by a board of trustees, thirty of
whose members are citizens appointed by the President of the
United States for ten-year overlapping terms. The remaining
fifteen members are legislatively designed ex officio representa-
tives of the legislative branch and executive departments of the
federal government. Members of the Kennedy Center Board of
Trustees are listed in Appendix 1.

The President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts

Established by the 1958 Act of Congress that created the National
Cultural Center, the President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts
is appointed by the President of the United States to serve during
his term of office. Its objectives are to support and promote the
Kennedy Center. Representing membership from forty-four states,
the committee during the past year attended four meetings at the
center; its members concentrated their discussions on private fund-
raising and national outreach programs.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 391
yey Sadevatalanind’ /PCOt ab, betieka
cities PLA watt stn Rial scer stor
en ahs dyson oa praia
lane we setae aid
"uveitis (her, Sapa Sot ane NN
vee, iam naa tt oly eh GAP Fe NE at
vibtyygovherr Aabtan LL aaliath Seer ieee iM
jiveernie Ue. i ihe cert tae" Soipnareegibe
pho! Nady eI ewe Ab lgp tyes aR
er Ee Ce a i at
pistetsa’ engi eg reid Bagh Rent oats Saas
invinoatiniw aay ROR
| Pee een
venettee Wigie Tihs mi WAN ae gal {
were ' i) Oe. “QV orca eet Ur neta
net fal = wi Gentoade Ay GUA
Aya tes iivahgly ae lie rasweytestiles
’ Chwmernniy « at Rt

Et Dayenn wa 1oa¢ *

i

&

, =<
ry Abi ‘

+ ae ace ee
LAr Gove) ate “Aiegs ia

et re andi iar” at ) Vane

BO Pg Pe Viele © eee ent

yaad ia i wry (> if weld 4

Tie rat ae eed vel

: ( i)" ats al eT: 7, Feu af Jm4

‘ Ke tale ser ene yy hie ee a i"
SW aKT* Te itil vAlee

eG Cae Bells *

Oy 2 Crt
P '

are ; ri “4 4 oe of

y Svea iA

;
] é

“(Ba SS PAO KA ui? Vanya

Ney by ey) Po + is i |
“ye ww PAitae if iy asss “ie

tie hs haley Nee eh ae dy i nOhe te

se Mapes Bef is ") i’ ate t ns. vid

Sts hea en sai a] wee

av rty, eke fy > ta wratanr tae,
Smithsonian Year « 1984
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

J. CARTER BROWN, DIRECTOR

The National Gallery of Art, although formally established as a
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and sep-
arately administered organization. It is governed by its own board
of trustees, the ex officio members of which are the Chief Justice
of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Of the
five general trustees, Paul Mellon continued to serve as chairman
of the board, with John R. Stevenson and Carlisle H. Humelsine
as president and vice-president, respectively. Also continuing on
the board were Dr. Franklin D. Murphy and Ruth Carter Stevenson.

During the year, visitors entering both of the National Gallery’s
buildings numbered 4,859,172. Two new galleries were opened on
the main floor to permit expanded and more flexible display of
eighteenth-century Italian paintings.

The Photographic Services Department moved into its long-
awaited new suite of offices on the ground floor of the West Build-
ing, making it convenient to members of the public who wish to
purchase black-and-white photographs or get permission to use
tripods for photography in the galleries, and for others who may
wish to borrow transparencies for publications.

Outside these offices, in the ground floor lobby, construction
barriers were removed to reveal a wonderful architectural feature
that had been conceived for the enhancement of the visitors’ intro-
duction to the Gallery at that level as well as for those above. A
large oculus in the ceiling of the lobby, nineteen-and-a-half feet
in diameter and surrounded by a marble parapet, now allows light

393
to enter from the windows on the main floor above it and, more
importantly, offers visitors a dramatic view of the huge green
marble columns of the grand rotunda.

For the first time, the Extension Program audience exceeded 100
million. Of the 114,534,980 persons estimated to have viewed the
programs during fiscal year 1984, the great majority was reached
through public and educational television, with an increase of
more than fourteen million over the television audience of the
previous year.

A further reason for the increased audience was the addition of
sixty-one agencies to the Extended Loan Program, participants in
which act as affiliate distributors of Gallery extension program
materials.

A laser optical videodisc containing 1,645 individual images
from the National Gallery’s collections was produced during the
year. The first of its kind on a museum, the videodisc also con-
tains two thirty-minute programs on the Gallery’s history, collec-
tions, and programs, narrated by the director.

Awards received for Gallery programs included the CINE Golden
Eagle for the film David Smith; a nomination for a Golden Eagle
for the film on the Peto exhibition, Important Information Inside:
John F. Peto and the Idea of Still-Life Painting; and the selection
of the film Femme/Woman: A Tapestry by Joan Miro as a finalist
in the American Craft Council/ American Craft Museum Interna-
tional Craft Film Festival.

The Gallery received a number of outstanding contemporary
works during the year. The highlight was the announcement of
the presentation by the Mark Rothko Foundation of 177 oil paint-
ings and 108 works on paper by this very important twentieth-
century artist, bringing to an end the uncertainty about the desti-
nation of this great body of works that had been in Rothko’s pos-
session when he committed suicide in 1970. The gift established
the National Gallery as the central repository for Rothko’s work
and a leading center for the study of modern American art, posing
new opportunities and challenges for art historians.

Several of the works added to the collection were by artists not
previously represented: a Franz Marc painting titled Siberian
Sheepdogs in the Snow, Cobalt Blue by Lee Krasner, a sculpture of
a four-figure group of dancers by George Segal, and a large paint-
ing titled Organization of Graphic Motifs II by Frantisek Kupka,
one of the earliest purely abstract artists. A black and white paint-

394 / Smithsonian Year 1984
ing by Jackson Pollock, Untitled #7 in the artist’s figural style
of the early 1950s, joined Lavender Mist, already in the collection,
to illustrate two important aspects of Pollock’s oeuvre.

Of the handsome American portraits donated to the Gallery,
the most important is Charles Willson Peale’s sympathetic and
insightful painting of a close family friend, John Beale Bordley.
A large, full-length portrait of Martha Eliza Stevens Edgar Paschall
is a sensitive and individualized likeness of the young subject.
Olivia, a 1911 portrait by Lydia Field Emmett, is a fine example
of the artist’s work, having won an Honorable Mention in the
1912 Carnegie International in Pittsburgh.

The Gallery’s collection of works by the Renaissance artist
Veronese was substantially upgraded by the purchase of one of
the most beautiful of his late works, The Martyrdom and Last
Communion of Saint Lucy. The Gallery also purchased The
Martyrdom of Saint Margaret by Giuseppe Cesari, called Cavalier
d’Arpino, a Roman artist of the late sixteenth to early seventeenth
centuries.

One of the finest English medals relating to America, the seven-
teenth-century “Maryland Medal” representing Cecil Calvert, Lord
Baltimore, founder of the colony of Maryland, with his wife, Anne
Arundell, was acquired at auction, setting a world record price for
a medal sold at auction.

Among the acquisitions of graphics were four major groups.
One of the finest private collections of rare illustrated books and
suites of prints on European architectural theory and practice,
views and topography, design and ornament from the end of the
fifteenth century to the beginning of the nineteenth century, the
Mark Millard Architectural Collection will be given to the Gallery
over a number of years, the first third coming this year by dona-
tion and purchase. A group of 131 American drawings from the
John Davis Hatch Collection, from the late eighteenth century
through the 1950s, was added to the collector’s previous gifts,
solidifying the Gallery’s survey of the history of American draw-
ing. The extensive collection of works by the Dutch artist M. C.
Escher was further enhanced by donations of 115 prints, five
illustrated books, and twenty-two volumes of original and docu-
mentary materials. A major gift of prints produced by the
Tamarind Lithography Workshop during its important initial phase
from 1960 to 1970, added to previous donations, provides the
Gallery with a complete set of the early Tamarind prints showing
the wide variety of artists who worked there, from the formalism

National Gallery of Art / 395
of Albers and Nevelson to the pop sensibility of Ruscha and
Allen Jones.

Further acquisitions of drawings were led by the donation of
Le Modéle Honnéte by Pierre-Antoine Baudouin. Other notable
gifts included the earliest known self-portrait by Sir Peter Lely,
two drawings of Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Fisher attributed to Gil-
bert Stuart, and a charming version of Diana and her Nymphs
Bathing by Rowlandson.

Purchases of drawings included one of Vanvitelli’s masterpieces,
The Waterfall and Town of Tivoli; the Gallery’s first seventeenth-
century English drawing, Meadow with Cattle and Deer by Francis
Barlow; and one of Kirchner’s finest drawings, the monumental
Bather Lying on the Beach, done in 1912.

Purchases of prints were distinguished by three extraordinary
Renaissance works: the finest Mantegna engraving in any museum
outside Europe, Battle of the Sea Gods; an early sixteenth-century
North Italian woodcut, Christ Carrying the Cross; and Erhard
Altdorfer’s early sixteenth-century etching Mountain Landscape,
one of the earliest pure landscapes in Western art.

Selections from these acquisitions and from the graphics already
in the collections—particularly the drawings recently acquired
from the Julius Held and the John Davis Hatch collections—have
been shown on a rotating basis in a continuing historical survey
of major artists’ prints in the new graphics galleries that were
opened on the ground floor last year.

Of the nineteen temporary exhibitions during the year, three
presented drawings by important eighteenth-century artists: Gains-
borough, Piazzetta, and Watteau. In the first U.S. exhibition of
drawings by the British painter Thomas Gainsborough, ninety-one
works illustrated the artist’s development and included pastoral
landscapes, figure studies, and costume sketches. An exhibition
of 106 drawings, prints, and illustrated books by the Venetian
artist Giovanni Battista Piazzetta, lent from the collections of Her
Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and numerous European and American
public museums and private collectors and on view in the United
States for the first time, marked the 300th anniversary of the
artist’s birth. The exhibition of ninety-eight drawings and forty-
four paintings by Jean Antoine Watteau, also celebrating the
300th anniversary of the artist’s birth, was the first major exhibi-
tion anywhere devoted solely to the work of this great French
artist. It was organized jointly with the Réunion des musées
nationaux, Paris, and the Verwaltung der Staatlichen Schlosser

396 / Smithsonian Year 1984
und Garten, Berlin, and included three of Watteau’s most impor-
tant paintings: Pierrot (called Gilles), from the Louvre; and The
Embarkation for Cythera and Gersaint’s Shopsign from Berlin.

Four exhibitions were devoted to the works of major twentieth-
century artists—the Spanish cubist Juan Gris, the Italian painter
and sculptor Amedeo Modigliani, and the American abstract artists
Mark Tobey and Mark Rothko.

Two major graphics collections were represented. Seventy-seven
Old Master and modern drawings, from the fourteenth to the
twentieth century, were lent by New York collector Ian Woodner,
and the renowned library in Milan, the Biblioteca Ambrosiana,
lent eighty-seven drawings by the finest masters from the late
fourteenth to the early seventeenth century.

The first survey in this country of sixteenth-century Emilian
drawings traced the influence of the great Renaissance master
Antonio Allegri, called Correggio, on the work of thirty-one artists
of that period.

Early German Drawings from a Private Collection, from the
early fifteenth century to the eighteenth century, presented draw-
ings by such early German masters as Albrecht Diirer, Hans
Baldung Gaien, Martin Schongauer, and Lucas Cranach the Elder.

The Folding Image: Screens by Western Artists of the 19th and
20th Centuries, an exhibition of more than forty folding screens
executed since c. 1870, illustrated the impact of the Japanese art
form, which suddenly became available to European artists such
as Bonnard, Vuillard, Klee, and Balla when Japan was opened to
the West in the nineteenth century. It has continued to the present
day to influence such diverse artists as Lucas Samaras, Jack Beal,
and David Hockney. Other highlights of the exhibition were
screens by William Morris, Louis Comfort Tiffany, Antonio Gaudi,
and Ansel Adams.

The Orientalists: Delacroix to Matisse—The Allure of North
Africa and the Near East chronicled the fascination with the area
of the world known in Europe as the “Orient” that brought artists
from Europe and America to the Near East between 1798 and the
onset of the First World War. The artists’ individual reactions to
the strange and the exotic were revealed in a complex variety of
styles, from the grand-scale Delacroix Sultan of Morocco, and the
vignettes from Arab life by Géréme, to the modern distillations
of the brilliant landscape and village scenes by Matisse and
Kandinsky.

The centerpiece of the exhibition Leonardo’s Last Supper: Be-

National Gallery of Art / 397
fore and After was a display of a full-scale Polaroid photomural,
mounted on thirty-six panels, of the mural in its current state of
restoration. Accompanying the photomural was a scholarly exhibi-
tion consisting of the artist’s preparatory studies, selected from
the collection of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and organized
by the Royal Library at Windsor, and a number of works in
various media illustrating the mural’s impact on later European
masters.

During the Lenten and Easter seasons the Gallery was privileged
to be able to display the monumental painting of The Deposition
by Caravaggio, on loan from the Vatican Collections.

The Education Department continued to provide the high-quality
educational programs and interpretive materials that enhance the
visitor’s enjoyment and understanding of the collections and spe-
cial exhibitions. A new course for adults titled ““The Language of
Art’ was well attended during the evenings in July and August.
Attendance by elementary school groups on tours guided by
gallery-trained volunteers dramatically increased. Introductory ma-
terials, including a slide program, were produced to prepare chil-
dren for their visit to the exhibition Art of Aztec Mexico: Trea-
sures of Tenochtitlan, which continued from the previous year.
Labels and recorded tours were prepared for the Watteau, “Folding
Image,” and Orientalism exhibitions.

Among scholars who lectured during the year were Philippe M.
Verdier, 1983-1984 Kress Professor, National Gallery of Art;
Professor Egbert Haverkamp-Begemann of the Institute of Fine
Arts, New York University; John Hayes, director of the National
Portrait Gallery in London; Professor George Knox of the Uni-
versity of British Columbia; Professor Terisio Pignatti of the
University of Venice; Edmund P. Pillsbury, director of the Kimbell
Art Museum, Fort Worth; Donald Posner, Ailsa Mellon Bruce Pro-
fessor of Fine Arts, Institute of Fine Arts, New York University;
Eugene Thaw, author and art dealer; and Christopher White,
director of studies, The Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British
Art, London.

398 / Smithsonian Year 1984
TEMPORARY EXHIBITIONS

The John Hay Whitney Collection,
continued from the previous fiscal
year, May 26—November 27, 1983,
coordinated by John Rewald and
Florence E. Coman.

Night Prints, continued from the
previous fiscal year, June 5—Octo-
ber 9, 1983, coordinated by Ruth
Benedict.

Jean Arp: The Dada Reliefs, con-
tinued from the previous fiscal year,
July 3—October 30, 1983, coordinated
by E. A. Carmean, Jr.

Art of Aztec Mexico: The Trea-
sures of Tenochtitlan, continued
from the previous fiscal year to
April 1, 1984, coordinated by Eliza-
beth Boone, Dumbarton Oaks, and
H. B. Nicholson, University of Cali-
fornia at Los Angeles, supported by
GTE Corporation and the Federal
Council on the Arts and Humani-
ties.

Gainsborough Drawings, October
2-December 4, 1983, coordinated
by the International Exhibitions
Foundation and Virginia Tuttle.

Juan Gris, October 16—December
31, 1983, coordinated by the Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley, and
E. A. Carmean, Jr., supported in
part by a grant from the National
Endowment for the Arts, and by
grants from the Paul L. and Phyllis
J. Watts Foundation, and the Uni-
versity Art Museum Council.

Piazzetta: A Terecentenary Exhibi-
tion—Drawings, Prints and IIlus-
trated Books, November 20, 1983-—
March 4, 1984, coordinated by
George Knox, University of British
Columbia, and H. Diane Russell,
supported by the Federal Council
on the Arts and Humanities.

Modigliani: An Anniversary Exhi-
bition, December 11, 1983—April 22,

1984, coordinated by Eliza Rath-
bone.

Master Drawings from the Wood-
ner Collection, December 18, 1983—
May 6, 1984, coordinated by The
J. P. Getty Museum, Malibu, Cali-
fornia, and Andrew Robison.

Leonardo’s Last Supper: Before and
After, December 18, 1983—March 4,
1984, coordinated by Windsor Cas-
tle, Olivetti Corporation, and David
Brown, supported by Olivetti Cor-
poration.

Caravaggio’s Deposition, March 4—
April 29, 1984, coordinated by Syd-
ney J. Freedberg.

The Folding Image: Screens by
Western Artists of the 19th and
20th Centuries, March 4—Septem-
ber 3, 1984, coordinated by Michael
Komanecky, Virginia Butera, Yale
University, and Linda Ayres, sup-
ported by Bankers Trust Company,
and by Goldman, Sachs & Co.

Mark Tobey: The City Paintings,
March 11-June 17, 1984, coordi-
nated by Eliza Rathbone.

The Legacy, of Correggio: Sixteenth-
Century Emilian Drawings, March
11-—May 13, 1984, coordinated by
Diane DeGrazia, supported by a
grant from Cassa di Risparmio di
Parma.

Mark Rothko: Works on Paper,
May 6—August 5, 1984, coordinated
by American Federation of the Arts
and E. A. Carmean, Jr., supported
by Warner Communications.

Early German Drawings from a
Private Collection, May 27-July 8,
1984, coordinated by Andrew Robi-
son.

Watteau: 1684-1721, June 17—Sep-
tember 23, 1984, coordinated by

National Gallery of Art / 399
Margaret Morgan Grasselli.

The Orientalists: Delacroix to Ma-
tisse—The Allure of North Africa
and the Near East, July 1—-October
28, 1984, coordinated by Mary Anne
Stevens, Royal Academy of Arts,
Florence E. Coman, and D. Dodge
Thompson.

400 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Renaissance Drawings from the
Ambrosiana, 1370-1600, July 29-
September 9, 1984, coordinated by
The Medieval Institute, University
of Notre Dame, and Diane De-
Grazia, supported by The Samuel
H. Kress Foundation and The Fed-
eral Council on the Arts and Hu-
manities.
Smithsonian Year - 1984
CHRONOLOGY

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the
fiscal year. No attempt has been made to make this a complete compilation of
the Institution’s activities.

October

Awards: Five of the first Federal Awards for Design Excellence were pre-
sented to Smithsonian bureaus by the National Endowment for the Arts. This
government-wide Presidential Design Awards Program was established by
President Reagan in December 1983.

October

Gift: A contribution from Millicent Monks enabled the Kennedy Center’s
Alliance for Arts Education to establish an education program in the public
schools in Lewiston, Auburn, and Portland, Maine, this year.

October

Workshop Series: The Office of Museum Programs, in cooperation with the
Virginia Association of Museums, held a series of four museum management
on-site workshops in Virginia from October to May.

October 1

Externships: During the year, thirty-two students from ten countries, attend-
ing the Multicultural Bilingual High School, Washington, D.C., were given the
opportunity for one-week work experiences by the Office of Museum Pro-
grams in various Smithsonian offices.

October 1

Workshop: Under the sponsorship of the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education, the first Regional Workshop was held in Newport News, Virginia,
bringing more than 300 teachers to work with local museum educators. The
second workshop was held in New Orleans in March.

October 1

Appointment: John H. Falk was named director of the newly created Smith-
sonian Office of Education Research under the Office of the Assistant Secre-
tary for Science.

401
October 3

New Facility: The Museum Support Center Branch of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Libraries opened in Silver Hill, Maryland.

October 4

Award: Paul J. Robert, student employee, received second place in the Ameri-
can Society of Agricultural Engineers’ North Atlantic Region Student Paper
Design Contest for a paper on “The Design and Implementation of a Com-
puter System to Control and Monitor Environmental Growth Chambers” at
the Smithsonian’s Environmental Research Center Rockville facility.

October 5

Milestone: Opening of the 1983-84 season of Discovery Theater, under the
aegis of the Resident Associate Program.

October 7

Publication: Treasures of the Smithsonian, written by Edwards Park and illus-
trated with 550 color photographs, was published by Smithsonian Books, pre-
senting well-known, little-known, and research treasures of the Institution.

October 7-8

Symposium: The Archives of American Art and the Detroit Institute of Arts
cosponsored “The Quest for Unity: American Art between World’s Fairs,
1876-1893.”

October 9

Award: The American Garden at the IV International Horticultural Exhibition
(IGA 83), Munich, West Germany, designed and installed by James R. Buckler
and Kathryn Meehan of the Office of Horticulture, was awarded a silver
medal by the German Association of Landscape Architects.

October 14
Exhibition: Pain and Its Relief, an examination of mankind’s attempts to

understand, combat, and alleviate pain, opened at the Natural Museum of
American History.

October 17

Milestone: The Resident Associate Program produced its first electronic out-
reach course, “The Telecommunications Revolution,” broadcast through an
interactive audio-bridge network to campuses of the California State Univer-
sity system.

October 17—-November 14

Special Program: The Office of Museum Programs and the United States In-
formation Agency cosponsored a new project, Museum Administration, for
museum professionals from Europe to study current practices and problems
of museum administration at the Smithsonian and other museums throughout
the United States.

October 19

Exhibition: The Capital Image: Painters in Washington, 1800-1915 opened at
the National Museum of American Art with 250 paintings, prints, photo-
graphs, and sculptures on the early cultural life of the city.

October 19

Presidential Visit: President Reagan was present at the twenty-fifth anniver-

402 / Smithsonian Year 1984
sary celebration of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration that
took place at the National Air and Space Museum.

October 19

Research: Biologists at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI)
described in Science magazine an epidemic that killed millions of the eco-
logically important black sea urchin, Diadema antillarum, the worst epidemic
ever documented among marine invertebrates.

October 20

Seminar: In commemoration of the Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris, “The
Great Garden Exchange” was arranged by the Office of Horticulture for the
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program, exploring garden traditions and
plant experiments from 1750-1830 in the United States, England, and France.

October 20

Special Event: Opening night of “The Smithsonian Salutes Washington Jazz.”
The series of four concerts presented from October to March featured noted
Washington jazz artists—Ronnie Wells, John Eaton, Marc Cohen, Mike
Crotty, and Buck Hill—and was sponsored by the Resident Associate Program.

October 20

Exhibition: Robert Cornelius: Portraits from the Dawn of Photography open-
ed at the National Portrait Gallery, devoted to the work of this pioneering
daguerreotypist, Robert Cornelius.

October 25

Exhibition: The National Museum of American History opened The Naming
of America, an exhibition that displayed the world map of Martin Waldsee-
muller, thought to be the first map on which the name “America” was used.

October 26

Special Event: The National Portrait Gallery presented a self-portrait program
with foreign correspondent and author William L. Shirer.

October 27

Meeting: Opening session of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion’s Career Awareness Program, bringing thirty-two ninth-graders from
Ballou Senior Public High School to learn about museum careers from staff
members at the National Museum of Natural History.

October 27-29

Meeting: The “Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars Stellar Systems and
the Sun,” held at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO), attracted
over 100 scientists from the United States and abroad for three days of invited
and contributed papers on the evolution and structure of cool stars.

October 31

Milestone: After more than a quarter-century of satellite tracking by both
cameras, and lasers, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory transferred
all responsibility for the operation of its worldwide tracking network to the
Bendix Corporation.

October 31

Award: Dr. G. Arthur Cooper, Museum of Natural History paleobiologist
emeritus, received the Penrose Medal, the highest honor given to American
geologists, at the Geological Society meetings in Indianapolis.

Chronology / 403
November

Exhibition: Ban Chiang: Discovery of a Lost Bronze Age, an exhibition orga-
nized jointly by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) and the University of Pennsylvania, opened at the Museum of Natu-
ral History, exhibiting archeological discoveries that have changed the pre-
vailing view of Southeast Asia’s role in the development of civilization.

November

Workshop Series: The Office of Museum Programs, in cooperation with the
Southern Arts Federation, held two on-site workshops in November and
March in Columbia, South Carolina, and Pensacola, Florida.

November 1

Exhibition: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened Amsterdam School, marking
the first time this subject, with an English catalogue, was exhibited in this
country.

November 9

Exhibition: The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from the Czechoslovak
State Collections, one of the largest and most important Judaica collections in
the world, opened at the National Museum of Natural History, circulated by
the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service. In its seven-week booking, this
exhibition was viewed by 105,000 people. The exhibition catalogue was sub-
sequently honored with the Kenneth B. Smilen/Present Tense Literary Award
for best general nonfiction Jewish book of 1983.

November 11

Exhibition: Masterpieces from Versailles: Three Centuries of French Portrai-
ture, a major loan exhibition from the Museum of the Chateau of Versailles,
opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

November 12-13

Symposium: The Third National Zoological Park Symposium for the Public,
“Perceptions of Animals in American Culture,” featured ten specialists who
gave presentations on the anthropomorphisms at the core of many human
perceptions of animals.

November 17

Milestone: The Archives of American Art began its thirtieth year. The Ar-
chives was founded in Detroit in 1954 and became a bureau of the Smith-
sonian in 1970.

November 18

Research: The death of hundreds of thousands of square kilometers of reef
coral in the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea, one of the most widespread
reef devastations of the past several hundred years, was documented by scien-
tists of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and described in Science
magazine.

November 21

Anniversary Celebration: The 200th anniversary of manned flight was cele-
brated at the National Air and Space Museum with the opening of a multi-
media presentation, “The Oldest Dream: A Celebration of Flight,” and an
exhibition, Dr. Franklin’s Window: American Witnesses to the Birth of Flight.
A book, The Eagle Aloft: Two Centuries of the Balloon in America, was also
written for the occasion.

404 / Smithsonian Year 1984
November 30

Lecture: Dr. René Bravmann, guest curator of the exhibition African Islam
and professor of art history, University of Washington, Seattle, presented an
illustrated lecture on “African Islam: The Artistry and Character of Belief,”
in conjunction with the opening of the exhibition at the National Museum of
African Art.

December

Awards: Smithsonian staff members won fifteen awards, including best in
show, in the 1983 publications competition of the Washington, D.C., chapter
of the Society for Technical Communications. Winning entries included a
brochure on tropical research produced by the Office of Public Affairs, OPA
Smithsonian News Service stories, The Torch, Research Reports, stories in
Research Reports, and publications from the National Air and Space Museum.

December

Anniversary: “Smithsonian Galaxy,” a series of two-minute features for radio
produced by the Office of Telecommunications and heard on 230 radio stations
in this country and abroad, celebrated its fifth anniversary on the air.

December

Research: Museum of Natural History geologist Dr. Robert Fudali joined a
National Science Foundation-funded research team in a search for meteorites
on the plateau west of the Transantarctic Mountains that resulted in the dis-
covery of some 300 meteorites which were sent back to the museum for study.

December

Workshop Series: The Kellogg Project, Office of Museum Programs, held a
series of six regional workshops from December to March on “Museums as
Learning Resources” in Charlotte, North Carolina; San Antonio, Texas; Port-
land, Oregon; Toledo, Ohio; Boston; and New York.

December

Publication: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Research Guide Number 3,
The Aerospace Periodical Index 1973-1982, was published by G. K. Hall.

December
Research: New limits on how much the gravitational constant G may vary
with time were established by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scien-
tists Robert Babcock, John Chandler, Robert Reasenberg, and Irwin Shapiro
using radar-ranging data from a Viking lander on Mars.

December 1
Exhibition: Sawtooths and Other Ranges of Imagination: Contemporary Art
from Idaho opened at the National Museum of American Art with forty-one
works by twenty-eight artists documenting the fine arts in Idaho. Five of these
Idaho artists participated in a related panel discussion.

December 3 and 4

Special Event: Berlin Alexanderplatz, a two-day marathon screening of Rainer
Werner Fassbinder’s film epic, was sponsored by the Resident Associate
Program.

December 5

Regent: The nomination of Samuel Curtis Johnson, chairman and chief execu-
tive officer of S. C. Johnson & Son Inc., as a citizen member of the Smith-
sonian Board of Regents was signed into law by President Reagan.

Chronology / 405
December 7

Seminar: “Computers and Human Learning,” a conference cosponsored by the
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education and the Office of Symposia
and Seminars, brought more than 300 local school administrators to learn
about the impact of computer technology on education.

December 7-9

Conference: Dr. William H. Klein and Dr. David L. Correll of the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center attended the Tristate Conference on “Choices
for the Chesapeake Bay” held at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia.

December 7-10

Symposium: “The Road After 1984: High Technology and Human Freedom,”
the Smithsonian’s eighth international symposium, examined the contempo-
rary revolution in technology and communications.

December 8

Exhibition: Dreams and Nightmares: Utopian Visions in Modern Art, an exhi-
bition of 136 works by 62 American and European artists of the twentieth
century, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum.

December 9

Special Event: The Smithsonian Women’s Committee held its thirteenth an-
nual Christmas fundraiser dinner-dance, “A Dickens’ Christmas,” in the
National Museum of Natural History.

December 9

Royal Visit: A reception was held at the National Air and Space Museum for
King Birendra and Queen Aishwarya of Nepal.

December 9-11

Milestone: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its twelfth
annual Christmas at the Smithsonian Weekend for Smithsonian Associates.
The program was highlighted by a festive dinner and tree-trimming party in
the Castle.

December 11

Appointment: William W. Moss was appointed Smithsonian Archivist.

December 14

Exhibition: The seventh annual Trees of Christmas exhibition opened at the
National Museum of American History and included twelve trees decorated
to display the ethnic, artistic, and cultural use of the Christmas tree. The
exhibit was prepared by the Office of Horticulture.

December 14-16

New Program: The Office of Museum Programs sponsored a new workshop
on “The Video Revolution: Museum Audiovisuals, Videotape Production
Techniques, Video Disks, and Teleconferencing” and their application in
museums.

December 15

Acquisitions: Twenty-three works by twentieth-century modernist Man Ray,
a gift from artist’s widow, were accessioned by the National Museum of
American Art.

406 / Smithsonian Year 1984
December 15

New Project: The loading of record unit data from the Smithsonian Archives
into the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic Information System began.

December 16

Gift: The kingdom of Saudi Arabia pledged $5 million toward the construc-
tion and development of the Smithsonian Institution’s International Center,
one of the major components of the Center for African, Near Eastern, and
Asian Cultures.

December 16

Special Event: A coffee was held by Mrs. George Bush at the Vice-President’s
Residence to honor Mrs. Dillon Ripley as founder of the Smithsonian Wom-
en’s Committee and to confer the title of honorary life member.

December 16

Symposium: “The Wright Flyer: An Engineering Perspective,” a National
Air and Space Museum program marking the eightieth anniversary of the
first flight of the Wright brothers, brought together engineers and scholars
to examine the technical achievements embodied in the 1903 Wright Flyer.
One of the original propellers was presented to the museum by Wilkinson
Wright, a grandnephew of the Wright brothers.

December 17

Exhibition: ‘O, Write My Name’: American Portraits, Harlem Heroes, photo-
graphs of black Americans by Carl Van Vechten, opened at the National
Portrait Gallery.

December 27

Acquisitions: The Archives of American Art received as a gift the papers of
Jackson Pollock, major abstract expressionist artist.

December 31

Record Set: Visitors toured the Smithsonian museums in ever-increasing num-
bers in 1983 with a record-setting 25.8 million visits, an increase of 1.1 million
over the previous high in 1978.

January

Foundation: A foundation to assist the Smithsonian with its collection of
patent models was created as a result of an exhibition on patent models and
its award-winning catalogue.

January

Research: Museum of Natural History botanists discovered red algae growing
at a depth of 880 feet on an uncharted seamount off the Bahamas, a new
maximum depth record for photosynthetic plant life on earth.

January

Grants Review: The Office of Fellowships and Grants convened advisory
councils to approve Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program grants.

January

Milestone: Membership in the Smithsonian National Associate Program ex-
ceeded two million for the first time.

Chronology / 407
January 3

New Project: Work began on a two-year project to survey and describe still-
photograph collections throughout the Smithsonian.

January 12

Milestone: James T. Demetrion, director of the Des Moines Art Center, was
selected to be director of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden to
succeed founding director Abram Lerner.

January 18

TV Show: “Smithsonian World,” a new seven-part television series, premiered
over Public Broadcasting stations, with author and historian David McCul-
lough as host. The hour-long programs, coproduced by WETA (Washington,
D.C.) and the Smithsonian, focused on Smithsonian-related science, art, and
history, and were made possible by a grant from the James S. McDonnell
Foundation.

January 21

Film Premiere: Free Show Tonite, a film documenting a reunion of retired
medicine show performers in Bailey, North Carolina, premiered at the Na-
tional Museum of American History. The film was produced in cooperation
with the Office of Folklife Programs.

January 23

Ninth Secretary: The Board of Regents announced the appointment of Robert
McCormick Adams, distinguished anthropologist and archeologist and Pro-
vost of the University of Chicago, to be the ninth Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, effective September 17, 1984.

January 23

New Project: Work began on a survey of scientific illustrations and drawings
throughout the Smithsonian.

January 23

Outreach: Dr. Robert Stuckenrath presented a course on “Radiocarbon Dating
and Interpretation” to graduate students and upper-level undergraduate stu-
dents in anthropology and geology at the University of Pittsburgh.

January 28

Lecture: “White Dwarfs or Black Holes: How Will a Star End Its Life?” First
in the series of five monthly lectures, The Cutting Edge of Science, presented
free of charge for science-oriented high school students by the Resident Asso-
ciate Program.

January 31

Appointment: Dr. Michael H. Robinson, deputy director of the Smithsonian

Tropical Research Institute, was appointed director of the National Zoological
Park.

February

Black History Month: Activities were scheduled throughout the Institution to
mark Black History Month. Among the highlights were a two-day colloquium,
presented by the Black American Culture Program, on the evolution of the
spiritual, a film series on the beginnings and growth of Harlem, and an

408 / Smithsonian Year 1984
evening with actor Geoffrey Holder. Exhibits, concerts, tours, children’s
theater, dance, lectures, and poetry readings were also presented by the Resi-
dent Associate Program, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, and the Mu-
seums of American History, African Art, American Art, and Natural History.

February

Milestone: The Multiple Mirror Telescope was used to make the first measure-
ments of possible proto-galaxy-sized gas clouds seen at cosmological dis-
tances. The international team of scientists, including Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory researcher Fred Chaffee, used an observational tech-
nique employing a natural gravitational lens in space.

February

Exhibition: The Art of Cameroon, an exhibition organized by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service to survey the significance and splen-
dor of one of Africa’s major art traditions, began its United States tour at the
Museum of Natural History.

February

Fieldwork: Museum of Natural History scientists began participation in an
international interdisciplinary biological investigation of Cerro de la Neblina,
one of the largest and highest of the unexplored mesas (tepuis) in southern
Venezuela’s “Lost World” wilderness region.

February

Lecture: The Smithsonian Office of Educational Research director, John Falk,
delivered five lectures in Recife, Brazil, on “Museums as a Community Learn-
ing Resource.” The lectures, cosponsored by the Universidade Federal de
Pernambuco and the U.S. Information Agency, were addressed to museum
professionals of northeastern Brazil.

February 1

Milestone: The Smithsonian marked the twentieth anniversary of S. Dillon
Ripley as eighth Secretary of the Institution with a staff reception attended
by Vice-President George Bush and regents Carl Humelsine and Jeannine
Clark. Mr. Ripley’s tenure was marked by the establishment of eight mu-
seums, the Associate programs, the Smithsonian magazine, the Festival of
American Folklife, many research and educational programs, and the launch-
ing of the Smithsonian’s Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures.

February 7

Film Premiere: In Palo at Laskiainen, Everyone is a Finn, a film produced by
the Office of Folklife Programs as part of the Smithsonian Folklife Studies
Series and documenting a Finnish-American mid-winter festival in Palo, Min-
nesota, premiered in Palo.

February 7
Grants Award: The second year’s James E. Webb Fellows were announced.
February 10-11

Workshop: “Collections Management: Preventive Care, Conservation, Han-
dling and Storage,” an on-site workshop sponsored by the Office of Museum
Programs, was held at the Historic Columbia Foundation in cooperation with
the South Carolina State Museum and the South Carolina Federation of
Museums.

Chronology / 409
February 14-16

Special Event: Noted composer Virgil Thomson shared his reminiscences of
Natalie Barney’s Paris salon of the 1920s at a musical program held at Barney
Studio House.

February 14-March 3

Research: Ecologists James Lynch, Dennis Whigham, and Eugene Morton, in
cooperation with Mexican scientists, assessed the effects of several agricul-
tural techniques on migratory and resident bird populations in the Yucatan
Peninsula.

February 21

New Programs: The Archives of American Art established a regional office in
the Los Angeles area at the Huntington Library and Art Gallery. Stella Paul
was appointed area collector.

February 21

Lecture: Dr. Thurston Shaw, former professor of archeology, University of
Ibadan, Nigeria, presented an illustrated lecture on “Archeology and History
in Africa.”

February 23

Exhibition: The inflight suit of astronaut Guion S. Bluford, Jr., America’s first
black astronaut in space, went on display.

February 23

Performance: The Gewandhaus Bach Orchestra of Leipzig, in its first North
American tour, presented a concert of Bach, Haydn, and Shostakovitch, spon-
sored by the Resident Associate Program.

February 23

International Protocol: An agreement was signed with the University of Cul-
ture of Tunisia to promote exchanges in chronological history, conservation,
and research.

February 28

Special Event: The president of Austria, Rudolf Kirchschlaeger, addressed
students enrolled in the Resident Associate Program course, “Vienna at the
Turn of the Century,” during his first state visit to the United States.

February 28

Appointment: Milo Cleveland Beach, chairman of the department of art at
Williams College, was named to head the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, a com-
ponent of the Smithsonian’s Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian
Cultures.

March

Award: Janet W. Solinger, director of the Resident Associate Program, was
presented the Officer’s Cross of the Order of Merit by the government of the
Federal Republic of Germany for her contributions to the celebration of the
German-American Tricentennial, commemorating the first arrival of German
immigrants to America in 1683.

410 / Smithsonian Year 1984
March

Audio-visual Project: In cooperation with the Office of Telecommunications,
the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center produced a video-
cassette for use at travel-industry market places and tourist sites.

March

Exhibition: The Museum of Natural History opened Exploring Microspace, an
exhibition tracing the evolution of the microscope from the seventeenth cen-
tury to the electronic age.

March

Publication: The Card Catalog of the Oral History Collections of the Archives
of American Art was published by Scholarly Resources, Inc.

March

Conference: Members of the Smithsonian Office of Educational Research par-
ticipated in the Groves Conference on Marriage and the Family held in Pine-
hurst, North Carolina, with presentations addressing the family as an edu-
cational unit.

March 9-April 10

New Program: The first graduate field course in tropical ecology was con-
ducted in conjunction with the University of Panama.

March 15

Exhibition: In the first of a series of exhibitions celebrating its tenth anniver-
sary, the Hirshhorn Museum opened Drawings: 1974-1984 with 148 drawings
by 30 artists. Artist Christo lectured on May 13.

March 16

Exhibition: ‘Adventurous Pursuits’: Americans and the China Trade, 1784--
1844, a celebration of the 200th anniversary of the opening of trade between
America and China, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

March 28

Special Event: “What’s Up, Doc? An Anniversary Evening with Mel Blanc,”
creator of the voice of Bugs Bunny, celebrating his fifty years in show busi-
ness. Sponsored by the Resident Associate Program.

March 28

New Program: The Archives of American Art began a special project of col-
lecting in Philadelphia, where the Archives’ first project was located in 1954.

March 30

Special Event: The Contributing Membership Annual Ball was held in the
Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery. The Office of Horticulture mounted a
display of hundreds of cymbidium orchids and other spring flowers.

April

Grant: The National Endowment for the Arts awarded the Theater Historical
Society of America a $30,000 grant for the Office of Telecommunications to
produce an expanded version of the exhibition film American Picture Palaces,
creating a half-hour program. The exhibition film has received fourteen major
awards during fiscal year 1984, including a Gold Award from the Interna-
tional Film and TV Festival of New York and a CINE Golden Eagle.

Chronology / 411
April

Milestone: A method to artificially incubate and hatch eggs of the green
iguana, developed by scientists at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, was used to hatch 700 green iguanas, the first to be hatched in captivity
with virtually 100 percent success. This achievement is a breakthrough toward
the goal of commercial production of iguanas as a food source in Latin
America.

April
Exhibition: Roger Tory Peterson at the Smithsonian, a retrospective exhibi-
tion of Peterson’s bird art marking the fiftieth anniversary of the publication
of his influential book A Field Guide to the Birds, opened at the National

Museum of Natural History. Peterson was awarded the James Smithson
Bicentennial Medal.

April
Exhibition: The National Museum of Natural History celebrated the 100th
Anniversary of the National Gem Collection. Associated events included a
Smithsonian Associate lecture and an all-day seminar. Two major new addi-

tions to the gem collection were placed on long-term display: a 182-carat
sapphire and a 318-carat black opal.

April

Findings: Analysis of Einstein Observatory data by Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory scientists Fred Seward and Rick Harnden and a colleague at
Columbia University revealed the presence of a rapidly spinning X-ray pulsar
in the Large Magellanic Cloud, only the second example found outside our
galaxy.
April

Publication: The Smithsonian Office of Educational Research announced pub-
lication of The Smithsonian Family Learning Project 1985 Science Calendar,
which features, in poster format, one brightly illustrated science activity per
month. The calendar is intended to promote enjoyment of learning science at
home as a family endeavor.

April 1

Exhibition: Black Wings, a SITES exhibition supplemented with selected arti-
facts and memorabilia, opened at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, fo-
cusing attention on American black pioneers in aviation whose historic
role helped shape the growth and development of modern aviation.

April 4

Exhibition: German Expressionist Sculpture, with more than 120 examples by
33 artists, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum.

April 5
Exhibition: Golden Age of Flight, a major exhibition gallery devoted to avi-
ation from 1919 to 1939, opened at the National Air and Space Museum.
April 5
Research: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s one-meter infrared
telescope, equipped with a photometer prepared by the Naval Research Lab-
oratory, was carried to an altitude of 95,000 feet by a balloon launched from

Texas. The nine-hour flight of the instrument—its eighteenth—resulted in the
successful mapping of seven regions of suspected star formation.

412 / Smithsonian Year 1984
April 7

Concert: Djiome Kouyate, from Senegal, presented a “Program of Music,
Dance and Folklore” illustrating the influence of Islamic culture and belief on
the performing arts of sub-Saharan Africa.

April 8

International Conference: A UNESCO/Smithsonian-sponsored conference
convened at the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C., to promote general aware-
ness in the North American news media of international activities related to
historic preservation.

April 10

Research: A small, helium-cooled, infrared telescope scheduled for launch
aboard a Space Shuttle in March 1985 successfully completed its testing and
was shipped to Cape Kennedy for integration with the twelve other instru-
ments that will make up the Spacelab 2 experiment package. The telescope is
a joint project of SAO, the University of Arizona, and NASA’s Marshall Space
Flight Center.

April 15

Grants: The Office of Fellowships and Grants designated 1984-85 fellowship
recipients.

April 16

Milestone: First on-line bibliographic search from Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute Library in Panama with Dialog Program in Palo Alto, Cali-
fornia.

April 17

Exhibition: His Highness Sayyid Faisal bin Ali Al-Said, minister of National
Heritage and Culture of Oman, formally opened an exhibit of cultural trea-
sures of his country, one of the oldest political entities in the Arabian
Peninsula.

April 20

International Protocol: An agreement was signed with the University of Cul-
ture, Sports, and Tourism of Pakistan to further cooperation in universal and
cultural history and conservation.

April 21

Special Event: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Teachers’
Day, held in the Discovery Theater, featured presentations by Native Ameri-
can students from Deep Branch Elementary School (Robeson County, North
Carolina), showing teachers how to use art and dramatics to teach a variety
of subjects.

April 27-29
Special Event: The second annual Washington Craft Show, a fundraising
event sponsored by the Smithsonian Women’s Committee, included 100 crafts-

people selected to exhibit and sell their work at the Departmental Auditorium,
presenting crafts as fine art.

April 30

Major Acquisition: Mary Cassatt, a portrait by Edgar Degas, was purchased
with funds from the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation and the
Smithsonian.

Chronology / 413
May

Award: The Office of Telecommunications received a Gold Screen Award
from the National Association of Government Communicators for its nation-
ally broadcast radio series, “Radio Smithsonian” and “Smithsonian Galaxy.”

May

Publication: A new edition of Guide to the Nation’s Capital and the Smith-
sonian Institution was produced by the Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center in cooperation with Smithsonian magazine.

May

Study: “The Smithsonian: Enhancing the Visitor’s Experience,” a design study
completed by George Washington University’s Department of Urban and Re-
gional Planning for the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center,
recommended the adoption of an Institution-wide exterior graphic informa-
tion system.

May

Grant: The Smithsonian Office of Educational Research received funding from
the National Science Foundation to initiate a pilot project in community-
based science education that will include business and industry, university
and government research laboratories, educators and families, who will de-
velop a strategy for sharing science education responsibilities and benefits.

May

Award: The Office of Telecommunications received a Gold Award from the
Houston International Film Festival for its nationally distributed video series,
“Here at the Smithsonian... .”

May

Truman Centennial: The Smithsonian joined in a tribute to the centennial of
the birth of Harry S Truman, thirty-third President of the United States,
with tours, films, exhibits, a musical revue, seminar, and a six-week course on
Truman and his presidential decisions.

May 3
Special Event: A country music gala, “Salute to Roy Acuff,” was held to
benefit the Kennedy Center.
May 3
Award: Guide to the Smithsonian Archives, 1983, received the Mid-Atlantic
Regional Archives Conference award for excellence in archival finding aids.
May 4
Special Event: The Museum of American History opened the Palm Court,

which encompasses a reading/relaxing area, informal concerts, an ice cream
parlor, and two exhibit areas.

May 9

Awards: Secretary S. Dillon Ripley was named corecipient of the “OLYMPIA”
Prize 1983 by the Alexander S. Onassis Public Benefit Foundation. The award
was presented in Athens by Constantine Karamanlis, president of Greece.

May 10-13

Special Event: The Friends of the National Zoo organized and coordinated
the construction of outdoor exercise structures in the panda yards.

414 / Smithsonian Year 1984
May 11

Exhibition: Honoring the 150th anniversary of the birth of James McNeill
Whistler, the Freer Gallery opened an exhibit of all of its oils, watercolors,
pastels, and drawings—some 300 works—by Whistler, as well as his only
surviving architectural scheme, the Peacock Room. Freer Gallery attendance
during the exhibit increased 50 percent over the comparable 1983 period.

May 12

Dedication: An Amateur Astronomy Vista, constructed with a grant from the
Smithson Society, was officially opened by SAO’s Whipple Observatory for
the use of Southern Arizona amateur astronomers.

May 12-June 14

Special Program: The Office of Museum Programs and the U.S. Information
Agency cosponsored the fifth annual “Education in Museums” project for
thirteen museum professionals from nine foreign countries to study museum
education techniques at the Smithsonian and other museums throughout the
United States.

May 14-16

Conference: National Zoo’s Office of Education conducted a Zoo Educators
Conference to discuss current and future goals of zoo education efforts.

May 14-16

Workshop: Environmental chemist David Correll participated in a workshop
at Lake Itasca, Minnesota, on long-term ecological research and presented a
paper, “Application of a Long-Term Mass-Balance Approach to the Analysis
of Nutrient Dynamics in Complex Land/Water Landscapes.”

May 14-18

Symposium: The 24th Annual International Archaeometry Symposium, orga-
nized by Jacqueline Olin and James Blackman of the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory, was held at the Museum of Natural History with approximately
200 attendants from sixteen countries.

May 15
Fellowship: Designer George Nelson was appointed a Regents Fellow at the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
May 15
Symposium: “Vertical Flight: The Age of the Helicopter,” National Air and
Space Museum, included aviation pioneers and presentations on vertical flight.
May 17

Special Events: The Friends of the National Zoo conducted “Zoofari,” a dinner
party designed to be a major fundraising activity for the newly established
Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund.

May 18

Acquisition: Viking Lander I was officially transferred from the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration to the collection of the National Air
and Space Museum. This museum is now the only one in the world to possess
an object on another planet—the Viking Lander I is located on the surface
of Mars.

Chronology / 415
May 18

Milestone: Graduation of the first class of the master’s degree program in
European decorative arts, a project undertaken jointly with the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum and the Parsons School of Design.

May 19

Film Premiere: The Stone Carvers, a documentary film about the traditional
stone carvers at the Washington Cathedral, premiered at the Museum of
Natural History. It was produced in cooperation with the Office of Folklife
Programs.

May 21

Seminar: Dr. Charles Cleland presented a series of seminars on “The Hor-
monal Control of Flowering” to the Universities of Poznan, Prague, and
Liblice, Czechoslovakia, and the Czechoslovokia Academy of Science in
Prague, as well as the University of Freiburg, West Germany.

May 22

Special Event: An Evening with Edward L. Bernays, the “father of public
relations,” was part of the self-portrait series of the National Portrait Gallery.

May 23

Exhibition: Ethiopia: The Christian Art of an African Nation opened at the
National Museum of African Art.

May 24

Milestone: The National Air and Space Museum welcomed its 75 millionth
visitor since the opening of the building, July 1, 1976.

May 28

Film: Lou Stovall, a documentary film showing the artist’s techniques of fine
silk-screen printing, was shown at the Educational Film Industry Associa-
tion’s 26th American Film Festival in New York City. The film was produced
by exhibit designer Sharon Reinckens and photographer Chris Capilongo,
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.

May 30-June 3

Special Event: The National Associates Travel Program sponsored the first
weekend program designed especially for Contributing Members to visit with
directors and curators at selected museums.

June

Awards: The first recipients of the recently created Order of James Smithson
were announced: Enid A. Haupt, who has pledged $3 million for a garden to
be created in the Quadrangle area, and Arthur M. Sackler, who has pledged
$4 million toward the construction of a museum to house the 1,000 master-
pieces of art he also has donated.

June

Acquisition: The Freer Gallery acquired, through gift and purchase, a signifi-
cant collection of twenty-nine ancient Chinese ceramic objects, including three
pieces that have survived more than 3,000 years in perfect condition. This

acquisition gives the Freer the finest collection of early Chinese ceramics in
the United States.

416 / Smithsonian Year 1984
June

Acquisition: The Sara Roby Foundation of New York City donated 169 paint-
ings, sculptures, and drawings—an extraordinary collection of twentieth-cen-
tury realistic art—to the National Museum of American Art.

June

Special Event: An honors ceremony was held for 1983-84 Smithsonian Fel-
lows.

June

Awards: Several dozen Smithsonian staff members won awards this month in
the field of communication for outstanding photography, publications, radio
and television productions, films, feature stories, and posters. The awards
were sponsored by the Professional Photographers of America/Eastman
Kodak, the National Association of Government Communicators, the Ameri-
can Association of Museums, the Houston International Film Festival, and the
Society for Technical Communication.

June

Award: Remembrance of Lilacs—John Robinson, a documentary slide/audio
show produced by Sharon Reinckens and Chris Capilongo, Anacostia Neigh-
borhood Museum, won the National Association of Government Communi-
cators (NAGC) Gold Screen Award for outstanding audio-visual production.

June

Public Service Announcement: Astronaut Guion “Guy” Bluford donated his
time to appear as narrator in a thirty-second television public service an-
nouncement produced by the Office of Public Affairs. The announcement
emphasized the theme “Explore Your Heritage” and was aimed at encouraging
visits to the Smithsonian by members of the black community.

June

Film Premiere: The Work of Peace, a film produced by the Office of Telecom-
munications to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the signing of the 1783
Treaty of Paris, premiered in Washington, D.C. The film will be distributed
to high schools throughout the country.

June

Outreach: Special Education Outreach funds received by the Smithsonian
Office of Educational Research supported the development of a SAIL (Science
Activities for Informal Learning) Teacher’s Guide and an Evaluation Strategy,
which summarizes the guide’s effectiveness based upon training experience in
two Maryland counties.

June 2-5

Special Event: Summerfest ’84, a four-day, park-wide celebration of music,
dance, and mime, took place at ten different locations around the National
Zoo.

June 2-16

Special Event: A British-American Festival marking the 400th anniversary of
the arrival of the first British expedition to North America at Roanoke Island,
North Carolina, was cosponsored by the Smithsonian Office of Symposia and
Seminars.

Chronology / 417
June 4

Grants: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries received two grants from the
Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund, one for the retrospective conversion of its
catalogue and the second for the purchase of scientific serials on microfilm.

June 8

Exhibition: Erastus Salisbury Field, 1805-1900, the first comprehensive exhi-
bition of works by this American folk artist, organized by the Springfield
(Massachusetts) Museum of Art, opened jointly at the National Portrait Gal-
lery and the National Museum of American Art.

June 9

Exhibition: Artistic Collaboration in the Twentieth Century, with more than
100 works created by some seventy teams of artists between 1913 and 1984,
opened at the Hirshhorn Museum.

June 10-14

Conference: The American Association of Museums hosted two panel discus-
sions, with director John Kinard as moderator, that considered possible fund-
ing strategies for minority museums, giving Third World and traditional
museum professionals a chance to talk with representatives from foundations
and the corporate world.

June 11

Acquisitions: The National Museum of American Art announced the gift of
169 twentieth-century paintings and sculptures from the Sara Roby Founda-
tion of New York.

June 11

Reinstallation: The National Museum of American Art opened its refurbished
and reinstalled public exhibition galleries, presenting chronologically 250
years of American art—the first complete reinstallation since 1968.

June 11

Internships: The first session of “Intern ’84” began—the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education’s high school intern program, which brought thirty-
four students to Washington, D.C., from as far away as California, Washing-
ton state, and Maine to participate in a learning/service program.

June 12

Gift: Jayathu, an eighteen-month-old Asiatic elephant, a gift from J. R.
Jayewardene of Sri Lanka to President Reagan, arrived at the National Zoo.
Jayathu subsequently suffered from an apparent allergic reaction to her infant
formula and died on August 30.

June 14-22

Research: Ecologist Dennis Whigham participated in organizing a symposium
for the second International Wetlands Conference, Trebon, Czechoslovakia.

June 20

Milestone: Smithsonian Institution Libraries started processing on its auto-
mated library system.

June 23

Summer Program: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s sum-

418 / Smithsonian Year 1984
mer seminar program for teachers began, offering ten different courses in the
arts, sciences, and history.

June 23

Special Event: A “Festival of African Games” was held at the Museum of
African Art and included the making of African mankala gameboards,
methods of playing Africa’s most popular board game, and a variety of tra-
ditional African children’s games.

June 27-July 1; July 4-8
Folklife Festival: The eighteenth annual Festival of American Folklife fea-

tured Alaskan folklife, the folklore of America’s older generation, traditional
culture of urban blacks from Philadelphia, and traditional foodways.

June 27

Exhibition: Southeastern Potteries, organized by the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and fea-
turing works from the thirty-five traditional potteries still operating in the
southern United States, opened at the National Museum of American History.

June 29

Special Event: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries announced the inaugu-
ration of a new sequence in its Translation Publishing Program.

June 30

Fundraising: A campaign to raise $37.5 million of private support for the con-
struction of the Quadrangle was successfully concluded through contributions
from individuals, corporations, and foundations, both foreign and domestic,
and from Smithsonian trust funds.

July
Grant: The Rockefeller Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities

awarded the Smithsonian Institution a grant for postdoctoral fellowships at
the National Museum of African Art and the Center for Asian Art.

July

Grant: The James Smithson Society awarded a $23,000 grant to the Office of
Telecommunications for the production of a pilot program of a potential tele-
vision series for children aged nine to twelve.

July
Research: Archeological discoveries made in Labrador by Dr. William G.
Fitzhugh provide a clearer picture of how early Maritime Archaic peoples
lived. Early single-family round or oval pithouses dug into boulder beaches
were found and excavated on islands off the Labrador coast.

July

Contract: A Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory proposal for a “Wide-
field and Diffraction-limited Array Camera” was accepted by the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration for inclusion in the “definition study
phase” of the planned Space Infrared Telescope Facility.

July

TV Spot: Stage and television actress Sandy Duncan donated her time and
talents to narrate a package of television public service announcements aimed
at showing the Institution’s attraction for children. The package will be dis-

Chronology / 419
tributed for the 1985 tourist season to the 300 largest television stations in
the country, reaching every state.

July 1

Publication: The Phenomenon of Change, edited by Lisa Taylor, director of
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, was published.

July 4

Special Event: A concert and reading of the Declaration of Independence cele-
brated the installation of a nineteenth-century bandstand on the grounds of
the National Museum of American History.

July 9

Milestone: The Resident Associate course, “Toward 2001: Visions of Amer-
ica’s Future,” was broadcast nationwide by C-Span cable television, resulting
in hundreds of requests for video tapes and/or transcripts.

July 13

Appointment: Ann R. Leven was named Treasurer of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, effective August 1984.

July 17

Awards: James Smithson Society grants, totaling $220,000, were awarded to
nine Smithsonian units for publications, acquisitions, research, film and TV
projects.

July 20

Symposium: “The Apollo Legacy,” held at the National Air and Space Mu-
seum to mark the fifteenth anniversary of the Apollo 11 lunar landing,
brought together five scientists and four former Apollo astronauts to review
the scientific impact of the Apollo missions.

July 25

Reintroduction: Eight U.S.-born golden lion tamarins were released into the
wilds of Brazil’s Poco das Antas Biological Preserve. Fifteen animals had been
sent to Brazil in November 1983 as part of a reintroduction program, and nine
of them had been introduced to a half-way cage located in the wilds on
May 2, 1984.

August

Acquisition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries acquired a collection of
materials on Indonesia and other parts of Southeast Asia that had been as-
sembled by the late Professor John Echols of Cornell University.

August

Exhibition: Treasures from the Shanghai Museum: 6,000 Years of Chinese Art,
the most comprehensive major Chinese art exhibition ever to tour the United
States, opened at the National Museum of Natural History, featuring 232
masterpieces from one of China’s leading museums, organized by the Asian
Art Museum of San Francisco in cooperation with the Shanghai Museum.

August

TV Show: The James S. McDonnell Foundation renewed its underwriting
commitment to the Smithsonian World television series with a grant of $3.5
million, making possible a second season to consist of five one-hour specials
airing in 1985 and 1986.

420 / Smithsonian Year 1984
August 5

Birth: A giant panda cub was stillborn. The mother, Ling-Ling, had suffered
a kidney infection during December and January, but two natural matings
occurred on March 19, 1984, resulting in pregnancy.

August 6-10

Conference: A conference on “Genetic Management of Captive Populations,”
held at the National Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center, sought to es-
tablish goals and methods for long-term management of captive populations.

August 9

Exhibition: Yesterday's Tomorrow: Past Visions of America’s Future opened
in the National Museum of American History’s new temporary exhibition
hall. Produced by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service,
the exhibition displayed more than 300 objects to show how people in the
past have predicted the future.

August 9

Dedication: A feeder tree for Smokey bear, funded by the Forest Service, was
designed and constructed by the Zoo staff. The tree dispenses food pellets
and honey automatically at random times or upon radio-controlled command.

August 11

Exhibition: Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution opened at the Royal
Scottish Museum in conjunction with the thirty-eighth annual Edinburgh
International Festival. The exhibition was organized by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Traveling Exhibition Service, designed and produced by the Office of
Exhibits Central, and coordinated by the Office of Public Service. Symposia
and musical performances were also presented in conjunction with the exhi-
bition.
August 22

Cultural Accord: A cultural exchange agreement between the Smithsonian
and the kingdom of Morocco, signed earlier this year, was observed by Secre-
tary Ripley, the Moroccan Ambassador to the United States, and the United
States Ambassador to Morocco.

August 27

Acquisition: A 168-carat emerald, a bequest of Anna Cast Mackay to the
Smithsonian Institution National Gem Collection, was placed on permanent
display in the National Museum of Natural History.

September

Film: The Sea: A Quest For Our Future, a one-hour documentary produced by
the Office of Telecommunications on Smithsonian research on tropical coral
reefs, was completed.

September 5

Special Event: An evening of special animal training demonstrations at the
National Zoological Park was offered to Contributing Members at the Spon-
soring level and above.

September 12

Special Event: “A Centenary Tribute to Eleanor Roosevelt,” the first of the
1984-85 Frank Nelson Doubleday Lectures of the National Museum of Amer-

Chronology / 421
ican History, featured an examination of the life of Eleanor Roosevelt by
radio commentator Susan Stamberg and actress Jean Stapleton.

September 13

Exhibition: Eleanor Roosevelt: First Person Singular, a tribute marking the
centennial of her birth, opened at the National Museum of American History.

September 14

Lecture: Smithsonian Associates participating in the sixth annual Smith-
sonian/Oxford Seminar attended a convocation and reception in the Castle
before departing for England.

September 14

International Protocol: An agreement was signed with the University of Cul-
ture of the Republic of Indonesia to develop cooperation in national and cul-
tural history and conservation.

September 15-16

Special Event: The annual weekend for members of the James Smithson
Society was held. It included a formal dinner at the National Museum of
American History to honor members of the society and the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates and to honor Secretary Ripley upon his retire-
ment.

September 16

Awards: The Board of Regents conferred the Order of James Smithson on
Secretary S. Dillon Ripley, citing “his singularly outstanding service,” and
the Joseph Henry Medal to Mary Livingston Ripley, the first woman to receive
this award, for her work on behalf of the orchid and entomology collections
and in establishing the Smithsonian Women’s Committee.

September 17

Installation: Public ceremonies installing Robert McC. Adams as ninth Secre-
tary of the Institution were held on the Mall in front of the original Institu-
tion Building. Ceremonies included presentation of the key to the Smith-
sonian to Mr. Adams by Chief Justice Burger as Chancellor of the Institution,
remarks by the Chief Justice, Mr. Ripley, and Mr. Adams, and music by the
U.S. Naval Ceremonial Band.

September 18

Benefit Premiere: Amadeus, Washington film premiere with a costumed Vien-
nese concert/café, was held for the benefit of Discover Graphics, the first
benefit sponsored by the Resident Associate Program.

September 19

Organization: The establishment of a Directorate of International Activities
was announced by Secretary Adams, effective October 1. John E. Reinhardt,
assistant secretary for history and art, was named director, with responsibility
for the International Center, a component of the Center for African, Near
Eastern, and Asian Cultures, the Office of International Activities, and the
International Exchange Service.

September 20

Special Event: His Holiness, the Dalai Lama, presented a lecture titled “The
Unique Tibetan Culture,” the opening event of a Resident Associate Program

422 / Smithsonian Year 1984
course on Tibetan Buddhism. He was welcomed and introduced by Secretary
Adams.

September 25

Seminar: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) presented a seminar on
“SIL Collections and Preservation: Can We Save the Nineteenth Century?”

September 25-28

Performance: Seona McDowell, an Australian folk singer, presented free con-
certs and student workshops at the Kennedy Center, tracing the parallel social
and historical development of Australia and the United States. Educational
materials from this project are being developed for classroom use.

September 27-28

Meeting: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory served as host for a
“Neighborhood Workshop on Supernovae as Distance Indicators” that re-
viewed methods of determining cosmic distances via supernovae observations.

September 30

Milestone: The Smithsonian News Service, a monthly feature-story service of
the Office of Public Affairs, completed five years. More than 800 daily papers
and 750 weeklies are regular users of the service, which reaches all states with
a combined circulation of 40 million.

Chronology / 423
iy
th ‘fret
i j Hy : Mea abe kit

gw Ry ‘cineca ade igs .
Maidan ER) 8 yh Matis a Se ca

f
j
»,

a ad ye z Mi He? pal ae tN Waele Aus Lae

D deel ae) yy

ose ae nai ga taal
Nery 4 ;

cbctonns” eles Rae 5 Kcpaiatuvtnetal 4st ge
Senate) fale aut Malehial gales ee
icy AT AEs on Been An etuds , aout iS
a ad NES eh ey ae Pda tee"
ties ie Hie Oe ath oo seen” Wey niin ee
Laut epi Oe ery ily iP EES he

by
pe
y SiN eM FBiee, WUD | a i, Se re ae Tyee:

bec be ane eM erat aitedas af gepitrdl hve is
bere hia’ TAM iy Ad) Segre ovata en! al ey epee id
ye ahead Niby witabane dhevalpls baitins taeahert nullity ligy ginety gta hehay Rae
. = pall Oi OP 96:

v ae eyepee 10

iy ‘ll } a. Tere i in view wal vi re : wees 4
i] tata et ei TEA 4 wold ‘oat
Se

iT an | ‘ weet y at? : a ve! Be nna’ =e
( | 7 Mise
~
i é } vg 4
ij ‘ ’ ) oe
only Li tes 1 Gee Op eee
‘a i , Tul iVGLOe ptt ei i} i
’ ; ee Liane, +O ,
i
i t
i < ms ‘ yi] i f nie 2
; ort 4 . Ay " ha
i 1 \“¥ i t
1 @
: ; ‘ , 4 ae |
j J ba? ty roe
, a , i re |
j i i ‘s
¢ } x é 6 Tao i
han eb tela Lr © pene Mel
Pe | wealth. @ Vi ‘4 * Tease ee, eule we }
44 race 4 at 2 i f
10.

Smithsonian Year - 1984
APPENDICES

Organization Chart page 426-7

Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards and
Commissions, September 30, 1984

Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards
Made October 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984

National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1984

Academic, Research Training, and Internship
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1984

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in
Fiscal Year 1984

Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1984

The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1984

Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1984

Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1984

Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1984

425

428

436
440

443

473

483

567
601

671
694
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Se SS ae

BOARD OF REGENTS

Under Separate Boards of Trustees — oo © me os oe

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

AUDITOR

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

s
s
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
s
s
a

THE SECRETARY*

UNDER SECRETARY“

TREASURER*

Office of Accounting and
Financial Services

Office of Grants and Risk
Management

Business Management Office
Concessions
Mail Order Division
Smithsonian Museum Shops

Assistant Secretary
for
SCIENCE*

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Natural History/
National Museum of Man

National Zoological Park

Office of Educational Research

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

“Secretary's
Executive Committee

GENERAL COUNSEL’

Assistant Secretary
for
HISTORY & ART*

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Archives of American Art
Center for Asian Art
Freer Gallery of Art
Sackler Gallery of Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden
Joseph Henry Papers
National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery
National Museum of American
History
National Portrait Gallery
Office of American Studies
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Board of Fellowships and Grants

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Advisory Council

Folklife Advisory Council
Freer Visiting Committee

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden
Board of Trustees

Horticultural Advisory Committee

Joint Sponsoring Committee for
the Papers of Joseph Henry

National Air and Space Museum
Advisory Board

Coordinator

of
PUBLIC INFORMATION’

Office of Congressional Liaison
Office of Public Affairs
Office of Special Events

Assistant Secretary
for
PUBLIC SERVICE’

The International Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Office of Folklife Programs

Office of International Activities

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

National Armed Forces
Museum Advisory Board

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

National Museum Act
Advisory Council

National Museum of African Art

Commission

National Museum of American Art

Commission

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

Smithsonian Council

Women's Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Director

°
MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT*

Development Office

Smithsonian National Associate

Program

Smithsonian Resident Associate

Program

Assistant Secretary
for
MUSEUM PROGRAMS*

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum Act

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Assistant Secretary

for
ADMINISTRATION’

Contracts Office
International Exchange Service
Management Analysis Office
Office of Equal Opportunity
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Information Resource
Management
Office of Personnel Administration
Office of Printing and Photographic
Services
Office of Programming and Budget
Office of Supply Services
Travel Services Office
APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards,
and Commissions, September 30, 1984

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS

Warren E. Burger, The Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor
George H. Bush, The Vice-President of the United States, ex officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah
Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona
James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts
Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia
Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Samuel C. Johnson, citizen of Wisconsin

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

Gordon N. Ray, Thomas P. Hughes David F. Musto
Chairman Ada Louise Huxtable Frank Oppenheimer
Dore Ashton Alice S. Ilchman Jaroslav Pelikan
Milton W. Brown Oliver O. Jensen Vera C. Rubin
A. Hunter Dupree Bennetta Jules-Rosette Carl E. Schorske
Frank B. Golley Sherman E. Lee Gunther Schuller
Stephen Jay Gould Thomas E. Lovejoy Barbara W. Tuchman
Neil Harris Peter Marler Emily D. T. Vermuele

Christian C. Hohenlohe Frederick W. Mote

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, President

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley, Vice-President

Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Vice-President

Mr. Irvin A. Levy, Vice-President/Treasurer
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Secretary

Miss Caroline R. Alexander Mrs. Henry C. Johnson Mr. Alexander R. Mehran

Mrs. Eli Broad Mrs. Dwight Kendall Mrs. William L. Mitchell
Mrs. Francis deMarneffe Mrs. Charles Kessler Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman
Mrs. George C. Dillon Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney Mrs. John Rosekrans

Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz Mr. Howard W. Lipman’ Mr. C. Bagley Wright

Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun Mrs. Sam Maddux

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II Mr. Richard Manoogian

428
FOUNDING TRUSTEES

Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman Mr. Edgar P. Richardson

HONORARY TRUSTEES

Dr. Irving F. Burton Mrs. William L. Richards

Mr. Harold O. Love

Mr. Russell Lynes

EX OFFICIO

S. Dillon Ripley John E. Reinhardt

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEE

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Donald Stover,
Chairman

Whitney Chadwick

Wesley Chamberlin

Wanda Corn
James Elliott
Albert Elsen
Henry Hopkins

Margaretta Lovell
Christina Orr-Cahall
Peter Selz

Ian McKibbin White

Herschel Chipp Harvey Jones

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Moira Roth

Josine Ianco Starrels
Maurice Tuchman
Robert R. Wark

Burton Fredericksen
Grant Holcomb
Richard Koshalek
Susan C. Larsen
Earl A. Powell III

Constance W. Glenn,
Chairman

E. Maurice Bloch

Ruth Bowman

Beatrice Farwell

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Al Lerner

Marc Pachter
Phoebe Stanton
John Vlach

John Wilmerding

Bernard Mergen,
Chairman
Marjory Balge
Michael Botwinick
Lorraine Brown
David Driskell

Charles Eldredge
Alan Fern

Lois Fink

Henry Glassie
William Homer
Charles Hummel

NEW ENGLAND

Harley B. Holden, Hugh Gourley James O’Gorman

Chairman Elton W. Hall Stephen Riley
Winslow Ames Johnathan P. Harding David Ross
Mr. and Mrs. Patricia Hills Theodore Stebbins

Richard Teitz
Peter Wick
Margret Craver Withers

George H. Bumgardner Sinclair Hitchings
Carl Chiarenza John Kirk
Charles Ferguson William Lipke
Wolfgang M. Freitag Kenworth Moffett
Tom Froeudenheim Elliott Offner

NEW YORK

Milton Brown, Lloyd Goodrich
Chairman Eugene Gossen

Thomas N. Armstrong III John Howat

John Baur James Humphrey III

Anne d’Harnoncourt John A. Kouwenhoven

John Dobkin Abram Lerner

William Gerdts Russell Lynes

Barbara Novak
Clive Phillpot
Jules D. Prown
Joseph T. Rankin
William B. Walker

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 429
NORTHWEST ORAL HISTORY PROJECT

Pauline Eyerly
Don Foster
Rachael Griffin
Bruce Guenther

TEXAS

John Biggers
William Camfield
Linda Cathcart
Dominique de Menil
Louise Ferrari
Eleanor Freed

LaMar Harrington
Marshall Hatch
Martha Kingsbury
Arlene Schnitzer

Carolyn Farb
Mimi Kilgore
Caroline Law
Betty B. Marcus
Peter C. Marzio

Margaret McDermott

Harvey West
Virginia Wright

Lupe Murchison

Bill Robinson

Joan Seeman Robinson
David Warren

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM ADVISORY COUNCIL

August Heckscher,
Chairman

Karen Johnson Boyd

Amanda Burden

Rosemary Corroon

Joan K. Davidson

Joanne du Font
Harmon Goldstone
Russell Lynes
Gilbert C. Maurer
Kenneth Miller
Arthur Ross

FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL

Wilcomb E. Washburn,

Chairman
Roger Abrahams
Richard Ahlborn

William Fitzhugh
Lloyd Herman
Robert Laughlin
Scott Odell

FREER VISITING COMMITTEE

Norman Y. Mineta,
Chairman

Laurence Sickman,
Vice-Chairman

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Kwang-chih Chang
Marvin Eisenberg
Katharine Graham
Porter McCray
John M. Rosenfield

Robert Sarnoff

Marietta Tree

S. Dillon Ripley,
ex officio

John Reinhardt,
ex officio

Ralph Rinzler
Peter Seitel
Thomas Vennum, Jr.

Hugh Scott
Priscilla P. Soucek
Richard Weatherhead

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Daniel P. Moynihan,

Chairman
Sydney Lewis,
Vice-Chairman

Charles Blitzer

Anne d’Harnoncourt

Thomas M. Evans
Jerome Greene

A. James Speyer
Leonard C. Yaseen

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

(Retired 9/17/84)

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio
(Appointed 9/17/84)

430 / Smithsonian Year 1984
HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

James R. Buckler, Jimmie L. Crowe Belva Jensen
Chairman (Deceased June 1984) Carlton Lees
ORCHID SUBCOMMITTEE
Edward S. Ayensu Paul N. Perrot Mary Ripley
James R. Buckler (Resigned January 1984)

Paul E. Desautels

JOINT SPONSORING COMMITTEE FOR THE
PAPERS OF JOSEPH HENRY

Frederick Seitz, John E. Reinhardt Jean R. St. Clair
Chairman S. Dillon Ripley Henry D. Smyth
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

S. Dillon Ripley, Donald M. Koll

Chairman Lt. Gen. James H. Merryman, USA
Phillip E. Culbertson James E. Murdock III
Lt. Gen. William H. Fitch, USMC Jacqueline Ponder
Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, USAF Vice Adm. Robert F. Schoultz, USN
Richard H. Jones Vice Adm. Benedict L. Stabile, USCG

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM RESEARCH
ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin Mr. Gerald D. Griffin
Professor James Van Allen Dr. Robert Frosch

Dr. Glenn Seaborg Dr. John Bradamas
Professor Charles Gillispie Professor Luis Alvarez
Professor A. Hunter Dupree Dr. Lew Allen

ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT

William N. Richards Perry C. Huston Joyce H. Stoner
James H. Duff Paul H. Knappenberger Bret Waller
Edmund B. Gaither Thomas W. Leavitt Jean M. Weber
Donald V. Hague Roger Mandle

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION

Frank E. Moss, Richard Long Michael Sonnenreich
Chairman John Loughran Robert Farris Thompson

Frances Humphrey Helen Neufeld Walter Washington
Howard Robert Nooter John E. Reinhardt,

David Driskell Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal ex officio

John A. Friede Mrs. Susan Samuels S. Dillon Ripley,

Colbert I. King Gustave Schindler ex officio

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 431
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART COMMISSION

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy, Walker Hancock Charles Parkhurst
Chairman R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Philip Pearlstein

Thomas S. Buechner, Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. David S. Purvis
Vice-Chairman August Heckscher Mrs. Oliver Seth

S. Dillon Ripley, Thomas C. Howe Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Secretary, ex officio Mrs. JaquelinH. Hume Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

Donald Anderson Richard L. Hunt Mrs. Charles Bagley Wright

Mrs. Hampton Barnes R. Crosby Kemper Lloyd Goodrich,

Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake David Lloyd Kreeger Commissioner Emeritus

Gene B. Davis Abram Lerner,

Mrs. Johnson Garrett ex officio

HONORARY MEMBERS

Paul Mellon
Edgar P. Richardson

Charles H. Sawyer
Andrew Wyeth

Martin Friedman
Henry P. Mcllhenny

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY COMMISSION

Barbara Novak

Frank Stanton

Barbara Tuchman
(Resigned 5/26/84)

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

Thomas Mellon Evans
Katie Louchheim

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Senator Robert H. Morgan

Senator Jake Garn,
Chairman

Robert O. Anderson

Barry Bingham, Sr.

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS
NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE,
W. K. KELLOGG FOUNDATION PROJECT

Paul N. Perrot,

Chairman (through January 1984)
William N. Richards,

Chairman (from February 1984)
Jane R. Glaser, Richard Fiske

Watson Laetsch
Abram Lerner

William F. McSweeny
Richard H. Randall, Jr.
Adelle Robertson

ex officio J. O. Grantham Susan Stitt
Janet Solinger, Neil Harris Michael Templeton
ex officio Philip S. Humphrey

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

William J. Baroody, Jr.,
Chairman

Robert A. Mosbacher,
Vice-Chairman

Robert McCormick Adams

James A. Baker III

Theodore C. Barreaux
William J. Bennett
Daniel J. Boorstin
Kenneth B. Clark
Stuart E. Eizenstat
Margaret M. Heckler

432 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Max M. Kampelman
Jesse H. Oppenheimer
Anne Firor Scott
George P. Shultz
Robert M. Warner
Charles Z. Wick
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Honorary Chairmen

Mrs. Ronald Reagan
Mrs. Jimmy Carter
Mrs. Gerald Ford

Officers

Roger L. Stevens,
Chairman

Senator Charles H. Percy,
Vice-Chairman

Henry Strong,
Vice-Chairman

Frank Ikard,
Secretary

Charlotte Woolard,
Assistant Secretary

W. Jarvis Moody,
Treasurer

Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Harry C. McPherson, Jr.,
General Counsel
William Becker,
Associate Counsel
James F. Rogers,
Assistant Treasurer
Henry Strong,
Assistant Treasurer
Walter W. Vaughan,
Assistant Treasurer

Members Appointed by the President of the United States

Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Mrs. Edward T. Breathitt
Marshall B. Coyne
Richmond D. Crinkley
June Oppen Degnan
Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen
J. William Fulbright

Cary Grant

Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr.
Orval Hansen

Charlton Heston

Frank Ikard

Mrs. Earle Jorgensen
Melvin R. Laird

Marjorie M. Lawson

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
Dina Merrill

Joan Mondale

Donna Stone Pesch
Gerald M. Rafshoon
Mrs. Abraham Ribicoff
Jean Kennedy Smith
John G. Spatuzza

Roger L. Stevens

Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss
Henry Strong

Jack Valenti

Lew R. Wasserman
Mrs. Jack Wrather

Members Ex Officio Designated by Act of Congress

Margaret M. Heckler, Secretary of

Health and Human Services

T. H. Bell, Secretary of Education

Charles Z. Wick, Director,

United States Information Agency

Senator James A. McClure
Senator Edward M. Kennedy
Senator Charles H. Percy

Representative Joseph M. McDade

Representative Charles Wilson

Representative Sidney R. Yates

Marion S. Barry, Mayor,
District of Columbia

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 433

Robert McCormick Adams,
Secretary, Smithsonian
Institution

Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian
of Congress

J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the
Commission of Fine Arts

Russell E. Dickenson, Director,
National Park Service

F. Alexis H. Roberson, Director,

District of Columbia Department

of Recreation
Honorary Trustees

Mrs. George A. Garrett
Ralph E. Becker
Mrs. Albert Lasker

Mrs. Jouett Shouse
Mrs. Clifford Folger

President's Advisory Committee on the Arts

Herbert L. Hutner, Chairman

Los Angeles, California
Margaret Archambault

Chicago, Illinois
Robert D. Bain

Bismarck, North Dakota
Joy S. Burns

Englewood, Colorado
Charles A. Camalier, Jr.

Potomac Falls, Maryland
Claire Chambers

Bloomfield Hills, Michigan
Margot Denny

Anchorage, Alaska
William M. Fine

New York, New York
Richard A. Gallun

Fox Point, Wisconsin
Beverly Gosnell

Charleston, South Carolina
Carl Halvorson

Lake Oswego, Oregon
Leota Hayes

Jackson, Mississippi
T. David Higgins

South Charleston, West Virginia
Martin Hoffman

Needham, Massachusetts
Stephen Jernigan

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Peggy Mallick

Casper, Wyoming
Alyne Massey

Nashville, Tennessee
Julia M. McCabe

Wilmington, Delaware
Virginia McCann

Short Hills, New Jersey
Millicent L. Monks

Cape Elizabeth, Maine
Julie P. Montgomery

Atlanta, Georgia
Lindsay J. Morgenthaler

Cleveland, Ohio

434 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Jim Nelson

Rapid City, South Dakota
Jeanette Nichols

Shawnee Mission, Kansas
Betty Noe

New Orleans, Louisiana
Ann S. Penberthy

Paradise Valley, Arizona
John Piercey

Salt Lake City, Utah
Millie Pogna

Albuquerque, New Mexico
Gladys Prescott

West Palm Beach, Florida
Chesley Pruet

El Dorado, Arkansas
Ann Rydalch

Idaho Falls, Idaho
Hugh K. Schilling

Minneapolis, Minnesota
William Siems

Billings, Montana
Harriet Slaybaugh

Montpelier, Vermont
Eileen Slocum

Newport, Rhode Island
Charles C. Spalding

Honolulu, Hawaii
Richard Taylor

Potomac Falls, Maryland
Dr. Paul Tessier

New Castle, New Hampshire
James Thompson

Louisville, Kentucky
Judith Thompson

Birmingham, Alabama
Diane Ushinski

Shavertown, Pennsylvania
Dorothy Vannerson

Sugar Land, Texas
Joseph Vetrano

Bristol, Connecticut
Judith Woods

St. Louis, Missouri
FRIENDS OF THE KENNEDY CENTER

Annette G. Strauss, Thomas J. Mader,
Chairman Executive Director

NATIONAL COUNCIL

Alexander Armstrong Dina Merrill

Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Michael X. Morrell
Robert Charles Gayle Perkins
Anne H. Freeman Le Rowell

Mrs. Gilbert Greenway Roger L. Stevens

Jeanne Wade Heningburg Henry Strong
Thomas R. Kendrick Joy Carter Sundlun
William Martin Togo D. West, Jr.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Paul Mellon, John R. Stevenson Ruth Carter Stevenson
Chairman Carlisle H. Humelsine Franklin D. Murphy

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State, ex officio

Donald T. Regan, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WOMEN’S COUNCIL

Susan Kalcik,
Chairperson

Carolyn Thompson,
Vice-Chairperson

Marge D’Urso,
Secretary

Sherrill Berger

Delores Brown

Betty Beuck Derbyshire
Frances Dulay

Matou Goodwin
Margery Gordon
Victoria Hershiser
Julie Hoover

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 435

Ruby Davis,
Treasurer
Roberta Geier,
Historian

Susan Jewett

Susanne Owens Koenig
Christine Eason Louton
Margaret Santiago
Joanna Scherer
Katherine Sprague
Miriam Weissman
APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program
Awards Made October 1, 1983, through
September 30, 1984

ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES
(INCLUDING ANTHROPOLOGY)

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for
administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; Center
for Ethnomusicology; Gujarat prehistoric project II; conference on ethnomusi-
cology; translations fellowships; Third World Hindi Conference and Urdu
Conference on Mir.

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Operation of Cen-
ter in Cairo; fellowship program in the study of archeology and related disci-
plines in Egypt; continuation of the architectural and epigraphic survey of
Egypt; archeological investigations of Qasr Ibrim; archeological investigations
of Wadi Tumilat.

American University, Washington, D.C. Vaishnava literature microfilm proj-
ect (India).

Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, Maryland. Ritual arts of the Baga
(Guinea).

Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. Women’s education, employment,
and family life (India).

Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. Tibetan modern history:
1933-50 (India).

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Land-use vegetation changes in
south and southeastern Asia, 1800-1980 (India).

Indo—U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Indo—American fellowship program.

Northeastern University, Boston, Massachusetts. Contemporary architecture
in India.

Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Islamic architecture of Kerala State
(India).
Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt.

State University of New York, Binghamton, New York. Effects of Roman
Colonial system in Serbia, Yugoslavia.

University of Arizona, Tuscon, Arizona. Changes in the population and ma-
terial culture of a north Indian village: 1953-1983; late quaternary geochro-
nology (Egypt).

University of California, Berkeley, California. Excavations at Opovo-Bajbuk
(Yugoslavia); shell manufacturing industry at Moenjodaro (Pakistan); arche-
ological explorations at Balakot (Pakistan).

436
University of California, Irvine, California. The pyrotechnology and environ-
mental impact of ancient copper oxide on smelting at Kumbariya and Amgaji,
Gujarat, India.

University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. Excavations at Ghazi Shah (Paki-
stan).
University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii. Burmese prehistory.

University of Houston, Houston, Texas. Restudy of the Village Khalapur in
North India.

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Research and photography of
Ajanta Caves (India).

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Architectural plans: No-
landa and the Lodi-Mughal transition (India).

University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Urban space in medi-
eval Hindu imperial capital (India).

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Status, class, and
dominance patterns of politico-economic change in modern India; excavation
at Rojdi (India).

University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. Preparation of an English
dictionary of the Tamil verb (India).

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Contemporary South Asian
civilization film project (India).

Wesleyan University, Middleton, Connecticut. Ethnographic research in Paki-
stan for a collaborative project on social anthropology.

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY
(INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY)

American Museum of Natural History, New York, New York. Phylogenetic,
behavioral, and ecological investigations on the native bees of Pakistan.

Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. Analysis of growth rates of tropi-
cal trees in the Western Ghats of Karnataka State (India).

California Academy of Sciences, Los Angeles, California. Collection of fresh-
water fishes for systematic study in the Western Ghats of India.

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Approach to
herpetofauna of Southern India.

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Behavior of the slender loris in
South India; anthropological and paleontological research into the fossil
anthropoid sites of the Egyptian Oligocene.

Florida A&M University, Tallahassee, Florida. A taxonomic revision of the
aquatic weevil genus bagous in India and Pakistan.

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Later Miocene hominoids
(Pakistan).

Howard University, Washington, D.C. Cenozoic mammals of Pakistan.

Idaho State University, Pocatello, Idaho. River continum concept in Indian
streams.

International Crane Foundation, Chicago, Illinois. Ecology of crane reproduc-
tive behavior as it relates to the conservation of the species (India).

Appendix 2. Special Foreign Currency Program Awards / 437
Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa. International Workshop of the Council
for the Biosphere; ecology of a semitropical monsoonal wetland in India
(Bharatpur).

Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. The deep
structure and active tectonics of the Himalayas (India).

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Aquatic coleoptera
of Hutovo Blato (Yugoslavia); recovery of putative Neanderthal remains
(Egypt); systematics of the echuira/sipuncula of India; bird population survey
of the Eastern Ghats, India; pictorial guide to the birds of the Indian sub-
continent; faunal assemblages and population ecology of Pakistan amphibians
and reptiles.

New York University, New York, New York. A preliminary investigation of
the snakes of Burma.

Oakland University, Rochester, Michigan. Research on the subtropical forests
of south India.

Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Systematics of Indian telenominae
and perilampidae.

Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania. A comparative
study on the old world and new world tiger beetle community structure
(India).

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. U.S. participation in the Centenary
Symposium of the Bombay Natural History Society, Bombay (India).

Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas. Systematics and biology of
tephritidae and braconidae in India with special emphasis on fruit flies and
their natural enemies.

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. A systematic study of the bur-
rowing amphibians (Gymnophiona) of India; plumage patterns and speciation
in the avion genus phylloscopus (India).

University of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota. An exchange of scientific data
on tigers and demonstration of a tiger monitoring system (India).

University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, North Dakota. Reproductive biol-
ogy of the mugger crocodile (India).

University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont. Genetic variability and genetic
differentiation among mainland populations of the small Indian mongoose.

University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. International symposium on
environment and hormones, Srinigar, Garhwal, India.

ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES

George Washington University, Washington, D.C. US-India workshop on arid
zone research—Jodhpur, India.

University of Maryland, College Park. Second Indo-U.S. workshop on solar/
terrestrial physics.

University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska. A reconnaissance trip of the late-
cenozoic intermontane basins of North Pakistan.

University of Southern California, University Park, California. Evolutionary
models of interstellar clouds—chemical and thermal properties (India).

438 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri. Paleontology
and stratigraphy of neogene deposits in Himachel Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh,
India.

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Joint Indo-U.S. programs.

Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, Washington, D.C. Organization of
India program for Festival of American Folklife (1985) and traveling exhibi-
tion seeing India through children’s eyes.

Appendix 2. Special Foreign Currency Program Awards / 439
APPENDIX 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded
in Fiscal Year 1984

GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Columbia University, New York, New York

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York
New York University, New York, New York

University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan

University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California

MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS

Bronx Zoo, Bronx, New York

Historic Deerfield, Deerfield, Massachusetts

Intermuseum Conservation Association, Oberlin, Ohio

Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Los Angeles, California
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri

Museums at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York
Panhandle-Plains Historical Museum, Canyon, Texas
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Philadelphia Zoo, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Rochester Museum and Science Center, Rochester, New York
St. Louis Zoological Park, St. Louis, Missouri

University of California, Los Angeles, California

Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota

Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut

STIPENDS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR
CONSERVATION STUDIES

John Barrow, United States/International Council on Monuments and Sites,
Washington, D.C.

Vicki Cassman, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware

440
Ann Craddock, Museum of Modern Art, New York, New York

Beatriz del Cueto, United States/International Council on Monuments and
Sites, Washington, D.C.

Antoinette Dwan, Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware

Kathleen Francis, Merrimack Valley Textile Museum, North Andover,
Massachusetts

Sarah Gates, Textile Conservation Centre, Surrey, England

Marian Kaminitz, Bishop Museum, Honolulu, Hawaii

Jane Ketcham, Textile Conservation Workshop, South Salem, New York
Lucy Kinsolving, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York
Andrea Pitsch, Solomon Guggenheim Museum, New York, New York
Ann Schelpert, Queen’s University, Ontario, Canada

Eleanore Stewart, Columbia University, New York, New York

Gwen Tauber, Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles, California
Susan Jia-sun Tsang, University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware
Zahira Veliz, Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio

Faye Wrubel, Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois

SEMINARS

African American Museums Association, Washington, D.C.
Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.
Intermuseum Conservation Association, Oberlin, Ohio

National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C.
Northeast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts
Regional Conference of Historical Agencies, Manlius, New York
Ringling Museum of Art, Sarasota, Florida

Suquamish Tribal Cultural Center, Suquamish, Washington
Washington Conservation Guild, Washington, D.C.

SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania
Philadelphia Museum of Art, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York

Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 441
SERVICES TO THE FIELD

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee
American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.

Center for Occupational Hazards, New York, New York

Minnesota Zoological Garden, Apple Valley, Minnesota

National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property, Washington, D.C.

Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, Boston,
Massachusetts

442 / Smithsonian Year 1984
APPENDIX 4. Academic, Research Training, and Internship
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1984

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research
and study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. These
appointees are provided access to the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties,
and reference resources. The persons—listed by bureau, office, or division—in
this Appendix began their residencies between October 1, 1983, and Septem-
ber 30, 1984. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral fellows, graduate student fellows,
Visiting Scientists, Scholars, and Students, holders of special awards and par-
ticipants in special programs are so listed. The institution where each Fellow
received, or expects to receive, the degree, or the home university or institu-
tion of Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special appointees is listed.
A brief description of the project to be undertaken at the Smithsonian is in-
cluded where appropriate. The fellow’s or visitor’s host bureau or office and
the Smithsonian adviser are also listed.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

William Agee, Senior Visiting Scholar. Past Director of the Museum of Fine
Arts, Houston. American art, 1910 to 1945 with emphasis on continuing tradi-
tions of modern American art and its relation to art internationally, with
Richard Murray, from January 1 through December 31, 1984.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Suzanne Abel-Vidor, Visiting Student, Brown University. Costa Rican ceramic
traditions, with Dr. Ronald Bishop, from May 21 through July 27, 1984.
Marilyn P. Beaudry, Ph.D., Postdoctoral fellow in materials analysis, Miner-
alogical, chemical, and technological investigation of a pigment tentatively
identified as Specular Hematite and used in pre-firing decoration of Meso-
american ceramics, with Ronald Bishop and James Blackman, Department of
Archaeometry, and William Melson, Department of Mineral Sciences, Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, from September 1, 1984, to August 31,
1985.

Maria Ligeza, Visiting Scholar, Fulbright-Hays Research Fellowship. Academy
of Fine Arts, Krakow, Poland. Physical-chemical methods of examination of
works of art, with Jacqueline Olin, from September 1, 1984, through June 1,
1985.

Emlen Myers, Postdoctoral fellow in materials analysis, State University of
New York at Binghamton. Provenience analysis of Hispano-moresque pottery,
with Jacqueline Olin, from October 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Timothy Clark, Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund Fellow. Ph.D. candidate, Har-
vard University. Ukiyo-e Painting in the Freer Gallery of Art, with Dr.
Yoshiaki Shimizu and Ann Yonemura, from June 18 through July 6, 1984.

443
Toshi Kihara, Fulbright Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, Osaka University. Japanese
Momoyama and Edo Period Screen and Sliding Door Paintings, with Dr.
Yoshiaki Shimizu and Ann Yonemura, June 1 through July 9, 1984.

David Pollack, Postdoctoral fellow, University of California, Berkeley. Theo-
retical and practical aspects of relationship between paintings and their poetic
inscriptions in medieval Japan, with Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu, from September
1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Tadashi Kobayashi, Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund Fellow, Gakushuin Uni-
versity, Tokyo. Japanese Genre Paintings and Ukiyo-e Paintings, with Dr.
Yoshiaki Shimizu and Ann Yonemura, June 15 through August 11, 1984.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Susan Sterling, Predoctoral fellow, Princeton University. Kenneth Noland and
the modern aesthetic, with Dr. Charles Millard, Department of Painting and
Sculpture, from January 17, 1984, through January 16, 1985.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Jack M. Bruce, the Charles A. Lindbergh Chair. Manufacturing of British
World War I aircraft in the United States, with Walter J. Boyne and staff,
from September 1, 1983, through January 31, 1984.

Peter M. Grosz, Alfred Verville Fellow. The development of Austro-Hun-
garian aircraft during 1914-1918, with E. T. Wooldridge, Department of Aero-
nautics, from September 1, 1983, through August 31, 1984.

Adam L. Gruen, Guggenheim Predoctoral Fellow. United States civilian space
station concepts: a case study of the nature of technological change, 1958—
1983, with Dr. Paul Hanle, Department of Space Science and Exploration,
from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Richard K. Smith, Alfred Verville Fellow. The new American airplane of 1934,
with Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from September 17,
1984, through September 16, 1985.

Joseph N. Tatarewicz, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow. The role of planetary
astronomers in developing the Space Telescope, with Dr. Paul Hanle, Depart-
ment of Space Science and Exploration, from December 15, 1983, through
December 14, 1984.

William L. Teng, Smithsonian Postdoctoral Fellow. Remote sensing for land-
forms and soils in the arid southwest United States, with Dr. Ted Maxwell,
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from October 3, 1983, through Sep-
tember 30, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Frances Connelly, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pittsburgh, Influences of
African art on eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Western art, from June 9
to July 15, 1984.

Ekpo Eyo, Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellow. Director-General, National
Commission for Museums and Monuments, Nigeria. Work on manuscripts on
archaeological excavations at Ife and Owo and an illustrated history of
Nigeria from the Stone Age to the nineteenth century, with Sylvia Williams,
from June 15 through August 14, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Nancy Anderson, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Albert Bierstadt
and the California Landscape Painters of the 1870s, with Dr. William Truett-
ner, Office of Painting and Sculpture, from October 1, 1983, through December
14, 1984.

444 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Sarah Boehm, Ph.D. candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Seth Eastman’s illustra-
tions for Henry Schoolcraft’s “History and Statistical Information Respecting
the History, Condition, and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the United
States,” with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from Septem-
ber 1, 1983, through September, 1985.

Ralph T. Coe, Visiting Scholar, past president of the Association of Art
Museum Directors and former director of the Nelson Gallery of Art, Kansas
City. The Survival of traditional Indian crafts, with Dr. Charles C. Eldredge,
Director, from November 1982, through October 1983.

Tina Dunkley, Smithsonian Fellow, Atlanta University. Afro-American art
and museum studies, with Merry Foresta and Lynda Hartigan, Department of
Twentieth-Century Painting and Sculpture, from May 1 through September
30, 1984.

Betsy Fahlman, Postdoctoral Fellow, Old Dominion University. The art of
John Ferguson Weir, 1841-1926, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and
Fellowships, from September 1, 1983, through August 1984.

Richard Gruber, Ph.D. candidate, University of Kansas. Thomas Hart Benton:
The Teacher and His Students, with Dr. Charles C. Eldredge, Director, from
September 1983, through December 1983.

Lisa Koenigsberg, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. Professionalizing do-
mesticity; American women writers on architecture, 1865-1917, with Dr. Lil-
lian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, National Portrait Gallery, Edith
Mayo, Department of Social and Cultural History, National Museum of
American History, and Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships,
from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Sandra Langer, Postdoctoral Fellow, New York University. John Frederick
Kensett, a critical study of his life and art, with Dr. William Truettner, De-
partment of Eighteenth and Nineteenth-Century Painting and Sculpture,
from June 1 through November 30, 1984.

Richard Masteller, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota. Satiric form
in the 1930s; dissident voices, dissident visions, with Drs. Lois Fink, Office of
Research and Fellowships, and Virginia Mecklenberg, Department of Twen-
tieth-Century Painting and Sculpture, from September 10, 1984, through
September 9, 1985.

Dennis Montagna, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. The Grant Me-
morial Sculpture, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from
October 1, 1983, through September 14, 1984.

Regenia Perry, Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow, Virginia Commonwealth
University. History of Black American art, 1650-1984, with Dr. Lois Fink,
Office of Research and Fellowships, from August 1, 1984, through July 31,
1985.

Susan Rather, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. Paul Manship and
archaism in American sculpture, 1900-1930, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of
Research and Fellowships, from January 1 through December 31, 1984.

J. Gray Sweeney, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. A study of Thomas
Cole’s iconographic and stylistic influence over mid-nineteenth-century Ameri-
can painting, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from
September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Elizabeth Tebow, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. The mythical
imagination in American painting of the late-nineteenth century, with Dr.
Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from July 1, 1983, through
September 14, 1984.

Elizabeth Turner, Ph.D. candidate, University of Virginia. American artists
in Paris, 1920-1929, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships,
from October 1, 1983, through December 14, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 445
Jerry Waters, Visiting Student, Yale University. Religious paintings of Henry
Ossawa Tanner, with Dr. Lois Fink, Office of Research and Fellowships, from
June 4 through August 10, 1984.

Cecile Whiting, Predoctoral Fellow, Stanford University. The American paint-
ers’ response to Facism, 1933-1945, with Dr. Virginia Mecklenberg, Depart-
ment of Twentieth-Century Painting and Sculpture, from June 15, 1984,
through June 14, 1985.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Catherine Beeker, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Maryland. Men’s
clothing design and development of design, 1920's to 1940’s, with Claudia
Kidwell, Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 11 through
August 17, 1984.

Gail Cooper, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Santa Bar-
bara. The history of air conditioning in America, 1906-1979, with Robert
Vogel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from July 30
through October 5, 1984.

Michelangelo DeMaria, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Rome. History of
cosmic ray physics in the United States in the 1930's, with Dr. Paul Forman,
Department of the History of Science and Technology, from November 1,
1983, through October 31, 1984.

Vicky Dula, Graduate Student Fellow, Ohio State University. Racism and the
commercial city residential land-use structure in Cincinnati, 1802-1840, with
Dr. James Horton, Afro-American Communities Project, from June 11 through
August 17, 1984.

Deborah Dwork, Postdoctoral Fellow, University College, London. Urban and
rural preventive maternal and child care, 1880-1945, with Dr. Ramunas Kon-
dratas, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from March 1,
1984, through February 28, 1985.

Bruce Hunt, Postdoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. Telegraphic
problems and the development of electromagnetic theory in the second half
of the nineteenth century, with Dr. Bernard Finn, Department of the History
of Science and Technology, from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.
Lily Kay, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. The technology of
ideas; laboratory practices and the growth of molecular biology, 1933-1953,
with Drs. Jon Eklund and Ramunas Kondratas, Department of the History of
Science and Technology, from August 15, 1984, through August 14, 1985.
Robert Korstad, Predoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina. The world
of the tobacco manufacturing worker, with Dr. Pete Daniel, Department of
the History of Science and Technology, from September 1, 1984, through
August 31, 1985.

Peter Kuznick, George Mason University/Smithsonian Institution Fellow,
Rutgers University. Science and the Common Man in 1930’s America, with
Dr. Arthur Molella, Department of the History of Science and Technology,
from September 1, 1984, through June 30, 1985.

J. Bartholomew Landry, Faculty Fellow, Columbia University. Study of the
Black middle class family in historical and societal contexts, with Dr. Spencer
Crew, Archives Center, and Dr. James Horton, Afro-American Communities
Project, from June 1 through August 31, 1984.

Gerald MacDonald, Graduate Student Fellow, Johns Hopkins University.
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad engineering diagrams from the nineteenth
century, with Robert Vogel, Department of the History of Science and
Technology, from June 4 through August 20, 1984.

Melissa McLoud, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. Build-

446 / Smithsonian Year 1984
ers in Washington, D.C., 1870-1900; changes in house design and construc-
tion, with Susan Myers and Keith Melder, Department of Social and
Cultural History, from June 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985.

David Martinez, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Michigan. An ap-
proach to the study of keyboard instruments, their origin and authenticity,
with John Fesperman, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
May 7 through July 14, 1984.

Portia Maultsby, Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wiscon-
sin. Popular music of Black America, with Dr. Bernice Reagon, Department
of Public Programs, from August 1, 1984, through July 31, 1985.

Marian Moore, Predoctoral Fellow, Bowling Green State University. Black
images in advertising, analysis of the Warshaw collection, 1840-1940, with
Dr. Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from June 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985.
David Rhees, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. The chemists’
crusade; the popularization of science in America, 1914-1940, with Drs. Jon
Eklund and Arthur Molella, Department of the History of Science and
Technology, from September 1 through August 31, 1984.

Matt Salo, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York at Binghamton.
Gypsy cultures of the United States in historical perspective, with Richard
Ahlborn, Department of Social and Cultural History, from Sepember 1, 1984,
through August 31, 1985.

Sheila Salo, Visiting Scholar, Western Reserve University. Co-researcher on
Gypsy cultures of the United States in historical perspective, with Richard
Ahlborn, Department of Social and Cultural History, from September 1, 1984,
through August 31, 1985.

Dorothee Schneider, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Munich. New York’s
furniture makers and their industry, 1850-1900, with Dr. Gary Kulik,
Department of Social and Cultural History, from March 1, 1984, through
February 28, 1985.

Merritt Roe Smith, Regents Fellow, Professor of the History of Technology
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. An interpretive history of the
mechanization of United States industry in the antebellum period, with
Roger Kennedy, from June 1, 1984, through January 31, 1985.

Robert Snyder, Predoctoral Fellow, New York University. Vaudeville and the
birth of mass culture in the neighborhoods of New York City, 1890-1930,
with Carl Scheele, Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 1,
1984, through May 31, 1985.

Valerie Steele, First Ladies’ Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. Images of
the Ideal Self, with Claudia Kidwell, Department of Social and Cultural His-
tory, from January 1 through December 31, 1984.

Sally Stein, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. The rhetoric of the colorful
and the colorless in the photographic culture of the 1930’s, with Dr. Pete
Daniel, Department of the History of Science and Technology, from Septem-
ber 1, 1984, through April 30, 1985.

Henry Taylor, Faculty Fellow, State University of New York at Buffalo.
Black residential patterns and the city, Cincinnati, 1802-1850, with Dr.
Spencer Crew, Archives Center, and Dr. James Horton, Afro-American Com-
munities Project, from June 15 through October 15, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Gillian Bentley, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Chicago. Dental morph-
ology, genetic traits, family, and social composition of the Bab edh-Dhra’
early Bronze IA population, with Dr. Donald Ortner, Department of Anthro-
pology, from March 1, 1984, through February 28, 1985.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 447
Ava Berinstein-Swados, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Los
Angeles. Folklore of Alta Verapaz, with Dr. Robert Laughlin, Department of
Anthropology, from March 1, 1984, through February 28, 1985.

Niel Bruce, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Queensland. Taxonomic revi-
sion of the Cymothoid isopod genera Mothocya Costa, 1951 and Glossobius
Schioedte and Meinert, 1883, with Dr. Thomas Bowman, Department of In-
vertebrate Zoology, from November 1 through October 31, 1984.

Silvana Campello, Visiting Student, George Washington University. Effects
of environmental changes, biomass energy production, and other phases of
applied mariculture on marine organisms, with Dr. Walter Adey, Department
of Paleobiology, Marine Systems Laboratory, from March 1, 1984, through
February 28, 1985.

Hsien Yu Cheng, Postdoctoral Fellow, Tulane University. Systematics and
evolution of Sphaerodactylus Wagler in Hispaniola, with Dr. George Zug,
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from June 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985.
Elizabeth Chornesky, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. The applica-
tion of biological characters to the taxonomy of reef corals, with Dr. Klaus
Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from September 15, 1984,
through September 14, 1985.

Charles Cobb, Graduate Student Fellow, Southern Illinois University. An-
alysis of the Hale site mortuary collections, with Dr. Bruce Smith, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, from June 4 through August 10, 1984.

G. Kent Colbath, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Oregon. Durability and
functional morphology of polychaete jaws, the fossil record, with Dr. Kristian
Fauchald, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from October 1, 1983,
through September 30, 1984.

Paul Delaney, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Southern California.
A study of the phylogeny, evolution, and biogeography of the marine isopod
family Corallanidae Hansen, 1890, with Dr. Thomas Bowman, Department of
Invertebrate Zoology, from June 25 through August 31, 1984.

Andrzej Elzanowski, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Warsaw. Jaw ap-
paratus of terrestrial omnivorous birds, with Dr. Richard Zusi, Department
of Vertebrate Zoology, from October 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984.

Joseph Ewan, Regents Fellow, Emeritus Professor of Botany, Tulane Univer-
sity. A biographical bibliography of trail narratives of naturalists in South
America, with Drs. Richard Fiske and Mark Littler, Department of Botany,
from April 1, 1984, through March 31, 1985.

Brian Farrell, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. Distribution of Peru-
vian beetle among tree species and seasons, with Dr. Terry Erwin, Depart-
ment of Entomology, from July 23 through September 14, 1984.

J. Whitfield Gibbons, Visiting Scientist, Savannah River Ecology Laboratory.
Review and summary of literature on turtle ecology, with Dr. George Zug,
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from September 1, 1984, through May 31,
1985.

Gary Graves, Postdoctoral Fellow, Florida State University. Zoogeography
and speciation of northern Andean birds, with Dr. Richard Zusi, Department
of Vertebrate Zoology, from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Elizabeth Greene, James E. Webb Fellow, Department of Mineral Sciences.
Candidate for Master of Arts in Museum Studies, George Washington Uni-
versity, 1984-1985.

James Griffin, Regents Fellow, Senior Research Scientist, Department of
Anthropology, University of Michigan. Hopewell burial mound cultures of
the upper midwestern United States, with Dr. Richard Fiske, Director, from
January 1 through December 15, 1984.

448 / Smithsonian Year 1984
John Hackney, Visiting Scientist, Georgetown University. Factors controlling
the productivity of algal turf communities, with Dr. Walter Adey, Depart-
ment of Paleobiology, Marine Systems Laboratory, from March 1 through
October 31, 1984.

Sidney Halsor, Predoctoral Fellow, Michigan Technological University. Min-
eral chemistry of modern Guatemalan andesites, insight into combined frac-
tionation, assimilation, and mixing, with Drs. William Melson and Thomas
Simkin, Department of Mineral Sciences, from September 1, 1984, through
February 28, 1985.

Ana Harada, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. Tropical rain forest
ant ecology, with Dr. Terry Erwin, Department of Entomology, from July 23
through September 14, 1984.

Mark Hershkovitz, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Davis.
A survey of Caryphyllid leaves, with Dr. Joan Nowicke, Department of
Botany, from June 9 through September 14, 1984.

John Heyning, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Los An-
geles. Cranial variation in the beaked whale Ziphius cavirostris, with Dr.
James Mead, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from July 2 through Sep-
tember 7, 1984.

Peter Houde, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Phylogenetics of
early Tertiary paleognathous birds, with Dr. Storrs Olson, Department of
Vertebrate Zoology, from June 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985.

H. Edwin Jackson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. The prehis-
toric subsistence culture of the Poverty Point Culture in the lower Mississippi
valley, with Dr. Bruce Smith, Department of Anthropology, from Septem-
ber 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Jonathan Kelafant, Graduate Student Fellow, George Washington University.
Determination of the paleosalinity of the Burgess Shale Formation, with Dr.
Kenneth Towe, Department of Paleobiology, from June 4 through August 10,
1984.

Clara Kidwell, Faculty Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. A history
of the Choctaw tribe in Mississippi, with Drs. William Sturtevant, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, and Wilcomb Washburn, Office of American Studies,
from January 1 through February 28, 1984.

Kishor Kumar, Postdoctoral Fellow, Punjab University. Marine and terrestrial
Eocene mammalian assemblages from India with reference to dental ultra-
structure, with Dr. Clayton Ray, Department of Paleobiology, from Octo-
ber 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984.

Steven Leipertz, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Washington. A phy-
letic study of the Pleuronectinae, with Dr. Richard Vari, Department of
Vertebrate Zoology, from September 17 through November 23, 1984.

Rafael Lemaitre, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Miami. The syste-
matics of the genus Parapagurus with a revision of the Western Atlantic
species, with Dr. Raymond Manning, Department of Invertebrate Zoology,
from June 11 through August 17, 1984.

Nancy Levoy, Graduate Student Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy. Metallurgy in ancient Ecuador and its role in New World metallurgical
developments, with Dr. Betty Meggers, Department of Anthropology, from
September 17 through November 23, 1984.

Danielle Lucid, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. The role of nutri-
ents and the corresponding effect it has on algal productivity and community
structure, with Dr. Walter Adey, Department of Paleobiology, Marine Sys-
tems Laboratory, from February 15, 1984, through February 14, 1985.

John Malinky, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. Taxonomic and bio-
stratigraphic reassessment of hyolitha (Mollusca) from the Lower Paleozoic,

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 449
with Dr. Richard Grant, Department of Paleobiology, from July 1, 1984,
through June 30, 1985.

Philip Millener, Postdoctoral Fellow, Auckland University. A study of Lower
Tertiary penguins, with Dr. Storrs Olson, Department of Vertebrate Zoology,
from March 15, 1984, through March 14, 1985.

Scott Miller, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. Generic revision
of the Neotropical moth family Dalceridae, with Donald Davis, Department
of Entomology, from August 6 through October 12, 1984.

Rand Miyashiro, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
Comparative morphometrics of hominoids and Old World monkeys, with Dr.
Ortner, Department of Anthropology, from June 4 through August 10, 1984.
Patricia Moguel, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Mexico. Ethnohistory and
ecology of the Totonacapon region, Vera Cruz, Mexico, with Dr. Betty
Meggers, Department of Anthropology, from May 1, 1984, through Febru-
ary 28, 1985.

Jill Neitzel, Postdoctoral Fellow, Arizona State University. A stylistic analysis
of Smithsonian collections of black-on-white pottery from Chaco Canyon,
with Dr. Dennis Stanford, Department of Anthropology, from August 1,
1984, through July 31, 1985.

Stephen Nichols, Predoctoral Fellow, Cornell University. Systematics, clado-
geny, and zoogeography of Ardistomis and Semiardistomis, with Dr. Terry
Erwin, Department of Entomology, from January 1 through July 31, 1984.
Michael Pogue, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota. A generic revi-
sion of the Cochylidae (Lepidoptera) of North America, with Dr. Donald
Davis, Department of Entomology, from June 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985.
Harry Savage, Postdoctoral Fellow, Florida State University. Systematic stu-
dies on the Oswaldoi subgroup of Anopholes with emphasis on the reliable
identification of malarial vectors, with Dr. Bruce Harrison, Department of
Entomology, from August 1, 1984, through July 31, 1985.

Enrico Savazzi, Postdoctoral Fellow, Uppsala University, Sweden. Functionai
morphology and evolution of sculptural patterns in invertebrates, with Dr.
Thomas Waller, Department of Paleobiology, from June 1, 1984, through
May 31, 1985.

Miriam Smyth, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. Interactions be-
tween boring organisms, snail sheels, and coralline algae, with Dr. Klaus
Ruetzler, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from December 1, 1983,
through November 30, 1984.

Elizabeth Strasser, Predoctoral Fellow, City University of New York. Multiple
pathways to terrestriality, a cercopithecid model for human evolution, with
Dr. Richard Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from Septem-
ber 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Christopher Tanner, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of British Columbia.
Morphological variation on selected tropical brown algae, phenotypic plas-
ticity or genetic differentiation, with Dr. James Norris, Department of
Botany, from August 1, 1984, through July 31, 1985.

Lawrence Todd, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New Mexico. Taphonomic
analysis of Paleoindian bison kill sites, with Dr. Dennis Sanford, Depart-
ment of Anthropology, from January 1 through December 31, 1984.

Elizabeth Tudor, Graduate Student Fellow, Rice University. Cocciodmycosis
in a southwestern Indian population, with Dr. Donald Ortner, Department
of Anthropology, from September 10 through November 16, 1984.

Robert Voss, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Geographic pat-
terns morphological variation in Zygodontomys, with Dr. Michael Carleton,

Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from November 15, 1983, through No-
vember 14, 1984.

450 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Visiting Scholars

Giaocchino Bonaduce, Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar, Naples Zoological Sta-
tion. Pliocene fauna of the Outer Iberian Portal, with Dr. Richard Benson,
Department of Paleobiology, 1984-1985.

Joan Ferraris, Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar, Mount Desert Island Biologi-
cal Laboratory. Physiological properties affecting mangrove soft bottom com-
munity structure, with Drs. Kristian Fauchald and Brian Kensley, Department
of Invertebrate Zoology, 1984-1985.

David Young, Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar, United States Navy Biological
and Chemical Oceanography Branch. Benthic invertebrates/sediment relation-
ship on lagoon bottoms near Carrie Bow Bay, Belize, with Dr. Klaus Ruetz-
ler, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, 1984-1985.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Maria Iacullo, Graduate Student Fellow, Columbia University. Public demand
and the rise of an art-historical establishment, with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles
Willson Peale Papers, from June 4 through August 10, 1984.

Susan Moeller, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. Photography as
public image, with Dr. Alan Fern, Director, and William Stapp, Curatorial
Department, from June 4 through August 10, 1984.

Jeffrey Stewart, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. A biography of Alain
Locke, with Marc Pachter, Department of History, and Dr. Virginia Mecklen-
berg, Department of Twentieth-Century Painting and Sculpture, National
Museum of American Art, from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.
Tara Tappert, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. Social and
cultural biography of Cecilia Beaux, 1855-1942, Philadelphia-born artist, with
Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, from June 15, 1984, through
June 14, 1985.

Deobrah Van Buren, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. The
Cornish Colony, 1885-1905, a summer artists’ colony, with Dr. Lillian Miller,
Charles Willson Peale Papers, from September 1, 1984, through August 31,
1985.

Kenneth Yellis, James E. Webb Fellow, Department of Education. Candidate
for Master of Public Administration, George Washington University, 1984-
1985.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Cathy Blohowiak, Postdoctoral Fellow, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University. Mate choice and inbreeding of black ducks, with Drs.
Eugene Morton and Katherine Ralls, Department of Zoological Research,
from August 1, 1984, through July 31, 1985.

Eric Dinerstein, Visiting Scientist, University of Washington. Effects of fire
and herbivory on forest community structure in Chitawan National Park,
Nepal, with Dr. Christen Wemmer, Conservation and Research Center, from
May 1, 1984, through April 30, 1985.

Eyal Shy, Postdoctoral Fellow, Wayne State University. The function of song
in birds; testing the ranging hypothesis, with Dr. Eugene Morton, Depart-
ment of Zoological Research, from March 1, 1984, through February 28, 1985.
Nancy Solomon, Gradute Student Fellow, University of Illinois. Mother/young
relationships in marsupials, with Dr. Devra Kleiman, Department of Zoologi-
cal Research, from June 4 through August 10, 1984.

Steven Thompson, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Irvine. Ener-
getics of reproduction in eutherian and marsupial mammals, with Dr. Devra

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 451
Kleiman, Department of Zoological Research, from August 1, 1984, through
July 31, 1985.

Visiting Scholar

Wolfgang Dittus, Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar, University of Maryland.
Social behavior and population dynamics of the Toque monkey in Sri Lanka,
with Dr. Devra Kleiman, Department of Zoological Research, 1984-1985.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Michael Licht, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas, Austin. The role of the
harmonica in traditional American music, with Dr. Thomas Vennum, Jr.,
from June 1982, through June 1984.

Nicolas Schidlovsky, Ph. D., Princeton University. Music of the Old Believers;
oral traditions of ancient Russia in the U.S. today, with Dr. Thomas Ven-
num, Jr., from March 1, 1983, through February 28, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

I. J. Danziger, Visiting Scientist, European Southern Observatory. Optical
identification of Einstein Survey Sources, interpretation of supernova remnant
spectra, and interpretation of emission lines from neutral atoms from plane-
tary nebulae and Herbig-Haro objects, with Drs. Paul Gorenstein, Fred
Seward, and Alex Dalgarno, from May 21 through June 21, 1984, and Sep-
tember 1 through September 30, 1984.

Margaret Graff, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Oregon. Photodissociation
of CH and OH application to molecular formation and destruction in the
interstellar medium, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from Sep-
tember 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

John Hughes, Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. Experimental and
theoretical studies of high-energy astrophysics, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Direc-
tor, and staff, from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1986.

Scott Kenyon, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois. Study of symbolics
and simple M stars in the IR and optical, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director,
and staff, from September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

David Lumb, Visiting Scientist, University of Leicester. A collaborative re-
search, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from April 15, 1984,
through February 14, 1985.

Piotr Majer, Visiting Scientist, Astronomical Observatory, Wroclaw Univer-
sity. Analysis of Einstein data especially in the area of x-ray emission from
stars and solar chromospheres, with Drs. L. Golub and Robert Rosner, from
August 1 through September 30, 1984.

Robert Mathieu, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. The
stellar kinematics of star-forming regions, with Dr. David Latham from
October 1, 1983, through September 30, 1985.

Jose Torrelles, Visiting Scientist, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico.
Observations of ammonia toward regions of star formation using the VLA
and Haystack radio telescopes, with Dr. James Moran, from March 19
through October 15, 1984.

Jean Turner, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. Observa-
tion of normal galactic nuclei, the nuclear environment, and its relation to
nuclear sources, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from Septem-
ber 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Wei Shen, Visiting Scientist, Shaanxi Astrophysical Observatory. Fundamen-
tal aspects of the cold maser, with Dr. Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff,
from December 12, 1983, through December 11, 1984.

452 / Smithsonian Year 1984
SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Silvia Frosch, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Freiburg, Germany. Leaf
gradients and circadian rhythms in photosynthetic capacity in relation to
photoperiodic induction in long-day plants, with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, from
September 1, 1984, through August 31, 1985.

Bin Goo Kang, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Hormonal con-
trol of senescence in Lemna, with Dr. Charles Cleland, from September 1,
1984, through August 31, 1985.

Michael Krones, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. Automatic control
systems testing the effects of dynamic changes in light quality on plant
growth, with Dr. John Sager, from August 1, 1984, through July 31, 1985.
Romuald Lipcius, Postdoctoral Fellow, Florida State University. Blue crab reg-
ulation of benthic community structure in the Chesapeake Bay, with Dr.
Anson Hines, from August 15, 1984, through August 14, 1985.

Henry McKellar, Visiting Scientist, University of Florida. Comparative eco-
systems analysis of the North Inlet, South Carolina, and the Rhode River
coastal wetlands, with Dr. David Correll, from August 15, 1984, through
August 14, 1985.

Timothy Spira, Visiting Scholar, University of California, Berkeley. The eco-
logical significance of cleistogamy in Lamium amplexicaule, with Dr. Dennis
Whigham, from May 29 through September 15, 1984.

Lisa Wagner, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. The re-
productive success of Poa annua, Poa pratensis, and Poa bulbosa in dis-
turbed habitats, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from March 1, 1984, through
February 28, 1985.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH

Doris McNeely Johnson, Faculty Fellow, University of the District of Colum-
bia. Attitudes and awareness of parents on the role of toys and play in the
development of children, with Dr. John Balling from September 1 through
December 31, 1984.

Mara Miller, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University. The relationship be-
tween applied environmental psychology and garden design, with Drs. John
Balling and John Falk, from June 4 through August 17, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF FACILITIES SERVICES

Catherine Ross, James W. Webb Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. Cost
benefit analysis of renting versus building office space, with Thomas L. Pey-
ton, from July 2 through August 31, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Elizabeth Beuck Derbyshire, James E. Webb Fellow. Candidate for Master of
Public Administration, George Washington University, 1984-1985.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Eldridge Adams III, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
Regulation of foraging territories of aboreal ants, with Dr. David Roubik,
from October 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984.

Hugh Caffey, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Sydney, Australia. Regional
patterns of settlement and early survival of intertidal barnacles, with Dr. Ross
Robertson, from August 1, 1984, through July 31, 1985.

Greg deNevers, Visiting Student, University of Missouri. A phenological as-
sessment of the forest and chemical analysis of flavonoids in the plant

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 453
family Melastomataceae, with Dr. Robert Dressler, from August 1, 1984,
through June 14, 1985.

Ola M. Fincke, Ph.D., University of Iowa. Sexual Selection in a Neotropical
Pseudostigmatid Damselfly: A Test of the Relative Importance of Genetic
Versus Environmental Influences on a Male Fitness Trail, with Dr. Hindrik
Wolda, from October 1, 1983, through September 30, 1984.

Rachel Levin, Predoctoral Fellow, Cornell University. The adaptive signifi-
cance of antiphonal song in Thyrothorus nigricapillus, with Dr. Neal Smith,
from January 1 through December 31, 1984.

Dianna Padilla, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Alberta, Canada. Structural
defenses of marine algae, with Dr. John Cubit, from September 1, 1984,
through January 15, 1985, and from May 1 through July 31, 1985.

Robert Richmond, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York at Stony
Brook. The population biology of Pocillopora damicornis in the eastern
Pacific, with Drs. Harilaos Lessios and Ross Robertson, from February 1,
1984, through January 31, 1985.

Eugene Schupp, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. Consequences of vari-
able reproduction in Faramea occidentalis with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from
June 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985.

James Weinberg, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Connecticut. An investi-
gation of speciation in Panamanian populations of a marine isopod, with
Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from June 1, 1984, through May 31, 1985.

Marina Wong, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. Plant phenology
foliage/arthropod abundance and the trophic organization of birds in
Panamanian forest understory, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from June 1, 1984,
through May 31, 1985.

INTERNSHIP AND OTHER STUDENT APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers internship appointments to visiting graduate and
undergraduate students. The persons—listed by bureau, office, or division—
in this Appendix began their appointments between October 1, 1983, and
September 30, 1984. Holders of special awards and participants in special
programs are so listed. The institutions attended, the title or a brief
description of the project undertaken, where appropriate, and the name of
the Smithsonian supervisor are given for each intern.

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

Joseph Rodriguez, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Berkeley. Work
and study in the assigned department, with Zora Felton, Education Depart-
ment, from June 4 through August 24, 1984.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART—NEW ENGLAND AREA CENTER

Dana Comi, B.A. candidate, Boston University. Processing, cataloging, and
arranging for preservation collections of manuscript material related to
American visual arts, with Robert Brown from September 18 through
December 18, 1984.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Deborah Delauney, M.A., Yale University, M.A., Johns Hopkins University.
On-site measurement of moisture movement in walls at Renwick Gallery by
electronically logging temperature and water vapor pressure, with Timothy
Padfield, from July 30, 1984, through January 31, 1985.

454 / Smithsonian Year 1984
John Frieman, M.A. candidate, New York University. Measurement of mois-
ture and salt movement in the fabric of historic buildings, with Timothy
Padfield, from January 30 through November 30, 1984.

Camille Juliana, M.A. candidate, George Washington University. Pottery anal-
ysis including neutron activation analysis and multivariate statistical anal-
ysis, with Dr. James Blackman, from August 1 through December 31, 1984.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Laura Agoston, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. candidate, Yale College.
Work and study in the Library department, with Katherine Martinez, from
June 11 through August 17, 1984.

John Bacon, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Work and study in the Decora-
tive Arts Department, with David McFadden, from June 11 through August
17, 1984.

Louise Bell, B.A., University of Minnesota. Work and study in the Decorative
Arts Department, with David McFadden, from June 11 through August 17,
1984,

Rebecca Billings, Textile Conservation Intern, Diploma in Art History, Uni-
versity of British Columbia. Work and study in the Textiles Department,
with Lucy Commoner, from February 15 through September 30, 1984.

Somi Kim, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A., Harvard College. Work and
study in the Wall Coverings Department, with Ann Dorfsman, from June 11
through August 17, 1984.

Abigail Kreuger, B.A. candidate, Barnard College. Work and study in the
Decorative Arts Department, with David McFadden, from June 11 through
August 17, 1984.

Julie Stein, B.A., University of Virginia. Work and study in Public Informa-
tion, with Isabelle Silverman, and Work and study in Special Events, with
Eileen White, from June 11 through August 17, 1984.

Robin Tomlinson, B.A. candidate, Princeton University. Work and study in
the Library Department, with Kathy Martinez, from June 11 through August
17, 1984.

Maria Vicens, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A., Bryn Mawr College.
Work and study in the Decorative Arts Department, with David McFadden,
from June 11 through August 17, 1984.

Jennifer Watson, B.A. candidate, Salem College. Work and study in the De-
velopment Office, with Eileen White, from June 11 through August 17, 1984.
Robert Wojtowicz, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, M.A. candidate, Columbia
University. Work and study in the Drawings and Prints Department, with
Elaine Dee, from June 11 through August 17, 1984.

Alexandra Sapirstein, The Hotchkiss School. Work and study in the Library
Department, with Kathy Martinez, from July 2 through August 10, 1984.
Hanna Loesser, B.A. candidate, Marymount Manhattan College. Work and
study with the programs coordinator, Susan Yelavich, from July 9 through
August 31, 1984.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Jacques Benovil, Sophomore, Ellington School of the Arts. Work and study in
the Photography Laboratory, with Morris Stalsworth, from July 2 through
August 31, 1984.

Andrew Connors, B.A. candidate, Yale University. Work and study in the
Exhibits and Design Department, with Joseph Shannon, from June 11
through August 17, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 455
Ann Gaylin, B.A., Brandeis University. Work and study in the Painting and
Sculpture Department, with Valerie Fletcher, from June 11 through August
17, 1984.

Nancy Purinton, M.S. candidate, University of Delaware. Work and study
in the Conservation Laboratory, with Antoinette Owen, from June 4 through
August 10, 1984.

Karen Siatris, B.A. candidate, Middlebury College. Work and study in the
Education Department, with Edward Lawson, from June 11 through August
17, 1984.

Julie Vanek, B.A. candidate, Smith College. Work and study in the Painting
and Sculpture Department, with Dr. Judith Zilczer, from June 11 through
August 17, 1984.

Other Interns

Diane Eliasoph, M.A.T. Program, George Washington University. Research
and study in the Department of Education, with Teresia Bush, from Jan-
uary 16 through May 4, 1984.

Nancy Purinton, B.F.A., Tufts University; M.A. candidate, University of
Texas at Austin; M.S. candidate, Winterthur/University of Delaware.
Research and study in the Department of Conservation, with Antoinette
Owen, from June 4 through August 10, 1984.

Susan B. Wein, B.A. candidate, University of Michigan. Research and study
in the Department of Exhibits and Design, with Joseph Shannon, from
May 24 through July 13, 1984.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Helen LaFave, Smith College/Smithsonian Institution American Studies In-
tern, B.A. candidate, Smith College. American perceptions of European sci-
ence, 1820 to 1860, with Dr. Paul Theerman, from September 4 through
December 31, 1984.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Christopher Beiting, B.A. candidate, Kalamazoo College, with Dr. Allan
Needell, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from March 26
through June 7, 1984.

Robert Cullen, High Point Senior High School, with Mr. Dana Bell, Records
Management Division, from July 17 through August 31, 1984.

Kurt Descheemaeker, Wakefield High School, with Mr. Dana Bell, Records
Management Division, from June 25 through August 31, 1984.

Susan Gould, B.A. candidate, Harvard University, Radcliffe College, with Dr.
David DeVorkin, Department of Space Science and Exploration, from June 6
through July 17, 1984.

David Hallam, Australian War Memorial, with Walter Roderick, Preservation
and Restoration Operations, Paul E. Garber Facility, from June 28 through
December 24, 1984.

Helen Harvey, B.A. candidate, Stanford University, with Mr. Dale Hrabak,
Photography Office, from March 22 through May 18, 1984.

Kathleen Hogan, B.S. candidate, Trinity College, with Dr. David DeVorkin,
Department of Space Science and Exploration, from January 26 through
May 31, 1984.

Donald Hooper Jr., B.S. candidate, University of Missouri at Rolla, with Dr.
Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, from June 5 through
July 27, 1984.

456 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Michael Krall, La Plata High School, with Mr. Dana Bell, Records Manage-
ment Division, from February 7 through May 15, 1984.

Michael Lee, St. Albans School, with Mr. Dana Bell, Records Management
Division, from June 18 through August 27, 1984.

Jon Marsh, Thomas S. Wootton High School, with Mr. Dana Bell, Records
Management Division, from June 31 through August 31, 1984.

Neal Parker, B.A. candidate, University of Virginia, with Dr. Kerry Joels,
Office of Research Support, from June 5 through July 27, 1984.

Deborah Perry, Ph.D. candidate, Indiana University, with Lou Lomax, Exhib-
its and Presentations Division, from June 4 through August 15, 1984.
Karen Jan Radel, B.A. candidate, Stanford University, with Mr. Dale Hrabak,
Photography Office, from April 1 through June 15, 1984.

George Rees, B.S. candidate, Purdue University, with Walter Roderick, Pres-
ervation and Restoration Operations, Paul E. Garber Facility, from June 4
through July 27, 1984.

Mary Alexander Sarros, Washington and Lee High School, with Mary
Valdivia, Exhibits and Presentations Division, from January 24 through
May 18, 1983.

William Shackelford, B.A. Middlebury College. Work and research on the
Aviation History Project, with Dr. Von Hardesty, Department of Aeronau-
tics, from September 10 through December 21, 1984.

Frances Silcox, M.A. candidate, George Washington University, with Mary
Valdivia, Exhibits and Presentations Division, from December 7, 1983,
through March 31, 1984.

Peter Trippi, B.A. candidate, College of William and Mary. Work on a public
relations project including compiling a weekly digest, with Holly Haynes,
Office of Public Affairs, from September 10 through December 14, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Eve Furguson, Cooperative Education Program Student, M.A. candidate,
Howard University. Work on public dissemination of information regarding
all activities of the Museum, with Margaret Bertin, from October 7, 1983,
through July 27, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART
Shelby Baker, Pennsylvania State University. Special project in the Office
of Museum Programs, from September 12 through December 6, 1983.
Gwen Hill, Stanford University. Special project in the Office of Museum
Programs, from February 8 through April 27, 1984.
Amy Gearin, The American University. Special project at the Renwick
Gallery, from September 12, 1982, through April 27, 1984.
Michael Grauer, The University of Kansas. Special project in the Depart-
ment of Design and Production, from February 1 through May 15, 1984.
Keith Nemlich, Cornell University. Special project in the Archives of Ameri-
can Art and the Department of Graphic Arts, from September 12 through
December 6, 1983.
Michele Oakley, The American University. Special project in the Office of
the Director, from September 12, 1983, through April 27, 1984.
Louise Thorlin, The University of Virginia. Special project in the Department
of Painting and Sculpture, from September 12, 1983, through April 27, 1984.
Ruthann Uithol, The American University. Special project in the Office of the
Registrar, from September 12, 1983, through April 27, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 457
Other Interns

Jessica Dobrin, Philadelphia College of Art. Special project done in conjunc-
tion with the Department of Design and Production.

Patty Murphy, Philadelphia College of Art. Special project done in conjunc-
tion with the Department of Design and Production.

Summer Interns

Thomas Donovan, Golden Gate University. Work and study in the Office of
Museum Programs, from June 1 through August 3, 1984.

Alan Hanson, University of Maryland. Work and study in the Office of the
Chief Curator, from June 1 through August 3, 1984.

Carol Hughes, University of Virginia. Work and study in the Office of Re-
search Support, from June 1 through August 3, 1984.

Pamela Kurtz, Middlebury College. Work and study in the Department of
Painting and Sculpture, from June 1 through August 3, 1984.

Reid Miles, Claremont McKenna College. Work and study in the Department
of Design and Production, from June 1 through August 3, 1984.

Jenni Schlossman, University of Delaware. Work and study in the Depart-
ment of Painting and Sculpture, from June 1 through August 3, 1984.

High School Summer Interns

Lance Christian, John Marshall High School, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Work and study in the Office of the Registrar, from June 10 through July 13,
1984,

Ani Esther Rubin, Oldfields School, Baltimore, Maryland. Work and study
in the Department of Design and Production, from May 5 through May 25,
1984,

Elizabeth Boyte Wilson, Oldfields School, Baltimore, Maryland. Work and
study in the Department of Design and Production, from May 5 through
May 25, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Daphne Barbour, M.A. candidate, New York University. Examination and
treatment of paper projects including solvent tests, fiber analysis, and photo-
graphic documentation, with Scott Odell, Division of Conservation, from
August 1 through August 31, 1984.

Melanie Blanding, B.S. candidate, Fisk University. Political history project,
with Edith Mayo, Department of Social and Cultural History, from June 4
through August 24, 1984.

Kathleen Campisano, M.A. candidate, University of South Carolina. Architec-
tural and physical history of the Patent Office Building, with Douglas Evelyn,
from May 16 through August 12, 1984.

Susan Collins, Smith College/Smithsonian Institution American Studies In-
tern, B.A. candidate, Smith College. Work on the ‘Field to Factory” project,
with Dr. Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from September 1 through Decem-
ber 31, 1984,

Fuabeh Fonge, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University. Work and study in the
Archives Center, with Dr. Spencer Crew and John Fleckner, from June 4
through August 24, 1984.

Julie Goldman, M.A. candidate, Queens University, Canada. Survey and
research in the National Philatelic Collection and the Warshaw Collection of
Business Americana, with Dianne van der Reyden, Division of Conservation,
from May 29 through July 30, 1984.

458 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Frederick Hocker, B.A. candidate, Middlebury College. Research on wooden
ship construction, organizing the Cropley Collection, and developing half-
model lines, with John Stine and Dr. William Withuhn, Department of the
History of Science and Technology, from June 4 through August 31, 1984.
Jacqueline Jackson, M.A. candidate, Sangamon State University. Conceptual
planning for the Palm Court and Bandstand performance programs, logistical
and administrative support for the Philadelphia outreach program, and pro-
duction assistant for the Chamber Music Programs, with Dr. Bernice Reagon,
Department of Public Programs, and James Weaver, Department of Social
and Cultural History, from February 20 through May 11, 1984.

Ibrahim Kargbo, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University. Black urban communi-
ties in the antebellum period, with Dr. James Horton, Afro-American Com-
munities Project, from June 4 through August 24, 1984.

Nora Kennedy, M.S. candidate, University of Delaware. Work and research
in the Paper Conservation Laboratory, with Scott Odell, Division of Conser-
vation, from July 2 through August 24, 1984.

Margaret Miller, M.A. candidate, University of California, Los Angeles.
Development of a program focusing on contemporary American Indian art,
with Dr. Rayna Green, American Indian Studies Program, from Septem-
ber 17 through December 7, 1984.

Pauline Nunez Morales, Ph.D. candidate, Catholic University of America.
Organization of an index to material culture of late colonial New Mexico
and studies on the role of the Californian missions in American history,
with Richard Ahlborn, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
June 4 through August 24, 1984.

Jennifer Morin, Smith College/Smithsonian Institution American Studies In-
tern, B.A. candidate, Smith College. Work on the Collection of Business
Americana promotional campaign, with Dr. Spencer Crew and John Fleckner,
Archives Center, from September 4 through December 31, 1984.

Paul Rabin, M.S. candidate, Queens University, Canada. Work and research
in the Paper Conservation Laboratory, with Dianne van der Reyden and
Nikki Horton, Division of Conservation, from November 1 through July 31,
1984,

Dana Sadarananda, Ph.D. candidate, Temple University. Research pertaining
to an exhibition on Japanese-Americans and the 442nd Regimental Combat
Team, with Dr. Edward Ezell, Department of Social and Cultural History,
from September 4 through November 23, 1984.

Anne Sheridan, Smith College/Smithsonian Institution American Studies
Intern, B.A. candidate, Smith College. Nineteenth-century “Life in America”
project, with Keith Melder, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
September 4 through December 31, 1984.

Mumia Shimaka-Mbasu, Ph.D. candidate, Howard University. Processing and
arranging manuscript material into useful finding aids, with Dr. Spencer
Crew and Robert Harding, Archives Center, from September 17 through
December 17, 1984.

Linda Stiber, B.F.A., Maryland Institute College of Art. Work and study in
the Warshaw Collection of Business Americana, with Scott Odell, Division
of Conservation, from May 21 through July 13, 1984.

Camellia Taiwo, Cooperative Education Program Student, Ph.D. candidate,
University of Maryland. Research and study in the Archives Center, with
Dr. Spencer Crew, from January 23 through July 20, 1984, and Coordination
of public information, with Josiah Hatch, Department of Public Programs,
from July 23 through December 31, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 459
Kathleen Willoughby, Montgomery College. Work and study in the Warshaw
Collection of Business Americana, with Dianne van der Reyden, Division of
Conservation, from July 30 through August 24, 1984.

Susan White, M.S. candidate, University of Delaware. Research and study in
the Objects Laboratory, with Scott Odell, Division of Conservation, from
June 14 through August 3, 1984.

Joseph Windham, Cooperative Education Program Student, Ph.D. candidate,
Howard University. Basic biographical, interpretive, or classification research
study, with Dr. Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from June 11 through Sep-
tember 21, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Deborah Macanic Jones, M.A. candidate, Howard University. Compilation of
a list of prominent portraits from 1783-1865 on view, and a bibliography on
the artists, with Harry Jackson, Department of Education, from September
24, through December 14, 1984.

Stella Kao, B.A., Hampshire College. Study of conservation of Asian artifacts,
with Carolyn Rose and Dr. Priscilla Linn, Anthropology Conservation Lab-
oratory, from June 4 through August 24, 1984.

Michael Lambert, B.A., College of William and Mary. Gathering data on bio-
logical specimen identification and analyzing resources on the cultural ecol-
ogy of the Moluccas, with Dr. Paul Taylor, Department of Anthropology,
from June 18 through August 20, 1984.

James Lorand Matory, A.B., Harvard University. Research and study on
Yoruba, West Africa, culture and religion, with Dr. Ivan Karp, Department
of Anthropology, from June 25 through August 24, 1984.

Ricardo Soto, M.S., University of Puerto Rico. Biosystematics of the marine
algae of Costa Rica, with Dr. James Norris, Department of Botany, from
June 4 through August 24, 1984.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Maya Arai, Graduate Student, Syracuse University. Biographical research for
upcoming exhibit on broadcast pioneers in America, with Amy Henderson,
Historian’s Office, from June 2 through August 7, 1984.

Amanda Barrett, Undergraduate Student, Barnard College. Update of perma-
nent collection checklist data, incorporating recent acquisitions and photos,
editing for style, and retyping list of illustrations by Miguel Covarrubias for
forthcoming exhibition, with Frances Wein, from May 21 through August 24,
1984.

Audrey Paulette Davis, Undergraduate Student, University of Virginia.
Work on the second advance of the Charles Willson Peale Papers, with Dr.
Lillian Miller, from July 4 through August 3, 1984.

McNeill Eaton, Smith College/Smithsonian Institution American Studies In-
tern, B.A. candidate, Smith College. Research on and editing of Peale Papers,
with Dr. Lillian Miller, Charles Willson Peale Papers, from September 4
through December 31, 1984.

Julia Hoke Edwards, Undergraduate Student, Northern Virginia Community
College. Update of living portrait artists file, with Susan Gurney, Library,
from January 24 through March 30, 1984.

Denise Ann Ellis, Undergraduate Student, Spelman College. Assistance with
coordinating material, identifying photographs, checking artists, and assembl-
ing biographical material for a nationwide survey, with Mona Dearborn and
Linda Neumaier, Catalog of American Portraits, from June 2 through August
23, 1984.

460 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Paul Ganz, Graduate Student, George Washington University. Development
of public programs for two opening exhibits, with Ken Yellis, Education De-
partment, from June 9 through August 23, 1984.

Jonathan G. Gillison, High School Student, School Without Walls. Develop-
ment of general tour of collection and observation and participation in
school/adult outreach programs, with Harry Jackson, Education Department,
from March 1 through June 30, 1984.

Susan Gindlin, Smith College/Smithsonian Institution American Studies In-
tern, B.A. candidate, Smith College. Research and curatorial aid for painting
exhibition, with Dr. Carolyn Carr, from September 4, 1984, through Decem-
ber 31, 1985. ,

Adrienne Griffin, Cooperative Education Program Student, M.B.A. candidate,
Hownrd University. Coordination and planning for the acquisition of a new
building, with Barbara Hart, from January 26 through August 23, 1984.
Janet hornreich, Undergraduate Student, American University. Filing of
catalog and artist descriptions, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from June 5
through September 7, 1984.

Peter Inman, Undergraduate Student, University of California. Cataloging
associative decorative arts collection, with Robert Stewart, Office of the
Curator, from July 2 through August 3, 1984.

Ellen Caroline Marks, Undergraduate Student, Smith College. Labeling and
organizing photos, slides, and negatives, with Suzanne Embree, Photo Sales,
from January 4 through January 24, 1984.

Wendy Neuman, High School Student, School Without Walls. Development
of general tour of collection and observation and participation in school/
adult outreach programs, with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from
February 9 through June 30, 1984.

Bettina Marsh Niner, Undergraduate Student, Yale University. Work at
reception desk and research on portraits of presidents, with Leni Buff, Edu-
cation Department, from May 2 through August 15, 1984.

Regina M. Niner, Undergraduate Student, Trinity College. Work at reception
desk and research on portraits of presidents, with Leni Buff, Education De-
partment, from May 2 through August 15, 1984.

Charlotte Perrine, Undergraduate Student, Smith College. Research on carica-
ture and inventory on prints, with Wendy Wick Reaves, Curator of Prints,
from June 4 through August 24, 1984.

Julia Rose, M.A., George Washington University. Research and development
of four brochures for ‘Portraits in Motion’ series. Also, development and
writing of proposal for “Learning in the Museum: A Teaching Methods
Workshop” for student teachers, with Ken Yellis, Education Department,
from January 16 through April 20, 1984.

Lisa Sommers, M.A., George Washington University. Development of Walt
Disney kit for existing Education Department outreach program, with Leni
Buff, Education Department, from January 18 through May 30, 1984.

Ivelia Stredel, M.A., George Washington University. Assistance in developing
an outreach program and tour for Spanish-speaking audiences, with Harry
Jackson, Education Department, from January 16 through April 12, 1984.
Carol Wyrick, B.F.A., Texas Christian University. Development of artistic
emphasis training packet for ongoing Education Department outreach pro-
grams/tours, with Harry Jackson, Education Department, from June 13
through August 23, 1984.

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION

David Reeves, B.S., Bowling Green State University. Administrative tech-
niques and procedures projects, with John Jameson, from June 4 through
August 10, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 461
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Sheila Jackson, B.S. candidate, University of Virginia, with Dr. Peter Seitel,
from June 23 through July 4; July 18 through September 2; and September
12 through December 23, 1983.

Tanya Jackson, B.A. candidate, Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, with Dr.
Kazadi wa Mukuna, from June 4 through August 24, 1984.

Other Interns

Susan Evans, American University.
Daniel Metzel, Davidson College, North Carolina.

OFFICE OF PROTECTION SERVICES

Patricia Welcome, B.A., University of Saskatchewan. Preparation of a publi-
cation for museums in developing countries for the International Council of
Museums, with Robert Burke, from January 16 through May 16, 1984.

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Barbara Graham, Cooperative Education Program Student, M.A. candidate,
University of Maryland. Work and study in the Assistant Director's Office,
with Madeleine Jacobs, from May 14 through August 31, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN ARCHIVES

Monique Bourque, B.A., Montana State University. Survey of scientific illu-
strations to develop appraisal guidelines to provide for the preservation of
illustrations of permanent value, with William Deiss, from June 4 through
August 6, 1984.

Nancy Austin Moller, M.A. candidate, Portland State University. Analysis
and design work to identify the Archives’ needs, and to prepare the proce-
dures and policies for the use of the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic
Information System (SIBIS), with Richard Szary, from August 13 through
October 26, 1984.

Dan Sherburne, B.A. candidate, Portland State University. Archival work on
the papers of Charles Lewis Gazin, with William Deiss, from October
through December 7, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Cynthia Campisano, Work/Learn Student, M.S. candidate, University of New
Hampshire. Response of a tidal marsh to nutrient enrichment of tidal waters,
with Dr. Thomas Jordan, from May 28 through August 17, 1984.

David Cramer, Work/Learn Student, B.A. candidate, University of California,
San Diego. Study of estuarine fish biology, with Dr. Anson Hines, from June
25 through September 14, 1984.

Elizabeth Farnesworth, Work/Learn Student, B.A., Brown University. Upland
plant ecology project, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 4 through Sep-
tember 14, 1984.

Marguerite Hiatt, Work/Learn Student, Anne Arundel Community College.
Liaison between the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center and the Bay
Savers at Shady Side, with Dr. David Correll, from July 9 through August 17,
1984,

Linda Jones, B.S. candidate, Vanderbilt University. Determination of polypep-
tide composition of chloroplast ribisome small subunits, with Dr. Maurice
Margulies, from May 29, 1983, through August 3, 1984.

462 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Sahle Melles, M.S. candidate, Howard University. Development of a purifica-
tion procedure for the enzyme farnesyl pyrophosphate synthetase extracted
from the fungus Neurospora crassa, with Dr. Roy Harding, from June 4
through August 31, 1984.

Devin Reese, Work/Learn Student, B.S. candidate, Harvard University. Study
of the structure and function of ant communities, with Dr. James Lynch,
from July 9 through December 14, 1984.

Christine Ross, Work /Learn Student, B.S. candidate, Stockton State College.
Study of the community structure and population biology of benthic inver-
tebrates in an estuary, with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 27 through August
24, 1984,

Lynn Sagramoso, Work/Learn Student, B.S. candidate, Washington Univer-
sity. Habitat utilization by migratory warblers, with Dr. James Lynch, from
May 21 through August 17, 1984.

Anatole Sucher, Work/Learn Student, B.S. candidate, University of Cali-
fornia, Santa Cruz. Light availability effects upon the structure and function
of plankton communities, with Dr. Maria Faust, from June 18 through Sep-
tember 14, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Cherie Faini, B.A., Pennsylvania State University. Exhibition and education
assistance to Donald McClelland, Martha Cappelletti, Julia Shepherd, and
Marjorie Share, from September 1983, through January 1984.

Sharon Fivel, M.A. candidate, University of Maryland. Refurbishing of the
exhibition, We'll Never Turn Back, with Betty Teller, from June through
August 1984.

Deborah Klochko, M.A.T. candidate, George Washington University. Devel-
opment of education materials for Sculpture: Exploring 3 Dimensions, with
Julia Shepherd, from January through May 1984.

Lucinda Leach, M.A., George Washington University. Research and imple-
mentation of marketing plan for paper panel exhibitions, and research and
writing of educational materials, with Marjorie Share and Susan Schreiber,
from May through July 1984.

Elizabeth Shapiro, B.A., University of Michigan. Development of interpretive
materials, with Julia Shepherd and Martha Cappelletti, from August 1983,
through January 1984.

Tracey Soulges, M.A. candidate, George Washington University. Organization
of two revised versions of The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art exhibi-
tion, and administrative assistance, with Betty Teller, from May through
December 1983.

Eliza Wong, M.A. candidate, University of Toronto. Exhibition, publicity and
registration assistance to Matou Goodwin, Marjorie Share, and Mary Jane
Clark, from June through August 1984.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH

Elissa Hozore, B.S., Yale College. Development and testing of abstract and
concrete informational orientations for families visiting the small mammal
house, with Dr. John Falk, from June 18 through August 17, 1984.

Rebecca Paravicini, B.A. candidate, Trinity College. Work and study in the
assigned department, with Dr. John Falk, from June 4 through August 10,
1984.

Eric Schmidt, B.A., Earlham College. Prototype analyses of learning situ-
ations, with Drs. John Balling and John Falk, from March 5 through May 25,
1984,

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 463
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Short-Term Fellowships in Tropical Biology

Jacqueline Belwood, Ph.D. candidate, University of Florida. The effect of
predation on the evolution and mating behavior in Neotropical Katydids,
with Dr. Hindrik Wolda, from September 1 through December 15, 1984.

Leo Fleishman, Ph.D. candidate, Cornell University. The function of agonistic
displays in Anolis limifrons, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from May 31 through
August 31, 1984.

Patricia Hansell, Ph.D. candidate, Temple University. Social-economic change
in prehistoric central Panama: A Case Study, with Dr. Richard Cooke, from
February 15 through May 16, 1984.

Diana K. Hews, M.S. candidate, Oregon State University. Differential sus-
ceptibility of Anuran Larvae to fish predation, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand,
from May 15 through August 15, 1984.

Kevin Hogan, Smithsonian Visiting Graduate Student, Ph.D. candidate, Uni-
versity of Illinois. Comparative analysis of growth form in two palm species,
with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from June 4 through August 10, 1984.

Richard Lowell, Ph.D. candidate, University of Alberta. Effects of Unpre-
dictability on the Structural Strength of Limpet Shells, with Dr. Harilaos
Lessios from December 12, 1983 through March 13, 1984.

Lucille McCook, Ph.D. candidate, Michigan State University. Systematics of
Pragmipedium (Orchidaceae; Cypripedioideae), with Dr. Robert Dressler,
from May 21 through July 21, 1984.

Anthony McGuire, Ph.D. candidate, University of Alaska. Shared pollinator
foraging behavior in sympatric species of Delachampia, with Dr. David
Roubik, from April 1 through June 30, 1984.

Christopher Petersen, University of Arizona. Gender allocation in simultan-
eous hermaphroditic animals, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from September 1
through December 15, 1984.

Anne Richards, University of Rhode Island. Effects of fishing on population
structure of spiny lobsters, with Dr. John Cubit, from September 24 through
December 15, 1984.

Paul Spitzer, Ph.D., Cornell University. Ecology and behavior of Ospreys,
Pandium haliaetus, Wintering in Panama, with Dr. Neal G. Smith, from
February 1 through March 31, 1984.

J. Evan Ward, M.S. candidate, University of Delaware. Distributional ecology,
feeding behavior, and degree of host specificity of an Ectoparasitic snail in
the Genus Odostomia in the Bay of Panama Region, with Drs. Harilaos
Lessios and John Christy, from September 1 through November 30, 1984.

Jess K. Zimmerman, Ph.D. candidate, University of Utah. An Examination of
Sex Choice in Catasetum viridiflavum, with Dr. Alan P. Smith, from July 1
through September 30, 1984.

EXXON Fellowship Program

Azucena Bonadies and Marta Moreno, Undergraduate students, University of
Panama. Estudio sobre fiacion de larvas y como el alimento (fitoplancton)
afecta el crecimiento y el estado gonodal de los adultos en la ostra, Ostrea
columbiensis, with Prof. Janzel Villalaz and Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from August
1984, through January 1985.

Vania da Silva, Graduate student, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Mating
system and male mating success in Smilisca sila, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand,
from January 24 through April 27, 1984.

Argentina de Turner, M.S. candidate, University of Panama. Estudio de la
Biologia de Panstrongylus humeralis y determinacion de condiciones de creci-

464 / Smithsonian Year 1984
miento en el laboratorio, with Drs. Octavio Sousa and Hindrik Wolda, from
February 1 through July 31, 1984.

Franklin Guardia, Undergraduate student, University of Panama. Estudio his-
tologico de los cambios en la morfologia de las gonadas de Ostrea columbien-
sis, with Prof. Janzel Villalaz and Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from October 1984,
through January 1985.

Jorge Laguna, M.S. candidate, Scripps Institute of Oceanography, University
of California at San Diego. Studies of barnacles (Crustacea; Cirripedia; Tho-
racia) from both coasts of Panama, with Dr. John Christy, from July 1
through September 5, 1984.

Marta Lucia Martinez, Graduate student, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colom-
bia. Parental care versus mortality of young in Pelecanus occidentalis in the
Bay of Panama, with Dr. Gene Montgomery.

Angel Modes, Undergraduate student, University of Panama. Estudio sobre la
eficacia de diferentes dietas en el crecimiento del langostino, Peneaus styli-
rostris, with Drs. Rafael Vasquez and John Christy, from February 1 through
July 31, 1984.

Dora Isabel Quiros, M.S. candidate, University of Panama. Contribucion al
estudio de los afidos (Homoptera: Aphididae) de Panama, con enfasis a es-
pecies asociadas a los cultivos de importancia agricola, with Drs. Orencio
Fernandez, Cesar Polanco, and Hindrik Wolda, from February 1 through
July 31, 1984.

Antonio Telesca and Ileana Visuetti, Undergraduate students, University of
Panama. Estudio de Desarrollo Larvario, Migracion y Crecimiento de Protot-
haca asperrima, with Prof. Janzel Villalaz and Dr. Harilaos Lessios, from
November 1, 1983, through June 30, 1984.

Wilson Valerio, Undergraduate student, University of Costa Rica. El Abrigo
de Carabali: un analisis estratigrafico y funcional, with Dr. Richard Cooke,
from January 1 through July 31, 1984.

Visiting Scholars

Paul Colinvaux, Ohio State University.
Stephen Emlen, Cornell University.
Judith T. Irvine, Brandeis University.

I, J. Priede, University of Aberdeen.
Robert Read, San Jose State University.
Thomas Sebeok, Indiana University.

INTERNS PLACED BY OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY
Deborah Dulauney, Johns Hopkins University. Conservation project related to
scientific analysis, with Tim Padfield, from July 30 through September 28,
1984.
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM
Sixtine de Naurois, Ecole du Louvre. Research in the area of decorative prints
and drawings, with Elaine Dee, from August 1 through September 4, 1984.
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Julie Vanek, Smith College. Development of special outreach programming as
related to the teaching of art, with Edward Lawson, from June 11 through
August 10, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 465
MUSEUM SHOPS

Elizabeth Clemens, Elmira College. Special project related to inventory con-
trol and purchases, with Sam Greenberg, from January 3 through March 2,
1984.

Robert Stewart, Emory University. Generate a report of 1983 and 1984 sales
tc date of National Air and Space Museum posters, with Samuel Greenberg,
from June 26 through August 17, 1984.

Ivy Whitlatch, University of Maryland. Analysis of budgetary management,
with Samuel Greenberg, from October 15, 1983, to December 4, 1984.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Helen Lucy Harvey, Dartmouth College. Research project for the Division of
Aeronautics, with Tom Crouch, from March 22 through December 14, 1984.
Karen Jane Radel, Stanford University. Assisting with several on-going proj-
ects, and learning to use specialized laboratory equipment, with Dale Hrabak,
from April 2 through June 5, 1984.

NATIONAL CAPITAL CHILDREN’S MUSEUM

Marian Tijmes, Graduate student from The Netherlands. Outreach program-
ming as related to children, from October 15, 1983, to May 4, 1984.

THE OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Kim Abbott, American University. Research in the Office of Public Affairs,
with Mary Dyer, from February 3 through April 6, 1984.

April Adelson, Sweet Briar College. Curatorial research in the Division of
Community Life, with Ellen Hughes, from January 9 through January 27, 1984.
Monica Anderson, Howard University. Research in the Office of Public
Affairs, with Mary Dyer, from February 2 through May 31, 1984.

Peter Beck, George Washington University. Development of updated bibliog-
raphies for public distribution and cataloguing of a major part of the Moore
Ammunition Collection, with Edward Ezell, from October 1, 1983, through
July 31, 1984.

Marc Courtney Bellassai, Oberlin Conservatory. Assistance in keyboard dem-
onstrations and in preparations for chamber music concerts within the Divi-
sion of Public Programs, with C. Hoover and J. Weaver, from January 5
through March 30, 1984.

Katherine C. Blow, Yale University. Study of men’s and women’s appearance
and behavior through a reading of eighteenth-century diaries describing
Maryland, and through portraits of eighteenth-century Marylanders, with
Shelly Foote, from June 11 through August 10, 1984.

Crystal Brumme, Holy Cross Academy. Research in the Office of Public Af-
fairs, with Mary Dyer, from May 7 through July 9, 1984.

D’Anne Evans, George Mason University. Preparatory work for “Men and
Women” exhibition, with Shelly Foote, from September 4 through November
2, 1984.

Michael J. Ettema, University of Delaware. Examination and analysis of fur-
nishings and trade literature as related to domestic life of the nineteenth cen-
tury, with Rodris Roth, from September 4, 1984, through September 6, 1985.
Jodene K. Evans, Luther College. Special project in the Division of Ceramics
and Glass, with Susan Myers, from April 13 through June 15, 1984.

466 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Tina Gilbo, George Mason University. Research on men’s etiquette manuals
to find information pertaining to the proposed “Men and Women” exhibition,
with Shelly Foote, from September 4 through November 2, 1984.

Sophie Gluck, Sorbonne. Research project relating to special exhibition of
“Men and Women,” with Shelly Foote, from September 4 through November
6, 1984.

Frederick Martin Hocker, Middlebury College. Organization of Cropley Col-
lection, development of half-model lines, and preparation of bibliography of
wooden ship construction, with William L. Withuhn and John N. Stine, from
June 4 through September 1, 1984.

Jane Horrocks, University of Maryland. Research project relating to the Divi-
sion of Community Life, with Ellen Hughes, from June 11 through August 3,
1984.

Wan Zakaria Wan Ismail, University of Sains, Malaysia. Research project
within the Office of Public Programs, with Josiah Hatch, from February 2
through April 6, 1984.

Mary Linda Jefferson, University of Maryland. Assist with design and pro-
duction of special proposed exhibition, with Walter Lewis, from February 2
through May 2, 1984.

Edna Joann Johnston, Guilford College. Research for Afro-American Com-
munities Project, with James O. Horton, from September 15 through Decem-
ber 15, 1984.

Catherine J. Kidman, Smith College. Research for the 1830-1890 portion of
the “Men and Women” exhibition, with Shelly Foote, from May 30 through
August 24, 1984.

Kim Kittlsby, Mount Vernon College. Writing project related to the American
Visions Magazine, with Madeline Bonsignore, from June 2 through Septem-
ber 4, 1984.

Mary Jo Lazun, University of Maryland. Research for special project in the
Division of Community Life, with Ellen Hughes, from January 9 through
April 6, 1984.

Molly LeGath, Alverno College. Research for special project in the Office of
Public Affairs, with Mary Dyer, from May 25 through July 27, 1984.

Jennifer Locke, George Washington University. Work with all phases of day-
to-day operations of the Division of Military History with emphasis on cata-
loguing and registration procedures, with Donald Kloster, from February 2
through May 4, 1984.

Amy A. Loveless, George Mason University. Research for exhibit on gender
in costumes/history of costumes, with Shelly Foote, from February 9 through
April 27, 1984.

Nancy Ann McLaughlin, Ohio Wesleyan University. Coordinate media cover-
age of special exhibitions, with Mary Dyer, from March 26 through June 1,
1984,

Janet Anne Mesrobian, Jackson College, Tufts University. Research project in
the Office of Public Affairs, with Mary Dyer, from June 11 through August
10, 1984.

Gabrielle Michalek, State University College at Buffalo. Publicizing and eval-
uating two self-guiding brochures entitled “go” and “Fitting In,” with Betty
Sharpe, from September 10 through November 9, 1984.

Marian Mitchell, Bryn Mawr. Research project for the Office of Public Af-
fairs, with Mary Dyer, from July 16 through August 17, 1984.

John B. Morgan, California State University. Development of special project
related to the Smithsonian Collection of Warship Plans, with Philip Lunds-
burg, from November 1 through June 1, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 467
Jeananne Morrison, American University. Research in the Office of Public Af-
fairs, with Mary Dyer, from September 17 through November 16, 1984.
Susan Moses, Goucher College. Process oral history tapes; assist the project
coordinator in the development of an archival system for storage, retrieval,
and description, with Spencer Crew and Carol Dreyfus, from June 1 through
August 31, 1984.

Christine L. Nichols. Provide assistance with special exhibition relating to cos-
tuming of men and women of the nineteenth century, with Shelly Foote, from
September 4 through November 6, 1984.

Elizabeth Noone, University of Virginia. Assistance with Festival of India
project, with Shirley Cherkasky, from May 6 through July 27, 1984.

Mark Parascondola, Ohio State University. Research in the Division of Medi-
cal Sciences, with Michael Harris, from June 25 through August 27, 1984.
Audrine V. Piasecki, George Mason University. Research project relating to
men’s and women’s apparel of the nineteenth century for a special exhibition,
with Shelly Foote, from September 4 through November 6, 1984.

Donald P. Rinaldi, George Washington University. Assisting with research
and describing firearms on display, as well as assisting in the preparation of
brochure to be distributed to the public, with Ed Ezell, from February 24
through April 20, 1984.

Diane Rodolitz, Harvard University. Assisting with preparation of the tempo-
rary exhibit, “At Home on the Road: Autocamping, Motels, and the Redis-
covery of America,” with Roger White, from June 4 through August 17, 1984.

Lisa Royce, University of Maryland. Research project within the Division of
Ceramics and Glass, with Sheila Alexander, from October 15, 1983, to May 4,
1984.

Pamela Rypkema, Iowa State University. Assist in organizing the photograph
collections in the Division of Extractive Industries, with Peter Daniel, from
June 1 through August 31, 1984.

Anne Elizabeth Sachs, Ursuline College. Research related to “Godey’s Lady’s
Book” and “The American Ladies Magazine,” with Shelly Foote, from June 25
through July 27, 1984.

Kathy Sanborn, Kenyon College. Specialized project requiring some research
in the Division of Community Life, with Ellen R. Hughes, from June 25
through September 21, 1984.

Rebecca Schoener, Marlboro College. Work on a three-part internship con-
cerning specific projects within the Division of Ceramics and Glass, with
Regina Blaszczyk, from June 1 through August 31, 1984.

Calvert Seyboldt, Boston, Massachusetts. Special research within the Division
of Graphic Arts, with Helena Wright, from July 23 through September 21,
1984.

Rebecca Skidmore, Kenyon College. Research on special exhibition relating to

costuming of the 1830-1890 period, with Shelly Foote, from May 14 through
August 10, 1984.

Vivian Lea Stevens, George Washington University. Research project in the
Division of Military History, with Donald Kloster, from February 9 through
April 27, 1984.

Kathryn Sullivan, Mohegan College. Administrative work related to perform-

ing arts management, with Shirley Cherkasky, from February 13 through
June 30, 1984.

Maureen R. Torgerson, University of Maryland. Special project within the
Division of Ceramics and Glass, with Susan Myers, from July 1 through
September 4, 1984.

468 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Alden Tullis, Barnard College/Columbia University. Project relating to Nine-
teenth-century costumes of men and women, with Shelly Foote, from June 18
through August 24, 1984.

Teresa Wallace, Boston University. Special project relating to Political History
Division involving women’s and immigrants’ history, with Edith Mayo, from
October 20, 1983, to January 30, 1984.

Louise Wehrle, University of Maryland. Develop packet of information for
use in proposed exhibition, with Karen Harris, from February 1 through
May 4, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Sophie Allington, Middlesex Polytechnic Institute, London. Study of scientific
illustration as related to entomology, with George Venable, from April 16
through July 16, 1984.

Nancy Bridges, Lindenwood College. Exploration of exhibit design and pro-
duction techniques, with Carl Alexander, from September 10 through No-
vember 9, 1984.

Lisa Cox, University of Maryland. Graphic arts project related to a specific
exhibition, with Carl Alexander, from September 5 through December 17,
1984,

Kathleen Egan, Virginia Institute of Technology. Research relating to syste-
matics, comparative anatomy, and evolution of fishes, with David Johnson,
from June 11 through September 7, 1984.

Christopher Hale Hays, George Washington University. Exploration of graph-
ics techniques as related to design and production of exhibitions, with Carl
Alexander, from September 10 through December 14, 1984.

Alison Hilton, University of Texas. Organizing photographs and archival ma-
terial for the Handbook of North American Indians, with Lorraine Jacoby,
from September 17 through November 16, 1984.

Des Tatana Kahotea, University of Aukland, New Zealand. Research within
the Division of Anthropology as related to American Indians and other spe-
cial cultures, with Adrienne Kaeppler, from February 3 through August 3,
1984.

Margaret Millet, University of Colorado. Assisting with operation of the Nat-
uralist Center, and helping with special programming for school groups, with
Richard Efthim, from January 16 through August 10, 1984.

David Muha, Georgetown University. Study of museum exhibit design and
production methods, with Carl Alexander, from March 26 through May 18,
1984.

Heather Register, Wake Forest University. Assisting with archiving past il-
lustration materials for the Handbook of North American Indians, with Doug
Ubelaker, from May 22 through August 10, 1984.

Daniel Robbins, Sexton High School. Specialized projects relating to exhibits
design and production (graphics), with Carl Alexander, from June 26 through
August 27, 1984.

James Snead, Beloit College. Curatorial research on anthropological projects,
with Pricilla Linn, from September 1, 1984, to April 30, 1985.

Carolyn Stacy Sterling, College of William and Mary. Development of educa-
tional packet for United States Exploring Expedition exhibition, with Herman
Viola, from April 9 through May 23, 1984.

Emily Stern, Yale University. Silkscreening, mounting displays, repairs, and
maintenance of graphics, with Carl Alexander, from May 21 through August
3, 1984.

Elizabeth Stoller, Smith College. Research for the Division of Birds, with
George Watson, from June 28 through August 24, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 469
Tim Thompson, University of Maryland. Special projects to gain better under-
standing of the various functions of the Smithsonian Libraries, with Victoria
Avera, from November 1, 1983, to February 8, 1984.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Maya Arai, Saracuse University. Biographical research for upcoming exhibits
at National Portrait Gallery on broadcast pioneers in America, with Amy
Henderson, from June 12 through August 17, 1984.

Amanda Barrett, Barnard College/Columbia University. Inventory project re-
lating to the permanent checklist of the museum's holdings, with Frances
Wein, from June 4 through August 3, 1984.

Barbara Erikson, University of Kansas. Special cataloguing project relating to
exhibition catalogues, with Cecilia Chin, from February 3 through April 6,
1984.

Paul Ganz, George Washington University. Research relating to educational
outreach programming, with Ken Yellis, from June 20 through August 24,
1984.

Gwen Hill, Stanford University of Art. Special project involving registration
of photographic materials, with Suzanne Embry, from February 6 through
April 27, 1984.

Jana L. Hollingsworth, Carleton College. Research project relating to the cata-
loguing of art reference books, with Susan Gurney, from June 11 through
September 1, 1984.

Peter Inman, University of California at Santa Barbara. Curatorial research
and cataloguing of associative decorative objects, including furniture, with
Robert G. Stewart, from July 2 through September 4, 1984.

Katherine L. Ormand, University of Arizona. Research in the Office of Edu-
cation, with Harry Jackson, from September 4 through November 2, 1984.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Paul Martinovich, University of Toronto. Evaluation of small mammal house
brochure and revision based on results of evaluation, with Robert Mulcahy,
from May 29 through August 17, 1984.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

Joy Comstock, Montana State University. In-depth study of graphics design
and production, with James Mahoney, from April 3 through July 3, 1984.
Caitlin McQuade, Yale University. Special project relating to exhibit design
and production, with James Mahoney, from September 1 through November
1, 1984.

Margo Reeves, George Washington University. Assistance with graphics de-
sign project, with James Mahoney, from September 13 through November 9,
1984.

Russell Tromley, University of Puget Sound. Graphics research relating to
exhibit design and production, with James Mahoney, from January 3 through
April 6, 1984.

Patrick Wetzel, University of Maryland. Examination of graphic arts tech-
niques as related to exhibition production, with James Mahoney, from Janu-
ary 30 through May 11, 1984.

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Christine Rood, Ecole du Louvre. Special projects within the Office of Inter-
national Activities, with Brian LeMay, from September 4 through Novem-
ber 2, 1984.

470 / Smithsonian Year 1984
OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Susan Flinn, Bryn Mawr College. Inventory of all edited and unedited audio
visual holdings of the Conservation Information Program, with Laura
Schneider, June 1 through August 20, 1984.

Dorothy Ann Foster, University of New Mexico. Cataloguing information for
the Kellogg Project, with Phillip Speiss, from June 4 through August 3, 1984.
Holly J. Hopkins, Hartwick College. Museum administration project relating
to educational outreach, international affairs, public relations, and other
activities of the Office of Museum Programs, with Raymond Branham, from
January 3 through January 31, 1984.

Karol Keuper, New Brunswick Department of Historical and Cultural Re-
search, Canada. Independent scholarly research related to the preparation,
publication, and dissimination of a bibliography of museum programs’ evalu-
ation data, with Nancy Fuller, from April 4 through December 14, 1984.
Steven William Levicki, University of Michigan. Assisting with production of
Native American portion of the Office of Museum Program's audiovisual
presentation, and producing a newsletter for the Native American Program,
with Nancy Fuller, from May 1 through July 7, 1984.

Adrienne C. Morris, Georgetown University. Special assistance with interna-
tional museum administration project, with Mary Lynn Perry, from Septem-
ber 5 through December 10, 1984.

Laura Pope, University of New Hampshire. Special research project relating
to Native Americans, with Nancy Fuller, from February 13 through Febru-
ary 17, 1984.

Norma Kemper Rein, University of Virginia. Special assistance with the “Ad-
ministration in Museum” Project, sponsored by the United States Informa-
tion Agency and the Smithsonian Institution, with Mary Lynn Perry, from
September 5 through November 2, 1984.

Donald R. Reinecker, George Washington University. Special assistance with
Museum Administration Project for international museum professionals, with
Raymond Branham, from January 3 through April 30, 1984.

Dawn Scher, Beliot College. Cataloguing information from education depart-
ments from various museums around the U.S. as part of the Kellogg/Museum
Reference Center Project, with Catherine Scott, from May 21 through
August 10, 1984.

George D. Seghers, University of Missouri. Revising, editing, and retyping the
“Interns and Visiting Professionals Guide to Washington, D.C.,” with Ray-
mond Branham, from January 30 through April 27, 1984.

Maria Isabel-Tan, University of Pennsylvania. Coordination of Museum Ca-
reers Seminars, with Raymond Branham, from June 25 through August 24,
1984.

Anne Wheeler, Wilson College. Cataloguing and research within the Museum
Reference Center, with Catherine Scott, from January 30 through May 11,
1984,

OFFICE OF PROTECTION SERVICES

Patricia Welcome, Graduate student from the Virgin Islands. Assistance with
video production within the Office of Protective Services, with Robert Burke,
from January 2 through March 2, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Elizabeth Drury, American University. Special project organizing information
on past exhibitions, with Ann Singer, from September 18 through Novem-
ber 16, 1984.

Appendix 4. Academic and Research Training Appointments / 471
Eliza Wong, Hong Kong Museum of Art. Assistance with development and
coordination of traveling exhibits, with Marjorie Share, from May 29 through
August 17, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Anthony Zammit, State Library of South Australia. Conservation project re-
lating to book binding, with Johannes Hyltof, from April 2 through June 1,
1984,

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL ASSOCIATES PROGRAM

Leslie Sayet, University of Kansas. Assisting with the travel program opera-
tions of the National Associates Program, with Prudence Clendenning, from
March 1 through May 1, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATES PROGRAM

Laura Jane Murray, Towson State University. Special project within the Office
of Public Relations, with Joan Cole, from July 30 through September 28,
1984,

Adrienne T. Scott, Indiana University at Bloomington. Preparation of pub-
licity and information on all RAP events in the performing arts, educational,
and cultural areas, with John Cole, from May 14 through September 14, 1984.
Katherine Smurr, University of Puget Sound. Assisting with public relations
project in the Office of Public Relations, with Joan Cole, from February 2
through April 6, 1984.

Tracy Warren, University of Virginia. Assistance with day-to-day operations
of the Office of Public Relations while completing specific writing assign-
ments for dissimination, with Joan Cole, from September 4 through Novem-
ber 2, 1984.

472. / Smithsonian Year 1984
APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
in Fiscal Year 1984

GENERAL PUBLICATIONS

TRADE PUBLICATIONS

Mary Anglemyer and Eleanor R. Seagraves, compilers. The Natural Environ-
ment: An Annotated Bibliography on Attitudes and Values. 268 pages. Sep-
tember 15, 1984. Cloth: $25.00.

Pieter Bleeker. Atlas Ichtyologique des Indes Orientales Néérlandaises: Plates
for Tomes XI-XIV. 188 pages, 150 color and 2 black-and-white plates. Janu-
ary 24, 1984. Cloth: $250.00.

Walter J. Boyne. De Havilland DH-4: From Flaming Coffin to Living Legend.
120 pages, 3 color and 125 black-and-white illustrations. June 15, 1984. Paper:
$8.95.

Walter J. Boyne and Donald S. Lopez. Vertical Flight: The Age of the Heli-
copter. 272 pages, 216 black-and-white illustrations, 28 figures. June 29, 1984.
Paper: $10.95.

René Bravmann. African Islam. 120 pages, 4 color and 94 black-and-white
illustrations. December 1, 1983. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $15.00.

Milton W. Brown. One Hundred Masterpieces of American Painting From
Public Collections in Washington, D.C. 240 pages, 100 color and 6 black-and-
white illustrations. November 7, 1983. Cloth: $45.00; paper, $24.95.

Peter F. Copeland. Mammals: A Smithsonian Coloring Book. 30 pages, 29
black-and-white illustrations. September 14, 1984. Paper: $2.50.

Peter F. Copeland. Sports: A Smithsonian Coloring Book. 30 pages, 29 black-
and-white illustrations. September 17, 1984. Paper: $2.50.

Andrew J. Cosentino and Henry Glassie. The Capital Image: Painters in
Washington, 1800-1915. 280 pages, 6 color and 167 black-and-white illustra-
tions. November 1, 1983. Cloth: $39.50; paper: $22.50.

Tom Crouch. The Eagle Aloft: Two Centuries of the Balloon in America. 770
pages, 140 black-and-white illustrations. December 18, 1983. Cloth: $49.50.

R. E. G. Davies. Airlines of Latin America since 1919. 704 pages, 400 black-
and-white illustrations, 85 maps and charts, 30 tables. April 30, 1984. Cloth:
$47.50.

Rodolphe Meyer De Schauensee. The Birds of China. 602 pages, 38 color
plates and 39 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. April 30, 1984. Cloth:
$45.00; paper: $29.95.

Howard Ensign Evans and Mary Alice Evans. Australia: A Natural History.
208 pages, 24 color and 75 black-and-white illustrations. December 31, 1983.
Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95.

473
Valerie J. Fletcher. Dreams and Nightmares: Utopian Visions in Modern Art.
208 pages, 32 color and 122 black-and-white illustrations. December 30, 1983.
Cloth: $42.50.

Howard N. Fox, Miranda McClintic, and Phyllis Rosenzweig. Content: A Con-
temporary Focus 1974-1984. 184 pages, 84 color and 75 black-and-white illus-
trations. September 28, 1984. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $17.50.

Steven A. Grant. Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C.: Russian/Soviet
Studies. 430 pages. December 1, 1983. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $15.00.

Kenneth Hafertepe. America’s Castle: The Evolution of the Smithsonian
Building and Its Institution, 1840-1878. 208 pages, 39 black-and-white illus-
trations. May 21, 1984. Cloth: $19.95.

Gregory Kennedy. Rockets, Missiles, and Spacecraft of the National Air and
Space Museum. 165 pages, 116 black-and-white illustrations. October 10, 1983.
Paper: $6.50.

Cynthia Jaffe McCabe. Artistic Collaboration in the Twentieth Century. 224
pages, 32 color and 127 black-and-white illustrations. August 1, 1984. Cloth:
$40.00; paper: $19.95.

Jeffrey A. McNeely and Kenton R. Miller, editors. National Parks, Corserva-
tion, and Development: The Role of Protected Areas in Sustaining Society.
844 pages, 180 black-and-white illustrations, 50 tables, 41 maps, 19 figures.
September 28, 1984. Paper: $25.00.

Edwin M. Martin. A Beginner’s Guide to Wildflowers of the C&O Towpath.
72 pages, 120 color and 15 black-and-white illustrations, 1 map. May 31, 1984.
Paper: $8.95.

Christine Minter-Dowd. Finder’s Guide to Decorative Arts in the Smithsonian
Institution. 212 pages, 40 black-and-white illustrations. March 15, 1984. Cloth:
$25.00; paper: $15.00.

Allan Needell, editor. The First 25 Years in Space: A Symposium. 165 pages,
5 black-and-white illustrations. November 14, 1983. Cloth: $12.50.

Robert W. Nero. Redwings. 160 pages, 10 color and 60 black-and-white illus-
trations. February 1, 1984. Cloth: $22.50; paper: $10.95.

Louis A. Pitschmann. Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C.: Northwest Euro-
pean Studies. 452 pages. September 28, 1984. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $15.00.

John J. Protopappas and Lin Brown, editors. Washington on Foot. 224 pages,
95 black-and-white illustrations, 26 maps. May 31, 1984. Paper: $4.95.

Werner Rauh. The Wonderful World of Succulents: Cultivation and Descrip-
tion of Selected Succulent Plants Other Than Cacti. 164 pages, 62 color and
627 black-and-white illustrations, 2 maps. September 19, 1984. Cloth: $49.50.

Tom Simkin and Richard S. Fiske. Krakatau 1883: The Volcanic Eruption and
Its Effects. 464 pages, 49 color and 139 black-and-white illustrations. Decem-
ber 31. 1983. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $19.95.

C. G. Sweeting. Combat Flying Clothing: Army Air Forces Clothing During
World War II. 240 pages, 158 black-and-white illustrations. March 30, 1984.
Cloth: $29.50.

Nancy Sweezy. Raised in Clay: The Southern Pottery Tradition. 280 pages,
107 line drawings, 201 black-and-white photographs, 8 color plates, 1 map.
August 1, 1984. Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95.

474 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Mary Henderson Valdivia. At Home in the Sky: The Aviation Art of Frank
Wootton. 76 pages, 16 color and 15 black-and-white illustrations. August 31,
1984. Paper: $9.95.

James A. Van Allen. Origins of Magnetospheric Physics. 144 pages. Novem-
ber 25, 1983. Cloth: $19.95.

Charles Van Ravenswaay. Drawn From Nature: The Botanical Art of Joseph
Prestele and His Sons. 360 pages, 95 color plates, 43 black-and-white illustra-
tions. September 28, 1984. Cloth: $45.00.

Austin B. Williams. Shrimps, Lobsters, and Crabs of the Atlantic Coast of the
Eastern United States, Maine to Florida. 568 pages, 380 black-and-white illus-
trations. February 16, 1984. Cloth: $40.00.

Hans Wirz and Richard Striner. Washington Deco: Art Deco Design in the
Nation’s Capital. 112 pages, 15 color and 85 black-and-white illustrations.
September 17, 1984. Cloth: $25.00.

E. T. Wooldridge, Jr. Winged Wonders: The Story of the Flying Wings. 230
pages, 224 black-and-white illustrations. December 15, 1983. Cloth: $25.00;
paper: $14.95.

TRADE REPRINTS

R. E. G. Davies. Airlines of the U.S. since 1914. 760 pages, 511 black-and-
white illustrations, 29 maps, 27 tables. April, 1984. Cloth: $39.95.

Von Hardesty and Dominick Pisano. Black Wings: The American Black in
Aviation. 80 pages, 6 color and 200 black-and-white illustrations. April, 1984.
Paper: $6.95.

Gregory P. Kennedy. Vengeance Weapon 2: The V-2 Guided Missile. 88
pages, 113 black-and-white illustrations. July, 1984. Paper: $9.95.

Robert J. List. Smithsonian Meteorological Tables. 540 pages. August, 1984.
Cloth: $22.50.

Otto Mayr and Robert C. Post, editors. Yankee Enterprise: The Rise of the
American System of Manufactures. 236 pages, 48 black-and-white illustra-
tions. July, 1984. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $9.95.

Edward Nelson. The Eskimo About Bering Strait. 520 pages, 117 black-and-
white illustrations, 165 figures. December, 1983. Paper: $25.00.

Jisaburo Ohwi. Flora of Japan. 1,068 pages, 26 black-and-white photographs,
17 figures, 2 maps. April, 1984. Cloth: $49.50.

John R. Swanton. Indians of the Southeastern United States. 1,068 pages, 157
black-and-white illustrations. August, 1984. Paper: $25.00.

Victor Turner, editor. Celebration: Studies in Festivity and Ritual. 320 pages,
118 black-and-white illustrations. January, 1984. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $9.95.

Edwin N. Wilmsen and Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Lindenmeier, 1934-1974. 204
pages, 166 black-and-white illustrations. March, 1984. Paper: $27.50.

DIRECT-MAIL PUBLICATIONS

Edward S. Ayensu, Vernon H. Heywood, and Grenville L. Lucas. Our Green
and Living World. 256 pages, 240 color and 14 black-and-white illustrations.
September 15, 1984. Associates: $19.95; Non-Associates: $21.96; Trade:
$25.00.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 475
Stanley M. Minasian, Kenneth C. Balcomb, III, and Larry Foster. The World’s
Whales: The Complete Illustrated Guide. 224 pages, 230 color and 105 black-
and-white illustrations. September 29, 1984. Associates: $21.96; Non-Asso-
ciates: $23.97; Trade: $27.50.

Edwards Park. Treasures of the Smithsonian. 496 pages, 400 color and 25
black-and-white illustrations. October 5, 1983. Associates: $34.96; Non-Asso-
ciates: $38.96; Trade: $60.00.

Robert C. Post, editor. Every Four Years: The American Presidency. 228
pages, 116 color and 115 black-and-white illustrations. July 11, 1984. Asso-
ciates: $16.98; Non-Associates: $18.96; Trade: $21.95.

RECORDINGS

James R. Morris, J. R. Taylor, and Dwight Blocker Bowers. American Popular
Song: Six Decades of Songwriters and Singers. 152 pages, 103 illustrations.
Accompanies 7 LPs or 4 cassettes of 110 archival recordings. September 28,
1984. $42.96.

ANNUAL REPORTS

American Historical Association Annual Report, 1982. 175 pages. November,
1983.

Report of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute October 1, 1982,
through September 30, 1983. 34 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. Sep-
tember, 1984.

Smithsonian Year 1983. 666 pages, 78 black-and-white illustrations. May,
1984.

BOOKS

William F. Foshag. Mineralogical Studies on Guatemalen Jade. 68 pages, 8
black-and-white illustrations. February 15, 1984.

Marie Helene-Sachet. Atoll Research Bulletin 260-272. 356 pages, 71 black-
and-white illustrations. November 15, 1983.

BOOKLETS
Freer Gallery of Art

James McNeill Whistler at the Freer Gallery of Art. 12 pages, 7 color and 1
black-and-white illustration, 1 map. May 1984.

James Smithson Society

James Smithson Society Eighth Annual Dinner Program. 24 pages. Septem-
ber 1984,

National Museum of American Art

Nineteenth-Century Washington: A City-Wide Celebration. 20 pages, 2 black-
and-white illustrations. October 1983.

General Information. 10 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. June 1984.
National Museum of Natural History

Windows on the World: The Department of Invertebrate Zoology. 20 pages,
17 color and 11 black-and-white illustrations. August 1984.

476 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Office of Contributing Membership
The Smithsonian Mace and Its Symbolism. 44 pages, 1 color and 8 black-
and-white illustrations. September 1984.

Office of Museum Programs
National Museum Act Guidelines for 1985 Grant Programs. 28 pages. June
1984.

Office of Personnel Administration
Employment at the Smithsonian. 16 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations.
September 1984.

Office of Public Affairs
The Smithsonian. 10 pages, 22 black-and-white illustrations. January 1984.
A Guide to the Smithsonian for Disabled Visitors. 27 pages. January 1984.
Science at the Smithsonian. 30 pages, 18 color and 41 black-and-white illus-
trations. August 1984.

Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Archival, Manuscript, and Special Collection Re-
sources. 12 pages. August 1984.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Institution Libraries Loan Policies. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white
illustration. May 1984.

Smithsonian Institution Press

SI Press Instructions for Word Processing to Typesetting. 40 pages. February
1984.

EXHIBITION CATALOGS
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Valerie J. Fletcher. Wtopian Visions in Modern Art. 208 pages, 32 color and
122 black-and-white ilustrations. December 1983.

Howard N. Fox, Miranda McClintic, and Phyllis Rosenzweig. Content: A
Contemporary Focus, 1974-1984. 784 pages, 84 color and 75 black-and-white
illustrations. September 1984.

Cynthia Jaffe McCabe. Artistic Collaboration in the Twentieth Century. 224
pages, 32 color and 127 black-and-white illustrations. August 1984.

Virginia Wageman. Drawings 1974-1984. 256 pages, 21 color and 127 black-
and-white illustrations. March 1984.

National Museum of American Art

Janet A. Flint. Charles W. Hawthorne: The Late Watercolors. 28 pages, 5
color and 15 black-and-white illustrations. November 1983.

. Provincetown Printers: A Woodcut Tradition. 56 pages, 3 color and
28 black-and-white illustrations. December 1983.

Merry Amanda Foresta. Exposed and Developed: Photography Sponsored by
the National Endowment for the Arts. 144 pages, 6 color and 58 black-and-
white illustrations. May 1984.

Virginia Mecklenberg. Wood Works: Constructions by Robert Indiana, 64
pages, 4 color and 49 black-and-white illustrations. June 1984.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 477
Martina Roudabush Norelli. Werner Drewes: Sixty-five Years of Printmaking.
58 pages, 3 color and 30 black-and-white illustrations. August 1984.

National Portrait Gallery

Margaret C. S. Christman. Adventurous Pursuits: Americans and the China
Trade 1784-1894. 171 pages, 11 color and 67 black-and-white illustrations,
1 map. March 1984.

William F. Stapp. Robert Cornelius: Portraits from the Dawn of Photography.
152 pages, 53 black-and-white illustrations. December 1983.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Ellen Wells. Donor Exhibition: Gifts to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
1982. 15 pages, 4 black-and-white illustrations. November 1983.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Edwards Park. Treasures of the Smithsonian. 80 pages, 80 color illustrations.
August 1984.

EXHIBITION CHECKLISTS
National Museum of American Art

Fanfare: Fans of the 18th and 19th Centuries. 6 pages, 1 color and 3 black-
and-white illustrations. January 1984.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution. 10 pages. August 1984.

FLYERS
Freer Gallery of Art
Chinese Ceramics. 2 pages. October 1983.
Chinese Bronze Mirrors. 2 pages. April 1984.
Japanese Screens. 2 pages. September 1984.
The Peacock and the Princess from the Land of Porcelain. 2 pages. May 1984.

National Air and Space Museum

NASM Education Division Information Flyer. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white
illustration. April 1984.

National Museum of African Art
African Mankala. 4 pages. May 1984.
National Museum of African Art. 8 pages. July 1984.

National Museum of American Art
Harvey K. Littleton. 4 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. February 1984.

Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of American Art. 6 pages, 2 color
and 9 black-and-white illustrations. February 1984.

Wood Works: Constructions by Robert Indiana. 6 pages, 2 black-and-white
illustrations. April 1984,

478 / Smithsonian Year 1984
National Museum of Natural History

Visiting the Natural History Museum with School Groups. 4 pages, 8 black-
and-white illustrations. October 1983.

FOLDERS
National Museum of African Art

Praise Poems: The Katherine White Collection. 12 pages, 6 black-and-white
illustrations. September 1984.

National Museum of American History

Harry S Truman Centennial. 12 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. March
1984,

Office of Fellowships and Grants
American Scholarly Research Board: Council of American Overseas Research
Centers. 12 pages. December 1983.

Office of Horticulture

The Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. December
1984.

Office of Personnel Administration

Employment Orientation Folder. November 1983.

Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Archives. 8 pages, 4 black-and-white illustrations.
November 1983.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Museum Support Center Library. 6 pages, 1 line drawing. September 1984.

INVITATIONS
Freer Gallery of Art

James McNeill Whistler at the Freer Gallery of Art. 4 pages, 1 envelope, 1
color illustration. April 1984.

National Museum of American Art

Sawtooths and Other Ranges of Imagination: Contemporary Art from Idaho.
4 pages, 1 color illustration. November 1983.

Contemporary Australian Ceramics. 2 pages. November 1983.
Harvey K. Littleton: Glass Sculptures and Ceramics. March 1984.

An Evening with Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee. To Benefit Continuing Tradi-
tions: A Festival of Afro-American Arts. 8 pages, 2 envelopes. April 1984.

Exposed and Developed: Photography Sponsored by the National Endowment
for the Arts. 6 pages, 2 black-and-white illustrations. April 1984.

Werner Drewes: Sixty-five Years of Printmaking. 4 pages, 2 black-and-white
illustrations. August 1984.

Chicago Furniture: Art, Craft, and Industry. 6 pages, 3 black-and-white illus-
trations. September 1984.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 479
Newcomb Pottery: An Enterprise for Southern Women 1895-1940. 6 pages, 1
black-and-white illustration. September 1984.
Office of Contributing Membership
Contributing Members’ Evening at the Freer. March 1984.
Fanfare: Contributing Members’ Ball at the Renwick. March 1984.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Through Looking to Learning. October 1983.
Computers and Human Learning. November 1983.
Holiday Reception for Teachers. November 1983.
Teacher's Day. March 1984.

Smithsonian National Associates Program
Treasures from the Shanghai Museum: 6,000 Years of Chinese Art. 8 pages,
3 color illustrations. September 1984.
MISCELLANEOUS
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Art to Zoo.
Let’s Go to the Smithsonian.

Smithsonian Journeys. 14 pages, 17 color and 29 black-and-white illustrations.
September 1984.

Smithsonian Journeys Teachers’ Guide to Issue 1. 6 pages. September 1984.

Office of Special Events

Smithsonian Institution Diplomatic Dinner. (menu and program) 4 pages,
1 black-and-white illustration. March 1984.

POSTERS
National Museum of American Art
The Capital Image: Painters in Washington. October 1983.
Sawtooths and Other Ranges of Imagination: Contemporary Art from Idaho.
November 1983.
Freer Gallery of Art
James McNeill Whistler at the Freer. March 1984.

National Museum of Natural History
Common Winterberries of the Northeast. November 1983.
Roger Tory Peterson: American Warblers—1. June 1984.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Intern ‘84. November 1983.

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Fellowships in Residence at the Smithsonian Institution. August 1984.

480 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Emergency Water Damage Procedures. November 1983.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Treasures from the Smithsonian Institution at the Royal Scottish Museum,
Edinburgh. August 1984.

SERIES PUBLICATIONS
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE EARTH SCIENCES

26. Ursula B. Marvin and Brian Mason, editors. “Field and Laboratory In-
vestigations of Meteorites from Victoria Land, Antarctica.” 134 pages, fron-
tispiece, 79 figures, 11 tables. June 8, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MARINE SCIENCES

21. Ernani G. Mefiez, Ronald C. Phillips, and Hilconida P. Calumpong. “Sea-
grasses from the Philippines.” 40 pages, 26 figures. December 1, 1983.

22. Craig W. Schneider. “The Red Algal Genus Audouinella Bory (Nemali-

ales: Acrochaetiaceae) from North Carolina.” 25 pages, 3 figures. December
21, 1983.

23. Maurice Gennesseaux and Daniel Jean Stanley. “Neogene to Recent Dis-
placement and Contact of Sardinian and Tunisian Margins, Central Mediter-
ranean.” 21 pages, 9 figures. December 14, 1983.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

50. G. Arthur Cooper. “The Terabratulacea (Brachiopoda) Triassic to Recent:
A Study of the Brachidia (Loops).” 445 pages, 17 figures, 77 plates, 86 tables.
October 3, 1983.

54, Jessica A. Harrison. “The Carnivora of the Edson Local Fauna (Late
Hemphillian), Kansas.” 42 pages, 18 figures. November 16, 1983.

55. Porter M. Kier. “The Fossil Spatangoid Echinoids of Cuba.” 336 pages,
frontispiece, 45 figures, 90 pages. March 21, 1984.
56. Porter M. Kier. “Echinoids from the Triassic (St. Cassian) of Italy, Their

Lantern Supports and a Revised Phylogeny of Triassic Echinoids.” 41 pages,
4 figures, 14 plates. June 8, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

382. Thomas E. Bowman and Inam U. Tareen. “Cymothoidae from Fishes of
Kuwait (Arabian Gulf) (Crustacea: Isopoda).” 30 pages, 20 figures, 2 tables.
October 13, 1983.

383. Louis S. Kornicker. “New Species of Dantya from the Indian Ocean
(Ostracoda: Sarsiellidae: Dantyinae).” 18 pages, 10 figures. October 5, 1983.

384, Fenner A. Chace, Jr. “The Atya-like Shrimps of the Indo-Pacific Region
(Decapoda: Atyidae).” 54 pages, 24 figures. October 13, 1983.

385. Richard L. Zusi and Gregory D. Bentz. ‘““Myology of the Purple-throated
Carib (Eulampis jugularis) and Other Hummingbirds (Aves: Trochilidae).”
70 pages, 20 figures. March 9, 1984.

386. Koichiro Nakamura and C. Allan Child. “Shallow-Water Pycnogonida
from the Izu Peninsula, Japan.” 71 pages, 21 figures. November 23, 1983.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 481
387. Karl V. Krombein. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XII: Be-
havioral and Life History Notes on Some Sphecidae (Hymenoptera: Sphe-
coidea).” 30 pages, 5 figures. March 1, 1984.

388. Karl V. Krombein. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XIII:
A Monograph of the Stizinae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea, Nyssonidae).” 37
pages, 30 figures. February 15, 1984.

389. Roger Cressey. “Parasitic Copepods from the Gulf of Mexico and Carib-
bean Sea, II: Bomolochidae.” 35 pages, 119 figures. November 4, 1983.

390. Victor G. Springer. “Tyson belos, New Genus and Species of Western
Pacific Fish (Gobiidai, Xenisthminae), with Discussions of Gobioid Osteology
and Classification.” 40 pages, 19 figures. December 21, 1983.

391. Reinhardt Mobjerg Kristensen and Robert P. Higgins. “Revision of
Styraconyx (Tardigrada: Halechiniscidae), with Descriptions of Two New
Species from Disko Bay, West Greenland.” 40 pages, 51 figures, 1 map, 5
tables. January 13, 1984.

392. James M. Dietz. “Ecology and Social Organization of the Maned Wolf
(Chrysocyon brachyurus).” 51 pages, 24 figures, 21 tables. May 4, 1984.

393. Louis S. Kornicker. “Philomedidae of the Continental Shelf of Eastern
North America and Northern Gulf of Mexico (Ostracoda: Myodocopina).”
78 pages, 45 figures, 3 maps, 1 table. April 18, 1984.

394. Brian Kensley. “New Records of Bresiliid Shrimp from Australia, South
Africa, Caribbean, and Gulf of Mexico (Decapoda: Natantia: Caridea).” 31
pages, 22 figures, 1 table. December 21, 1983.

395. Richard L. Zusi. “A Functional and Evolutionary Analysis of Rhyncho-
kinesis in Birds.” 40 pages, 20 figures, 2 tables. June 29, 1984.

397. Fenner A. Chace, Jr. “The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decopoda) of
the Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 2: Families Glypho-
crangonidae and Crangonidae.” 63 pages, 24 figures. June 20, 1984.

398. Oliver S. Flint, Jr. “The Genus Brachycentrus in North America, with a
Proposed Phylogeny of the Genera of Brachycentridae (Trichoptera).” 58
pages, 104 figures. September 26, 1984.

400. Richard P. Vari. “Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus
Potamorhina (Pisces: Characiformes).” 36 pages, 17 figures. August 29, 1984.

401. Louis S. Kornicker. “Cypridinidae of the Continental Shelves of South-
eastern North America, the Northern Gulf of Mexico, and the West Indies
(Ostracoda: Myodocopina).” 37 pages, 17 figures, 2 maps, 1 table. June 13,
1984.

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN AIR AND SPACE

5. Kathleen L. Brooks-Pazmany. “United States Women in Aviation, 1919-
1929.” 57 pages, 79 figures. December 9, 1983.

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

44, Nancy Groce. “The Hammered Dulcimer in America.” 93 pages, 40 fig-
ures. December 30, 1983.

45. Sharon Gibbs with George Saliba. “Planispheric Astrolabes from the Na-
tional Museum of American History.” 231 pages, 130 figures, 23 tables. June
14, 1984.

482 / Smithsonian Year 1984
APPENDIX 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian In-
stitution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1984

SCIENCE
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Office of the Director

Boyne, Walter J. de Havilland DH-4: From Flaming Coffin to Living Legend.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

. “Historical Aircraft Preservation—The View from NASM.” Aero-

space Historian (Spring 1984).

. “Curtiss-Wright Courtney Amphibian CA-1.” Air Line Pilot 52(9)

(1983).

. “Huff-Daland Pelican.” Air Line Pilot 52(10) (1983).

. “The Martin Model 139-WH3.” Air Line Pilot 52(11) (1983).

“Zeppelin Staaken E. 4/20.” Air Line Pilot 52(12) (1983).

“Vought XF5U-1, Flying Flapjack.” Air Line Pilot 53(1) (1984).

“Harlow PC-5.” Air Line Pilot 53(2) (1984).

“Various Airplanes.” Air Line Pilot 53(3) (1984).

“Charles Healy Day’s Errant Biplane.” Air Line Pilot 53(4) (1984).

“Curtiss R3C2.” Air Line Pilot 53(5) (1984).

“Merrill Safety-Plane ‘Decalage’.” Air Line Pilot 53(6) (1984).

“Vanderbilt Air Yacht.” Air Line Pilot 53(7) (1984).

“Mercury S-1 Special.” Air Line Pilot 53(8) (August 1984).

“Dayton-Wright RB Racer.” Air Line Pilot 53(9) (September 1984).

. “The Evolution of Jet Fighters: A New Point of View.” Air Univer-

sity Review (January—February 1984).

. “The Postwar Role of the DH-4.” Air World 36(1) (1984).

“Macho Masochism.” AOPA Pilot 26(10) (1983).

“Sopwiths and Sunfish.” AOPA Pilot 26(11) (1983).

“Stuff and Nonsense.” AOPA Pilot 26(12) (1983).

“Natural Pilots.” AOPA Pilot 27(1) (1984).

“No Sale.” AOPA Pilot 27(3) (1984).

“Speed Bills.” AOPA Pilot 27(4) (1984).

“Racing Renaissance.” AOPA Pilot 27(6) (1984).

“Oshkosh Pilgrimage.” AOPA Pilot 27(7) (1984).

“Further Lessons from Detroit.” AOPA Pilot 27(8) (August 1984).

“Dog Tails.” AOPA Pilot 27(9) (1984).

. “National Air & Space Museum—Plans for the Future.” Aviation

Space (Summer 1984).

. “Testing the Waters.” 1984 Water Flying Annual (June 1984).

. “The Dulles Wing of NASM.” Sport Aviation 33(8) (August 1984).

Boyne, Walter J. and Lopez, Donald S., eds. “Uplifting Experiences: The
Helpful Helicopters.” pp. 101-15 in Vertical Flight: The Age of the
Helicopter. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

MITT

483
. Vertical Flight: The Age of the Helicopter. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1984.

. Vertical Flight: The Age of the Helicopter. 1984. Reprint. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Office of the Deputy Director

Lopez, Donald S. “Spitfire: A Test Pilot’s Story.” Air Force Magazine 67(5)
(1984).

. “Harrier: Ski Jump to Victory.” Air Force Magazine 67(9) (1984).

Lopez, Donald S., and Boyne, Walter J., eds. “Uplifting Experiences: The
Helpful Helicopters.” pp. 101-15 in Vertical Flight: The Age of the Heli-
copter. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

. Vertical Flight: The Age of the Helicopter. Washington, D.C.: Smith-

sonian Institution Press, 1984.

Office of External Affairs

Cipalla, Rita; Dubro, Linda S.; McMahon, Helen Claire; Oakes, Claudia; and
Owens, Edna. National Air and Space Museum Style Manual. Washington,
D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1984.

van der Linden, F. Robert. Samuel P. Langley Theater: National Air and
Space Museum. Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1984.

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Andre, C. G.; Blodget, H. W.; and Minor, T. B. [Abstract] “Lithologic Investi-
gations Using Multiband/Multisensor Middle Infrared Data from Space.”
EOS 65(1984) :301.

Blodget, H. W.; Witt, R. G.; Andre, C. G.; Marcell, R.; and Minors, T.
[Summary] “Multispectral Thermal Infrared Satellite Data for Geologic
Applications.” In International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environ-
ment, Third Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geol-
ogy. Colorado Springs: April 16-19, 1984.

Hubbard, N., and Andre, C. G. “Magma Genesis in a Battered Moon: Effects
of Basin-Forming Impacts.” The Moon and the Planets 29(1983) :15-37.
Jacobberger, P. A.; Arvidson, R. E.; and Rashka, D. L. “Application of Land-
sat MSS Data and Sediment Spectral Reflectance Measurements to Map-

ping of the Meatiq Dome, Egypt.” Geology 11(1983) :587-91.

Jacobberger, P. A. [Summary] “Enhanced Discriminability Within Landsat
MSS Images Using Pre-determined Spectral Data Subsets for Principal
Component Analysis: An Example over the Inland Niger Delta, Mali.” In
International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment, Third The-
matic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geology. Colorado
Springs: April 16-19, 1984.

Jacobberger, P. A., and Maxwell, T. A. [Summary] “Sediment Provenance
Determinations as a Means of Mapping Lithologies in the Southern Sinai,
Egypt.” In International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment,
Third Thematic Conference: Remote Sensing for Exploration Geology.
Colorado Springs: April 16-19, 1984.

Maxwell, T. A., and Barnett, S. J. [Abstract] “Structure and Morphology of
the Ancient Cratered Terrain—Smooth Plains Boundary Zone in the
Eastern Hemisphere of Mars.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XV, pp. 521-
22. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1984.

Maxwell, T. A. and Avery, V. F. [Abstract] “Morphometry of Buried Craters:
Lava Thickness Estimates by Simulated Flooding.” In Reports of Plane-
tary Geology Program—1983, pp. 107-9. NASA TM-86246, 1984.

484 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Watters, T. R. [Abstract] “Gravity Induced Compressive Stress in the Tharsis
Region of Mars.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XV, pp. 898-99. Houston:
The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1984.

Watters, T. R., and Maxwell, T. A. “Cross-Cutting Relations and Relative
Ages of Ridges and Faults in the Tharsis Region of Mars.” Icarus 56(1983):
278-98.

. [Abstract] “Compressional Features in the Tharsis Region of Mars:

I. Geographic Extent of Deformation.” In Reports of Planetary Geology

Program—1983, pp. 301-03. NASA TM-86426, 1984.

. [Abstract] “Compressional Features in the Tharsis Region of Mars:
II. Orientations and Timing of Deformation.” In Reports of Planetary
Geology Program—1983, pp. 304-06. NASA TM-86426, 1984.

Wynn, J. C.; Waitzeneger, B.; Watters, T. R.; Mirzai-Pouinak, H.; and
Gardner, A. “Aecromagnetic Survey and Interpretive Maps of the San
Simon 15’ Quadrangle Arizona and New Mexico.” U.S. Geological Survey
Open-File Report 83-631.

Department of Aeronautics

Brooks-Pazmany, Kathleen. “United States Women in Aviation 1920-1929.”
Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space, no. 5. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1983.

Crouch, Tom D. The Eagle Aloft: Two Centuries of the Balloon in America.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

. “Ecker Flying Boat.” World War I Aeronautics (99) (1984).

. “Dr. Franklin’s Window: Americans View the Birth of Flight.” The

Museologist 46(167) (1984).

. “Some Thoughts on John Montgomery.” Bungee Cord (Fall) (1984).

. “Fair Voyagers: Intrepid Women in American Ballooning.” Balloon-

ing 18(2) (1984).

. “Report of SHOT Annual Meeting Session on Early Aeronautics.”
Technology and Culture 25(4) (1984).

Davies, R. E. G. Airlines of Latin America since 1919. London: Putnam, 1984,
and Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

. “Merrill Riddick—First FAM-3 Contractor.” Airpost Journal 55(3)

(1983).

. “The First F. A. M. Routes, 1920-1928.” Airpost Journal 55(6) (1983).

. “Air Transportation in the Air and Space Museum.” Washington

Metrorail (Summer) (1984).

. Continental Airlines—The First Fifty Years. Houston: Pioneer Publi-

cations, Inc., 1984.

. “The Brazilian Regionals.” Exxon Air World (Summer) (1984).

Hardesty, Von D. and Pisano, Dominick A. Black Wings: The American
Black in Aviation. 1983. Reprint. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1984,

Hardesty, Von D., and Greenwood, John T. “Soviet Air Forces in World
War II.” The Soviet Air Forces, Paul J. Murphy, ed. Jefferson, N.C. and
London: McFarland & Co., Inc., 1984.

Mikesh, Robert C. “Recognition Models—the Government-Issue Miniature
Air Force.” Fine Scale Modeler 2(4) (1984).

Pisano, Dominick A., and Hardesty, Von. Black Wings: The American Black
in Aviation. 1983. Reprint. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1984.

Pisano, Dominick A. “The Helicopter: A Selective Bibliography and Research
Guide.” pp. 251-57. In Vertical Flight: The Age of the Helicopter, Walter J.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 485
Boyne and Donald S. Lopez, eds. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1984.

Schneide, Karl. “The Great War.” Wings 13(6) (1984).

Spenser, Jay P. Moskito: The Focke-Wulf Ta 154. Boylston, Mass.: Mono-
gram Aviation Publications, 1983.

. “Narrow Margin: The Reed Project.” Airpower 14(1) (1984).

. “Gray Eminence: The Focke-Wulf FW 190 F-9.” Wings 14(1) (1984).

Sweeting, C. G. Combat Flying Clothing: Army Air Forces Clothing During
World War II. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

van der Linden, F. Robert, and Winter, Frank H. [Monthly column], “Out
of the Past—An Aerospace Chronology.” Astronautics and Aeronautics.
21(1983), retitled Aerospace America 22(1984).

Wooldridge, E. T. Winged Wonders: The Story of the Flying Wings. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Department of Space Science and Exploration

DeVorkin, David H. “Stellar Evolution and the Origins of the Hertzsprung-
Russell Diagram in Early Astrophysics.” Chapter 6 in Astrophysics and
Twentieth-Century Astronomy to 1950. (Volume 4 of the General History
of Astronomy, M. A. Hoskin and O. Gingerich, eds.)., New York, N.Y.:
Cambridge University Press, 1984.

. “The Supernova of A.D. 1006.” The Astronomy Quarterly 17 (Sum-

mer 1984).

. “The Harvard Summer School in Astronomy.” Physics Today 37
(July 1984).

DeVorkin, David H., and Kenat, Ralph. “Quantum Physics and the Stars
(II): The Abundances of the Elements in the Atmospheres of the Sun and
Stars.” Journal for the History of Astronomy 14 (October 1983).

Kennedy, Gregory P. “Reaping the Harvest: Post War V-2 Rocket Research
in the United States.” Essay for 1984 National Space Club Goddard His-
torical Essay contest.

. “Jet Shoes and Rocket Packs.” Space World (September 1984).

. Vengeance Weapon 2: The V-2 Guided Missile. 1983. Reprint. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Needell, Allan A., ed. The First 25 Years in Space. 1983. Reprint. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

. “Nuclear Reactors and the Founding of Brookhaven National

Laboratory.” Historical Studies in the Physical Sciences 14 (1984).

. “The History of NPL.” [Review] The National Physical Laboratory:

A History, by Edward Pyatt. Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 9 (1984).

. [Review] Glimpsing an Invisible Universe: The Emergence of X-Ray
Astronomy, by Richard F. Hirsh. British Journal for the History of Science.
In press.

Winter, Frank H. “The Formative Years of the BIS—From Liverpool to
London.” Spaceflight 25 (1983).

. Prelude to the Space Age: The Rocket Societies 1924-1940. 1983.

Reprint. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

. “The Strange Case of Madame Guzman and the Mars Mystique.”
Griffith Observer 2 (1984).

Winter, Frank H., and Ordway, Frederick I., III. “Pioneering Commercial
Rocketry in the United States of America, Reaction Motors, Inc. 1941-1958,
Part 1: Corporate History.” Journal of the British Interplanetary Society
36 (1983).

Winter, Frank H., and van der Linden, F. Robert. [Monthly column] “Out of

486 / Smithsonian Year 1984
the Past—An Aerospace Chronology.” Astronautics and Aeronautics 21
(1983), retitled Aerospace America 22 (1984).

Division of Exhibits and Presentations

Valdivia, Mary H. At Home in the Sky: The Aviation Art of Frank Wootton.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY/
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN

Department of Anthropology

Adovasio, J. M. “Textiles.” In Prehistoric Archaeology Along the Zagros
Flanks, ed. R. J. Braidwood. Oriental Institute Publication 105, 1983.

. “Artifacts and Ethnicity: Basketry as an Indicator of Territoriality
and Population Movements in the Prehistoric Great Basin.” In Anthropol-
ogy of the Desert West: Essays in Honor of Jesse D. Jennings, eds. C. Stout
and D. D. Fowler. University of Utah Press, Salt Lake City, 1984.

Adovasio, J. M., and Andrews, R. L. “Persishables from Gatecliff Shelter.” In
The Archaeology of the Monitor Valley: 2. The Archaeology of Gatecliff
Shelter, ed. D. H. Thomas. The American Museum of Natural History, New
York, 1984.

Adovasio, J. M., and Carlisle, R. C. “An Indian Hunter’s Camp for 20,000
Years.” Scientific American 250(5) (1984) :130—36.

Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Carlisle, R. C.; Cushman, K.; Stuckenrath, R.;
and Wiegman, P. “Meadowcroft Rockshelter and the Pleistocene/Holocene
Transition in Southwestern Pennsylvania.” In Contributions in Quaternary
Vertebrate Paleontology: A Volume in Memorial to John E. Guilday, eds.
H. Genoways and M. L. Dawson. Carnegie Museum of Natural History,
1984,

Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Cushman, K.; Carlisle, R. C.; Stuckenrath, R.;
Gunn, J. D.; and Johnson, W. C. “Evidence from Meadowcroft Rock-
shelter.” In Early Man in the New World, ed. R. S. Shutler, Jr., pp. 163-90.
Sage Publications, Beverly Hills, California, 1983.

Angel, J. Lawrence. “Health as a Crucial Factor in the Changes from Hunting
to Developed Farming in the Eastern Mediterranean. In Paleopathology at
the Origins of Agriculture, eds. Marc Cohen and George Armelagos. New
York: Academic Press, Inc., 1984.

. Comments on Beals, K. L., C. L. Smith, and S. M. Dodd. Brain
Size, Cranial Morphology, Climate, and Time Machines. Current Anthro-
pology. 25:301-330, June 1984.

Angel, J. Lawrence, and Caldwell, Peggy C. “Death by Strangulation.” In
Human Identification, eds. T. A. Rathbun and J. Builstra. Charles C.
Thomas, Springfield, Illinois, 1984.

Banks, Larry D. “Lithic Resources and Quarries.” In Prehistory of Oklahoma,
ed. Robert E. Bell; pp. 65-95. New York: Academic Press, Inc., 1984.

. “Phehistoric Engineering Along a Meandering River: An Hypothe-

sis.” In River Meandering. Proceedings of the Conference Rivers 83, ed.

Charles Elliott, pp. 191-203. American Society of Civil Engineers, New

York, New York, 1984.

. “Lithic Resources,” pp. 135-54; “Appendix II: Major Chert Sources

in the Jackfork and Brushy Creek Basins,” pp. 335-65; and “Appendix IV:

An Interpretation of the Role of Lithic Raw Materials at Bug Hill,” pp.

390-92. In Bug Hill: Excavation of a Multi-Component Midden Mound in

the Jackfork Valley Southeast Oklahoma, ed. Jeffrey H. Altschul. New

World Research Report of Investigation No. 81-1, 1983.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 487
Berinstein, Ava. “Absolutive Extractions: Evidence for Clause-Internal Multi-
attachment in K’ekchi.” Cornell Working Papers in Linguistics, No. 5
(Spring 1984) :1-65.

Brooks, Alison S. “!Kung in the 1980s.” Anthro-Notes 5(3):5—-7. 1983.

. “San Land-use Patterns, Past and Present: Implications for Southern
African Prehistory.” Paper presented at the Southern African Association
of Archaeologists biennial meeting, Gaborone, Botswana, July 4-6, 1983.

Crocker, William H. “Canela Marriage: Factors in Change.” In Marriage
Practices in Lowland South America, ed. Kenneth M. Kensinger. Illinois
Studies in Anthropology, 14.63:98. Urbana and Chicago: University of
Illinois Press. 1984.

East, T.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Donahue, J. Phase I/Phase II Archaeological
Examination of a Texas Eastern Gas Pipeline Right-of-Way in Somerset
and Milford Townships, Somerset County, Pennsylvania. A Report Pre-
pared for Texas Eastern Gas Pipeline Company, Houston, Texas, 100 pages,
1983.

East, T.; Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Carlisle, R. C.; Jorstad, T.; Dirkmaat,
D.; Schneller, R.; and Shaunessy, K. Archaelogical Investigations on Lone
Butte, McKenzie County, North Dakota. A report submitted to the U.S.
Forest Service, Custer National Forest, in fulfillment of Work Order No.
1-65449-CA and a Letter of Agreement of September 23, 1981, 209 pages,
1983.

East, T.; Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Jorstad, T.; and Carlisle, R. C.
“Identification and Evaluation of Some Archaeological Sites in Parts of
McKenzie, Billings and Golden Valley Counties, North Dakota.” North
Dakota History 50(2) (1983) :23-31.

East, T.; Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; and Hamilton, N. D. Archaeological
Testing at the Gallipolis Locks and Dam, Mason County, West Virginia. A
report submitted to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Huntington, Dis-
trict, in fulfillment of Contract No. DACW69-79-C-0062, 410 pages, 1983.

East, T.; Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Jorstad, T.; Schneller, R.; and Carlisle,
R. C. The Identification and Evaluation of Archaeological Resources on
Selected State-Owned Properties in the Badlands of the Little Missouri
River, North Dakota. A report prepared for the State Historical Society of
North Dakota, North Dakota Heritage Center, 254 pages, 1983.

Ewers, John C. “A Half Century of Change in the Study of Plains Indian Art
and Material Culture.” Papers in Anthropology 24, no. 2 (Fall 1983): 97-
112. Department of Anthropology, University of Oklahoma.

. “An Appreciation of Karl Bodmer’s Pictures of Indians.” In Views of
a Vanishing Frontier, John C. Ewers, Marsha V. Gallagher, David C. Hunt,
and Joseph C. Porter, pp. 51-93. Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebraska.
1984.

Fitzhugh, William. “Images from the Past: Thoughts on Bering Sea Eskimo
Art and Culture.” Expedition 26 (2) :24—-39. 1984.

. “Residence Pattern Development in the Labrador Maritime Archaic:
Longhouse Models and 1983 Surveys.” In Archaeology in Newfoundland
and Labrador, 1983, eds. Jane Sproull Thomson and Callum Thomson.
Annual Report no. 4, Historic Resources Division, Department of Culture,
Recreation and Youth, Government of Newfoundland and Labrador. pp. 6—
47. 1984.

. “Foreword.” In The Art of Greenland, by Bodil Kaaland (with Susan
Kaplan). 1984.

Fowler, Don D. “Ethics in Contract Archaeology.” In Ethics and Values in
Archaeology, ed. Ernestine Green, pp. 15-34. New York: Basic Books, 1984.

488 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “The Eastern Algonquian Subordinative Mode and
the Importance of Morphology.” International Journal of American Lin-
guistics 49(1983) :351-87.

. “The Study of Native North American Ethnonymy.” In Naming

Systems (1980 Proceedings of the American Ethnological Society.), ed.

Elisabeth Tooker, pp. 95-107. Washington, D.C.: The American Ethnologi-

cal Society, 1984.

. “Agreskwe, A Northern Iroquoian Deity.” In Extending the Rafters:
Interdisciplinary Approaches to Iroquoian Studies, eds. Michael K. Foster,
Jack Campisi, and Marianne Mithun, pp. 229-35. Albany, N.Y.: State
University of New York Press, 1984.

Hamilton, N. D.; Adovasio, J. M.; and Donahue, J. An Archaelogical Recon-
naissance of the Main Stem of the Big Sandy River, Wayne County, West
Virginia; Boyd and Lawrence Counties, Kentucky; and the Levisa Fork,
Johnson County, Kentucky. A report submitted to the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, Huntington District, in fulfillment of Contract No. DACW69-
82-R-0024, 166 pages, 1983.

Helgren, D. M., and Brooks, Alison S. “Geoarchaeology at “Gi, a Middle
Stone Age and Later Stone Age Site in the Northwest Kalahari.” Journal
of Archaeological Science 10(1983) :181-97.

Houchins, Chang-su. “Buraun gimban no nazo [In search of Brown’s Japan
Expedition Daguerreotypes].” In Hokkaido sashin-shi: Bakumatsu-Meiji
[History of Hokkaido Through Photographs: bakumatsu and meiji peri-
ods], by Shibuya Shiro, p. 135. Tokyo: Heibonsha, 1983.

Johnson, W. C.; Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Fitzgibbons, P. T.; East, T. C.;
Marwitt, J. P.; Yedlowski, J. L.; and Applegarth, J. D. Archaelogical Re-
searches in the Bluestone Reservoir, Summers County, West Virginia. A
report submitted to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Huntington Dis-
trict, in fulfillment of Contract No. DACW69-80-Q-0013, 386 pages, 1983.

Kaeppler, Adrienne. “Dance as Myth—Myth as Dance: A Challenge to Tradi-
tional Viewpoints.” (Keynote Address.) Dance as Cultural Heritage: Se-
lected Papers from the ADG-CORD Conference 1978. Vol. 1(1983) :5-8.

. “A Further Note on the Cook Voyage Collection in Leningrad.”

Journal of the Polynesian Society 92, no. 1(1983) :93-8.

. “The Importance of Kamehameha the Great to the History of Our
Country.” Congressional Record, October 25, 1983, E5095-5096.

Karp, Ivan. “Reading the Nuer,” Current Anthropology 24, no. 3(1983) :481-
503. Response to Bonte in Current Anthropology 25, no. 1:129-30.

Kaupp, P. Ann. “Angel Brings Bones to Life.” Anthro-Notes 5(3), Fall 1983.

Kaupp P. Ann.; Brooks, A.; Lanouette, J.; and Selig, R., editors, Anthro-
Notes, National Museum of Natural History Newsletter for Teachers.
(5) (3); 6(1); 6(2).

Laughlin, Robert M., ed. “El primer soldado lIlego a Chamula, Ba’yel soltaro
vul ta Chamula.” Cultura de los Indias Mayas, A.C., vol. 1. Tuxtla Gutier-
rez, 1983.

. “Palabras de los ancianos, Ya’yejik te mamaletik.” Cultura de los
Indias Mayas, A.C., vol. 3. Tuxtla Gutierrez. 1983.

. “Tzotzil and Tzeltal: Who in the World?” In Gertrude Blom Bearing
Witness, eds. Alex Harris and Margaret Sartor, pp. 15-25. University of
North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, 1984.

. “Plegarias de los agricultores zinacantecor de Chiapas.” Mesoamerica
5(1984) :128—67.

, ed. “Historic antigue de Zinccantan, vo’ne k’op ta Tzinahanta.”
Cultura de los Indias Mayas, A.C., Vol. 2. Tuxtla Gutierrez, 1983.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 489
Ledergerber, Paulina. “The Need For and a Proposed Approach to Further
Development of Rescue Archaeology in Latin America.” Boletin de Antro-
pologia Americana. Mexico: IPGH, 1983.

Marino, Cesare R., and Harris, LaDonna. “Indian Tribal Governments: Prob-
lems and Challenges on the People’s Road to Sovereignty.” Centerboard:
Journal of the Southwest Center for Human Relations Studies 2, no. 1
(1984) :19-27.

Meggers, Betty J. “Aplicacion del modelo biologico de diversification a las
distribuciones culturales en las tierras tropicales bajas de sudamerica.”
Amazonia Peruana 4, no. 8(1983) :7-38.

. “The Importance of Context.” In Peruvian Antiquities: A Manual for

United States Customs, p. 11. Organization of American States, Washing-

ton, D.C., 1983.

. “Evidenze archeologiche ed etnografiche compatibili con il modello
di frammentazione dell foresta.” In Indios del Brasile, pp. 87-103. Soprin-
tendenza Speciale al Museo Preistorico ed Etnografico Luigi Pigorini,
Ministero per i Beni Culturali e Ambientali, Rome, 1983.

Ortner, Donald J. “Preface.” In Mummies, Disease and Ancient Cultures,
eds. Aidan and Eve Cockburn. New York: Cambridge University Press.
1983.

. “Methodological noise in histomorphological research.” (Abstract of
paper.) American Journal of Physical Anthropology 6(1984) :200.

Ortner, Donald J., and Putschar, Walter G. J. “Problems in the diagnosis of
dry bone tumors.” (Abstract of paper.) Paleopathology Association Elev-
enth Annual Meeting—Abstracts of Papers, page 3.

Potter, Stephen R. “The Indians of Seventeenth-Century Fairfax.” Fairfax
Chronicles 7(2) (1984) :1, 3-4.

. “Low Budget and Low Altitudes: Aerial Photography and Archeo-

logical Survey in Tidewater Virginia.” CRM Bulletin 7, no. 1(1984):3, 6-7.

. “A New Look at the Accokeek Creek Complex.” In The Prehistoric
People of Accokeek Creek, Robert L. Stephenson, pp. 36-40. Accokeek,
Maryland: Alice Ferguson Foundation, 1984.

Rose, Carolyn L., and Von Endt, David W., eds. “Protein Chemistry for Con-
servators.” American Institute for Conservation, Washington, D.C. 1984.

Schmidt, Robert G. “High-Alumina Alteration Systems in Volcanic Rocks and
Their Significance to Mineral Prospecting in the Carolina Slate Belt.” U.S.
Geological Survey Open File Report of 83-793 (1983) 46 pages.

Schwarz, Shirley J. “Nine Etruscan Black Figure Vases in the National Mu-
seum of Natural History.” Deutsches Archaeologisches Instituts, Abtei-
lungen Rom, Mitteilungen 91(1984) :47-77.

. “Pre-Roman Trade Between Orvieto and Spina.” Collegium Antro-
pologicum 8(1984).

Sebeok, Thomas A. A muveszet elozmenyei. (Volume in the series Korunk
tudomanya.) Budapest: Akademiai Kiado, 1983.

. “Animal Anomalies: Vocal Pregnancy.” Animals 116:2(April 1983):

14.

. “Animal Anomalies: Merry Tailor.” Animals 116:3(June 1983) :31.

. “Animal Anomalies: The Bird That Eats Wax.” Animals 116:4(Au-
gust 1983): 33.

. “Animal Anomalies: Tricky Tick.” Animals 116:5(October 1983) :19.

. “Animal Anomalies: El Toledo: The Song and Dance Bird.” Animals
116:6 (December 1983) :34.

. “Animal Anomalies: Likeness Causeth Liking.” Animals 117:1(Feb-
ruary 1984):8.

. “Batir, the Talking Elephant.” The Skeptical Inquirer 8:2(1983) :110.

490 / Smithsonian Year 1984
, ed. with Umberto Eco. “Il segno dei tre: Holmes, Dupin, Peirce.”
Milano: Bompiani, 1983.

. “Karl Buhler.” In Semiotics Unfolding, Volume I. (Proceedings of the
Second Congress of the International Association for Semiotic Studies.)
Berlin: Mouton. pp. 355-70, 1983.

. “On the History of Semiotics.” In Semiotics Unfolding, Volume I.
(Proceedings of the Second Congress of the International Association for
Semiotic Studies.) Berlin: Mouton. pp. 353-54, 1983.

. “Semiotics.” In Global Linguistic Connections, ed. Gyula Decsy.
Bloomington: Eurolingua. pp. 17-26, 1983.

, ed. with Umberto Ecco. “The Sign of Three: Holmes, Dupin, Peirce.”
Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1983.

. “Van-e az allatoknak esztetikai erzekuk?’” Tudomanyos Magazin
16 (1983) :8—13.

. Communication Measures to Bridge Ten Millennia. Columbus, Ohio:
Battelle Memorial Institute, 1984.

. “Die Buchse der Pandora und ihre Sicherung: Ein Relaissystem in
der Obhut einer A tompriesterschaft.” Zeitschrift fur Semiotik 6(1984):3.
(Special issue: “Und in alle Ewigkeit. . . .: Kommunikation uber 10,000
Jahre.”)

. “Il gioco del fantasticare.” Milano: Spirali, 1984.

. “Namengebung bei Tieren im Zusammenhang mit dem Auftreten
von Spielverhalten: eine Hypothese.” In Sprachwissenschaft-Kulturwissen-
schaft. Festschrift fur Helmut Gipper zum 65. Geburtstag. eds. Gunter
Heintz and Peter Schmitter. Baden-Baden: Valentin Koerner, 1984.

. “Pandora’s Box.” In On Signs, ed. Marshall Blonsky. London: Basil

Blackwell, 1984.

, ed. with Jerzy Pelc, Edward Stankiewicz, and T. G. Winner. “Sign,

System and Functions.” (Papers of the First and Second Polish-American

Semiotics Colloquia.) Berlin: Mouton, 1984.

. “Symptom.” In New Directions in Linguistics and Semiotics, ed.

James E. Copeland. Houston: Rice University Studies and Amsterdam: John

Benjamins. pp. 211-30, 1984.

. “Symptome, systematisch und historisch.” Zeitschrift fur Semiotik
6:1—2:37-52. (Special issue: “Semiotik und Medizin.”

Smith, Bruce D. “Middle Mississippi Exploitation of Animal Populations.” In
The Late Prehistoric Southeast: A Sourcebook, ed. Chester B. DePratter.
New York: Garland Publishing (Reprint of 1974 article), 1983.

. “A Review of the Investigations at Cedar Grove.” In Cedar Grove:

An Interdisciplinary Investigation of a Late Caddo Farmstead in the Red

River Valley, ed. Neal Trubowitz. Arkansas Archaeological Research Series,

pp. 397—400, 1983.

. “Mississippian Expansion: Tracing the Historical Development of an

Explanatory Model.” Southeastern Archaeology 3, no. 1(1984).

. “Mississippian Patterns of Subsistence and Settlement.” In Alabama

and the Borderlands: From Prehistory to Statehood, eds. Reid Badger and

Lawrence A. Clayton. University of Alabama Press, 1984.

. “Chenopodium as a Prehistoric Domesticate In Eastern North Amer-
ica: New Evidence from Russell Cave, Alabama.” Science 1984.

Stewart, T. Dale. “Pathologic Changes in Aging Sacroiliac Joints.” Clinical
Orthopaedics and Related Research 183 (March 1984) : 188-96.

. “Perspective on the Reporting of Forensic Cases.” In Human Identifi-

cation, Case Studies in Forensic Anthropology, eds. Ted A. Rathbun and

Jane E. Buikstra, pp. 15-18. Charles C. Thomas, Springfield, Illinois, 1984.

. “Adolph Hans Shultz, 1891-1976, a Biographical Memoir.” Biographi-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 491
cal Memoirs 54(1983):324—49. Washington, D.C.: The National Academy
Press.

Sturtevant, William C. “Tribe and State in the Sixteenth and Twentieth
Centuries.” In The Development of Political Organization in Native North
America (1979 Proceedings of the American Ethnological Society), ed. E.
Tooker, pp. 3-16. Washington, D.C., 1983.

, general editor. Southwest. (Alfonso Ortiz, vol. ed.), Handbook of

North American Indians, Volume 10. Smithsonian Institution, Washington,

D.C., 1983.

. “A Structural Sketch of Iroquois Ritual.” In Extending the Rafters:
Interdisciplinary Approaches to Iroquoian Studies, eds. M. K. Foster, J.
Campisi, and M. Mithun, pp. 133-152. Albany: State University of New
York Press, 1984.

Taylor, Paul Michael. “Plant and Animal Nomenclature in the Tobelorese
Language.” In Halmahera dan Raja Ampat sebagai Kesatuan yang Maje-
muk, ed. E. K. M. Masinambow, (Bulletin LEKNAS 2, no. 3, special edi-
tion), pp. 41-76.

. “North Moluccan Malay: Notes on a ‘Substandard’ Dialect of Indo-
nesian.” In Studies in Malay Dialects, Part II, ed. James Collins. NUSA
Monograph Series 17:14-27. Jakarta: Badan Penyelenggara Seri NUSA,
1983.

Ubelaker, Douglas H. “Prehistoric Demography of Coastal Ecuador.” National
Geographic Society Research Reports 15(1983) :695—704.

. “Human Skeletal Remains from Mound 46JA47, Jackson County,
West Virginia.” In West Virginia Archeologist 35, no. 2(1983) :55.

Umiker-Sebeok, Jean with Sebeok, Thomas A. “Amplification.” Journal of
Social and Biological Structures 6, no. 3(1983) :280-82.

Van Beek, Gus W., with Melson, William J. “Properties, Cultural Selection,
and Provenance of Pumice from Tell Jemmeh, Israel.” Society for Archaeo-
logical Sciences Research Reports 4(1983) :1—4.

Viola, Herman J. “Capturing the Spirit of the National Archives: Historian’s
Perspective.” Prologue: The Journal of the National Archives (Summer
1984) 125-32.

. The National Archives of the United States. New York: Harry N.
Abrams, Inc., 1984.

Webb, S. David; Milanich, Jerald T.; Alexon, R.; and Dunbar, J. “An Ex-
tinct Bison Kill Site, Jefferson County, Florida.” Florida Anthropologist
36(1983) :81-82.

. “A Bison Antiquus Kill Site, Wacasassa River, Florida.” American
Antiquity 49 (1984) :384-92.

Wedel, Mildred Mott. “The Indian They Called Turco.” In Pathways to
Plains Prehistory, eds. Don G. Wyckoff and Jack L. Hofman, pp. 153-62.
Oklahoma Anthropological Society, Memoir 3; Cross Timbers Heritage
Association, Contributions 1, 1983.

Wedel, Waldo R. “Further Notes on Puebloan-Central Plains Contacts in
Light of Archeology.” In Pathways to Plains Prehistory, eds. Don G.
Wyckoff and Jack L. Hofman, pp. 142-52. Oklahoma Anthropological So-
ciety, Memoir 3; Cross Timbers Heritage Association, Contributions 1,
1983.

. “The Prehistoric Plains.” In Ancient North America, ed. Jesse D.
Jennings, Chapter 6, pp. 202-41. San Francisco: W. H. Freeman & Co.,
1983.

. “Native Subsistence Adaptations in the Great Plains.” In Man and
the Changing Environments in the Great Plains, eds. W. H. Caldwell,

492 / Smithsonian Year 1984
C. B. Schultz, and T. M. Stout, pp. 93-110. Transactions, vol. 11, Special
Issue. Lincoln: Nebraska Academy of Sciences, 1983.

Yedlowski, N. L.; Adovasio, J. M.; Donahue, J.; Yedlowski, J. L.; Fitzgibbons,
P. T.; and Johnson, W. C. “1982 Archaeological Investigations in the
Paintsville Reservoir Study Area, Johnson and Morgan Counties, Ken-
tucky.” A report submitted to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Hunt-
ington District, in fulfillment of Contract No. DACW69-82-C-0075. 219
pages, 1983.

Zeder, M. A. “The Faunal Remains.” In Oaks II: An Archaelogical Investi-
gation of a Two-Hundred-Year-Old Rural Farmstead in Piedmont Mont-
gomery County, Maryland by J. Sarenson and J. Evans. Maryland Historic
Trust Manuscript Series No. 19. pp. 362-74, 1982.

. “Faunal Remains Analysis.” In Phase 1 and 2 Cultural Resource Sur-

veys of the Proposed Dualization of New Churchman’s Road, Christiana,

New Castle County, Delaware by J. O’Connor, K. W. Cunningham, J. F.

Custer, D. C. Bachman, and L. Rappleye. DEIDOT Project 81-103-03 Arch-

eology Series No. 21, Delaware Department of Transportation, pp. 97-101,

1983.

. “Meat Distribution at the Highland Iranian Urban Center of Tal-e

Malyan.” In Animals and Archaeology: Vol 3: Herders and Their Flocks,

eds. J. Clutton-Brock and C. Grigson, pp. 279-307. British Archaeological

Reports, International Series 202, Oxford, England, 1984.

Department of Botany

Ayensu, E. S. “Arte Creado por la Naturaleza en la Corteza del Eucalipto.”
Geomundo, (Feb. 1983) :158—63.

. “Endangered Plants Used in Traditional Medicine.” In Traditional

Medicine and Health Coverage: A Reader for Health Administrators and

Practitioners, eds. R. H. Bannerman, J. Burton, and Ch’en Wen-Chieh, pp.

175-83. Geneva: World Health Organization, 1983.

. “Food, Energy and Technology: Perspectives from Developing Coun-

tries.” In How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey, ed. D. Ortner, pp.

263-87. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

. “The Healing Plants.” Unasylva 35 (140)(1983) :2-6.

. “Taxonomic Problems Relating to Endangered Plant Species.” In
Current Concepts in Plant Taxonomy, eds. V. H. Haywood and D. M.
Moore, pp. 411-22. London and Orlando: Academic Press, 1984.

Ayensu, E. S.; Heywood, V. H.; Lucas, G. L.; and DeFilipps, R. A. Our
Green and Living World: The Wisdom to Save It. Washington, D.C.
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Bohlmann, F.; Ahmed, M.; Grenz, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Bi-
sabolen Derivatives and Other Constituents from Coreopsis Species.” Phy-
tochemistry 22(12) (1984) :2858-59.

Bohlmann, F.; Ates (Géren), N.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson,
H. “Guaianolides from Elephantopus carolinianus.” Phytochemistry 23(5)
(1983) :1180-81.

BohlImann, F.; Banerjee; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Additional germa-
cranolides from Euptaorium serotinum.” Phytochemistry 23(5) (1984) :1189—
90.

Bohlmann, F.; Gerke, T.; Ahmed, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Neue
N-Isobutylamide aus Heliopsis-Arten.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1983):
1202-06.

Bohlmann, F.; Gerke, T.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Cadina-4,11-diene from Viguiera oblongifolia.” Phytochemistry 23(5)
(1984) :1183-84.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 493
Bohlmann, F.; Gerke, T.; Jakupovic, J.; Borthakur, N.; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. “Diterpene lactones and other constituents from Wedelia and
Aspilia species.” Phytochemistry 23(8) (1984) :1673-76.

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Ates (Géren), N.; Schuster, A.; Pickardt, J.;
King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Steiractinolide, eine neue Gruppe von
Sesquiterpenlactonen.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1983) :962-73.

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Schuster, A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Eudesmanolides and costic acid derivatives from Flourensia macrophylla.”
Phytochemistry 23(7) (1984) :1445—48.

Bohlmann, F.; Ludwig, G-W.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Neue Spirosesquiterpenlactone, Germacranolide und Eudesmanolide aus
Wunderlichia mirabilis.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1984) :228-39.

Bohlmann, F.; Misra, L. N.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Further eudesmanolides from Dimerostemma species.” Phytochemistry
23(8) (1984) :1802-04.

Bohlmann, F.; Mohammadi, D.; Mohammadi, P. S.; Jakupovic, J.; King,
R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Germacranolides related to Chapliatrin from
Calea harleyi.” Phytochemistry 23(5) (1984) :1095—97.

Bohlmann, F.; Scheidges, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Five labdane
derivatives from Koanophyllon conglobatum.” Phytochemistry 23(5)(1984):
1190-92.

Bohlmann, F.; Scheidges, C.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Ent-
labdanes from Baccharis sternbergiana.” Phytochemistry 23(5) (1984) :1109—
if

Bohlmann, F.; Tsankova, E.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Five mikanolide
derivatives from Mikania cynanchifolia and their biogenetic relationships.”
Phytochemistry 23(5) (1984) :1099-1101.

Bohlmann, F.; Umemoto, K.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
“Seven sesquiterpene lactones from Ferreyanthus species.” Phytochemistry
23(8) (1984) :1669-72.

. “Sesquiterpenes from Liabum floribundum.” Phytochemistry 23(8)
(1984) :1800-02.

Bohlmann, F.; Wallmeyer, M.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “2-Oxo-labda-
8(17),13-dien-15-ol from Ophryosporus chilca.” Phytochemistry 23(7) (1984):
1513-14.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Jakupovic, J.; Ates (Goren), N.; King, R. M.; and
Robinson, H. “Steractinolide aus Aspilia-und Wedelia-Arten.” Liebigs
Annalen der Chemie (1983) :1257—-66.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Gerke, T.; Wallmeyer, M.; King, R. M.; and Robin-
son, H. “Neue Sequiterpenlactone und Rosan-Derivate aus Trichogonia-
Arten.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1984) :162-185.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Diter-
penes from Acritopappus confertus.” Phytochemistry 22(10) (1983) :2243-52.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “8B-Tigloylguaia-
grazielolide from Campovassouria bupleurifolia.” Phytochemistry 22(12)
(1983) :2860-62.

. “Further hirsutinolides from Vernonia polyanthes.” Phytochemistry

22(12) (1983) :2863-64.

. “Ein neuer Typ von Sesquiterpenlactonen aus Lychnophora salici-

folia.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1983) :1455-58.

. “Ein weiteres Germacranolide mit B-Lactonring aus Grazielia serrata.”

Liebigs Annales der Chemie (1983) :2045—48.

. “Neue Labdan-Derivate aus Aristegueitia pseudarborea.” Liebigs An-

nalen der Chemie (1983) :2127—34.

494 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “Germacranolide und Eudesmanolide aus Calea szyszylowiczii.” Lie-

bigs Annalen der Chemie (1983) :2227—46.

. “Prenylated p-Coumarates from Werneria stuebelii.” Phytochemistry

23(5) (1984) :1135-37.

. “4a,15-dihydroencelin and related sesquiterpene acids from Pery-

menium featherstonei.” Phytochemistry 23(5) (1984) :1185-—87.

. “2-acetoxy-3a,4a-epoxy-3,4-dihydrokauniolide from Grosvenoria coe-

locaulis.” Phytochemistry 23(5) (1984) :1187-88.

. “Heliangolides and bejaranolides from Conocliniopsis prasifolia.”

Phytochemistry 23(7) (1984) :1509-11.

. “Kingdiol, a kolavane derivative from Baccharis kingii.” Phytochemis-

try 23(7) (1984) :1511-12.

. “Neue Germacranolide, Heliangolide und Elemanolide aus Cron-

quistianthus chachapoyensis.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1984) :240-49.

. “Epoxycannabinolid und Diterpene mit neuem Kohlenstoffgeriist

aus Villanova titicacensis.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1984) :250-58.

. “Pseudoguajanolide und andere Sesquiterpene aus Monactis mac-

bridei.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie. (1984) :503-11.

. “A hydroxygermacrene and other constituents from Pseudobrickellia
brasiliensis.” Phytochemistry 23(8) (1984) :1798-99.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Schmeda-Hirschmann, G.; Jakupovic, J.; Castro, V.;
King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Heliangolide, Trachyloban- und Villanovan-
Derivate aus Viguiera-Arten.” Liebigs Annalen der Chemie (1984) :495—502.

Culberson, Chicita F.; Hale, Mason E.; Tonsberg, Tors; and Johnson, Anita.
“New Depsides from the Lichens Dimelaena oreina and Fuscidea viridis.”
Mycologia 76(1) (1984) :148—60.

Faden, R. B. “Commelinaceae.” In Flowering Plants in Australia, eds. B. D.
Morley and H. R. Toelken, pp. 368-69. Adelaide: Rigby, 1983.

. “Phytogeography of African Commelinaceae.” Bothalia 14(3—4) (1983) :

55o—o7.-

. “Isolating Mechanisms Among Five Sympatric Species of Aneilema
R. Br. (Commelinaceae) in Kenya.” Bothalia 14(3-4) (1983) :997-1002.

Fosberg, F. R. “Two New Species of Psychotria from the Society Islands.”
Candollea 38(1983) :455—-58.

. “A Possible New Pathogen Affecting Metrosideros in Hawaii.” News-

letter Hawaiian Botanical Society 22(1983) :13-16.

. “Natural History of Cousin Island.” Atoll Research Bulletin 273
(1984) :7-38.

Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. “The Identification of Desmodium purpur-
eum (Roxburgh) Hooker & Arnott.” Micronesica 18(2) (1984) :195-96.

. “Micronesian Poaceae: Critical and Distribution Notes.” Micronesica

18(2) (1984) :45-102.

. “Identification and Typification of Ruellia triflora Roxb. and difformis

L. F. (Acanthaceae).” Baileya: 22(3) (1984) :138-40.

. “Henderson Island Threatened.” Environmental Conservation 10
(1983) :171-73.

Fosberg, F. R.; Sachet, M.-H.; and Stoddart, D. R. “Henderson Island (South-
eastern Polynesia) Summary of Current Knowledge.” Atoll Research Bul-
letin 272(1983) :1—47, pls. 1-12.

. “List of the Vascular Flora of Agalega.” Atoll Research Bulletin 173
(1984) :109—-42.

Friis, I.; Hepper, F.; Jeffrey, C.; Taylor, N.; Verdcourt, B.; Howard, R.; and
Nicolson, Dan H. “Validity of Names Published by Forsskaal and Aublet.”
Taxon 33(3) (1984) :495—96.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 495
Funk, V. A. “Phylogenetic Systematics: Problems and Perspectives.” In Fun-
gus Insect Relationships: Perspectives in Ecology and Evolution, eds.
Q. Wheeler and M. Blackwell, pp. 54-63. New York: Columbia University
Press, 1984.

. “The Value of Natural Classification.” In Numerical Taxonomy, ed.
J. Felsenstein, pp. 18-22. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1983.

Hale, Mason E., Jr. “Control of Biological Growths of the Mayan Archeologi-
cal Ruins of Quirigua, Guatemala.” University Museum Monographs 49
(1983) :102-09.

. “Control of Biological Growths on Mayan Archeological Ruins in

Guatemala and Honduras.” National Geographic Society Research Reports

16 (1984) :305—21.

. “New Species of Xanthoparmelia (Vain.) Hale (Ascomycotina: Par-

meliaceae).”” Mycotaxon 20(1)(1984) :73—-79.

. “Flavopunctelia (Krog) Hale, A New Genus in the Parmeliaceae
(Ascomycotina).” Mycotaxon 20(2) (1984) :681—82.

Huber, Otto, and Wurdack, John. J. “History of Botanical Exploration in
Territorio Federal Amazonas, Venezuela.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Botany no. 56. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Humphries, C. J., and Funk, V. A. “Cladistic Methodology.” In Current Con-
cepts in Plant Taxonomy, eds. V. H. Heywood and D. M. Moore, pp. 323—
60. London: Academic Press, 1984.

Jansen, R. K.; Stuessy, T. F.; Piedrahita, S. Diaz; and Funk, V. A. “Recuentos
Cromosomicos en Compositae de Colombia.” Caldasia 14(1984) :7-20.

King, R. M., and Robinson, H. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae).
CCXVII. Three new species of Adenostemma.” Phytologia 54(1)(1983):
29-35.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXVI. Various new spe-
cies from the Andes.” Phytologia 54(1)(1983) :36—51.

Lamlein, Jane. “Threatened Plants Newsletter.” Endangered Species Technical
Bulletin Insert 1(3) (1984) :2.

. “Monitoring International Trade.” Endangered Species Technical Bul-

letin Insert 1(4) (1984) :2.

. “IUCN and Smithsonian Cooperate in Latin America Plant Conser-

vation Project.” Endangered Species Technical Bulletin Insert 1(4)(1984) :3.

. “Botanic Gardens Conservation Coordinating Body.” Endangered

Species Technical Bulletin Insert 1(6) (1984) :3-4.

. “Plants in Danger.” Endangered Species Technical Bulletin Insert
1(7) (1984) :3.

Lellinger, David B. “Native Ferns in the Wild and in Our Gardens.” Bulletin
of the American Rock Garden Society 42(1984) :76—86.

. “New Combinations and Some New Names in Ferns.” American Fern

Journal 74(1984) :56-60.

. “Notes on North American Ferns, II.” American Fern Journal 74

(1984) :62-63.

. “Hymenophyllopsidaceae (Filicales).” In “The Botany of the Guayana

Highland—Part XII,” by B. A. Maguire and collaborators. Memoirs of the

New York Botanical Garden 38(1984) :2-9.

. “Hymenophyllaceae (Filicales).” In “The Botany of the Guayana
Highland—Part XII,” by B. A. Maguire and collaborators. Memoirs of the
New York Botanical Garden 38(1984) :9-46.

Lellinger, David B., and Proctor, G. R. “The Ascriptions of Plumier’s Fern
Plates.” Taxon 32(1983) :565—-71.

Littler, M. M. “Smithsonian Institution Receives the Francis Drouet Cyano-
phyta Collection.” Taxon 33(1)(1984) :160.

496 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Littler, M. M., and Kauker, B. “Heterotrichy and Survival Strategies in the
Red Alga Corallina officinalis L.” Botanica Marina 27(1984) :37-44.

Littler, M. M., and Littler, D. S. “Heteromorphic Life History Strategies in the
Brown Alga Scytosiphon lomentaria (Lyngb.) Link.” Journal of Phycology
19(4) (1983) :425-31.

. “Relationships Between Macroalgal Functional Form Groups and
Substrata Stability in a Subtropical Rocky-intertidal System.” Journal of
Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 73(1984) :13-34.

Littler, M. M.; Taylor, P. R.; and Littler, D. S. “Algal Resistance to Herbivory
on a Caribbean Barrier Reef.” Coral Reefs 2(1983) :111-18.

Myers, N.; and Ayensu, E. S. “Reduction of Biological Diversity and Species
Loss.” Ambio 12(2) (1983) :72-74.

Nicolson, Dan H. Alphabetical Index to Schott’s Icones Aroideae and Reliq-
uiae. Zug, Switzerland: International Document Center, 1984.

. “Amorphophallus konjac vs. A. rivieri (Araceae).” Aroideana 7(1984):

7-8.

. “(737) Proposal to Conserve 6282 Jacquinia L. (Theophrastaceae).”

Taxon 33(1984) :121-22.

. “Proposal to Conserve 764 Stylochiton Lepr. (Araceae).” Taxon 33

(3) (1984) :509-11.

. “Publications on Araceae by Sodiro.” Huntia 5(1984) :3-15.

Nicolson, Dan H.; Greuter, W.; Demoulin, V.; and Brummitt, R. “On Changes
Made in Appendix III (Sydney Code).” Taxon 33(1984) :310-16.

Nowicke, J. W., and Meselson, M. S. “Yellow Rain: A Palynological Analy-
sis.” Nature 309(5965) (1984) :205-06.

Nowicke, J. W., and Skvarla, J. J. “A Palynological Study of the Genus Helle-
borus (Ranunculaceae).” Grana 22(1984) :129-40.

. “Pollen Morphology and the Relationships of Simmondsia chinensis
to the Order Euphorbiales.” American Journal of Botany 71(1984) :210-15.

Nowicke, J. W.; Skvarla, J. J.; Raven, P. H.; and Berry, P. “A Palynological
Study of the Genus Fuchsia (Onagraceae).” Annals of Missouri Botanical
Garden 71(1984) :35-101.

Oliver, R. L., and Skog, L. E. “Gesneriaceae.” In “Chromosome Number Re-
ports LXXXII.” Taxon 33(1984) :126.

Praglowski, J.; Skvarla, J. J.; Raven, P. H.; and Nowicke, J. W. “Angiosper-
mae: Onagraceae Juss., Fuchsieae L./Jussiaeeae L.” World Pollen and Spore
Flora 12(1984) :1-41.

Read, R. W. “Introduction and Annotations.” In Bromeliaceae Andreanae.
(American Edition), ed. Michael Rottenberg, Berkeley: Two Windows Press,
1983.

. “Greigia tillettii and Puya silvaebaccae L. B. Smith & R. W. Read.”

In “Contribuciones a la Flora, Venezuela,” by S. S. Tillett and J. A. Steyer-

mark. Ernestia 17(1983) :9.

. “The Evolution of a New Genus, LYMANIA gen. nov.” Journal of

the Bromeliad Society 34(4) (1984) :200-08.

Read, R. W., and Smith, L. B. “Studies of the Genus Billbergia.” Journal of
the Bromeliad Society 33(6)(1983) :243-45, 263, 2 figs. & cover.

Robertson, S. A., and Fosberg, F. R. “List of Plants Collected on Coetivy
Island, Seychelles.” Atoll Research Bulletin no. 273(1984) :143-156.

. “List of Plants Collected on Platte Island, Seychelles.” Atoll Research
Bulletin no. 273(1984) :156-164.

. “List of Plants of Poibre Island, Amirantes.” Atoll Research Bulletin
no. 273(1984) :165-176.

Robertson, I. A. D.; Robertson, S. A.; and Fosberg, F. R. “List of Plants Col-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 497
lected on Alphonse Island, Amirantes.” Atoll Research Bulletin no. 273
(1984) 177-84.

Robinson, H. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXX. Four new species
from Peru.” Phytologia 54(1) (1983) :52—61.

. “Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). XVI. New taxa from Peru.”

Phytologia 54(1)(1983) :62-65.

. “New species of Chionolaena and Stenocline from Brazil (Inuleae:

Asteraceae). Phytologia 55(3)(1984) :121—26.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXII. New species of

Wedelia from Brazil.” Phytologia 55(6)(1984) :389—414.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXIII. New species of

Aspilia from South America.” Phytologia 55(6) (1984) :415—23.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XXXI. Additions to the

genus Dimerostemma.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington

97(3) (1984) :618—26.

. “Style rotation in the Asteraceae.” Taxon 33(3)(1984) :400—4.

Robinson, H., and Burns-Balogh, P. “Re.: On a primitively epiphytic habit in
Orchidaceae.” Systematic Botany 9(2) (1984) :258.

Sachet, M.-H. “Natural History of Mopelia Atoll, Society Islands.” Atoll Re-
search Bulletin no. 274(1984) :1-37, pl. 1-30.

. “Botanique de I’ile de Tupai, Iles de la Societe.” Atoll Research Bulle-

tin no. 276(1984) :1—26, pl. 1-18.

. “Takapoto Atoll, Tuamotu Archipelago: Terrestial Vegetation and
Flora.” Atoll Research Bulletin no. 277(1984) :1—41, pl. 1-10.

Sachet, M.-H., and Fosberg, F. R. “An Ecological Reconnaissance of Tetiaroa
Atoll, Society Islands.” Atoll Research Bulletin no. 275(1984) :1-67, pl. 1-42.

Sivadasan, M., and Nicolson, Dan H. “Araceae.” In Flora of the Tamilnadu
Carnatic vol. 3 by K. M. Matthew, pp. 1685-1704. Tiruchirapalli, India:
Rapinat Herbarium, St. Joseph’s College, 1984.

. “Arisaema nilamburense, A New Name for a Threatened Species of
India.” Aroideana 6(1984) :36—38.

Skog, L. E. “Identification of the Gesneriaceae Collected by the Royal Botani-
cal Expedition to New Spain (1787—1803).” American Journal of Botany
71(5, part 2)(1984) :108.

. “Proposal to Conserve 4722 Billia Peyritsch (Hippocastanaceae)

Against Billya Cassini (Compositae).” Taxon 32(1983) :650—51.

. “Gesneriaceae of Australia and New Zealand.” The Gloxinian 33(6)
(1983) :16-22.

Smith, L. B. “Morren’s Paintings.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society 34(1)
(1984) :4—5, figs. 1-2.

. “Morren’s Paintings.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society 34(2)(1984):

52, 53, figs) ia:

. “New Bromeliads—1: Brocchinia amazonica.” Journal of the Brome-
liad Society 34(3) (1984) :106, fig. 4.

Smith, L. B., and Dimmitt, Mark A. “Tillandsia sonorensis.” Journal of the
Bromeliad Society 34(4) (1984) :160, fig. 5 (p. 161), fig. 6 (p. 162).

Smith, L. B.; Steyermark, J. A.; and Robinson, H. “Bromeliaceae.” Acta Bo-
tanica Venezuelica 13(3)(1984) :8-15, 30-39, figs. 105-6.

Smith, Lyman B., and Wasshausen, Dieter C. “Notes on Begoniaceae-III.”
Phytologia 54(7)(1984) :465-73.

. “Notes on Begoniaceae-IV.” Phytologia 55(2) (1984) :112.

. “Notes on Begoniaceae-V.” Phytologia 56(1)(1984) :16.

Soderstrom, T. R. “In Quest of the Pygmy Bamboos.” Fairchild Tropical Gar-
den Bulletin 39(1984) :6-15.

498 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Timme, S. L., and Faden, R. B. “Tradescantia longipes Anderson & Woodson
(Commelinaceae) in the Southeastern United States.” Castanea 49(1984):
83-85.

Wasshausen, Dieter C. “Pranceacanthus coccineus (Acanthaceae), A New
Genus and Species from Amazonian Brazil.” Brittonia 36(1) (1984) :1-7.

. “Two New Species of Habracanthus (Acanthaceae) from Colombia.”
Brittonia 36(1) (1984) :68—73.

Wurdack, J. J. “Certamen Melastomataceis XXXVII.” Phytologia 55(1984):
131-47.

. “Melastomataceae.” In “Nuevos taxa de la Guayana Venezolona,” by

J. A. Steyermark, B. Maguire, and collaborators. Acta Botanica Venezuelica

14(1984) :23.

Department of Entomology

Buxton, G. M.; Thomas, D. M.; and Froeschner, R. C. “Revision of the Spe-
cies of the Sayi-Group of Chlorochroa Stal (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae).”
Occasional Papers in Entomology, Laboratory Services, California Depart-
ment of Food and Agriculture 29(1983) :1-25.

Chew, F. S., and Robbins, R. K. “Egg-laying in Butterflies.” In The Biology of
Butterflies. Symposium of the Royal Entomological Society of London 11
(1984) :65-79.

Clarke, J. F. G. Insects of Micronesia, Microlepidoptera (Gelechioidea) 9(2)
(1984) 145-55, figs. 1-5, pl. 1.

Clarke, J. F. G.; Brown, Richard L.; and Habek, Dale H. “New Host Records
for Olethreutinae (Tortricidae). Journal of the Lepidopterists’ Society 37(3)
(1983) :224—27.

Coddington, J. “A Temporary Slide Mount Allowing Precise Manipulation of
Small Structures.” Abhandlungen und Verhandlungen der naturwissen-
schaftlichen Vereins in Hamburg (NF) 26:(1983) :291-92.

Davis, D. R. “A New Acanthopteroctetes from the Northwestern United
States (Acanthopteroctetidae). Journal of the Lepdiopterists’ Society 38(1):
47-50, figs. 1-8.

Erwin, Terry L. “Beetles and Other Arthopods of the Tropical Forest Canopies
at Manaus, Brazil, Sampled with Insecticidal Fogging Techniques.” In Trop-
ical Rain Forests: Ecology and Management, eds. S. L. Sutton, T. C. Whit-
more, and A. C. Chadwick. Blackwell Scientific Publications. Oxford, United
Kingdom. (1983) :59-75.

. “Agra, Arboreal Beetles of Neotropical Forests: Palmata Group Sys-

tematics (Carabidae).” Systematic Entomology 9(1984) :9—48.

. “Studies of the Tribe Bembidiini (Coleoptera: Carabidae): Lectotype
Designations and Species Group Assignments for Bembidion Species De-
scribed by Thomas L. Casey, et al.” Pan-Pacific Entomology 60(3)(1984):
165-87.

Farhang-Azad, A.; Traub, R.; and Wisseman, C. L., Jr. “Rickettsia mooseri
Infection in the Fleas Leptopsylla segnis and Xenopsylla cheopis. American
Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 32(6)(1983) :1392-1400, illus.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXXIV: The Genus
Plectromacronema (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae).” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington 96(1983) :225-37.

Froeschner, Richard C. “Does the Old World Family Plataspidae (Hemiptera)
Occur in North America?” Entomological News 95(1984) :36.

. “Heteroptera Records from the Grand Cayman Island.” Proceedings
of the Entomological Society of Washington 85(1983) :861.

Froeschner, Richard C., and Steiner, W. E., Jr. “Second Record of the South

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 499
American Burrowing Bug, Scaptocoris castaneus Perty (Hemiptera: Cydni-
dae) in the United States.” Entomological News, 94(1983) :176.

Gingras, Sandra S. “Taxonomic Notes on the Bee Genus Hexepeolus Hyme-
noptera: Anthophoridae).” Wasmann Journal of Biology 41(1—2)1983(1984) :
50-52.

Krombein, Karl V. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, X: Taxonomic
and Biological Notes on Some Oxybelinae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea,
Crabronidae).” International Journal of Entomology (India) 1(1983) :31-39.

. and Linsley, E. Gorton. “Paul David Hurd, Jr., 1921-1982.” Pan-

Pacific Entomologist 58(1983) :262-77.

. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XIII: A Monograph of

the Stizinae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidae: Nyssonidae).” Smithsonian Con-

tributions to Zoology 388, Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C.,

1984.

. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, XII: Behavioral and Life
History Notes on Some Sphecidae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea).” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology 387, Smithsonian Institution Press, Wash-
ington, D.C. 1984.

Levi, H. W., and Coddington, J. “Progress Report on the Phylogeny of the
Orb-weaving Family Araneidae and the Superfamily Araneoidea (Ara-
chnida: Araneae).” Abhandlungen und Verhandlungen der naturwissen-
schaftlichen Vereins in Hamburg (NF) 26(1983) :151-54.

Mathis, Wayne N. “A Revision of the Genus Dagus Cresson (Diptera: Ephy-
dridae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 85(4)
(1983) :717-26.

. “Notes on Brachydeutera Loew (Diptera: Ephydridae) from North

America.” Entomological News 94(3) (1983) :177—80.

. “Notes of the Shore Fly Genus Diedrops (Diptera: Ephydridae).”

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 86(2)(1984):

349-53.

. “A Revision of the Genus Asmeringa Becker (Diptera: Ephydridae).”

Israel Journal of Entomology 17(1984) :67-79.

. “A Revision of the Shore Fly Genus Homalometopus Becker (Diptera:
Ephydridae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(2)
(1984) :251-62.

Robbins, Robert K. [Book Review.] New Zealand Butterflies, Identification
and Natural History, by G. W. Gibbs). Proceedings of the Entomological
Society of Washington 86:244.

Rolston, L. H.; Hoberlandt, L.; and Froeschner, R. C. “Scotinophara sicula
A. Costa, a Mediterranean Species in the Virgin Islands (Hemiptera: Pen-
tatomidae: Podopinae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington 86(1984) :266-68.

Spangler, Paul J. “Immature Stages and Biology of Tetraglossa palpalis
Champion (Coleoptera: Ptilodactylidae).” Entomological News 94(5) (1983):
161-75, 23 figures.

. “An Aquatic Insert Survey of Ecuador.” National Geographic So-

ciety Research Reports 16(1984) :611-14.

. and Steiner, Warren E. “New Species of Water Beetles of the
Genera Elmoparnus and Pheneps from Suriname (Coleoptera: Dryopidae:
Psephenidae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington
85(4) (1983) :826—-39, 25 figures.

Steiner, Warren E., Jr. “A Review of the Biology of Phalacrid Beetles (Coleop-
tera).” In Fungus-Insect Relationships; Perspective in Ecology and Evolu-
tion, eds. Q. Wheeler and M. Blackwell, 424-445. Columbia University
Press, New York, 1984.

500 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “Notes on Centronopus opacus LeConte from Oklahoma and Arkan-
sas (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae). Coleopterists Bulletin 37(1) (1983) :90—91.

Tennessen, K. J. and Louton, J. A. “The True Nymph of Gomphus (Gomphu-
rus) crassus Hagen (Odonata: Gomphidae), with Notes on Adults.” Pro-
ceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 86(1)(1984) :223-27.

Yanagihara, R.; Gajdusek, D. C.; Gibbs, C. R.; and Traub, R. “Prospect Hill
Virus: Serological Evidence for Infection in Mammalogists.” (Letter to the
Editor.) New England Journal of Medicine 310(20) (1984) :1325-26, refs.

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

Barnard, J. L., and Clark, J. “Redescription of Phoxocephalopsis zimmeri with
a New Species and Establishment of the Family Phoxocephalopsidae
(Crustacea, Amphipoda) from Magellanic South America.” Journal of
Crustacean Biology 4(1984) :85—-105.

Barnard, J. L., and Drummond, M. M. “Warreyus, a New Genus of Exoedi-
cerotidae (Crustacea, Amphipoda) Based on Exoediceros maculosus Sheard
(1936).” Proceedings of the Royal Society of Victoria 95(1983) :65—75.

Barnard, J. L., and Thomas, J. D. “A New Species of Amphilochus from the
Gorgonian, Pterogorgia anceps in the Caribbean Sea.” “Selected Papers on
Crustacea (1983) :179-87.

Bayer, F. M.; Grasshoff, M.; and Verseveldt, J., eds. Illustrated Trilingual
Glossary of Morphological and Anatomical Terms Applied to Octocorallia,
pp. 1-75. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1983.

Bowman, T. E. “Stalking the Wild Crustacean: The Significance of Sessile
and Stalked Eyes in Phylogeny.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 4(1)(1984):
7-11.

. “Invertebrate Linkages.” Review of Crustacean Phylogeny, ed. Fred-
erick R. Schram. Balkema, Rotterdam. Science 224:53.

Bowman, T. E., and Tareen, I. U. “Cymothoidae from Fishes of Kuwait
(Arabian Gulf) (Crustacea: Isopoda).” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology 296, i-iii, 1-30. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1983.

Bowman, T. E. and Lewis, J. J. “Caecidotea rotunda, a New Troglobitic
Asellid from Indiana and Ohio (Crustacea: Isopoda: Asellidae).” Pro-
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(2)(1984) :425-31.

Brown, R. and Higgins, R. P. “A New Species of Kinorhynchus (Homalor-
hagida, Pycnophyidae) from Australia with a Redescription and Range
Extension of other Kinorhyncha from the South Pacific.” Zoologica Scripta
12(1984) :161-69.

Burch, J. B. “The Limpet Genus Brondelia Among the Freshwater Gastro-
pods.” American Malacological Bulletin 2(1984) :88-89.

Burch, J. B., and Lohachit, C. “Snails of Medical Importance in Thailand.”
Walkerana 1(5) (1983) :395-98.

Burch, J. B., and Jeong, K. “The Radulae of Selected Planorbidae.” Malaco-
logical Review 17(1984) :67—84.

Burr, B. M., and Hobbs, H. H. Jr. “Additions to the Crayfish Fauna of
Kentucky, with New Locality Records for Cambarellus shufeldtii.” Trans-
actions of the Kentucky Academy of Sciences 45(1—2) (1984) :14—-18.

Cairns, S. D. “Pseudocrypthelia, a New Genus of Stylasterine Coral from the
Indonesian Region.” Beaufortia 33(3) (1983) :29-35.

. “Observations on Species of the Fossil Genus Axopora and its

Evolutionary Significance to the Stylasteridae.” Proceedings of the Bio-

logical Society of Washington 96(4) (1983) :758-69.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 501
Cairns, S. D., and Barnard, J. L. “Redescription of Janaria mirabilis, a Calci-
fied Hydroid from the Eastern Pacific.” Southern California Academy of
Sciences Bulletin 83(1) (1984) :1-11.

Child, C. A. “Pycnogonida of the Western Pacific Islands II. Guam and the
Palau Islands.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
96 (4) (1983) :698-714.

Chace, F. A., Jr. “The Atya-like Shrimps of the Indo-Pacific Region (Deca-
poda: Atyidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 384, i-iii, 1-54.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

. “The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the Albatross
Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 2: Families Glyphocrangonidae and
Crangonidae.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 397, i-iv, 1-63. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Cooper, J. E.; Jackson, O. F., and Harshbarger, J. C. “A Neurilemmal Sar-
coma in a Tortoise (Testudo hermanni).” Journal of Comparative Pathology
93(1983) :541—45.

Cressey, R. F. and Dojiri, M. “Bomolochus paucus, a New Species of Para-
sitic Copepod from Scianid Fishes from Southern California.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 97(1)(1984) :221-25.

Cressey, R. F.; Collette, B. B.; and Russo, J. L. “Copepods and Scombrid
Fishes: A Study in Host-Parasite Relationships.” Fishery Bulletin 81(2):
227-63.

Fleeger, J. W.; Tang, Z.; and Higgins, R. P. “Preliminary Study of the
Quantitative Ecology of Meiobenthic Copepoda and Kinorhyncha off the
Changjiang Estuary and Adjacent Waters, East China Sea.” Proceedings of
the Symposium on Sedimentation on the Continental Shelf of the East
China Sea 2(1983) :937—-46.

Harshbarger, J. C. “Pseudoneoplasms in Ectothermic Animals.
Cancer Institute Monograph 65(1984) :251-73.

Hart, C. W. Jr., and Clark, J. “A New Commensal Ostracod of the Genus
Microsyssitria from South Africa (Ostracoda: Entocytheridae: Microsyssi-
triinae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(1)(1984):
217—20.

Hart, C. W. Jr.; Clark, J.; and Manning, R. B. “Mythology and Microcom-
puters.” Curator 26(3)(1983) :199-202.

Hobbs, H. H. Jr., “Distocambarus (Fitzcambarus) carlsoni, a New Subgenus
and Species of Crayfish (Decapoda: Cambaridae) from South Carolina.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 93(6)(1983) :429-39.

. “On the Distribution of the Crayfish Genus Procambarus (Decapoda:
Cambaridae).” Journal of Crustacean Biology 4(1)(1984) :12—24.

Hobbs, H. H., Jr., and Carlson, P. H. “Distocambarus (Decapoda: Cambari-
dae) Elevated to Generic Rank, with an Account of D. crockeri, New
Species from South Carolina.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 93(6)(1983) :429-39.

Hobbs, H. H., Jr., and McClure, A. C. “On a Small Collection of Entocy-
therid Ostracods with the Descriptions of Three New Species.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 96(4)(1983) :770-79.

Houbrick, R. S. “Going Collecting? Look for a Live Royella sinon.” Hawaiian
Shell News 32(4)(1984) :12.

Jones, M. L. “Pogonophora.” In McGraw-Hill Yearbook of Science and Tech-
ology, 1984, pp. 355-57. McGraw-Hill, 1983.

. “Annelida.” In The Encyclopedia of Earth Sciences, vol. 15: The

Encyclopedia of Beaches and Coastal Environments, ed. M. L. Schwartz, pp.

39-41. Hutchinson Ross, 1982.

7

National

502 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Kenk, R. “Freshwater Triclads (Turbellaria) of North America. XV. Two New
Subterranean Species from the Appalachian Region.” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 97(1) (1984) :209-16.

Kensley, B. “The Role of Isopod Crustaceans in the Reef Crest Community at
Carrie Bow Cay, Belize.” Marine Ecology 5(1)(1984) :29-44.

. “Astacilla Cordiner, 1793 (Crustacea: Isopoda): Proposed Nomen-

clatural Validation by Use of Plenary Powers Z.N. (S)2319.” Bulletin of

Zoological Nomenclature 40(3) (1983) :163—64.

. “The South African Museum’s Meiring Naude Cruises. Part 15.

Marine Isopoda of the 1977, 1978, 1979 Cruises.” Annals of the South

African Museum 93(4) (1984) :213—301.

. “New Records of Bresiliid Shrimp from Australia, South Africa,
Caribbean, and Gulf of Mexico (Decapoda: Natantia: Caridea).” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology 394, i-iii, 1-31. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1983.

Kensley, B. F., and Schotte, M. “Redescription of Arcturella lineata (Steb-
bing) from South Africa (Crustacea: Isopoda: Arcturidae).” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 97(1)(1984:240—44.

Kornicker, L. S. “New Species of Dantya from the Indian Ocean (Ostracoda:
Sarsiellidae: Dantyinae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 383,
i-iii, 1-18. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

. “Philomedidae of the Continental Shelf of Eastern North America

and the Northern Gulf of Mexico (Ostracoda: Myodocopina).” Smithsonian

Contributions to Zoology 393, i-iii, 1-78. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1984.

. “Cypridinidae of the Continental Shelves of Southeastern North

America, the Northern Gulf of Mexico, and the West Indies (Ostracoda:

Myodocopina).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 401(1984) :i-iii,

1-37. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

. “Ostracoda from the West Coast of Central America (Mydocopina:

Cypridinacea).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington

97(1) (1984) :127-134.

, ed. “Biology of the Antarctic Seas XIV,” Antarctic Research Series,

1983, Vol. 39, 367 pp.

, ed. “Biology of the Antarctic Seas XV,” Antarctic Research Series,
1984, 284 pp.

Kristensen, R., and Higgins, R. P. “A New Family of Arthrotardigrada (Tardi-
grada: Heterotardigrada) from the Atlantic Coast of Florida, U.S.A.”
Transactions of the American Microscopical Society 103(1984) :295-311.

Manning, R. B. “Gonodactyloideus cracens n. gen., n. sp., a New Stomatopod
Crustacean from Western Australia.” The Beagle 1(9)(1984) :83-86.

Manning, R. B., and Bruce, A. J. “Erythrosquilla megalops, a Remarkable New
Stomatopod from the Western Indian Ocean.” Journal of Crustacean Biol-
ogy 4(2)(1984) :329-32.

Manning, R. B., and Hart, C. W. Jr., “The Status of the Hippolytid Shrimp
Genera Barbouria and Ligur: A Reevaluation.” Proceedings of the Biologi-
cal Society of Washington 97(3) (1984) :657—67.

Manning, R. B., and Holthuis, L. B. “Geryon fenneri, a New Deep-Water Crab
from Florida (Crustacea, Decapoda, Geryonidae).” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 97(3) (1984) :668-75.

Millikan, M. R., and Williams, A. B. “Synopsis of Biological Data on the
Blue Crab, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun.” NOAA Technical Report NMFS
1: iv, +39 pp.

Miller, J. E., and Pawson, D. L. “Holothurians (Echinodermata: Holothuroi-
dea).” Memoirs of the Hourglass Cruises 7(1) :1-79.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 503
Montali, R. J.; Valerio, M. G.; and Harshbarger, J. C. “Lung Tumors in
Nondomesticated Animals.” In Comparative Respiratory Tract Carcino-
genesis. Vol. I. Spontaneous Respiratory Tract Carcinogenesis, ed. H. M.
Reznik-Schuller, pp. 219-31. Fla.: CRC Press, 1983.

. “Tumors of the Nasal Cavity in Nondomesticated Animals.” In
Nasal Tumors in Animals and Man. Vol. II. Tumor Pathology, eds. G. Rez-
nik and S. F. Stinson, pp. 239-54. Fla.: CRC Press, 1983.

Nakamura, K., and Child, C. A. “Shallow-water Pycnogonida from the Izu
Peninsula, Japan.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 386, i-v, 1-71.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Nowell, A. R. M.; Jumars, P. A.; and Fauchald, K. “The Foraging Strategy of
a Subtidal and Deep-Sea Deposit Feeder.” Limnology and Oceanography
29(3) :645-49.

Pawson, D. L. “Ocnus sacculus New Species (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea),
a Brood-Protecting Holothurian from Southeastern New Zealand.” New
Zealand Journal of Marine and Freshwater Research 17, 227-30, 1983.

Pawson, D. L., and Miller, J. E. “Systematics and Ecology of the Sea Urchin
Genus Centrostephanus (Echinodermata: Echinoidea) from the Atlantic and
Eastern Pacific Oceans.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences
20, i-iii, 1-15. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Pettibone, M. H. “A New Scale Worm (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from the
Hydrothermal Rift Area off Western Mexico at 21deg.N.” Proceedings of
the Washington Biological Society of Washington 96(3)(1983) :392-99.

. “Minusculisquama Hughesi, a New Genus and Species of Scale Worm

(Polychaeta: Polynoidae) from Eastern Canada.” Proceedings of the

Biological Society of Washington 96(3) (1983) :400-6.

. “A New Scale-Worm Commensal with Deep-Sea Mussels on the
Galapagos Hydrothermal Vent (Polychaeta: Polynoidae).” Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 97(1) (1984) :226—-39.

Reames, R. C., and Williams, A. B. “The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii H.M.
Edw. s. 1. Populations in Alabama, U.S.A.” Fishery Bulletin U.S. 81(4)
(1984) :885-90.

Rehder, H. A. “A Revised List of the Marine Mollusks of Henderson Island.”
Appendix 2 of “Henderson Island (Southeastern Polynesia): Summary of
Current Knowledge.” by F. R. Fosberg, M. H. Sachet, and D. R. Stoddart.
Atoll Research Bulletin 272(1983) :34—39.

. “Marine Mollusca.” In “Natural History of Mopelia Atoll, Society

Islands,” by M. H. Sachet. Atoll Research Bulletin 274(1983) :18—20.

. “The Genus Brondelia Bourguignat, 1862, and its Taxonomic Position

(Gastropoda: Siphonariidae).” The Nautilus 98(2)(1984) :83—84.

. “Cypraea thomasi Crosse: A Valid Species.” Hawaiian Shell News
32(4) (1984) :1-8, 13 fig.

Rice, M. E.; Piraino, J.; and Reichardt, H. F. “Observations on the Ecology
and Reproduction of the Sipunculan Phascolion cryptus in the Indian
River Lagoon.” Florida Scientist 46(1983) :382—96.

Roper, C. F. E.; Sweeney, M. J.; and Nauen, C. E. “FAO Species Catalogue,
vol. 3., Cephalopods of the World: An Annotated and Illustrated Catalogue
of Species of Interest to Fisheries.” FAO Fisheries Synopsis No. 125, Vol. 3,
277 pp. (1984).

Rosewater, J. “A Bibliography and List of the Taxa of Mollusks Introduced
by Joseph P. E. Morrison (December 17, 1906—December 2, 1983).” The
Nautilus 98(1) (1984) :1-9.

. “A New Species of Leptonacean Bivalve from off Northwestern Peru
(Heterodonta: Veneroida: Lasaeidae).” The Veliger 27(1)(1984) :81-89.

Rutzler, K., and Santavy, D. L. “The Black Band Disease of Atlantic Reef

504 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Corals. I. Description of the Cyanophyte Pathogen.” Marine Ecology
4(4) (1983) :301-19.

Rutzler, K.; Santavy, D. L.; and Antonius, A. “The Black Band Disease of
Atlantic Reef Corals. III. Distribution, Ecology, and Development.” Marine
Ecology 4(4)(1983) :329-58.

Small, E. G., and Jones, M. L. “Ciliates Associated with 21deg.N Hydro-
thermal Vents.” Journal of Protozoology 30(3):24A (Abstract).

Sullivan, B.; Miller, K.; Singleton, K.; Scheer, A. G.; and Williams, A. B.
“The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii H. M. Edw., s. 1. Electrophoretic
Analyses of hemocyanins from Four Forms with Observations on the
Ecology of Form obesa.” Fishery Bulletin U.S. 81(4)(1984) :883-85.

Tai, A., and Manning, R. B. “A New Species of Potamocypoda (Brachyura:
Ocypodidae) from Malaysia.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 97(3) (1984) :617-19.

Toll, R. B. “The Lycotheuthid Genus Oregoniateuthis Voss, 1956, a synonym
of Lycoteuthis Pfeffer, 1900 (Cephalopoda: Teuthoides).” Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 96(3) (1984) :365-69.

. “Characters and Classification—a Preliminary Review of the Genera
in the Subfamily Octopodinae.” American Malacological Bulletin 2:89,
1984 (Abstract).

Van Dover, C. L.; Williams, A. B.; and Factor, J. R. “The First Zoeal Stage
of a Hydrothermal Vent Crab (Decapoda: Brachyura: Bythograeidae).”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(2)(1984) :413-18.

van Soest, R. W. M.; Stone, S. M.; Boury-Esnault, N.; and Rutzler, K.
“Catalogue of the Duchassaing and Michelotti (1864) Collection of West
Indian Sponges (Porifera).” Bulletin Zoologisch Museum 9(21)(1983):
189-205.

Williams, A. B. “Shrimps, Lobsters, and Crabs of the Atlantic Coast of the
Eastern United States, Maine to Florida.” Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1984, 550 pp.

. “The Mud Crab Panopeus herbstii, s.1. Partition into six species
(Decapoda: Xanthidae).” Fishery Bulletin U.S. 81(4)(1984) :863-82.

Williams, A. B., and Van Dover, C. L. “A New Species of Munidopsis from
Marine Thermal Vents of the East Pacific Rise at 21deg.N (Anomura
Galatheidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(3)
(1983) :481-88.

Zea, S., and Rutzler, K. “A New Species of Xestospongia (Porifera): Demo-
spongea), from the Colombian Caribbean.” Caldasia 13(65) (1983) :817-31.

Department of Mineral Sciences

Allmohandis, A. A., and Clarke, R. S., Jr. “The Alkhamasin, Saudi Arabia,
Iron Meteorite.” Meteoritics (18) :260.

Clarke, R. S., Jr. “Descriptions of Iron Meteorites and Mesosiderites.” In
Field and Laboratory Investigations of Meteorites from Victoria Land,
Antarctica, eds. U. B. Marvin and B. Mason, 49-53. Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to the Earth Sciences, Vol. 26.

Fiske, Richard S. “Volcanologists, journalists, and the concerned local public:
A tale of two crises in the Eastern Caribbean.” In Explosive Volcanism:

Inception, Evolution, and Hazards, pp. 170-176. National Academy Press,
1984.

. “Volcano hazards—lessons learned in the Eastern Caribbean.” In
Resources for the Twenty-First Century, U.S. Geological Survey Profes-
sional Paper 1193, pp. 256-260, 1984.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 505
Fleischer, M. “Distribution of the lanthanides and yttrium in apatites from
iron ores and its bearing on the genesis of ores of the Kiruna type.”
Econ. Geol. (78)(1983) :1007—10.

. (Additions and Corrections to) “Glossary of Mineral Species.” Min-

eralogical Record (15)(1984) :51-54.

. “Memorial of J. J. Fahey.” Geological Society of America Memorial
(1984): 4 pp.

Fredriksson, K. “On Crystallinity, Recrystallization, Equilibration, and Meta-
morphism in Chondrites.” In Chondrules and Their Origins, ed., E. A. King
pp. 44-52. Lunar & Planetary Institute, Houston, 1983.

Fredriksson, K., and Specht, S. “Ion Probe Analysis of Chondrite Samples.”
Meteoritics 18(4) (1983) :298-99.

. “Electron and Ion Probe Determinations of Some Element Partitions
in Individual Chondrules.” 9th Symp. on Antarctic Meteorites, Nat. Inst.
of Polar Res. Tokyo, (1984) :31-33.

Fudali, R. F.; Kreutzberger, M.; Kurat, G.; and Brandstatter. F. “Aspects of
a Glassy Meteorite from the Moon Bearing on Some Problems of Extra-
terrestrial Glass-Making.” Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids 67(1-3):
383-96.

Glass, B. P.; Fredriksson, K.; and Florensky, P. V. “Microirghizites Recovered
from a Sediment Sample from the Zhamanshin Impact Structure.” In
Proc. 14th Lunar and Planet. Sci. Conf., Part 1, J. Geophys. Res. Vol. (88),
Suppl., (1983) :B319-B330.

Jarosewich, E. “Bulk Chemical Analyses of Antarctic Meteorites, with Notes
on Weathering Effects on FeO, Fe-metal, FeS, H2xO and C.” Smithsonian
Contributions to the Earth Sciences (26) :111-114.

Mason, B. “The definition of a howardite.” Meteoritics (18) (1983) :245.

Mason, B., and Marvin, U. B. “Field and Laboratory Investigations of Mete-
orites from Victoria Land, Antarctica.” Smithsonian Contributions to the
Earth Sciences (26)(1984) :134.

Mason, B., and Yanai, K. “A Review of the Yamato-74 Meteorite Collection.”
Mem. Natl. Inst. Polar Research (Toyko), Special Issue no. 30(1984) :7—28.

Melson, W. G. “Properties, Cultural Selection, and Provenance of Pumice from
Tell Gemmeh, Israel.” Society for Archaeological Sciences Research Reports
4(1983) :3-6.

. “Monitoring the 1980-1982 Eruptions of Mount St. Helens: Compo-
sitions and Abundances of Glass.” Science 221(1983) :1387—91.

Natland, J. H.; Melson, W. G.; and O’Hearn, T. “Production of uniform lava
compositions of spreading Ridges: result of magma mixing or a Thermal
Cusp.” EOS 64(1983) :322. (Abstract.)

Natland, James H.; Tarney, John; Marsh, N. G.; Melson, W. G.; and O’Hearn,
T. “Compositions, Stratigraphy, and Alteration of Pillow Basalts, Deep Sea
Drilling Project Hole 543A, near the Barbados Ridge. In Initial Reports of
the Deep Sea Drilling Project, B. Biju-Duval, J. C. Moore, et al. (78) :393—
399. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1984.

Newhall, C. G., and Melson, W. G. “Explosive Activity Associated with the
Growth of Volcanic Domes.” Volcanology and Geothermal Research 17
(1983) :111-131.

Roden, M. K.; Hart, S. R.; Frey, F. A.; and Melson, W. G. “Sr, Nd and Pb
Isotopic and REE Geochemistry of St. Paul’s Rocks: the Metamorphic and
Metasomatic Development of an Alkali Basalt Mantle Source.” Contrib.
Mineral. Petrol. (85) (1984) :376—90.

Rubin, E.; Rehfeldt, A.; Peterson, E.; Keil, K.; and Jarosewich, E. “Fragmental
Breccias and the Collisional Evolution of Ordinary Parent Bodies.” Mete-
oritics (18) (1983) :179—96.

506 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Simkin, T. “Geology of Galapagos Islands.” In Key Environments series, ed.
R. Perry. Galapagos 1984, pp. 15-41.

Simkin, T. “Geology of Galapagos.” Biol. Journ. of Linnean Soc. (21)(1984):
61-75.

Simkin, T., and Fiske, R. S. Krakatau 1883: The Volcanic Eruption and its
Effects. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983: 464 pp.

. “Krakatau 1883: A Classic Geophysical Event.” EOS (64)(1983) :513—

14.

. “Krakatoa 1883: A centennial retrospective on the eruption and its
atmospheric effects.” Weatherwise 36(5)(1983) :244—54.

Simkin, T., and Siebert, L. “Explosive Eruptions in Space and Time: Durations,
Intervals, and a Comparison of the World’s Active Volcanic Belts.” In
Explosive Volcanism: Inception, Evolution, and Hazard, National Resource
Council. Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Science Press, pp. 110-
121, 1984.

White, J. S. “Black Dioptase from Tiger, Arizona.” Mineralogical Record (14)
(1983) :337.

. “The U.S. National Collection Still Grows.” Mineralogical Record
(15) (1984) :165—70.

Wilke, H., and White, J. S. “Die mineralogische sammlung des National
Museum of Natural History in Washington.” Lapis 8(1983) :51—61.

Department of Paleobiology

Behrensmeyer, A. K. “The Bones of Amboseli Park as a Key to East African
Paleoecology.” In National Geographic Society Reports, 1975 Projects, ed.
Winfield Swanson—Under the Direction of the Committee for Research
and Exploration, pp. 91-109. Washington, D.C.; National Geographic
Society, 1984.

. “Non-human Fracturing and Surface Damage in Miocene Bones with

Notes on Related Taphonomic Experiments.” [Abstract] First International

Bone Modification Conference, Carson City, Nevada: Abstract Volume

(1984), page 3.

. “Taphonomy and the Paleoecologic Reconstruction of Hominid Habi-
tats in the Koobi Fora Formation.” In L’Environment des Hominides au
Plio-Pleistocene, ed. Y. Coppens, Paris: Foundation Singer-Polinac, 1984.

Behrensmeyer, A. K., and Raza, S. M. “A Procedure for Documenting Fossil
Localities of Northern Pakistan.” In Contribution to the Geology of Siwa-
liks of Pakistan, Memoirs of the Geological Society of Pakistan, volume 11,
ed. S. M. Ibrahim Shah and David Pilbeam, pp. 65-69. Rawalpindi, Paki-
stan: The Army Press, 1984.

Benson, R. H. “Biomechanical Stability and Sudden Change in the Evolution
of the Deep-sea Ostracode Poseidonamicus.” Paleobiology, vol. 9, no. 4
(1983) :398-413.

. “The Phanerozoic ‘Crisis’ as Viewed from the Miocene.” In Catas-

trophes and Earth History, eds. W. A. Berggren and J. A. Van Couvering,

pp. 437—46. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984.

. “Perfection, Continuity, and Common Sense in Historical Geology.”
In Catastrophes and Earth History, eds. by W. A. Berggren and J. A. Van
Couvering, pp. 35—75. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984.

Benson, R. H., and Peypouquet, J.-P. “The Upper and Mid-bathyl Cenozoic
Ostracode Faunas of the Rio Grande Rise Found on Leg 72 Deep Sea Drill-
ing Project.” In Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, eds. P. F.
Barker, et al., 72:805-18. Washington, D.C.: United States Government
Printing Office, 1983.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 507
Benson, R. H.; Chapman, R. E.; and Deck, L. T. “Paleoceanographic Events
and Deep-sea Ostracodes.” Science 224, no. 4655(1984) :1334—36.

Benson, R. H.; Del Grosso, R. M.; and Steineck, P. L. “Ostracode Distribution
and Biofacies, Newfoundland, Continental Slope and Rise.” Micropaleon-
tology 29, no. 4(1984) :430—53.

Boardman, R. S. “Origin of the Post-Triassic Stenolaemata (Bryozoa): a Taxo-
nomic Oversight.” Journal of Paleontology 58, no. 1(1984) :19-39.

Buzas, M. A., and Culver, S. J. “Species Durations and Evolution: Benthic
Foraminifera of the Atlantic Continental Margin of North America.” Sci-
ence 225, no. 4664(1984) :829-—30.

Cheetham, A. H., and Hayek, L. C. “Geometric Consequences of Branching
Growth in Adeoniform Bryozoa.” Paleobiology 9, no. 3(1983) :240-60.

Cooper, G. A. “The Terebratulacea (Brachiopoda), Triassic to Recent: A Study

of the Brachidia.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, number 50, 445
pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Emry, R. J. [Review] “Mammalian Paleofaunas of the World.” By D. E. Sav-
age and D. E. Russell. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 3, no. 3(1984):
183-85.

Emry, R. J., and Purdy, R. W. “The Holotype and Would-be Holotypes of
Hyracodon nebraskensis.” Notulae Naturae, number 460(1984) :1-18.

Emry, R. J., and Schultze, H.-P. “Worldwide Vertebrate Paleontology Re-
viewed.” Geotimes 29, no. 2(1984) :14—16.

Emry, R. J., and Thorington, R. W., Jr. “The Tree Squirrel Sciurus (Sciuridae,
Rodentia) as a Living Fossil.” In Living Fossils, eds. Niles Eldredge and
S. M. Stanley, pp. 23-31. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Gennesseux, M., and Stanley, D. J. “Neogene to Recent Displacement and
Contact of Sardinian and Tunisian Margin, Central Mediterranean.” Smith-
sonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, number 23, 21 pages. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Graus, R. R.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Herchenroyder, B. E. “Computer Simula-
tion of the Reef Zonation at Discovery Bay, Jamaica: Hurricane Disruption
and Long-term Physical Oceanographic Controls.” Coral Reefs 3, no. 1
(1984).

Hueber, F. M. “Fossil Woods and Resin-like Substances from the Lee Creek
Mine.” In Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek Mine, North Caro-
lina, 1; Smithsonian Contributions to the Paleobiology, number 53, ed. C. E.
Ray, pp. 269-85. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Kier, P. M. “Upper Cenozoic Echinoids from the Lee Creek Mine.” In Geology
and Paleontology of the Lee Creek Mine, North Carolina, I; Smithsonian
Contributions to Paleobiology, number 53, ed. C. E. Ray, pp. 499-508.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

. “Fossil Spatangoid Echinoids of Cuba.” Smithsonian Contributions to

Paleobiology, number 55, 336 pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Insti-

tution Press, 1984.

. “Echinoids from the Triassic (St. Cassian) of Italy, Their Lantern
Supports, and a Revised Phylogeny of Triassic Echinoids.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Paleobiology, number 56, 41 pages. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Lighty, R. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Robert Stuckenrath. “Holocene Sea-level
Curve for the Caribbean and Tropical Western Atlantic Based on Coral
Growth of Shallow-water Acropora palmata Reef Framework.” EOS 64, no.
52(1983) :1086.

Macintyre, I. G. “Extensive Submarine Lithification in a Cave in the Belize
Barrier Reef Platform.” Journal of Sedimentary Petrology 54, no. 1(1984):
221-35.

508 / Smithsonian Year 1984
McCoy, F., and Stanley, D. J. “Recent Sapropel Formation in the Eastern
Mediterranean: Comments.” Nature 309, no. 5970(1984) :727—28.

Nelsen, T. A., and Stanley, D. J. “Variable Deposition Rates on the Slopes
and Rise off the Mid-Atlantic States.” Geo-Marine Letters 3, no. 1(1984):
37-42.

Neuman, R. B. “Geology and Paleontology of Islands in the Ordovician Iape-
tus Ocean: Review and Implications.” Geological Society of America Bulle-
tin 95, no. 10(1984).

Petters, S. W.; El-Nakhal, H. A.; and Cifelli, Richard. “Costellagerina, a New
Late Cretaceous Globigerine Foraminiferal Genus.” Journal of Foraminiferal
Research 13, no. 4(1983) :247—51.

Ray, C. E., editor. Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek Mine, North
Carolina, I; Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, number 53, 529
pages. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Stanley, D. J. “Organic-rich Black Shales Resulting from Gravity Transport:
Examples in Deep-sea Fans.” Annual Meeting of the Geological Society of
America Program, Indianapolis, Indiana (1983), Abstract number 31776.

. “Mud Redepositional Processes as a Major Influence on Mediterranean

Deep-sea Sedimentation.” In Research Conference on Fine-grained Sedi-

ments, ed. D. S. Gorsline, pp. 177-80. San Jose, California: Special Publica-

tion of the Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1984.

. [Book Review] The Geological Evolution of the River Nile, by R. Said.

Marine Geology 58(1984) :451-53.

. “Slide-generated Turbidity Currents: Gres d’Annot Submarine Fans,
Maritime Alps—Fossil Fuels of Europe Conference and Exhibition, Geneva,
Switzerland, July 15-18, 1984.” [Abstract] Bulletin of the American Asso-
ciation of Petroleum Geologists 68, no. 6(1984) :799.

Waller, T. R. “The Ctenolium of Scallop Shells: Functional Morphology and
Evolution of a Key Family-level Character in the Pectinacea (Mollusca:
Bivalvia).” Malacologia 25, no. 1(1984) :203-19.

Wilson, D. E. “The Lee Creek Enigma, Mclellania aenigma, a New Taxon in
Fossil Cirrhipedia.” In Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek Mine,
North Carolina I; Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology, number 53,
ed. C. E. Ray, pp. 483-98.. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1983.

Winston, J. E., and Cheetham, A. H. “The Bryozoan Nellia tenella as a Living
Fossil.” In Living Fossils, eds. Niles Eldredge and S. M. Stanley, pp. 257-65.
New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Wonderly, P. F., and Neuman, R. B. “The Indian Bay Formation: Fossiliferous
Early Ordovician Volcanogenic Rocks in the Northern Gander Terrane,
Newfoundland, and Their Regional Significance.” Canadian Journal of
Earth Sciences 21, no. 5(1984) :525—32.

Department of Vertebrate Zoology

Banks, Richard C., and Watson, George E. “Commentary.” Condor 86(2) :222.
1984,

Carleton, Michael D. “Chapter 9: Introduction to Rodents.” In Orders and
Families of Recent Mammals of the World, eds. S. Anderson and J. K.
Jones, pp. 255-65. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1984.

Carleton, Michael D., and Musser, Guy G. “Chapter 11: Muroid Rodents.” In
Orders and Families of Recent Mammals of the World, eds. S. Anderson
and J. K. Jones, pp. 289-379. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1984.

Crombie, Ronald I., and Heyer, W. Ronald. “Leptodactylus longirostris
(Anura: Leptodactylidae): Advertisement Call, Tadpole, Ecological and
Distributional Notes.” Revista Brasileira de Biologia 43(3)(1983) :291-96.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 509
Crombie, R. I.; Steadman, D. W.; and Barber, J. C. “A Preliminary Survey
of the Vertebrates of Cabarita Island, St. Mary Parish, Jamaica.” Afoll
Research Bulletin 280(1984) :1-16.

Emry, R. J., and Thorington, R. W., Jr. “The tree squirrel Sciurus (Sciuri-
dae, Rodentia) as a living fossil.” In Living Fossils, eds. N. Eldredge and
S. M. Stanley, pp. 23-31, 1984.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr.; Amaoka, Kunio; and Chikakuni, Haruta. “Astro-
nesthes trifibulatus, a New Indo-Pacific Stomioid Fish (Family Astronesthi-
dae) Related to the Atlantic A. similis.” Japanese Journal of Ichthyology
31(1) (1984) :5-14.

Goodman, Steven M., and Watson, George E. “Bird Specimen Records of
Some Uncommon or Previously Unrecorded Forms in Egypt.” Bulletin of
the British Ornithologists’ Club 103(3) (1983) :101—06.

Handley, Charles O., Jr. “Christmas Bird Count: Lewisburg, W. Va.” Ameri-
can Birds 37(1983) :578.

Heyer, W. Ronald. “Variation and Systematics of Frogs of the Genus
Cycloramphus (Amphibia: Leptodactylidae).” Arquivos de Zoologia 30(4)
(1983) :235-339.

. “Notes on the frog genus Cycloramphus (Amphibia: Leptodactyli-
dae), with descriptions of two new species.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 96(3) (1983) :548-59.

Heyer, W. Ronald, and Maxson, Linda R. “Relationships, Zoogeography, and
Speciation Mechanisms of Frogs of the Genus Cycloramphus (Amphibia:
Leptodactylidae).” Arquivos de Zoologia 30(5)(1983) :341-73.

Heyer, W. Ronald, and Pyburn, William F. “Leptodactylus riveroi, a New
Frog Species from Amazonia, South America (Anura: Leptodactylidae).”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(3) (1983) :560—66.

Jewett, Susan L., and Lachner, Ernest A. “Seven New Species of the Indo-
Pacific Genus Eviota (Pisces: Gobiidae).” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 96(4) (1983) :780—806.

Johnson, G. David. “Niphon spinosus: a Primitive Epinepheline Serranid, with
Comments on the Monophyly and Intrarelationships of the Serranidae.”
Copeia (3)(1983) :777-87.

. “Percoidei: Development and Relationships.” In Ontogeny and
Systematics of Fishes, eds. H. G. Moser, et al. Special Publication No. 1,
Supplement to Copeia, American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetol-
ogists (1984) :464—-98.

Johnson, G. David, and Keener, Paula. “Aid to Identification of American
Grouper Larvae.” Bulletin of Marine Science 34(1) (1984) :106—34.

Markle, Douglas F.; Williams, Jeffrey T.; and Olney, John E. “Description of
a new species of Echiodon (Teleostei: Carapidae) from Antarctic and
adjacent seas.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(4)
(1983) :645—57.

Mitchell, Joseph C., and Zug, George R. “Spermatogenic cycle of Nerodia
taxispilota (Serpentes: Colubridae) in South Central Virginia.” Herpe-
tologia 40(2)(1984) :200-4.

Olson, Storrs L. “Fossil Seabirds and Changing Marine Environments in
the Late Tertiary of South Africa.” South African Journal of Science
79(10) (1983) :399-402.

. “Syringeal Morphology and Relationships of Chaetops (Timaliidae)

and Certain South African Muscicapidae.” Ostrich 55(1)(1984) :30—32.

. “A Very Large Enigmatic Owl (Aves: Strigidae) from the Late

Pleistocene at Ladds, Georgia.” in “Contributions in Quaternary Vertebrate

Paleontology: A Volume in Memorial to John E. Guilday,” eds. Hugh H.

510 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Genoways and Mary R. Dawson. Carnegie Museum of Natural History

Special Publication 8(1984) :44—46.

. “An Evaluation of the Fossil Curlew Palnumenius victima L. Miller
(Aves: Scolopacidae).” In “Contributions in Quaternary Vertebrate Paleon-
tology: A Volume in Memorial to John E. Guilday,” eds. Hugh H. Geno-
ways and Mary R. Dawson. Carnegie Museum of Natural History Special
Publication 8(1984) :53-55.

Olson, Storrs, L.; Parkes, Kenneth C.; Clench, Mary H.; and Borecky,
Stephen H. “The Affinities of the New Zealand Passerine Genus Turnagra.”
Notornis 30(4) (1983) :319-36.

Olson, Storrs L.; and James, Helen F. “The Role of Polynesians in the
Extinction of the Avifauna of the Hawaiian Islands.” In Quaternary
Extinctions, eds. Paul S. Martin and R. G. Klein, pp. 768-80. Tucson:
University of Arizona Press, 1984.

Ripley, S. D. [Review]. The Emergence of Ornithology as a Scientific Disci-
pline: 1760-1850, by Paul Lawrence Farber. Annals of Science, 40(5) :522—23.
September 1983.

. “The subspecific name of the Common Paradise Kingfisher Tanysip-

tera galates from Halmahera Island, North Moluccas (Maluku Utara),

Indonesia.” British Ornithologists’ Club, 103(4) (1983) :145—46.

. “Habits of the Bank Myna, Acridotheres ginginianus.” Journal of

the Bombay Natural History Society, 80(1)(1983) :219.

. “A record of Whitehead’s Swiftlet Collocalia whiteheadi from
Bougainville Island.” British Ornithologists’ Club, 103(3) (1983) :82-84.
Ross, C. A.; and Alcala, A. C. “Distribution and status of the Philippine
crocodile (Crocodylus mindorensis).” Kalikasan, Philippine Journal of

Science 12(1-2) (1983) :169-173.

Springer, Victor G. “Tyson belos, New Genus and Species of Western Pacific
Fish (Gobiidae, Xenisthminae), with Discussions of Gobioid Osteology and
Classification.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 390(1983) :1—40.

Steadman, David W.; Pregill, Gregory K.; and Olson, Storrs L. “Fossil Verte-
brates from Antigua, Lesser Antilles: Evidence for Late Holocene Human-
caused Extinctions in the West Indies.” Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences 81(1984) :4448-51.

Tallman, Dan A., and Zusi, Richard L. “A Hybrid Red Crossbill-Pine Siskin
(Loxia curvirostra X Carduelis pinus) and Speculations on the Evolution of
Loxia. Auk 101(1) (1984) :155—-58.

Thorington, R. W., Jr., and Anderson, S. “Primates.” In Orders and Families
of Recent Mammals of the World, eds. S. Anderson and J. K. Jones, Jr.,
pp. 187-217, 1984.

Thorington, R. W., Jr.; Ruiz, J. C.; and Eisenberg, J. F. “A study of a black
howling monkey (Alouatta caraya) population in northern Argentina.”
American Journal of Primatology 6(1984) :357—66.

Vari, Richard P.; Jewett, Susan L.; Taphorn, Donald C.; and Gilbert,
Carter R. “A New Catfish of the Genus Epapterus (Siluriformes: Auchenip-
teridae) from the Orinoco River Basin.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 97(2) (1984) :462-72.

Weitzman, Stanley H.; and Fink, William L. “Relationships of the Neon
Tetras, a Group of South American Freshwater Fishes (Teleostei, Characi-
dae), With Comments on the Phylogeny of New World Characiforms.”
Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University,
150(6) (1983) :339-95.

Williams, Jeffrey T. “Synopsis of the pearlfish subfamily Pyramodontidae
(Pisces: Carapidae).” Bulletin of Marine Science 33(4)(1983) :846—54.

. “Synopsis and phylogenetic analysis of the pearlfish subfamily

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 511
Carapinae (Pisces: Carapidae).” Bulletin of Marine Science 34(3)(1984):

386-97.

. “Studies on Echiodon (Pisces: Carapidae), with descriptions of two
new Indo-Pacific species.” Copeia (2) (1984) :410—22.

Williams, Jeffrey T.; and Maugé, L. André. “Cirripectes chelomatus, a new
species of salarine fish (Pisces: Blenniidae).” Bulletin du Musée National
d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, 4° série, 5, section A (4)(1983) 1139-49.

Williams, Jeffrey T.; and Smart, A. M. “Redescription of the Brazilian
labrisomid fish Starksia brasiliensis.” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington 96(4) (1983) :638—44.

Zug, George R. “Natural History Notes on the Fijian Ground Frog (Ranidae:
Platymantis vitianus).” Herpetological Review 14(3)(1983) :68-69.

. “Bufo marinus.” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. D. Janzen,

pp. 386-87. 1983.

. [Review]. “Advances in Herpetology and Evolutionary Biology.
Essays in Honor of Ernest E. Williams.” Copeia (2) (1984) :554—56.

Zusi, Richard L. “A Functional and Evolutionary Analysis of Rhynchokinesis
in Birds.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 395(1984) :1—40.

. Roger Tory Peterson at the Smithsonian. Venice, Florida: published
for the Smithsonian Institution by Mill Pond Press, Inc., 1984.

Zusi, Richard L., and Bentz, Gregory Dean. “Myology of the Purple-
throated Carib (Eulampis jugularis) and Other Hummingbirds (Aves:
Trochilidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 385(1984) :1-70.

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center

Ferrari, F., and Orsi, J. “Oithona davisae, new species, and Limnoithona
sinensis (Burckhardt, 1912) (Copepoda: Oithonidae) from the Sacramento-
San Joaquin estuary, California.” Journal of Crustacean Biology 4(1)(1984):
106-26.

Hendler, G. “The Association of Ophiotrix lineata and Callyspongia vagi-
nalis: A brittlestar-sponge cleaning symbiosus?” P.S.Z.N.I.:Marine Ecol-
ogy 5(1)(1984) :9-27.

Knapp, Leslie W. “Platycephalidae.” In FAO Species Identification Sheets
for Fishery Purposes. Western Indian Ocean (Fishing Area 51). Rome, 1984.

. “Platycephalidae and Bambridge.” In Sea Fishes of Southern Africa

by M. M. Smith and Philip Heemstra. Grahamstown, 1984.

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port

Abbott, Bernard C.; Manning, Raymond B.; and Schiff, Helga. “An attempt
to correlate pseudopupil sizes in stomatopod crustaceans with ambient
light conditions and behavior patterns.” Comparative Biochemistry and
Physiology 78A(3) (1984) :419—26.

Harasewych, M. G., and Petit, Richard E. “Notes on the morphology of
Olssonella smithii (Gastropoda: Cancellariidae).” The Nautilus 98(1) (1984):
37-44,

Hendler, Gordon, and Miller, John E. “Feeding behavior of Asteroporpa
annulata, a gorgonocephalid brittlestar with unbranched arms.” Bulletin
of Marine Science 34(3) (1984) :449-60.

. “Ophioderma devaneyi and Ophioderma ensiferum, a new brittle-
star species from the western Atlantic (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea).”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(2) (1984) :442-61.

Houbrick, Richard S. “A new Strombina species (Gastropoda: Prosobranchia)
from the tropical Western Atlantic.” Proceedings of the Biological Society
of Washington 96(3) (1983) :349-54.

512 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “Revision of higher taxa in genus Cerithidea (Mesogastropoda:
Potamididae) based on comparative morphology and biological data.”
American Malacological Bulletin 2(1984) :1—20.

. “A new Metula species from the Indo-West Pacific (Prosobranchia:
Buccinidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 97(2)
(1984) :420-24.

Manning, Raymond B. “Crenatosquilla, a new genus of stomatopod crusta-
cean from the East Pacific.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 97 (1) (1984) :191-93.

Manning, R. B.; Schiff, H.; and Abbott, B. C. “Cornea shape and surface
structure in some stomatopod crustacea.” Journal of Crustacean Biology
4(3) (1984) :502-13.

Manning, Raymond B.; Schiff, Helga; and Abbott, Bernard C. “Eye structure
and the classification of stomatopod crustacea.” Zoological Scripta 13(1)
(1984) :41-44.

Rosewater, Joseph. “Burrowing activities of Periploma margaritaceum
(Lamarck, 1801) (Bilvalvia: Anomalodesmata: Periplomatidae).” American
Malacological Bulletin 2(1984) :35—40.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Office of Education

Barry, Sharon. “HERPlab: Prototype Materials for Families,” Newsletter,
International Association of Zoo Educators, Number 10, 1983.

Gaulding, Melissa. “HERPlab: A Cooperative Venture,” AAZPA Regional
Conference Proceedings, 1984.

Department of Animal Health

Bush, M., and D. Locke. “Tylosin aerosol therapy in quail and pigeons.”
]. Zoo. Anim. Med. (Submitted).

Bush, M., R. J. Montali, L. G. Phillips, S. B. Citino, G. Boch, and E. J. Ruley.
“Anemia and uremia in a giant panda.” J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. (Sub-
mitted).

Citino, S. B., M. Bush, and L. G. Phillips. “Dystocia and fatal hyperthermic
episode in a giraffe.” J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. (Submitted).

Citino, S. B., R. J. Montali, M. Bush, and L. G. Phillips. “Nutritional myop-
athy in a captive California sea lion.” J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. (Sub-
mitted).

Howard, J. G., M. Bush, L. G. Simmons, and D. E. Wildt. “Comparative
evaluation of ejaculate characteristics in non-domestic felids with emphasis
on sperm morphology.” Proc. Amer. Assoc. Zoo. Vet., Annual Meeting.
(Submitted).

Meuli, L. E., D. G. Kleiman, and M. Bush. “Evidence of early pregnancy
factor in the giant panda in conjunction with urinary steriods.” 10th Inter.
Cong. Anim. Reprod. (In press).

Montali, R. J., F. Reid, G. Sanders, R. Freeman, M. Bush, and J. Seidensticker.
“Monitoring a rabies epidemic from Northern Virginia to Washington,
D.C.” Proc. North Amer. Symp. Rabies Wildl., ed. Fischman, H. R., Johns
Hopkins University, 1984. (In press).

Montali, R. J., M. Roberts, R. Freeman, and M. Bush. “Pathology survey of
the red panda Ailurus fulgens.” Festschrift, Springer-Verlag. (In press).

O’Brien, S. J., D. Goldman, J. Knight, H. D. Moore, D. E. Wildt, M. Bush,
R. J. Montali, and D. Kleiman. “Giant panda paternity.” Science 223(1984):
1127-28.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 513
Phillips, L. P., M. Bush, K. Mehren, and D. E. Wildt. “Adrenal/gonadal
response to anesthesia/manipulation in three primate species.” Proc. Amer-
Assoc. Zoo. Vet., Annual Meeting. (Submitted).

Teare, J. A., and M. Bush. “Toxicity and efficacy of ivermectin in chelon-
ians.” J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. 183(1984) :1195-97.

Wildt, D. E., and M. Bush. “Prerequisites to artificial breeding: Research
approaches deserving high priority.” Proc. Amer. Assoc. Zoo. Vet. Annual
Meeting. (Submitted).

Wildt, D. E., D. Meltzer, P. K. Chakraborty, and M. Bush. “Adrenal-
testicular-pituitary relationships in the cheetah subjected to anesthesia/
electroejaculation.” Biol. Reprod. 30(1984) :665—72.

Carter, K. K., P. K. Chakraborty, M. Bush, and D. E. Wildt. “Effects of
electroejaculation and ketamine-HCL on serum cortisol, progesterone and
testosterone in the male cat.” J. Androl. (In press).

Howard, J. G., M. Bush, V. de Vos, and D. E. Wildt. “Electroejaculation,
semen characteristics and testosterone concentrations of free-ranging
African elephants (Loxodonta africana).” J. Reprod. Fertil. (In press).

Wildt, D. E., and D. F. Lawler. “Laparoscopic sterilization of the bitch and
queen by uterine horn occlusion.” Amer. J. Vet. Res. (In press).

Wildt, D. E., and M. Bush. “Reproductive physiology studies in zoological
species: Concerns and strategies.” Zoo. Biol. (In press).

Wildt, D. E. “Laparoscopy for reproductive evaluation in the dog and cat.”
In Reproduction in the Dog and Cat, ed. T. J. Burke. American Veterinary
Publications, Inc., Santa Barbara. (In press).

Wildt, D. E. “Semen, sperm metabolism, collection and artificial insemination
of nonhuman primates.” Comparative Primate Biology: Vol. V. Endocrinol-
ogy, Reproduction and Development, ed. W. R. Dukelow. Alan R. Liss, Inc.,
New York. (In press).

Howard, J. G., M. Bush, and D. E. Wildt. “Semen collection, analysis and
cryopreservation in non-domestic mammals.” In Current Therapy in Theri-
ogenology, ed. D. Morrow. W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia. (In press).

Wildt, D. E. “Estrous cycle control in the cat: Induction and prevention.” In
Current Therapy in Theriogenology, ed. D. Morrow. W. B. Saunders Co.,
Philadelphia. (In press).

Wildt, D. E., R. J. Montali, and M. Bush. “Strategies for reproductive physi-
ology studies at the National Zoological Park.” Proceedings: Erkrankungen
der Zootiere 26:7-11.

Howard, J. G., M. Bush, L. L. Hall, and D. E. Wildt. “Morphological abnor-
malities in spermatozoa of 28 species of non-domestic felids.” Proceedings:
Tenth Inter. Cong. Anim. Reprod. Artif. Insem. 2:57-59.

Schmidt, P. M., C. T. Hansen, S. S. Brown, and D. E. Wildt. “Comparative
observations on superovulation and embryo cryopreservation from outbred
and inbred mice.” Proceedings: Tenth Inter. Cong. Anim. Reprod. Artif.
Insem. 2:239-41.

Schiewe, M. C., P. M. Schmidt, M. Bush, and D. E. Wildt. “Effect of ethylene
oxide on in vitro embryo development.” Proceedings: Tenth Inter. Cong.
Anim. Reprod. Artif. Insem. 2:237-39.

Diehl, J. R., L. D. Stuart, K. L. Goodrowe, P. K. Chakraborty, and D. E. Wildt.
“Effects of Altrenogest alone or in combination with PMS and HCG on
ovulation rate and fertility in the NIH mini-pig.” Proceedings: Tenth
Inter. Cong. Anim. Reprod. Artif. Insem. 2(1984) :315-17.

Schiewe, M. C., P. M. Schmidt, M. Bush, and D. E. Wildt. “Effect of absorbed/
retained ethylene oxide in plastic cultureware on embryo development
in vitro.” Annual Meeting. Inter. Embryo. Trans. Soc., Theriogenology
21(1984) :260.

514 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Wildt, D. E., J. G. Howard, V. de Vos, P. K. Chakraborty, and M. Bush.
“Ejaculate characteristics, comparative semen freezing and adrenal-testicu-
lar relationships in free-ranging African elephants.” Reprod. Biol. Suppl. 1,
1984.

Department of Pathology

Nichols, D.; Montali, R. J.; Pickett, C.; and Bush, M. “Rickets in double-
crested cormorants.” Journal Zoo Animal Medicine, 14(1983) :115—24.

Montali, R. J.; Roberts, M.; Freeman, R. A.; and Bush, M. “Pathology survey
of the red panda (Ailurus fulgens). In One Medicine, eds. O. Ryder and
M. Byrd, pp. 128-40, Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg, 1984.

Gardiner, C. H.; Loomis, M. R.; Britt, S. O.; and Montali, R. J. “Dermatitis
caused by Filaria taxidae in a lesser panda.” Journal American Veterinary
Medical Association, 183(1983) :1285-87.

Montali, R. J.; Bartz, C. R.; Teare, J. A.; Allen, J. T.; Appel, M. J. G.; and
Bush, M. “Clinical trials with canine distemper vaccines in exotic carni-
vores.” Journal American Veterinary Medical Association, 183(1983):
1163-67.

Langenberg, J. A., and Montali, R. J. “Avian neonatal pathology.
AAZV, Tampa, 1983.

Bush, M.; Custer, R. R.; Whitla, J. C.; and Montali, R. J. “Hematology and
serum chemistry values of captive scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx tao):
Variations with age and sex.” Journal Zoo Animal Medicine, 14(2) (1983):
51-55.

Wildt, D. E.; Montali, R. J.; and Bush, M. “Strategies for reproductive
physiology studies of the National Zoological Park.” Verhandlungsbericht
des 26 Internationalin Symposiums uber die Krankungen der Zootiere,
Brono, pp. 7-11, 1984.

Montali, R. J.; Reid, F.; Sanders, G.; Freeman, R.; and Bush, M. “Monitoring
a raccoon rabies epizootic from Northern Virginia to Washington, D.C.”
In Proc. of the North American Symposium on Rabies in Wildlife. Johns
Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health and Centers for
Disease Control, 1984. (In press).

Shaw, M.; Montali, R. J.; and Bush, M. “Streptococcus zooempidemicus in
small carnivorous mammals fed uncooked horse meat.” Journal of Zoo
Animal Medicine, 1984. (In press.)

Wells, M. Y., and Montali, R. J. “Pasteurellosis in southern potoroos (Poto-
rouse spicalis).” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, 1984. (In press).

Montali, R. J.; Allen, G. P.; Bryans, J. T.; and Bush, M. “Equine herpes
virus type-1 (EHV-1) in exotoc equidae.” Abstracts/proceedings, American
Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Louisville, 1984. (In press).

Montali, R. J.; Bartz, C.; Bush, M.; and Grate, S. “Viral diseases of non-
domesticated carnivores.” In Viral Infections of Vertebrates, editor-in-
chief, N. Horzinek. Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company, Amsterdam,
1984/85.

a7

Proc.

Conservation

Ballou, J., and J. Seidensticker. “Demographic and genetic status of the
captive Sumatran tigers (Pantera tigris sumatrae).” In International Tiger
Studbook—1983, eds. S. Seifert and P. Muller, pp. 5-39. Zoologischer Gar-
ten, Leipzig, 1983.

Derrickson, S. R., and J. W. Carpenter. “Techniques for reintroducing cranes
to the wild.” Amer. Assoc. of Zoo Vets. 1983 Ann. Proc.: 148-52.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 515
Hren, B. J., and G. A. Greenwell. “Factors influencing reproductive behavior
in the CRC crane population, especially G.a. antigone and G. vipio.” Bird
World (6) (1984) :5-7, 58, 63-64.

Seidensticker, J. “Predation by Panthera cats and measures of human influ-
ence in habitats of South Asian monkeys.” International Journal of
Primatology, 4(3) (1983) :323-26.

Seidensticker, J. [Review] Study and Management of Large Mammals by
Thane Riney. American Scientist, 71(1983) :312.

Seidensticker, J., and M. A. Hai. “The Sundarbans wildlife management
plan: cooperation in the Bangladesh coastal zone.” International Union for
the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources, Gland. 119 pp., 1983.

Seidensticker, J. [Review] Wild Mammals of North America: Biology, Man-
agement and Economics, eds. J. A. Chapman and G. A. Feldhamer. Bio-
Science 33(1983) :721.

Seidensticker, J., J. F. Eisenberg, and R. Simons. “The Tangijiahe, Wanglang,
and Fengtongzhai giant panda reserves and biological conservation in the
People’s Republic of China.” Biological Conservation, 28(1984) :217—251.

Seidensticker, J. “Management of elephant depredation in agricultural and
forestry development projects.” World Bank Technical Paper, The World
Bank, Washington, D.C., 1983.

Seidensticker, J. “Management of white-tailed deer Odocoileus virginianus
at the National Zoological Park’s Conservation and Research Center.”
International Zoo Yearbook 23, 1984.

Spicknal, J., and C. Pickett. “Growth and development in a hand-reader
striped owl (Phinoptynx clamator).” Aviclut. 89(3)(1983) :153—-57.

Wemmer, C., and T. P. Portillo. “Towards semen collection of exotic ungu-
lates using non-electric methods.” Proc. Amer. Assoc. Zool. Parks and
Aquariums Ann. Cons., 195-202, 1983.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Aikawa, T., and Whitney, C. A. “Stellar Acoustics II. Pulse Resonance in
Giant Star Models.” Astrophysical Journal 282(1984) :527.

Avrett, E. H., and Johnson, H. R. “Interpretation of the Observed Mg II
Emission from N-Type Carbon Stars.” In Proceedings of the Third Cam-
bridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds.
S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, pp. 330-332. New York: Springer-Verlag,
1984.

Avrett, E. H., and Loeser, R. “Line Transfer in Static and Expanding Spherical
Atmospheres.” In Methods in Radiative Transfer, ed. W. Kalkofen, p. 341.
Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1984.

Baliunas, S. L. “Progress in Stellar Chromospheres Observed with the Inter-
national Ultraviolet Explorer IUE Satellite.” Publications of the Astronom-
ical Society of the Pacific 95(1983) :532.

. “Stellar Activity and Calcium Emission Variability.” In Activity in

Red-Dwarf Stars, eds. P. B. Byrne and M. Rodono, p. 195. Dordrecht,

Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

. “Evolution of Rotation in Lower Main Sequence Stars.” In Proceed-
ings of the Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and
the Sun, eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 114. New York: Springer-
Verlag, 1984.

Baliunas, S. L., and Guinan, E. F. “Four W Ursae Majoris Contact Binaries
in the Old Galactic Cluster NGC 188.” In Proceedings of the Third
Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds.
S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 223. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

516 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Baliunas, S. L.; Guinan, E. F.; and Dupree, A. K. “Ultraviolet Flare on
Lambda Andromedae.” Astrophysical Journal 282(1984) :733.

Baliunas, S. L., and Hartmann, L. (editors). Proceedings of the Third Cam-
bridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun. New York:
Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Baliunas, S. L., and Raymond, J. “Ultraviolet and Visible Flare on EQ Pegasi
B.” Astrophysical Journal 282(1984) :728.

Baliunas, S. L.; Vaughan, A. H.; Hartmann, L.; Middelkoop, F.; Mihalas, D.;
Noyes, R. W.; Preston, G. W.; Frazer, J.; and Lanning, H. “Stellar Rotation
in Lower Main-Sequence Stars Measured from Time Variations in H and K
Emission Line Fluxes: II. Detailed analysis of the 1980 Observing Season
Data.” Astrophysical Journal 275(1983) :752.

Bartel, N.; Cappallo, R. J.; Ratner, M. I.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Shapiro, I. I.; and
Whitney, A. R. “Mark III VLBI Observations of Pulsars.” In [AU Sym-
posium 110, VLBI and Compact Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti, K. Kellerman,
and G. Setti, p. 275. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1984.

Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. I.; Shapiro, I. I.; Herring, T. A.; and Corey, B. E.
“Proper Motion of Components of the Quasar 3C345.” In IAU Symposium
110, VLBI and Compact Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti, K. I. Kellerman, and
G. Setti, p. 113. Dordrecht; Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Bartel, ...; Shapiro, I.; Corey, B. E.; Marcaide, J. M.; Rogers, A. E. E. Whit-
ney, A. R.; Cappallo, R.; Kithr, H.; Graham, D. A.; and Baath, L. “The
Compact Radio Source 2021+614: Simultaneous 2.3 and 8.3 GHz Mark
III VLBI Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 279(1984) :116.

Bartel, N.; Shapiro, I.; Huchra, J.; and Kiihr, H. “The Compact Radio Source
2021+614: A Peculiar Narrow-Line Radio Galaxy with Radio Luminosity
1 X 10“ ergs s™.” Astrophysical Journal 279(1984) :112.

Beall, J. H.; Knight, F. K.; Smith, H. A.; Wood, K. S.; Lebofsky, M.; and
Rieke, G. “Infrared Emission from Accretion Disks: Detectability and
Variability.” Astrophysical Journal 284(1984) :745.

Beers, T. C., and Geller, M. J. “The Environment of D and cD Galaxies.”
Astrophysical Journal 274(1983) :491.

Beers, T.; Geller, M.; Huchra, J.; Latham, D.; and Davis, R. “Seven Poor
Clusters of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :33.

Benson, P. J., and Myers, P. C. “Dense Cores in Dark Clouds. IV. HC;N
Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 270(1983) :589.

Benson, P. J.; Myers, P. C.; and Wright, E. L.. “Dense Cores in Dark Clouds:
Young Embedded Stars at Two Micrometers.” Astrophysical Journal (Let-
ters) 279(1984) :L27.

Bienstock, S.; Dalgarno, A.; and Heil, T. G. “Charge Transfer of N*+ Ions in
Collisions with Atomic Hydrogen.” Physical Review A 29(1984) :2239.

Bienstock, S.; Heil, T. G.; and Dalgarno, A. “Distorted-Wave Theory of
Heavy-Particle Collisions at Intermediate Energies.” Physical Review A
29(1984) :503.

Birnbaum, G.; Chu, S.-I.; Dalgarno, A.; Frommbhold, L.; and Wright, E. L.
“Theory of Collision-Induced Translation-Rotation Spectra: H2-He.” Physi-
cal Review A 29(1984) :595.

Black, J. H., and Raymond, J. C. “The Distribution of Interstellar Matter To-
ward Tycho’s Supernova Remnant and Its Relation to Distance Estimates.”
Astronomical Journal 89(1984) :411.

Blair, W. P.; Kirshner, R. P.; Fesen, R. A.; and Gull, T. R. “An Optical Inves-
tigation of the Peculiar Supernova Remnant CTB 80.” Astrophysical Jour-
nal 282(1984) :161.

Blair, W. P.; Kirshner, R. P.; Winkler, P. F.; Raymond, J. C.; Fesen, R. A.; and

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 517
Gull, T. R. “X-Ray, Optical and UV Observations of the Young Supernova
Remnant in the Irregular Galaxy NGC 4449.” In IAU Symposium 101,
Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission, eds. J. Danziger and P.
Gorenstein, p. 579. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1983. ;

Blair, W. P.; Raymond, J. C.; Dupree, A. K.; Wu, C.-C.; Holm, A. V.; and
Swank, J. H. “IUE Observations of Centaurus X-4 During the 1979 May
Outburst.” Astrophysical Journal 278(1984) :270.

Blair, W. P.; Raymond, J. C.; Fesen, R. A.; and Gull, T. R. “Ultraviolet Ob-
servations of the Peculiar Supernova Remnant in NGC 4449.” Astrophysi-
cal Journal 279(1984) :708.

Blair, W. P.; Stencel, R. E.; Feibelman, W. A.; and Michalitsianos, A. G.
“Spectrophotometric Observations of Symbiotic Stars and Related Objects.”
Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 53(1983) :573.

Bothun, G.; Aaronson, M.; Schommer, R.; Huchra, J.; and Mould, J. “The
Distances and Properties of a Sample of Sc I Galaxies.” Astrophysical
Journal 278(1984) :475.

Bothun, G. D.; Margon, B.; and Balick, B. “An Unsuccessful Search for Very
Extended Halos Around NGC 1300 and M61.” Publications of the Astro-
nomical Society of the Pacific 96(1984) :583.

Bothun, G. D.; Romanishin, W.; Strom, S. E.; and Strom, K. M. “A Possible
Relationship Between Metal Abundance and Luminosity for Disk Galaxies.”
Astronomical Journal 89(1984) :1300.

Bregman, J. N.; Glassgold, A. E.; Huggins, P. J.; Aller, H. D.; Aller, M. F.;
Hodge, P. E.; Rieke, G. H.; Lebofsky, M. J.; Pollock, J. T.; Pica, A. J.; Smith,
A. G.; Webb, J.; Balonek, T. J.; Dent, W. A.; Ku, W. H.-M.; Schwartz,
D. A.; Miller, J. S.; Rudy, R. J.; and LeVan, P. D. “Multifrequency Obser-
vations of the BL Lac Object 0735+178.” Astrophysical Journal 276(1983) :
454.

Briel, U.; Elvis, M.; and Henry, J. P. “An X-Ray Jet in the Seyfert Galaxy
NGC 4151.” In Astrophysical Jets, eds. A. Ferrari and A. G. Pacholczyk,
p. 183. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Brown, R. M.; Andrews, H. R.; Fireman, E. L.; Ball, G. C.; Burn, N.; Imahori,
Y.; and Milton, J. C. D. “““C Content of Ten Meteorites Measured by Tan-
dem Accelerator Mass Spectrometry.” Earth and Planetary Science Letters
67(1984) :1.

Burke, B. F.; Roberts, D. H.; Hewitt, J. N.; Greenfield, P. E.; and Dupree, A. K.
“Gravitational Lens Observations.” In Proceedings of the 24th Liege Inter-
national Colloquium, Quasars and Gravitational Lenses, p. 203. Liége,
France: Institute d’Astrophysique, 1983.

Butler, S. E.; Heil, T. G.; and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer of O** in Heli-
um at Thermal Energies.” Journal of Chemical Physics 80(1984) :4986.

Canizares, C. R.; Winkler, P. F.; Seward, F. D.; Willingale, R.; Rolf, D.; and
Woods, N. “High Resolution X-Ray Images of Puppis A and IC 443.” In
IAU Symposium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission, eds.
J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 289. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Pub-
lishing Company, 1983.

Canuto, V. M.; Goldman, I.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Testing the Strong Equiva-
lence Principle by Radio Ranging.” Astrophysical Journal 276(1984) :1.

Carleton, N. P.; Willner, S. P.; Rudy, R. J.; and Tokunaga, A. T. “Reddening
in the Broad-Line Radio Galaxy 3C234.” Astrophysical Journal 284(1984):
523.

Cawley, M. F.; Clear, J.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Gorham, P.; Lamb, R. C.;
MacRae, I.; MacKeown, P. K.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. S.; Turver, K. E.;
and Weekes, T. C. “Application of Two Dimensional Imaging of Atmo-

518 / Smithsonian Year 1984
spheric Cerenkov Light to Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy.” In

Proceedings of the 18th International Cosmic-Ray Conference, vol. 1, p. 118.

Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, 1983.

. “A Search for High Energy Gamma Rays from PSR 0531 and PSR
1953 Using a Large Aperture Camera.” In Proceedings of the 18th Interna-
tional Cosmic-Ray Conference, vol. 9, p. 61. Bombay, India: Tata Institute
of Fundamental Research, 1983.

Cawley, M. F.; Gibbs, K.; and Weekes, T. C. “Interstellar Absorption of Very
High Energy Gamma Rays.” In Proceedings of the 18th International Cos-
mic-Ray Conference, vol. 9, p. 69. Bombay, India: Tata Institute of Funda-
mental Research, 1983.

Cawley, M. F.; and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma Ray Absorption and the Distance
to Cygnus X-3.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 113(1984) :80.

Chaffee, F. H., Jr. “Optical and Ultraviolet High Resolution Spectroscopy of
Galaxies and QSOs.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pa-
cific 95(1983) :700.

. “The QSO 1156+295: A Multifrequency Study of Recent Activity.”
Astrophysical Journal 274(1983) :62 (see Wills et al., this citation, for com-
plete authorship).

Chaffee, F. H., and Ables, H. D. “Radial Velocities of Blue Stragglers.” Pub-
lications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 95(1983) :835.

Chang, E. C., and Noyes, R. W. “Identification of the Solar Emission Lines
near 12 Microns.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 275(1983) :L11.

Chang, E. S., and Yoshino, K. “The nf Complexes in Molecular Nitrogen.”
Journal of Physics B 16(1983) :L581.

Chappell, J. H., and Murray, S. S. “Measured Efficiencies and Physical Char-
acteristics that Determine the Quantum Yield for a Selected Group of Phos-
phors.” Nuclear Instruments and Methods 221(1984) :159.

Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Freeman, D. E. “Herz-
berg Continuum Cross Section of Oxygen in the Wavelength Region 193.5—
204.0 nm: New Laboratory Measurements and Stratospheric Implication.”
Geophysical Research Letters 11(1984) :580.

Chlebowski, T.; Seward, F. D.; Swank, J.; and Symkowiak, A. “X-Rays from
Eta Carinae.” Astrophysical Journal 281(1984) :665.

Clear, J.; Cowley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; Lamb, R. C.; MacKeown,
P. K.; Porter, N. A.; and Weekes, T. C. “Observations of High Energy
Gamma Rays from Cygnus X-3 and Other Sources with the Whipple Ob-
servatory Large Aperture Camera.” In Proceedings of the 18th Interna-
tional Cosmic-Ray Conference, vol. 9, p. 53. Bombay, India: Tata Institute
of Fundamental Research, 1983.

Clear, J.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K.; MacNeill, G. C.; Porter, N.A.; and Weekes,
T. C. “An Upper Limit for the Mediation of Baryon Decay by Slow Mag-
netic Monopoles.” Nature 304(1983):606; also in Proceedings of the 18th
International Cosmic-Ray Conference, vol. 5, p. 74. Bombay, India: Tata
Institute of Fundamental Research, 1983.

Cohen, R. E.; Kornacki, A. S.; and Wood, J. A. “Mineralogy and Petrology
of Chrondrules and Inclusions in the Mokoia C3(V) Chrondrite.” Geo-
chimica et Cosmochimica Acta 47 (1983) :1739.

Cooper, D. L. “Theoretical Investigation of the X*Z* and C’=* States of BeH.”
Journal of Chemical Physics 80(1984) :1961.

Crampton, D.; Cowley, A. P.; Hutchings, J. B.; Schade, D. J.; and van Spey-
broeck, L. P. “Optical Counterparts for X-Ray Sources in M31.” Astro-
physical Journal 284(1984) :663.

Cruddace, R. G., and Dupree, A. K. “Contact Binary Stars: I. An X-Ray
Survey.” Astrophysical Journal 277(1984) :263.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 519
Cruz-Gonzalez, I., and Huchra, J. “Continuum Distributions of an X-Ray
Observed Sample of BL Lac Objects.” Astronomical Journal 89(1984): 441

daCosta, L. N.; Pellegrini, P. S.; Nunes, M.A.; Willmer, C.; and Latham,
D. W. “Redshifts for 228 Southern Galaxies.” Astronomical Journal 89
(1984) :1310.

Dalgarno, A. “Cross Sections and Line-Broadening.” In Highlights of Astron-
omy, ed. R. M. West, p. 789. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1983.

. “Electron-Ion and Proton-Ion Collisions in Astrophysics.” In Physics
of Ion-Ion and Electron-Ion Collisions, eds. F. Brouillard and J. W. Mc-
Gowan, p. 1. New York: Plenum Publishing Corporation, 1983.

Daniel, R. R.; Ghosh, S. K.; Iyengar, K. V. K.; Patkar, D. M.; Rengarajan,
T. N.; Srinavasan, K. S.; Tandon, S. N.; and Verma, R. P. “A 75-cm Bal-
loon-Borne Telescope for Far-Infrared Astronomical Observations.” Journal
of Physics 17(1984) :160.

Danziger, J., and Gorenstein, P. (editors). [AU Symposium 101, Supernova
Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Pub-
lishing Company, 1983.

Doyle, J. G., and Raymond, J. C. “Flare Parameters for the 7 September 1973
Two-Ribbon Flare.” Solar Physics 90(1983) :97.

Doyle, J. G.; Raymond, J. C.; Noyes, R. W.; and Kingston, A. E. “The Inter-
pretation of EUV Spectra and Sunspots.” In Activity in Red-Dwarf Stars,
eds. P. B. Byrne and M. Rodono, p. 325. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1983.

Drechsel, H.; Rahe, J.; Seward, F. D.; Wang, Z. R.; and Wargau, W. “The
X-Ray Emission of the Old Nova V603 Aquilae (1918).” Astronomy and
Astrophysics 126(1983) :357.

Dupree, A. K. “Contact Binary Stars.” In Activity in Red-Dwarf Stars, eds.
P. B. Byrne and M. Rodono, p. 447. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publish-
ing Company, 1983.

. “Observation of Winds in Cool Stars.” In Solar Wind V, ed. M. Neu-
gebauer, p. 229. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Scientific and Technical In-
formation Branch, 1983.

Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and Avrett, E. H. “Chromospheres and Mass
Loss in Metal Deficient Giant Stars.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 281
(1984) :L37.

Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and Smith, G. “Chromospheres in Metal Defi-
cient Field Stars.” In Proceedings of the Third Cambridge Workshop on
Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hart-
mann, p. 326. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Dupree, A. K., and Raymond, J. C. “White Dwarfs and the Interstellar
Medium.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 275(1983) :L71.

Elvis, M. “One Step Closer to the Quasar Power Source.” Nature 304(5921)
(1983) :19.

. “‘Microquasars’ and the X-Ray Background.” In High Energy Astro-

physics and Cosmology, eds. G. F. Bignami and R. A. Sunyaev, p. 207.

Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1984.

. “1-20 um Photometry of 3 CR Radio Galaxies.” In High Energy Astro-
physics and Cosmology, eds. G. F. Bignami and R. A. Sunyaev, p. 203. Ox-
ford, England: Pergamon Press, 1984.

Elvis, M., and Fabbiano, G. “X-Ray and UV Spectra of Two Radio Bright Qua-
sars.” Astrophysical Journal 280(1984) :91.

Elvis, M.; Soltan, A.; and Keel, W. “Very Low Luminosity Active Galaxies
and the X-Ray Background.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :479.

Elvis, M.; Willner, S. P.; Fabbiano, G.; Carleton, N. P.; Lawrence, A.; and

520 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Ward, M. “1-20 Micron Photometry of 3CR Radio Galaxies.” Astrophysical
Journal 280(1984) :574.

Estes, R. D., and Grossi, M.D. “Ionospheric Electron Density Irregularities
Observed by Satellite-to-Satellite, Dual-Frequency, Low-Low, Doppler
Tracking Links.” Radio Science 19(4) (1984) :1098.

Fabbiano, G. “An X-Ray Survey of a Complete Sample of 3CR Galaxies.”
In High Energy Astrophysics and Cosmology, eds. G. F. Bignami and R. A.
Sunyaev, p. 19. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1984.

. “The X-Ray Emission of Normal Spiral Galaxies.” In High Energy
Astrophysics and Cosmology, eds. G. F. Bignami and R. A. Sunyaev, p.
195. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1984.

Fabbiano, G.; Miller, L.; Trinchieri, G.; Longair, M.; and Elvis, M. “An X-
Ray Survey of a Complete Sample of 3CR Radio Galaxies with the Ein-
stein Observatory.” Astrophysical Journal 277(1984) :115.

Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; and Macdonald, A. “X-Ray Observations of
Spiral Galaxies, I. Integrated Properties.” Astrophysical Journal 284(1984):
65.

Feretti, I.; Gioia, I. M.; Giovannini, G.; Gregorini, L.; and Padrielli, L. “High
Resolution Radio and X-Ray Observations of 3C28 in A115.” In Clusters
and Groups of Galaxies, eds. F. Mardirossian, G. Giuricin, and M. Mez-
zetti, p. 289. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Ferrari, A.; Habbal, S.; Rosner, R.; and Tsinganos, K. “A Wind-Type Model
for the Generation of Astrophysical Jets.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
277 (1984) :L35.

Fireman, E. L. “Carbon-14 Terrestrial Ages of Antarctic Meteorites.” Lunar
and Planetary Sciences XV(1984) :268.

. “Carbon-14 Terrestrial Ages of Antarctic Meteorites.” In Proceedings
of the 8th Symposium on Antarctic Meteorites, ed. T. Nagato, p. 246.
Japan: Tokyo Press, 1983.

Fla, T.; Habbal, S. R.; Holzer, T. E.; and Leer, E. “Fast Mode MHD Waves
in Coronal Holes and the Solar Wind.” Astrophysical Journal 280(1984):
382.

Foltz, C. B.; Weymann, R. J.; Roser, H.-J.; and Chaffee, F. H. “Improved
Lower Limits on Lyman Alpha Forest Cloud Dimensions and Additional
Evidence Supporting the Gravitational Lens Nature of 2345-+007A,B.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 281(1984) :L1.

Forman, W.; Jones, C.; and Tucker, W. “Clusters of Galaxies as a Probe
of the Intergalactic Medium.” Astrophysical Journal 277 (1984) :19.

. “Hot Gaseous Coronae Around Early-Type Galaxies.” In Clusters
and Groups of Galaxies, eds. F. Mardirossian, G. Giuricin, and M. Mez-
zetti, p. 297. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Fox, J. L., and Dalgarno, A. “Nitrogen Escape from Mars.” Journal of Geo-
physical Research 88(1983) :9027.

Freeman, D. E.; Yoshino, K.; Esmond, J. R.; and Parkinson, W. H. “High
Resolution Absorption Cross Section Measurements of Ozone at 195 K
in the Wavelength Region 240-350 nm.” Planetary and Space Science 32
(1984) :239.

Garcia-Barreto, J. A.; Burke, B. F.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Haschick,
A. D. “Magnetic Field Structure of Star Forming Regions: VLBI Spectral
Line Results.” In IAU Symposium 110, VLBI and Compact Radio Sources,
eds. R. Fanti, K. Kellerman, and G. Setti, p. 333. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Gardner, L. D., and Kohl, J. L. “Fast Neutral Beam Measurements of Molecu-
lar Photodissociation.” In Electronic and Atomic Collisions, Contributed

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 521
Papers, eds. J. Eichler, I. V. Hertel, and N. Stolterfoht, p. 59. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Gavazzi, G., and Trinchieri, G. “Radio and X-Ray Observations of the Radio
Halo Source in A1367.” Astrophysical Journal 270(1983) :410.

Geller, M. J. “Mapping the Universe.” In Science Year 1984. Chicago, Illinois:
World Books, Incorporated, 1983.

. “Groups of Galaxies.” In Clusters and Groups of Galaxies, eds. F.

Mardirossian, G. Giuricin, and M. Mezzetti, p. 353. Dordrecht, Holland:

D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

. “Research Frontiers in Astronomy.” In Research Frontiers and the

National Agenda, National Academy of Sciences Special Report, p. 5,

Washington, D.C.: National Academy of Sciences, 1984.

. “When Clusters are Superclusters.” Comments on Astrophysics X(2)
(1984) :47.

Geller, M. J., and Beers, T. C. “Substructure in Clusters of Galaxies.” In
IAU Symposium 104, Early Evolution of the Universe and Its Present
Structure, eds. G. Abell and G. Chincarini, p. 227. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Geller, M. J.; Beers, T. C.; Bothun, G. D.; and Huchra, J. P. “A Redshift
Survey of the Cluster A1142.” Astronomical Journal 89(1984) :319.

Geller, M. J., and Postman, M. “First-Ranked Galaxies in Groups.” Astro-
physical Journal 274(1983) :31.

Ghosh, S. K.; Iyengar, K. V. K.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Tandon, S. N.; Verma,
R. P.; and Daniel, R. R. “JHK Photometry of Unidentified EIC-1 Sources.”
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 206(1984) :611.

Giampapa, M. S. “Results from Optical and UV Stellar Flare Spectroscopy.”
In Activity in Red-Dwarf Stars, eds. P. B. Byrne and M. Rodono, p. 223.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Gingerich, O. (Astronomical Scrapbook). “From Aristarchus to Copernicus.”
Sky and Telescope 66(1983) :410.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook). “How Astronomers Finally Captured Mer-

cury.” Sky and Telescope 66(1983) :203.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook). “The Discovery of the Milky Way’s Spiral

Arms.” Sky and Telescope 68(1984) :10.

. (Astronomical Scrapbook). “The Origin of the Zodiac.” Sky and Tele-

scope 67(1984) :218.

. (editor). General History of Astronomy 4(A). Cambridge, England:

Cambridge University Press, 1984.

. “A Tusi Couple from Schoner’s De Revolutionibus?” Journal of the

History of Astronomy 15(1984) :128.

. “Up, Up and Away!” Harvard Magazine 86(January-February)
(1984) :6.

Gingerich, O., and Welther, B. (Astronomical Scrapbook). “Some Puzzles of
Ptolemy’s Star Catalogue.” Sky and Telescope 67(1984) :421.

Gioia, I. M., and Maccacaro, T. “The Einstein Observatory Medium Sensi-
tivity Survey: The Quasar Sample.” In Proceedings of the 24th Liége Inter-
national Colloquium, Quasars and Gravitational Lenses, p. 63. Liége,
France: Institute d’Astrophysique, 1983.

. “The Euclidian Slope of the X-Ray Source Counts: A ‘Cosmic Con-
spiracy’.” In High Energy Astrophysics and Cosmology, eds. G. F. Bignami
and R. A. Sunyaev, p. 191. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press, 1984.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R. E.; Stocke, J. T.; Liebert, J. W.; Dan-
ziger, I. J.; Kunth, D.; and Lub, J. “The Medium Sensitivity Survey: A
New Sample of X-Ray Sources with Optical Identifications and the Re-
vised Extragalactic log N-log S.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :495.

522 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Golub, L. “Empirical Scaling Laws for Coronal Heating.” In IAU Symposium
102, Solar Magnetic Fields: Origins and Coronal Effects, ed. J. Stenflo, p.
345. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

. “Quiescent Coronae of Active Chromosphere Stars.” In IAU Sym-

posium 97, Activity in Red-Dwarf Stars, eds. P. J. Byrne and M. Rodono,

p. 83. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

. “Solar and Late-Type Dwarfs.” Advances in Space Research 2(1983):

215.

Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Cohen, N. L.; Bonometti, R. J.; Falco, E. E.;
and Rogers, A. E. E. “VLBI Observations of the Gravitational-Lens Images
of Q0957+561.” In Proceedings of the 24th Liége International Colloquium,
Quasars and Gravitational Lenses, p. 203. Liége, France: Institute d’Astro-
physique, 1983.

Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Cohen, N. L.; Bonometti, R. J.; Falco, E. E.;
Rogers, A. E. E.; and Marcaide, J. M. “VLBI Observations of the Gravita-
tional Lens Images of Q0957+561.” In IAU Symposium 110, VLBI and
Compact Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti, K. Kellerman, and G. Setti, p. 243.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Gorenstein, P.; Seward, F. D.; and Tucker, W. “The Mass and Structure of
the Remnant of Tycho’s Supernova.” In IAU Symposium 101, Supernova
Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission, eds. J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein,
p. 1. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Graff, M. M.; Moseley, J. T.; Durup, J.; and Roueff, E. “Predissociation
Rates of the A “II State of CH*.” Journal of Chemical Physics 78(1983):
2355;

Graff, M. M.; Moseley, J. T.; and Roueff, E. “Resonant and Nonresonant
Processes in the Formation of CH* by Radiative Association.” Astrophysi-
cal Journal 269(1983) :796.

Grindlay, J. E.; Band, D.; Seward, F.; Leahy, D.; Weisskopf, M. C.; and
Marshall, F. “The Central X-Ray Source in $5433.” Astrophysical Journal
277 (1984) :286.

Grindlay, J.; Band, D.; Seward, F.; Stella, L.; and Watson, M. “X-Ray Studies
of $S433.” In [AU Symposium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray
Emissions, eds. J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 459. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Grindlay, J.; Hertz, P.; Steiner, J. E.; Murray, S. S.; and Lightman, A. P.
“Determination of Masses of Globular Cluster X-Ray Sources.” Astro-
physical Journal (Letters) 282(1984) :L13.

Grossi, M. D. “Spaceborne Long Vertical Wire as a Self-Powered ULF/ELF
Radiator.” Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, Journal of Ocean
Engineering OE-9(3) (1984) :211.

Guinan, E. F., and Smith, G. H. “Photometry of the Mg b and Mg H Feature
for a Sample of Bright Stars.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of
the Pacific 96(1984) :354.

Guth, A. H. “Phase Transitions in the Very Early Universe.” In The Very
Early Universe, eds. G. W. Gibbons, S. W. Hawking, and S. T. C. Siklos,
p. 171. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1983.

. “Reducing the Monopole Abundance.” In Magnetic Monopoles, eds.

R. A. Carrigan, Jr. and W. P. Trower, p. 81. New York: Plenum Publishing

Corporation, 1983.

. “The New Inflationary Universe.” Annals of the New York Academy
of Sciences 422(1984) :1.

Guth, A. H., and Sher, M. “The Impossibility of a Bouncing Universe.”
Nature 302(1983) :505.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 523
Guth, A., and Steinhardt, P. J. “The Inflationary Universe.” Scientific Ameri-
can 250(5) (1984) :116.

Habbal, S. R.; Tsinganos, K.; and Rosner, R. “Multiple Transonic Solutions
and a New Class of Shock Transitions in Solar and Stellar Winds.” In
Solar Wind V, ed. M. Neugebauer, p. 213. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA
Scientific and Technical Information Branch, 1983.

Halpern, J.; Grindlay, J.; Bignami, G.; and Caraveo, P. “Position of the
Geminga Optical Candidate.” International Astronomical Union Circular
No. 3907, 1984.

Harnden, F. R., Jr. “X-Ray Study of the Crab Nebula and the Crab and Vela
Pulsars.” In [AU Symposium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray
Emission, eds. J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 131. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Harnden, F. R., Jr. and Seward, F. D. “Einstein Observations of the Crab
Nebula Pulsar.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :279.

Harris, D. E.; Costain, C. H.; and Dewdney, P. E. “The X-Ray Features of a
Single-Lobed Radio Galaxy in Abell 754.” Astrophysical Journal 280(1984):
532.

Hartmann, L. (Invited review). “Stellar Winds and Spindown—Observations.”
In IAU Symposium 102, Solar and Stellar Magnetic Fields: Origins and
Coronal Effects, ed. J. O. Stenflo, p. 419. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1983.

. “Atmospheres and Winds of T Tauri Stars.” In Proceedings of the
Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun,
eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 60. New York: Springer-Verlag,
1984.

Hartmann, L., and Avrett, E. H. “On the Extended Chromosphere of a
Orionis.” Astrophysical Journal 284(1984) :238.

Hartmann, L. W.; Baliunas, S. L.; Duncan, D. K.; and Noyes, R. W. “A
Study of the Dependence of Mg II Emission on the Rotational Periods of
Main-Sequence Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 279(1984) :778.

Hartmann, L., and Raymond, J. C. “A High-Resolution Study of Herbig-
Haro Objects 1 and 2.” Astrophysical Journal 276(1984) :560.

Hartmann, L.; Soderblom, D.; Noyes, R. W.; Burnham, N.; and Vaughan,
A. H. “An Analysis of the Vaughan-Preston Survey of Chromospheric
Emission.” Astrophysical Journal 276(1984) :254.

Hers, J., and Marsden, B. G. “Report of Meeting of Commission 6.” Trans-
actions of the International Astronomical Union XVIII(B) (1983) :79.

Hickson, P.; Ninkov, Z.; Huchra, J.; and Mamon, G. “Structure of Compact
Groups of Galaxies.” In Clusters and Groups of Galaxies, eds. F. Mardiros-
sian, G. Giuricin, and M. Mezzetti, p. 367. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1984.

Higgs, L. A.; Landecker, T. L.; and Seward, F. D. “The X-Ray Structure of
the Supernova Remnant G78.2+2.1.” In IAU Symposium 101, Supernova
Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission, eds. J. Danziger, and P. Gorenstein,
p. 281. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Horne, J. H.; Baliunas, S. L.; Noyes, R. W.; Duncan, D. K.; and Vaughan,
A. H. “Time Series Measurements of Chromospheric Emission and Pos-
sible Evidence for Differential Rotation.” In Proceedings of the Third
Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds.
S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 143. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Howe, S. K.; Primini, F. A.; Bautz, M. W.; Lang, F. L.; Levine, A. M.; and
Lewin, W. H. G. “HEAO-1 High-Energy X-Ray Observations of Centaurus
X-3.” Astrophysical Journal 272(1983) :678.

Huchra, J. P. “Dynamics of Large Systems of Galaxies.” In Physics News in
1983, ed. P. Schewe, p. 15. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1983.

524 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Huchra, J., and Brodie, J. “A Galaxy Cluster Behind M87.” Astrophysical
Journal 280(1984) :547.

Huchra, J.; Davis, R.; and Latham, D. “The Core of the Virgo Cluster.” In
Clusters and Groups of Galaxies, eds. F. Mardirossian, G. Giuricin, and
M. Mezzetti, p. 79, Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1984.

Huchra, J. P.; Geller, M. J.; Gallagher, J.; Hunter, D.; Hartmann, L.; Fab-
biano, G.; and Aaronson, M. “Star Formation in Blue Galaxies I. UV,
Optical and IR Observations in N4214 and NGC4670.” Astrophysical
Journal 274(1983) :125.

Jaffe, P. T.; Hildebrand, R. H.; Keene, J.; Harper, D. A.; Loewenstein, R. F.;
and Moran, J. M. “Far-Infrared Selected Star Formation.” Astrophysical
Journal 281(1984) :225.

Janes, K. A., and Smith, G. H. “The Giant Branch of the Old Open Cluster
M67.” Astronomical Journal 89(1984) :487.

Jones, C., and Forman, W. “Einstein Images of Clusters of Galaxies: Galaxy
Haloes, the Intracluster Medium, and the Intercluster Gas.” In Clusters and
Groups of Galaxies, eds. F. Mardirossian, G. Giuricin, and M. Mezzetti,
p. 319. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

. “The Structures of Clusters of Galaxies Observed with Einstein.”
Astrophysical Journal 276(1984) :38.

Jull, A. J. T.; Zabel, T. H.; Donahue, D. J.; and Fireman, E. L. “Accelerator
Measurements of Carbon-14 Ages of Antarctic Meteorites.” Lunar and
Planetary Science XV(1984) :421.

Kahn, S. M., and Grindlay, J. E. “Evidence for Weak X-Ray Burst Emission
from Cygnus X-2 and GX 17+2.” Astrophysical Journal 281(1984) :826.

Kahn, S. M.; Seward, F. D.; and Chlebowski, T. “High Resolution Soft X-Ray
Spectra of Scorpius X-1. The Structure of Circumsource Accreting Mate-
rial.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :286.

Kaler, J. B.; Kenyon, S. J.; and Hickey, J. P. “Differential Photometry and
Absolute Spectrophotometry of CH Cygni.” Publications of the Astronomi-
cal Society of the Pacific 95(1983) :1006.

Kalkofen, W. “Operator Perturbation Methods: A Synthesis.” In Methods in
Radiative Transfer, ed. W. Kalkofen, p. 427. Cambridge, England: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1984.

. (editor) “Preface and Introduction.” In Methods in Radiative Trans-
fer. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1984.

Kalkofen, W., and Ulmschneider, P. “Core Saturation in a Moving Medium.”
In Methods in Radiative Transfer, ed. W. Kalkofen, p. 131. Cambridge,
England: Cambridge University Press, 1984.

Kalkofen, W., and Wehrse, R. “Radiative Transfer in an Expanding Spherical
Medium.” In Proceedings of the Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars,
Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 306.
New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

. “Radiative Transfer in Spherical Atmospheres.” In Methods in Radia-
tive Transfer, ed. W. Kalkofen, p. 307. Cambridge, England: Cambridge
University Press, 1984.

Kennicutt, R. C., Jr.; Bothun, G. D.; and Schommer, R. A. “H-Alpha Ob-
servations of Spiral Galaxies in Cancer, A1367, and Coma.” Astronomical
Journal 89(1984) :1279.

Kenyon, S. J., and Bateson, F. M. “Periodic Variability in the Symbiotic Stars
SY Muscae and RR Telescopii.” Publications of the Astronomical Society
of the Pacific 96(1984) :321.

Kenyon, S. J., and Truran, J. W. “The Outbursts of Symbiotic Novae.” Astro-
physical Journal 272(1983) :280.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 525
Kenyon, S. J., and Webbink, R. F. “The Nature of Symbiotic Stars.” Astro-
physical Journal 279(1984) :252.

Knoke, J. E.; Partridge, R. B.; Ratner, M. I.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Limits on
Arcsecond-Scale Fluctuations in the Cosmic Microwave Background.”
Astrophysical Journal 284(1984) :479.

Kohl, J. L.; Withbroe, G. L.; Zapata, C. A.; and Noci, G. “Spectroscopic
Measurements of Solar Wind Generation.” In Solar Wind V, ed. M. Neuge-
bauer, p. 47. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Scientific and Technical Infor-
mation Branch, 1983.

Kornacki, A. S.; Cohen, R. E.; and Wood, J. A. “Petrography and Classifica-
tion of Refractory Inclusions in the Allende and Mokoia CV3 Chondrites.”
In Proceedings of the 8th Symposium on Antarctic Meteorites, ed. T.
Nagato, p. 45. Tokyo, Japan: Tokyo Press, 1983.

Kornacki, A. S., and Wood, J. A. “The Mineral Chemistry and Origin of
Inclusion Matrix and Meteorite Matrix in the Allende CV3 Chondrite.”
Geochimica Cosmochimica Acta 48 (1984) :1663.

. “Petrography and Classification of Refractory Inclusions in the
Allende CV3 Chondrite.” Journal of Geophysical Research 89(1984) :B573.
Kwong, H. S.; Johnson, B. C.; Smith, P. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. “The
Transition Probability of the Si III 189.2 nm Intersystem Line.” Physical

Review A 27(1983) :3040.

Lamb, D. Q. “Physics of Gamma-Ray Bursts.” Annals of the New York
Academy of Sciences 422(1983) :237.

Lang, K. R.; Bookbinder, J.; Golub, L.; and Davis, M. M. “Bright Rapid
Highly Polarized Radio Spikes from the M-Dwarf AD Leonis.” Astro-
physical Journal (Letters) 272(1983):L15.

Langhoff, S. R.; Jaffe, R. L.; Yee, J. H.; and Dalgarno, A. “The Surface Glow
of the Atmosphere Explorer C and E Satellites.” Geophysical Research
Letters 10(1983) :896.

Latham, D. W.; Tonry, J.; Bahcall, J. N.; Soneira, R. M.; and Schechter, P.
“Detection of Binaries with Projected Separations as Large as 0.1 parsec.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 281(1984) :L41.

Levine, A. M.; Lang, F. L.; Lewin, W. H. G.; Primini, F. A.; Dobson, C. A.;
Doty, J. P.; Hoffman, J. A.; Howe, S. K.; Scheepmaker, A.; Wheaton,
W. A.; Matteson, J. L.; Baity, W. A.; Gruber, D. E.; Knight, F. K.; Nolan,
P. L.; Pelling, R. J.; Rothschild, R. E.; and Peterson, L. E. “The HEAO-1
A-4 Catalog of High-Energy X-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical Journal Sup-
plement Series 54(1984) :581.

Lightman, A. P. “A Fundamental Determination of the Planetary Day and
Year.” American Journal of Physics 52(1984) :211.

. “Fundamental Processes in Pair Plasmas.” In Electron-Positron Pairs

in Astrophysics, eds. M. Burns, A. Harding, and R. Ramaty, p. 359. New

York: American Institute of Physics, 1983.

. Time Travel and Papa Joe’s Pipe. New York: Charles Scribner’s
Sons, 1984.

Maccacaro, T. “The Einstein Observatory Medium Sensitivity Survey: New
Extragalactic Results.” In High Energy Astrophysics and Cosmology, eds.
G. F. Bignami and R. A. Sunyaev, p. 149. Oxford, England: Pergamon
Press, 1984.

Maccacaro, T., and Gioia, I. “Luminosity Function and Cosmological Evolu-
tion of X-Ray Selected Quasars.” In Proceedings of the 24th Liége Inter-
national Colloquium, Quasars and Gravitational Lenses, p. 260. Liége,
France: Institute d’Astrophysique, 1983.

. “X-Ray Sources of Cosmological Relevance.” In IAU Symposium 104,

Early Evolution of the Universe and Its Present Structure, eds. G. Abell

526 / Smithsonian Year 1984
and G. Chincarini, p. 7. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Com-
pany, 1983.

Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I.; Maccagni, D.; and Stocke, J. T. “On the Surface
Density of X-Ray Selected BL Lacertae Objects.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 284(1984) :L23.

Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I. M.; and Stocke, J. “X-Ray Selected Quasars and
Seyfert Galaxies: Cosmological Evolution, Luminosity Function, and Con-
tribution to the X-Ray Background.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :486.

Maccagni, D.; Maccacaro, T.; and Tarenghi, M. “X-Ray Spectra of the BL
Lac Objects PKS 0548-322 and 3C 66A.” Astrophysical Journal 273(1983):
70.

MacKeown, P. K.; Cawley, M. F.; Clear, J.; Fegan, D. J.; Lamb, R. C.; Turver,
K. E.; and Weekes, T. C. “Primary Cosmic Ray Spectrum above 10” eV
from Cerenkov Light Images.” In Proceedings of the 18th International
Cosmic-Ray Conference, vol. 9, p. 175. Bombay, India: Tata Institute of
Fundamental Research, 1983.

Madejski, G. M., and Schwartz, D. A. “Studies of BL Lacertae Objects with
the Einstein X-Ray Observatory: Confrontation with the Synchrotron Self-
Compton Predictions.” Astrophysical Journal 275(1983) :467.

Maltby, P.; Albregtsen, F.; Kjeldseth Moe, O.; Kurucz, R.; and Avrett, E.
“Solar-Cycle Temperature Variations in Sunspots.” In Proceedings of the
Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun,
eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 176. New York: Springer-Verlag,
1984.

Marcaide, J. M., and Shapiro, I. I. “VLBI Study of 1038+528 A and B: Dis-
covery of Wavelength Dependence of Peak Brightness Location.” Astro-
physical Journal 276(1984) :56.

Marcaide, J.; Shapiro, I.; Ball, J.; Bartel, N.; Clark, T.; Corey, B.; Goren-
stein, M.; Preston, R.; Ratner, M.; Rogers, A.; and Whitney, A. “Nearly
Microsecond Precision Differential Astrometry.” In [AU Symposium 110,
VLBI and Compact Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti, K. Kellerman, and G.
Setti, p. 361. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Marsden, B. G. “Introduction to Comets (Review).” Physics Today (May)
(1983) :75.

. (editor and contributor). International Astronomical Union Circular

Nos. 3873-3904, 1983; International Astronomical Union Circular Nos.

3905-3994, 1984.

. (editor and contributor). Minor Planet Circular Nos. 8183-8322, 1983;

Minor Planet Circular Nos. 8323-9120, 1984.

. “Annual Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.”

International Astronomical Union Information Bulletin No. 52, 1984.

. “Annual Report of the Minor Planet Center.” International Astro-

nomical Union Information Bulletin No. 52, 1984.

. “Magnetic Tape of Observations of Minor Planets and Comets.”
Minor Planet Center, 322,203 entries, 1984.

Marshall, H. L.; Avni, Y.; Braccesi, A.; Huchra, J. P.; Tananbaum, H.;
Zamorani, G.; and Zitelli, V. “A Complete Sample of Quasars at B=
19.80.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :50.

. “Quasar Evolution from Faint Optical Samples.” In Proceedings of
the 24th Liege International Colloquium, Quasars and Gravitational Lenses,
p. 238. Liege, France: Institute d’Astrophysique, 1983.

Martin, P. G.; Rogers, C.; and Rybicki, G. B. “Half-Range Moment Methods
in Spherical Geometry: II. Implementation of the Method.” Astrophysical
Journal 284(1984) :317.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 527
Marvin, U. B. “The Discovery and Initial Characterization of Allan Hills
81005: The First Lunar Meteorite.” Geophysical Research Letters 10(9)
(1983) :775.

. “Meteorites on Ice.” The Planetary Report IV(2) (1984) :12.

Marvin, U. B., and Mason, B. “A Meteorite from the Moon.” Smithsonian
Contributions to the Earth Sciences 26(1984) :95.

. (editors). “Field and Laboratory Investigations of Meteorites from
Victoria Land, Antarctica.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences
26(1984) :134 pp.

Marvin, U. B., and Walker, D. “A Transient Heating Event in the History
of a Highlands Troctolite from Apollo 12 Soil 12033.” Lunar and Planetary
Science XV(2) (1984) :513.

Mathieu, R. D. “The Structure and Dynamics of the Open Cluster M11.”
Astrophysical Journal 284(1984) :643.

McMillan, S. L. W., and Lightman, A. P. “A Unified N-Body and Statistical
Treatment of Stellar Dynamics: II. Applications to Globular Cluster
Cores.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :813.

. “A Unified N-Body and Statistical Treatment of Stellar Dynamics: I.
The Hybrid Code.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :801.

Meszaros, P. “Physical Processes in the Strong Magnetic Fields of Accreting
Neutron Stars.” In High Energy Astrophysics and Cosmology, eds. G. F.
Bignami and R. A. Sunyaev, p. 279. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press,
1984,

Metzger, A. E.; Gilman, D. A.; Luthey, J. L.; Hurley, K. C.; Schnopper,
H. W.; Seward, F. D.; and Sullivan, J. D. “Detection of X-Rays from
Jupiter.” Journal of Geophysical Research 88(1983) :7731.

Miley, G. K.; Norman, C.; Silk, J.; and Fabbiano, G. “X-Ray Observations
of Radio-Jet Galaxies.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 122(1983) :330.

Mundt, R., and Hartmann, L. “HH-1 and HH-2: The Results of an Eruptive
Event in the Cohen-Schwartz Star?” Astrophysical Journal 268(1983) :766.

Murray, S. S. “Extragalactic Astronomy.” In Science Year. Chicago, Illinois:
World Books, Inc., 1983.

Myers, P. C.; Benson, P. J.; and Wright, E. L. “Infrared and Molecular Line
Observations of Young Stars and Associated Dense Gas.” In Proceedings
of the Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems and the
Sun, eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 43. New York: Springer-
Verlag, 1984.

Noland, L., and Tucker, W. Heath Physical Science. Lexington, Mass.: D.C.
Heath and Company, 1983.

Norris, J., and Smith, G. H. “The A1 I—Cyanogen Correlation in the Spectra
of Globular Cluster Red Giants and the Origin of Intracluster Heavy Ele-
ment Variations.” Astrophysical Journal 272(1983) :635.

. “The Cyanogen Distribution of the Giants in NGC 2808.” Astro-
physical Journal 275(1983) :120.

Noyes, R. W.; Hartmann, L.; Baliunas, S. L.; Duncan, D. K.; and Vaughan,
A. H. “Rotation, Convection, and Magnetic Activity in Lower-Main Se-
quence Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 279(1984) :763.

Odenwald, S. F., and Fazio, G. G. “A Far-Infrared Survey of the Galactic
Center.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :601.

Owocki, S. P. “Interpreting the Solar Wind Ionization State,” In Solar Wind
V, ed. M. Neugebauer, p. 623. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Scientific and
Technical Information Branch, 1983.

Owocki, S. P., and Rybicki, G. B. “Instabilities in Line-Driven Winds: I.
Dependence on Perturbation Wavelength.” Astrophysical Journal 284(1984):
337.

528 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Patterson, J.; Beuerman, K.; Lamb, D. Q.; Fabbiano, G.; Raymond, J. C.;
Swank, J.; and White, N. E. “VV Puppis, the Soft-X-Ray Machine.” Astro-
physical Journal 279(1984) :785.

Petre, R.; Canizares, C. R.; Winkler, P. F.; Seward, F. D.; Willingale, R.;
Rolf, D.; and Woods, N. “High Resolution X-Ray Images of Puppis A and
1C443.” In IAU Symposium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray
Emission, eds. J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 289. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Petro, L. D.; Foukal, P. V.; Rosen, W. A.; Kurucz, R. L.; and Pierce, A. K.
“A Study of Solar Photospheric Limb-Darkening Variations.” Astrophysi-
cal Journal 283(1984) :426.

Postman, M., and Geller, M. J. “The Morphology-Density Relation: The
Group Connection.” Astrophysical Journal 281(1984) :95.

Press, W. H., and Lightman, A. P. “Dependence of Macrophysical Phenom-
ena on the Values of the Fundamental Constants.” Philosophical Trans-
actions of the Royal Society (London) A310(1984) :323.

Preston, R. A.; Burke, B. F.; Doxsey, R.; Jordan, J. F.; Morgan, S. H.; Rob-
erts, D. H.; and Shapiro, I. I. “The Future of VLBI Observatories in
Space.” In Proceedings of the CNES Conference on Very-Long-Baseline
Interferometry Techniques, ed. F. Biraud, p. 417. France: Cepadeus-Edi-
tions, 1983.

Pryor, C., and Geller, M. J. “Constraints on the Anisotropy of the Velocity
Dispersion of the Coma Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal 278(1984) :457.

Pye, J. P.; Becker, R. H.; Seward, F. D.; and Thomas, M. “Radio and X-Ray
Maps of the SNR W49B.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical
Society 207(1984) :649.

Radick, R. R.; Lockwood, G. W.; Thompson, D. T.; Warnock, A., III; Hart-
mann, L. W.; Mihalas, D.; Worden, S. P.; Henry, G. W.; and Sherlin,
J. M. “The Photometric Variability of Solar-Type Stars. III. Results from
1981-82, including Parallel Observations of Thirty-Six Hyades Stars.”
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 95(1983) :621.

Raymond, J. C. “The Structure and Emission of a Non-Radiative Shock.” In
IAU Symposium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission, eds.
J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 231. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Pub-
lishing Company, 1983.

. “Observations of Supernova Remnants.” Annual Reviews of Astron-
omy and Astrophysics 22(1984):75.

Raymond, J. C.; Blair, W. P.; Fesen, R. A.; and Gull, T. R. “The Structure
and Emission Spectrum of a Non-Radiative Shock Wave in the Cygnus
Loop.” Astrophysical Journal 275(1983) :636.

Reid, M. J.; Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Wilkinson, P. N.; and Johnson, K. J. “Sub-
Luminal Motions in the Nucleus of M87.” In IAU Symposium 110, VLBI
and Compact Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti, K. Kellerman, and G. Setti,
p. 145. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1984.

Rybicki, G. B. “Escape Probability Methods.” In Methods in Radiative
Transfer, ed. W. Kalkofen, p. 21. Cambridge, England: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1984.

Rybicki, G. B., and Hummer, D. G. “The Specific Luminosity of a Three-
Dimensional Medium in Terms of the Escape Probability.” Astrophysical
Journal 274(1983) :380.

Schild, R. E., and Weekes, T. C. “CCD Brightness Monitoring of the Twin
QSO 0957+561.” Astrophysical Journal 277(1984) :481.

Schneps, M. H.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; and
Ronnang, B. “Proper Motions and Distances of Water Maser Complexes.”
In IAU Symposium 110, VLBI Compact and Radio Sources, eds. R. Fanti,

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 529
K. Kellerman, and G. Setti, p. 335. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publish-
ing Company, 1984.

Schutt, J.; Cassidy, W. A.; Crozaz, G.; Fudali, R. F.; and Marvin, U. B.
“Results of Meteorite Search and Recovery Activities in the Vicinity of the
Allan Hills, Antarctica, December 1981—January 1982.” In Antarctic Earth
Science, eds. R. L. Oliver, P. R. James, and J. B. Jago, p. 620. Australia:
Australian Academy of Science, 1983.

Seward, F. D. “Supernova Remnants with Central Pulsars.” In IAU Sym-
posium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission, eds. J. Dan-
ziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 405. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1983.

Seward, F. D.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Murdin, P. G.; and Clark, D. H. “Super-
nova Remnants with Compact X-Ray Sources.” In [AU Symposium 101,
Supernova Remnants and Their X-Ray Emission, eds. J. Danziger and P.
Gorenstein, p. 417. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1983.

Seward, F. D.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Symkowiak, A.; and Swank, J. “The
X-Ray Nebula Around PSR 1509-58.” Astrophysical Journal 281(1984) :650.

Shapiro, I. I. “Use of Space Techniques for Geodesy.” In Proceedings of the
International School of Physics-Enrico Fermi-Earthquakes: Observation,
Theory and Interpretation, ed. H. Kanamori, p. 530. Amsterdam: North-
Holland Publishing Company, 1983.

Shields, G. A.; Dalgarno, A.; and Sternberg, A. “Line Emission from Charge
Transfer with Atomic Hydrogen at Thermal Energies.” Physical Review A
28 (1983) :2137.

Singh, P. D.; van Dishoeck, E. F.; and Dalgarno, A. “The Photodissociation
Lifetimes of the OH and OD Radicals in Comets.” Icarus 56(1983) :184.

Smith, G. H. “The Chemical Inhomogeneity of the Draco Dwarf Spheroidal
Galaxy.” Astronomical Journal 89(1984) :801.

“The HR 1614 Moving Group: Evidence from DDO Photometry That
It Contains Cyanogen-Rich Stars.” Astronomical Journal 88(1983): 1775.
Smith, G. H., and Norris, J. “Spectroscopy of Clump Giants in NGC 2158.”

Astronomical Journal 89(1984) :263.

. “Subtle Differences in the CN and CH Bands of Two M55 Red
Giants.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 95(1983):
635.

Smith, P. L.; Griesinger, H. E.; Black, J. H.; Yoshino, K.; and Freeman, D. E.
“Interstellar Oz, II: VUV Oscillator Strengths and Prospects for Space
Telescope Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 277(1984) :569.

Soderblom, D. R. “The Distribution of Chromospheric Emission Strengths
Among Red Dwarfs.” In Activity in Red-Dwarf Stars, eds. P. B. Byrne and
M. Rodono, p. 67. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1983.

. “Spectroscopic Criteria for Isolating Members of Young Kinematic

Groups in the Solar Neighborhood.” In The Nearby Stars and the Stellar

Luminosity Function, eds. A. G. Davis Philip and A. Upgren, p. 295. Sche-

nectady, New York: L. Davis Press, 1983.

. “Lithium Depletion in Solar-Type Stars.” In Proceedings of the Third
Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds.
S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 205. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Soderblom, D. R.; Jones, B. F.; and Walker, M. F. “Rapid Rotators Among
Pleiades K Dwarfs.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 274(1983) :L37.

Stahler, S. W. “The Birthline for Low-Mass Stars.” Astrophysical Journal
274(1983) :822.

530 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “The Cyanopolyynes as a Chemical Clock for Molecular Clouds.”

Astrophysical Journal 281(1984) :209.

. “A Dynamical Origin for the Stellar Birthline.” In Proceedings of the
Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun,
eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann, p. 90. New York: Springer-Verlag,
1984.

Stauffer, J. R. “Rotational Velocities of Low Mass Stars in Intermediate Age
Open Clusters.” In Proceedings of the Third Cambridge Workshop on Cool
Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. S. L. Baliunas and L. Hartmann,
p. 94. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Stauffer, J.; Hartmann, L.; Soderblom, D.; and Burnham, N. “Rotational
Velocities of Low Mass Stars in the Pleiades.” Astrophysical Journal 280
(1984) :202.

Steiner, J. E.; Ferrara, A.; Garcia, M.; Patterson, J.; Schwartz, D. A.; War-
wick, R. S.; Watson, M. G.; and McClintock, J. E. “Identification of Two
Hard X-Ray Emitting Be Stars Using the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation
Collimator.” Astrophysical Journal 280(1984) :688.

Stella, L.; Kahn, S.; and Grindlay, J. “Short-Term X-Ray Variability of the
Globular Cluster Source 4U1820-30 (NGC 6624).” Astrophysical Journal
282(1984) :713.

Stewart, G. C.; Fabian, A. C.; and Seward, F. D. “An X-Ray Halo Around
Cassiopeia A.” In [AU Symposium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their
X-Ray Emission, eds. J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 59. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Stier, M. T.; Jaffe, D. T.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Fazio, G. G.; Maxson, C. W.;
McBreen, B.; Loughran, L.; Serio, S.; and Sciortino, S. “Far-Infrared and
CO Observations of W33 Complex.” Astrophysical Journal 283(1984) :573.

Stocke, J.; Liebert, J.; Gioia, I. M.; Griffiths, R. E.; Maccacaro, T.; Danziger,
I. J.; Kunth, D.; and Lub, J. “The Einstein Observatory Medium Sensitivity
Survey: Optical Identifications for a Complete Sample of X-Ray Sources.”
Astrophysical Journal 273(1983) :458.

Stocke, J.; Liebert, J.; Schild, R.; Gioia, I. M.; and Maccacaro, T. “1E0104.2
+3153: A Broad Absorption Line QSO Viewed Through a Giant Elliptical
Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 277(1984) :43.

Torrelles, J. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Canto, J.; Marcaide, J.; Moran, J. M.; and
Ho, P. T. P. “Interstellar Toroids as the Focusing Agent of the Bipolar
Molecular Outflows.” Astrophysical Journal 274(1983) :214.

Traub, W. A. “Laboratory Demonstration of Image Reconstruction for
COSMIC.” Proceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation
Engineers, Synthetic Aperture Systems 440(1984) :143.

Tsinganos, K.; Habbal, S. R.; and Rosner, R. “Formation of Standing Shocks
in Stellar Winds and Related Astrophysical Flows.” In Solar Wind V, ed.
M. Neugebauer, p. 289. Baltimore, Maryland: NASA Scientific and Tech-
nical Information Branch, 1983.

Tucker, W. H. “The Relationship Between the X-Ray and Optical Luminosi-
ties of QSOs.” Astrophysical Journal 271(1983) :531.

. The Star Splitters: The High Energy Astronomy Observatories.
Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1984.

Vaiana, G. S. “Observational Approach and Perspective.” In Activity in Red-
Dwarf Stars, eds. P. B. Byrne and M. Rodono, p. 651. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

van Dishoeck, E. F., and Dalgarno, A. “Photodissociation Processes in the
OH Molecule.” Journal of Chemical Physics 79(1983) :873.

. “Photodissociation of OH in Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical Jour-

nal 277(1984) :576.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 531
van Houten, C. J.; Herget, P.; and Marsden, B. G. “The Palomar Survey of
Faint Minor Planets: Conclusion.” Icarus 52(1984) :1.

Verma, R. P.; Daniel, R. R.; Ghosh, S. K.; Iyengar, K. V. K.; Rengarajan,
T. N.; and Tandon, S. N. “Infrared Observations of Beta Cephei and Delta
Scuti Stars.” Astrophysics and Space Science 92(1983) :173.

Verma, R. P.; Ghosh, S. K.; Iyengar, K. V. K.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Tandon,
S. N.; and Daniel, R. R. “Near Infrared Photometry of Some RS CVn Sys-
tems and Candidates.” Astrophysics and Space Science 97(1983) :161.

Verma, R. P.; Ghosh, S. K.; Iyengar, K. V. K.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Tandon,
S. N.; Daniel, R. R.; and Sanwal, N. B. “Near Infrared Photometry of
Some RS CVN Systems.” In Proceedings of the Third Cambridge Work-
shop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. S. L. Baliunas and
L. Hartmann, p. 270. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1984.

Walter, F. M.; Linsky, J. L.; Simon, T.; Golub, L.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Stellar
Chromospheres and Coronae in the Ursa Major Cluster Stars.” Astro-
physical Journal 281(1984) :815.

Wang, Z. R., and Seward, F. D. “X-Rays from the SNR 3C391.” Astro-
physical Journal 279(1984) :705.

Watson, M.; Willingale, R.; Grindlay, J.; and Seward, F. “The X-Ray Lobes
of $$433.” Astrophysical Journal 273(1983) :688.

Watson, M. G.; Willingale, R.; Pye, J. P.; Rolf, D. P.; Wood, N.; Thomas,
N.; and Seward, F. D. “Einstein Observations of the SNRs IC443, W44,
and W49B.” In IAU Symposium 101, Supernova Remnants and Their X-
Ray Emission, eds. J. Danziger and P. Gorenstein, p. 273. Dordrecht: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1983.

Weekes, T. C. “A Review of Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy
Circa 1982.” In Proceedings of Workshop on Very High Energy Cosmic
Rays, January 1983, ed. T. Gaisser, p. 25. Delaware: Bartol Research
Foundation, 1983.

Wehrle, A. E.; Preston, R. A.; Meier, D. L.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro,
I. I.; Rogers, A. E. E.; and Rius, A. “A Search at the Millijansky Level
for Milliarc-second Cores in a Complete Sample of Radio Galaxies.” Astro-
physical Journal 284(1984) :519.

Weitzen, J. A.; Birkemeier, W. P.; and Grossi, M. D. “An Estimate of the
Capacity of the Meteor Burst Channel.” Institute of Electrical and Elec-
tronic Engineering Transactions COM-32(8) (1984) :972.

Weitzen, J. A.; Grossi, M. D.; and Birkemeier, W. P. “High Resolution Multi-
path Measurements on the Meteor Scatter Channel.” Radio Science 19(1)
(1984) :375.

Welther, B. L. “Annie Jump Cannon: Classifier of the Stars.” Mercury (Jan-
uary) (1984) :28.

. “Antonia Maury’s Over-Corrected Mass-Ratio for Beta Lyrae.” Actes

du Colloque, p. 95. Congrés Astronomique 1983 4 Quebec, Canada, 1984.

. “The World’s Largest Telescopes, 1850-1950.” In Appendix to Astro-
physics and Twentieth-Century Astronomy to 1950: The General History
of Astronomy, ed. O. Gingerich, vol. 4(A). Cambridge, England: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1984.

Whitney, C. A. “Stellar Acoustics. I. Adiabatic Pulse Propagation and Modal
Resonance in Polytropic Models of Bump Cepheids.” Astrophysical Journal
274(1983) :830.

. “Departures from Thermal Equilibrium in Expanding Stars.” Astro-
physical Journal 278(1984) :310.

Wilkes, B. J. “Studies of Broad Emission Line Profiles in QSOs: I. Compari-
son of Observed Profiles at High Resolution.” Monthly Notices of the
Royal Astronomical Society 207(1984) :73.

532 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Willner, S. P.; Ward, M.; Longmore, A.; Lawrence, A.; Fabbiano, G.; and
Elvis, M. “JHKL Photometry of the Nuclei of Normal Spiral Galaxies.”
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 96(1984) :143.

Wirth, A., and Gallagher, J. S. “The Families of Elliptical-Like Galaxies.”
Astrophysical Journal 282(1984) :85.

Wirth, A.; Kenyon, S. J.; and Hunter, D. A. “NGC 1275: A Burgeoning
Elliptical Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 269(1983) :102.

Withbroe, G. L. “Evidence for Temporal Variations in Polar Plumes.” Solar
Physics 89(1983) :77.

. (Invited paper.) “Solar Wind and Coronal Structure.” European Space
Agency Journal 7(4) (1983/4) :341.

Witt, A. N.; Schild, R. E.; and Kraiman, J. B. “Photometric Study of NGC
2023 in the 3500 A to 10000 A Region: Confirmation of a Near-IR Emis-
sion Process in Reflection Nebulae.” Astrophysical Journal 281(1984) :708.

Wood, J. A. “Formation of CAI’s and Chondrules in the Nebular Shock
Front.” Lunar and Planetary Science XIV(1983) :857.

Wright, M. C. H.; Plambeck, R. L.; Vogel, S. N.; Ho, P. T. P.; and Welch,
W. J. “Sources of the High Velocity Molecular Flow in Orion.” Astro-
physical Journal (Letters) 267(1983) :L41.

Yee, J. H., and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Lifetime Analysis of the Shuttle
Optical Glow.” American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (Shuttle
Environment and Operations Meeting) (1983) :191.

York, D. G.; Green, R. F.; Bechtold, J.; and Chaffee, F. H. “Splitting of C
IV Lines in a QSO Absorption Line System.” Astrophysical Journal (Let-
ters) 280(1984) :L1.

Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Esmond, J. R.; and Parkinson, W. H. “High
Resolution Absorption Cross Section Measurements and Band Oscillator
Strengths of the (1,0)—(12,0) Schumann-Runge Bands of O2.” Planetary
and Space Sciences 31(1983) :339.

Zamorani, G.; Giommi, P.; Maccacaro, T.; and Tananbaum, H. “X-Ray Vari-
ability of Quasars.” Astrophysical Journal 278(1984) :28.

. “X-Ray Variability of Quasars.” In Proceedings of the 24th Liege
International Colloquium, Quasars and Gravitational Lenses, p. 451. Liége,
France: Institute d’Astrophysique, 1983.

Zombeck, M. V. Handbook of Space Astronomy and Astrophysics. Cambridge,
England: Cambridge University Press, 1983.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Chrost, R. J., and Faust, M. A. “Organic Carbon Release by Phytoplankton:
Its Composition and Utilization by Bacterioplankton.” Journal of Plankton
Research 5(1983) :477—-93.

Clement-Metral, J. D., and Gantt, E. “Active O2-Evolving Photosystem II
Phycobilisome Particles from Porphyridium cruentum.” In Advances in
Photosynthesis Research, ed. C. Sybesma, Vol. 1, pp. 453-56. The Hague,
Netherlands: Martinus Nijhoff/Dr. W. Junk Publishers, 1984.

Correll, D. L.; Goff, N. M.; and Peterjohn, W. T. “Ion Balances Between
Precipitation Inputs and Rhode River Watershed Discharges.” In Geo-
logical Aspects of Acid Precipitation, ed. Owen P. Bricker, and John I.
Teasley, pp. 77-111. Boston: Ann Arbor Science, 1984.

Drake, B. G., and J. Gallagher. “Osmotic Potential and Turgor Maintenance
in Spartina alterniflora.” Oecologia 62(1984) :368—75.

Gantt, Elisabeth; Ohki, K.; and Fujita, Y. “Trichodesmium thiebautii; Struc-
ture of a Nitrogen-Fixing Marine Blue-Green Alga (Cyanophyta).” Proto-
plasma 119(1984) :188—96.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 533
Holmes, M. G. “Perception of Shade.” Philosophical Transactions of the
Royal Society of London, Series B 303(1983) :503—21.

Jabben, M., and M. G. Holmes. “Phytochrome in Light-grown Plants.” In
Encyclopedia of Plant Physiology, New Series, Vol. 16, Chapter 6, Photo-
morphogenesis, eds. W. Shropshire, and H. Mohr, pp. 704-22, Berlin,
Heidelberg, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1983.

Jordon, T. E.; Correll, D. L.; and Whigham, D. F. “Nutrient Flux in the
Rhode River: Tidal Exchange of Nutrients by Brackish Marshes.” Estu-
arine, Coastal and Shelf Science 17(1983) :651—67.

Khanna, R.; Graham.; Myers, J.; and Gantt, E. “Phycobilisome Composition
and Relationship to Reaction Centers in Anacystis nidulans.” In Advances
in Photosynthesis Research, Vol. II, ed. C. Sybesma, pp. 695-98, The
Hague: Martinus Nijhoff/Dr. W. Junk Publishers, 1984.

Lynch, J. F.; Wake, D. B.; and Yang, S. Y. “Genic and Morphological Differ-
entiation in Mexican Pseudoeurycea (Caudata: Plethodontidae), with a
Description of a New Species.” Copeia 4(1984) :884—94,

Lunch, J. F., and Whigham, D. F. “Effects of Forest Fragmentation on Breed-
ing Bird Communities in Maryland, USA.” Biological Conservation 28
(1984) :287—324.

Margulies, Maurice M. “Synthesis of Photosynthetic Membrane Proteins Di-
rected by RNA from Rough Thylakoids of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii.”
European Journal of Biochemistry 137 (1983) :241—48.

Margulies, Maurice M., and Tiffany, H. Lee. “Importance of Sodium Dodecyl
Sulfate Source to Electrophoretic Separations of Thylakoid Polypeptides.”
Analytical Biochemistry 136(1984) :309-13.

Mohr, H.; Schafer, E.; and Shropshire, W. “Appendix III: Description of
Light Fields Used in Research on Photomorphogenesis.” In Encyclopedia of
Plant Physiology, New Series, Vol. 16, Photomorphogenesis, ed. W. Shrop-
shire, Jr., and H. Mohr, pp. 761-63, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, Tokyo:
Springer-Verlag, 1983.

Mohr, H., and Shropshire, W., Jr. “An Introduction to Photomorphogenesis
for the General Reader.” In Encyclopedia of Plant Physiology, New Series,
Vol. 16, Chapter 3, Photomorphogensis, ed. W. Shropshire, Jr., and H.
Mohr, pp. 24-38, Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1983.

Redlinger, T., and Gantt, E. “Chlorophyll- and Heme-Binding Proteins in
Porphyridium cruentum Thylakoids.” In Advances in Photosynthesis Re-
search, ed. C. Sybesma, Vol. II, pp. 61-64, The Hague: Martinue Nijhoff/
Dr. W. Junk Publishers, 1984.

Redlinger, Thomas, and Gantt, Elisabeth. “Photosynthetic Membranes of
Porphyridium cruentum. An Analysis of Chlorophyll-Protein Complexes
and Heme-Binding Proteins.” Plant Physiology 73(1983) :36—40.

Rublee, P. A.; Merkel, S. M.; and Faust, M. A. “The Transport of Bacteria
in Sediments of a Temperate Marsh.” Estuarine Coastal and Shelf Science
16(1983) :501-9.

Rublee, P. A.; Merkel, S. M.; and Faust, M. A. “Nutrient Flux in the
Rhode River: Tidal Transport of Microorganisms in Brackish Marshes.”

Estuarine Coastal and Shelf Science 17(1984) :669-80.

Sager, J. “Proceedings of the Third International Symposium on Energy in
Protected Cultivation.” Acta Horticulturae 148(1984) :889-96.

Schafer, E.; Fukshansky, L.; and Shropshire, W., Jr. “Action Spectroscopy of
Photoreversible Pigment Systems.” In Encyclopedia of Plant Physiology,
New Series, Vol. 16, Chapter 4, Photomorphogenesis, ed. W. Shropshire,
Jr., and H. Mohr, pp. 39-68, Berlin, Springer-Verlag, 1983.

Shropshire, W., Jr. “Biological Photoresponses and Photoreceptors.” In Molec-
ular Models of Photoresponsiveness, ed. G. Montagnoli, and B. F. Erlanger.

534 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Study Institute on the Molecular
Models of Photoresponsiveness, August 29—-September 8, 1982, San Miniato,
Italy, pp. 43-53, New York: Plenum Press, 1983.

Smith, W. O. “Phytochrome as a Molecule.” In Encyclopedia of Plant Physi-
ology, New Series, Vol. 16, Chapter 27, Photomorphogenesis, ed. W. Shrop-
shire, Jr., and H. Mohr, pp. 96-118, Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1983.

Whigham, D. F. “Biomass and Nutrient Allocation of Tipularia discolor
(Orchidaceae).”” Oikos 42(1983) :303-13.

Whigham, D. F. “The Influence of Vines on the Growth of Liquidambar
styraciflua L. (Gweetgum).” Canadian Journal of Forest Research 14(1984):
37-39.

Wu, T. L.; Correll, D. L.; and Remenapp, H. E. H. “Herbicide Runoff from
Experimental Watersheds.” Journal of Environmental Quality 12(1983):
330-36.

Ziv, Meira, and Sager, John C. “The Influence of Light Quality on Peanut
(Arachis hypogaea L.) Gynophore Pod and Embryo Development in vitro.”
Plant Science Letters 34(1984) :211-18.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH

Falk, J. H. “A Cross-Cultural Investigation of the Novel Field Trip Phenome-
non: National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi.” Curator 26(4)
(1984) :315-23.

. “Curriculum Initiatives from the Smithsonian.” In Proceedings of

the Annual Curriculum Conference, ed. R. Yager, p. 22. Iowa City, Iowa:

Science Education Center, University of Iowa, 1984.

. “Informal Science Education.” In Proceedings of the Annual Curricu-

lum Conference, ed. R. Yager, pp. 23-25. Iowa City, Iowa: Science Educa-

tion Center, University of Iowa, 1984.

. “Public Institutions for Personal Learning.” Museologist 46(169)

(1984) :18—-22.

. “Use of Time as a Measure of Visitor Behavior and Exhibit Effec-

tiveness.” In Museum Education Anthology, ed. S. K. Nichols, pp. 183-90.

Washington, D.C.: Museum Education Roundtable, 1984.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Ackerman, James D. “Specificity and mutual dependency of the orchid-
euglossine bee interaction.” Biological Journal of the Linnean Society
20(3) (1983) :301-14.

Aiello, Annette. “Adelpha (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae): deception on the
wing.” Psyche 91(1) (1984).

Angermeier, Paul L., and Karr, James R. “Fish communities along environ-
mental gradients in a system of tropical streams.” Environmental Biology
of Fishes 9(2)(1983) :117—-35.

Augspurger, Carol K. “Phenology, flowering synchrony, and fruit set of six
neotropical shrubs.” Biotropica 15(4)(1983) :257—67.

. “Seed dispersal of the tropical tree, Platypodium elegans, and the
escape of its seedlings from fungal pathogens.” Journal of Ecology 71(3)
(1983) :759-71.

Augspurger, Carol K., and Hogan, Kevin P. “Wind dispersal of fruits with
variable seed number in a tropical tree (Lonchocarpus pentaphyllus:
Leguminosae).” American Journal of Botany 70(7)(1983) :1031—37.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 535
Augspurger, Carol K., and Kelly, Colleen K. “Pathogen mortality of tropical
tree seedlings: experimental studies of the effects of dispersal distance,
seedlings density, and light conditions.” Oecologia 61(2) (1984) :211-17.

Bartholomew, George A.; Vleck, Carol M.; and Bucher, Theresa L. “Energy
metabolism and nocturnal hypothermia in two tropical passerine frugi-
vores, Manacus vitellinus and Pipra mentalis.” Physiological Zoology 56
(3) (1983) :370-79.

Berkins, Ilze K., and Caldwell, Roy L. “The effect of injury on the agonistic
behavior of the stomatopod, Gonodactylus bredini (Manning).” Marine
Behavior and Physiology 10(2)(1983) :83-96.

Broadhead, Edward. “The assessment of faunal diversity and guild size in
tropical forests with particular reference to the Psocoptera.” In Tropical
Rain Forest: Ecology and Management, ed. S. L. Sutton, T. C. Whitmore,
and A. C. Chadwick, pp. 107-19. Oxford, England: The British Ecological
Society, 1983.

Broadhead, Elcy C. “Adaptations for fungal grazing in Lauxaniid flies.’
Journal of Natural History 18:(4) (1984) :639—49.

Brown, Patricia E.; Brown, Timothy W.; and Grinnell, Alan D. “Echolocation,
development, and vocal communication in the lesser bulldog bat, Noctilio
albiventris.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 13(4) (1983) :287—98.

Brooks, Robert W., and Roubik, David W. “A Halictine bee with distinct
castes: Halictus hesperus (Hymenoptera: Halictidae) and its bionomics in
Central Panama.” Sociobiology 7(3)(1983) :263—82.

Castillo, Jose A., and Eberhard, William G. “Use of artificial webs to deter-
mine prey available to orb weaving spiders.” Ecology 64(6) (1983) :1655—58.

Challinor, David. “La biblioteca especializada del Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute.” Discurso del Dr. David Challinor, Secretario de Ciencias,
Smithsonian Institution. Revista Loteria 328-29(1983) :164—67.

Christy, John H. “Female choice in the resource-defense mating system of the
sand fiddler crab, Uca pugilator.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 12
(1983) :169-80.

Coen, Loren D., and Heck Jr., Kenneth L. “Notes on the biology of some sea-
grass-dwelling crustaceans (Stomatopoda and Decapoda) from Caribbean
Panama.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 96(2) (1983):
202-24.

Coley, Phyllis D. “Herbivory and defensive characteristics of tree species in
a lowland tropical forest.” Ecological Monographs 53(2)(1983) :209-33.

. “Intraspecific variation in herbivory on two tropical tree species.’
Ecology 64(3) (1983) :426-33.

Cooke, Richard. “El estudio de la prehistoria de Panama: reflexiones sobre
una politica de integracion educativa.” In Memoria, Primer Encuentro Na-
cional de Politica Cultural, pp. 167-78. Panama, Instituto Nacional de Cul-
tura, 1983.

. [Book Review] Ancient Panama: Chiefs in Search of Power, by Mary
Helms. Ethnohistory (1984) :115—16.

. “Archaeological research in Central and Eastern Panama: a review
of some problems.” In The Archaeology of Lower Central America, ed.
F. Lange and D. Stone, pp. 263-302. Albuquerque: University of New Mex-
ico Press, 1984.

. El Rescate Arqueologico en Panama: Historia, Analisis y Recomen-
daciones. Coleccion El Hombre y su Cultura, Vol. 2. Panama, Instituto
Nacional de Cultura, 1984.

. “Los psitacidos en el Panama Precolombino.” Boletin Harpia August
(2) (1984) :6-7.

,

s

536 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Cooke, Richard G., and Ranere, Anthony J. “La Mula-Sarigua: la aldea mas
antigua de Panama?” La Estrella de Panama, Supp. El Istmo, June 19,
(1983) :12-15.

Cubit, John, and Williams, Suelynn. “The invertebrates of Galeta Reef (Carib-
bean Panama): a species list and bibliography.” Atoll Research Bulletin
260-72(269) (1983) :1-45.

Cubit, John; Batista de Yee, Gloria; Roman, Argelis; and Batista, Victoria.
“El valor de los manglares y de los arrecifes de franja como recurso na-
tural en la provincia de Colon.” Revista Medica de Panama 9(1)(1984):
56-67.

Davidar, Priya. “Birds and neotropical mistletoes: effects on seedling re-
cruitment.” Oecologia 60(2) (1983) :271-73.

. “Similarity between flowers and fruits in some flowerpecker polli-
nated mistletoes.” Biotropica 15(1) (1983) :32-7.

Delfinado-Baker, M.; Baker, E. W.; and Roubik, David W. “A new genus and
species of Hypoaspidinae (Acari: Laelapidea) from nests of stingless bees.”
International Journal of Acarology 9(4) (1983) :195-203.

DeLong, Dwight M., and Wolda, Henk. “New species of Costanana and
Acuponana, Gyponinea (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) from Central and South
America.” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 56(4) (1983) :466-68.

DeLong, Dwight M.; Wolda, Henk; and Estribi, Miguel. “The Ponana (Ho-
moptera, Cicadellidae) of Panama.” Proceedings of the Koninklijke Neder-
landse Akademie van Wetenschappen, Series C 86(4) (1983) :455—74.

Denlinger, David L., and Shukla, Mira. “Increased length and variability of
the life cycle in tropical flesh flies (Diptera: Sarcophagidae) that lack pupal
diapause.” Annals of the Entomological Society of America 77(1)(1984):
46-49,

Dressler, Robert L. “Classification of the Orchidaceae and their probable
origin.” Telopea 2(4) (1983) :413—24.

. “Die Gattung Chondrorhyncha in Panama mit zwei neuen Arten:

Chondrorhyncha crassa und Chrondrorhyncha eburnea.” Die Orchidee 34

(1983) :220-26.

. “Dos Kefersteinia nuevas de Panama.” (Includes English version.)

Orquideologia 16(1) (1983) :47—62.

. “Epidanthus sera or no sera? Epidanthus crassus, una nueva especie

de Panama.” (Includes English version.) Orquidea 9(1983) :13—22.

. “Eine charakteristische neue Cochleanthes aus Panama: Cochleanthes

anatona.” Die Orchidee 34(1983) :157-69.

. “Otra neuva Neowilliamsia de Panama: N. cuneata Dressler.” Or-

quidea 9(1983) :23-30.

. “Palmorchis in Panama mit einer neuen Art, Palmorchis nitida, an

einem unerwarteten Standort.” Die Orchidee 34(1983) :25-31.

Drewry, George E., and Rand, A. Stanley. “Characteristics of an acoustic
community: Puerto Rican frogs of the genus Eleutherodactylus.” Copeia
4(1983) :941-53.

Drummond, Hugh. “Adaptiveness of island-sites of green iguanas and slider
turtles.” Copeia 2(1983) :529-30.

Drummond, Hugh, and Burghardt, Gordon M. “Nocturnal and diurnal nest
emergence in green iguanas.” Journal of Herpetology 117(3) (1983) :290-92.

Dupont, Pascal. “Ils trouvent l’avenir dans la jungle.” Actuel Summer (45-
46) (1983) :50-56, 176.

Dyrcz, Andrzej. “Breeding biology of the Mangrove Swallow Tachycineta

albilinea and the Grey-breasted Martin Progne chalybea at Barro Colorado
Island, Panama.” The Ibis 126(1) (1984) :59-66.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 537
Eberhard, William G. “Predatory behaviour of an assassin spider, Chorizopes
sp. (Araneidae), and the defensive behaviour of its prey.” Journal of the
Bombay Natural History Society 79(3)(1983) :522—24.

Eberhard, William G., and Briceno, L. Daniel. “Chivalry in pholcid spiders.”
Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 13(3) (1983) :189-95.

Emlet, Richard B. “Locomotion, drag, and the rigid skeleton of larval echino-
derms.” The Biological Bulletin 164(3)(1983) :433—45.

Felgenhauer, Bruce E., and Abele, Lawrence G. “Ultrastructure and functional
morphology of feeding and associated appendages in the tropical fresh-
water shrimp Atya innocous (Herbst) with notes on its ecology.” Journal
of Crustacean Biology 3(3) (1983) :336—63.

Fincke, Ola M. “Sperm competition in the damselfly Enallagma hageni Walsh
(Odonata: Coenagrionidae): benefits of multiple mating to males and
females.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 14(3) (1984) :235—40.

Franks, Nigel R., and Bossert, W. H. “The influence of swarm raiding army
ants on the patchiness and diversity of a tropical leaf litter and commu-
nity.” In Tropical Rain Forest: Ecology and Management, ed. S. L. Sutton,
T. C. Whitmore, and A. C. Chadwick, pp. 151-66. Oxford: Blackwell Scien-
tific Publications, 1983.

Franks, Nigel R., and Fletcher, Charles R. “Spatial patterns in army ant
foraging and migration: Eciton burchelli on Barro Colorado Island, Pan-
ama.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 12(4) (1983) :261-70.

Garrity, Stephen D. “Some adaptations of gastropods to physical stress on a
tropical rocky shore.” Ecology 65(2)(1984) :559-74.

Garwood, Nancy C. “Seed germination in a seasonal tropical forest in Pan-
ama: a community study.” Ecological Monographs 53(2)(1983) :159-81.

Glynn, Peter W. “Extensive ‘bleaching’ and death of reef corals on the Pacific
coast of Panama.” Environmental Conservation 10(2)(1983) :149-54.

Glynn, Peter W.; Druffel, Ellen M.; and Dunbar, Robert B. “A dead Central
American coral reef tract: possible link with the little Ice Age.” Journal of

Marine Research 41(3) (1983) :605—37.

Glynn, Peter W., and Wellington, Gerald M. Corals and Coral Reefs of the
Galapagos Islands. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1983. 330p.
Gottschlich, Douglas E., and Smith, Alan P. “Convective heat transfer char-

acteristics of toothed leaves.” Oecologia 53(3) (1982) :418—20.

Graham, Jeffrey B. “The transition to air breathing in fishes. II. Effects of
hypoxia acclimation on the bimodal gas exchange of Ancistrus chagresi
(Loricaridae).” Journal of Experimental Biology 102(1983) :157-73.

Graham, Jeffrey B., and Baird, Troy A. “The transition to air breathing in
fishes. III. Effects of body size and aquatic hypoxia on the aerial gas ex-
change of the swamp eel Synbranchus marmoratus.” Journal of Experi-
mental Biology 108(1984) :357—75.

Greenberg, Russell. “The winter exploitation systems of bay-breasted and
chestnut-sided warblers in Panama.” University of California Publications
in Zoology 116(1984) :1-107.

Greenberg, Russell, and Gradwohl, Judy. “Sexual roles in the Dot-winged
antwren (Microrhopias quixensis), a tropical passerine.” The Auk 100(4)
(1983) :920-25.

Griffiths, Thomas A. “Comparative laryngeal anatomy of the Big Brown bat,
Eptesicus fuscus, and the Mustached bat, Pteronotus parnellii.” Mammalia
47(3) (1983) :377-94.

Guerra Urrutia, Marcos A. “El estero rico a punto de desaparecer.” La Re-
publica July 25, 1982:2-3.

. “Produccion de sal en el estero rico.” La Republica August 1, 1982:

24-25.

538 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “Arborofagos ponen en peligro el Parque Nacional de Volcan.” La

Republica September 18, 1983:10-B.

. “Contaminacion, deforestacion y caceria: trilogia de la crisis am-

biental.” La Estrella de Panama November 9, 1983:A-2.

. “Encuentro nacional de estudiantes.” La Estrella de Panama August

22, 1983:C4.

. “Peligro de adicion de sulfato de cobre en el Lago Gatun.” La Prensa

July 13, 1983.

. “Protejamos al Parque Nacional Volcan Baru.” La Prensa September

27, 1983 :2B.

. “La reforestacion y el equilibrio de la fauna silvestre.” La Prensa

July 25, 1983:9A.

. “La etica ecologica. El conservacionismo ecologico no admite dema-

gogias.” Boletin Harpia May (1)(1984) :10.

. “El guardabosques y su funcion social.” La Prensa June 16, 1984:3B.

Hay, Mark E. “Coral reef ecology: have we been putting all our herbivores
in one basket?” BioScience 34(5) (1984) :323—24.

. “Geographic differences in herbivore impact: do Pacific herbivores

prevent Caribbean seaweeds from colonizing via the Panama Canal?” Bio-

tropica 16(1) (1984) :24—30.

. “Patterns of fish and urchin grazing on Caribbean coral reefs: are
previous results typical?” Ecology 65(2)(1984) :446-54.

Heckadon Moreno, Stanley. Cuando se Acaban los Montes. Panama: Editorial
Universitaria and Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, 1983. 172p.

. Panama’s Expanding Cattle Front: The Santeno Campesinos and the
Colonization of the Forests. Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Sociology,
University of Essex, 1984. 297p.

Highsmith, Raymond; Lueptow, Rebekka L.; and Schonberg, Sandra C.
“Growth and bioerosion of three massive corals on the Belize barrier reef.”
Marine Ecology, Progress Series 13(2—3) (1983) :261-71.

Hoffman, Steven G., and Robertson, D. Ross. “Foraging and reproduction of
two Caribbean reef toadfishes (Batrachoididae).” Bulletin of Marine Science
33(4) (1983) :919-27.

Howe, Henry F. “Annual variation of a neotropical seed-dispersed system.”
In Tropical Rain Forest: Ecology and Management, ed. S. L. Sutton, T. C.
Whitmore, and A. C. Chadwick, pp. 211-28. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific
Publications, 1983.

. “Ramphastos swainsonii (Dios Tede, Toucan de Swainson, Chestnut-
mandibled toucan).” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen,
pp. 603-4. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1983.

Hubbell, Stephen P., and Foster, R. B. “Diversity of canopy trees in a neo-
tropical forest and implications for conservation.” In Tropical Rain Forest:
Ecology and Management, ed. S. L. Sutton, T. C. Whitmore, and A. C.
Chadwick, p. 25-42. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1983.

Hubbel, Stephen P.; Howard, Jerome J.; and Wiemer, David F. “Chemical
leaf repellency to an attine ant: seasonal distribution among potential host
plant species.” Ecology 64(4) (1984) :1067-76.

Janos, D. P. “Tropical mycorrhizas, nutrient cycles and plant growth.” In
Tropical Rain Forest: Ecology and Management, ed. S. L. Sutton, T. C.
Whitmore, and A. C. Chadwick, pp. 327-46. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific
Publications, 1983.

Ito, Yoshiaki. “Panama’s Tropical Biological Institute.” (article in Japanese)
Nature, Japan 1:46-51.

Johnson, Leslie K. “Reproductive behavior of Claeoderes bivittata (Coleop-
tera: Brentidae).” Psyche 90(1—2) (1983) :135-49.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 539
Karr, James R. “Avian Community Ecology’ (Commentary). In Perspectives
in Ornithology, ed. A. H. Brush, and G. A. Clark, pp. 403-10. New York:
Cambridge University Press, 1983.

. [Book review]. Birds of Tropical America, by A. F. Skutch. The Auk

100(4) (1983) :1014-15.

. [Book review]. Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen.

The Auk 101(1984).

. “Population dynamics and extinction in a tropical forest avifauna.”
In American Philosophical Society Grantees’ Reports, 1982, pp. 28-29.
Philadelphia, 1983.

Karr, James R., and Freemark, Kathryn E. “Habitat selection and environment
gradients: dynamics in the ‘stable’ tropics.” Ecology 64(6) (1983) :1481-94.

. “Habitat selection in tropical birds.” BioScience 34(4)(1984) :256.

Karr, James R.; Schlosser, I. J.; and Angermeier, P. L. “Habitat structure and
fish communities of warmwater streams.” Research Brief, U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency, Corvallis, Oregon, 1983.

Kiester, A. Ross, and Strates, Elene. “Social behaviour in a thrips from
Panama.” Journal of Natural History 18(2)(1984) :303-14.

Kilar, John A. “Ecological and behavioral studies of the decorator crab
Microphrys bicornutus Latreille (Decapoda: Brachyura): a test of optimum
foraging theory.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology
74(2) (1984) :157-67.

Lang, Gerald E., and Knight, Dennis H. “Tree growth, mortality, recruitment,
and canopy gap formation during a 10-year period in a tropical moist
forest.” Ecology 64(5)(1983) :1075—80.

Lawrence, John M., and Glynn, Peter W. “Absorption of nutrients from the
coral Pocillopora damicornis (L.) by the echinoid Eucidaris thouarsii (Val.)”
Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology 77A(1)(1984) :111—-12.

Leigh, Jr., Egbert Giles. [Book review]. “Costa Rican Natural History.” Sci-
ence 223(4641) (1984) :1171-72.

Lessios, Harilaos A.; Glynn, Peter W.; and Robertson, D. Ross. “Mass mor-
talities of coral reef organisms.” Science 222(4625)(1983) :715.

Levings, Sally C. “Seasonal, annual, and among-site variation in the ground
and community of a deciduous tropical forest: some causes of patchy
species distributions.” Ecological Monographs 53(4)(1983) :435—55.

Linares, Olga F. “Social, spatial and temporal relations: Diola villages in
archaeological perspective.” In Prehistoric Settlement Patterns: Essays in
Honor of Gordon Willey, edited by Evon Z. Vogt, and Richard M. Leven-
thal, pp. 129-63. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico and Cambridge,
Massachusetts: Peabody Museum, Harvard, 1983.

. “Households among the Diola of Senegal: should norms enter by
the front or the back door?” In Households. Comparative and Historical
Studies of the Domestic Group, ed. Robert McC. Netting, Richard R. Wilk,
and Eric J. Arnould, pp. 407-45. Berkeley, University of California Press,
1984.

Lubin, Yael D. “Eating ants is no picnic.” Natural History 92(10)(1983) :54—-59.

. “Nasutitermes (comejen, hormiga blanca, Nasute termite, arboreal

termite).” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 743—

45. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

. “Nephila clavipes (arana de oro, golden orb spider).” In Costa Rican

Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 745-47. Chicago: University of

Chicago Press, 1983.

. “Tamandua mexicana (oso jaceta, hormiguero, Tamandua, Banded

Anteater, Lesser Anteater.” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H.

Janzen, pp. 494-96. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

540 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Lynch, John D., and Myers, Charles W. “Frogs of the Fitzingeri group of
Eleutherodactylus in eastern Panama and Chocoan South America (Lepto-
dactylidae). Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History 175(5)
1983) :481—-572.

Luchenco, Jane; Menge, Bruce A.; Garrity, Stephen D.; Lubchenco, Peggy
R.; Ashkenas, Linda R.; Gaines, Steven D.; Emlet, Richard; Lucas, John;
and Strauss, Sharon. “Structure, persistance, and role of consumers in a
tropical rocky intertidal community (Taboguilla Island, Bay of Panama).”
Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 78(1/2) (1984) :23-73.

McCullough, David. “The making of Smithsonian World: a journey into time
and space.” Smithsonian 14(11) (1984) :67-75.

McDade, Lucinda A. “Long-tailed hermit hummingbird visits to inflorescence
color morphs of Heliconia irrasa.” The Condor 85(4) (1983) :360-64.

. “Pollination intensity and seed set in Trichanthera gigantea.” Bio-
tropica 15(2)(1983) :122-24.

Manasse, Robin S., and Howe, Henry F. “Competition for dispersal agents
among tropical trees: influences of neighbors.” Oecologia 59(2—3)(1983):
185-90.

May, Michael L., and Casey, Timothy M. “Thermoregulation and exchange
in Euglossine bees.” Physiological Zoology 56(4) (1983) :541-51.

Menge, B. A.; Ashkenas, L. R.; and Matson, A. “Use of artificial holes in
studying community development in cryptic marine habitats in a tropical
rocky intertidal region.” Marine Biology 77(2) (1983) :129—42. ;

Montgomery, G. Gene. “Bradypus variegatus (perezoso de tres dedos, three-
toed sloth).” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp.
453-56. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

. “Cyclopes didactylus (tapacara, serafin de platanar, Silky Anteater.”
In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 461-63. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1983.

Moynihan, Martin. “Notes on the behavior of Euprymna scolopes (Cepha-
lopoda: Sepiolidae).” Behaviour 85(1—2) (1983) :25—41.

. “Notes on the behavior of Idiosepius pygmaeus (Cephalopoda: Idio-

sepiidae). Behaviour (1—2)(1983) :42-57.

. “Transpositions of signals and the persistence of releasing mechan-
isms.” Zeitschrift fur Tierpsychologie 64(4)(1984) :269-82.

Piperno, Dolores R. “A comparison and differentation of phytoliths from-
maize and wild grasses: use of morphological criteria.” American An-
tiquity 49(2) (1984) :361-83.

Power, Mary E. “Depth distributions of armored catfish: predator-induced
resource avoidance?” Ecology 65(2) (1984) :523—28.

. “The importance of sediment in the grazing ecology and size class
interactions of an armored catfish, Ancisturs spinosus.” Environmental
Biology of Fishes 10(3) (1984) :173-81.

Putz, Francis E. “Treefall pits and mounds, buried seeds, and the importance

of soil disturbance to pioneer trees on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.”
Ecology 64(5) (1983) :1069-74.

. “How trees avoid and shed lianas.” Biotropica 16(1)(1984) :19-23.

Putz, Francis E.; Coley, Phyllis D.; Lu, Karen Lu; Montalvo, Arlee, and
Aiello, Annette. “Uprooting and snapping of trees: structural determinants
and ecological consequences.” Canadian Journal of Forest Research 13(5)
(1983) :1011-20.

Rand, A. Stanley. “Physalaemus pustulosus (rana, sapito tungara, Foam toad,
Mud-puddle frog).” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen,
pp. 412-15, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 541
Rand, A. Stanley, and Dugan, Beverly. “Structure of complex iguana nests.”
Copeia 3(1983) :705-11.

Rand, A. Stanley; Guerrero, Stella; and Andrews, Robin M. “The ecological
effects of malaria on populations of the lizard Anolis limifrons on Barro
Colorado Island, Panama.” Advances in Herpetology and Evolutionary
Biology, (1983) :455-71.

Richmond, Robert H., and Jokiel, Paul L. “Lunar periodicity in larva release
in the reef coral Pocillopora damicornis at Enewetak and Hawaii.” Bulletin
of Marine Science 34(2) (1984) :280—87.

Risser, Paul G.; Karr, James R.; and Forman, Richard T. T. Landscape Ecol-
ogy: Directions and Approaches. Illinois Natural History Survey Special
Publication, Number 2(1984).

Robertson, D. Ross. “On the spawning behavior and spawning cycles of
eight surgeonfishes (Acanthuridae) from the Indo-Pacific.” Environmental
Biology of Fishes 9(3/4) (1983) :193-223.

. “Cohabitation of competing territorial damselfishes on a Caribbean
Coral Reef.” Ecology 65(4) (1984) :1121-35.

Roubik, David W. “Experimental community studies: time-series tests of
competition between African and neotropical bees.” Ecology 64(5) (1983):
971-78.

. “Nest and colony characteristics of stingless bees from Panama
(Hymenoptera: Apidae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society
56(3) (1983) :327—-55.

Roubik, David W., and Buchmann, Stephen L. “Nectar selection by Melipona
and Apis mellifera (Hymenoptera: Apidae) and the ecology of nectar in-
take by bee colonies in a tropical forest.” Oecologia 61(1)(1984) :1—-10.

Rovira, Beatriz. “La arqueologia en los programas de restauracion: la man-
sion Arias Feraud en la ciudad de Panama.” Vinculos 7(1—2)(1983) :33-51.

Rovira, Beatriz, and Dayan, Ariela. ‘El Convento de Santo Domingo: aportes
arqueologicos y documentales a la historia de la ciudad de Panama.”
Revista Nacional de Cultura 20—21(1984) :57—73.

Rubinoff, Ira. “A strategy for preserving tropical rainforests.” Ambio 12(5)
(1983) :255-58.

. “A strategy for preserving tropical forests.” In Tropical Rain Forest:

Ecology and Management, ed. S. L. Sutton, T. C. Whitmore, and A. C.

Chadwick, pp. 465-76. Oxford, The British Ecological Society, 1983.

. “If we lose the tropical forests, no birds will sing.” Washington Post,
August 5(1984) :C-1.

Ryan, Michael J.; Bartholomew, George A.; and Rand, A. Stanley. “Ener-
getics of reproduction in a neotropical frog, Physalaemus pustulosus.”
Ecology 64(6) (1983) : 1456-62.

Ryan, Michael J., and Tuttle, Merlin D. “The ability of the frog-eating bat to
discriminate among novel and potentially poisonous frog species using
acoustic cues.” Animal Behaviour 31(3)(1983) :827—33.

Schemske, Douglas W., and Pautler, Lynn P. “The effects of pollen composi-
tion on fitness components in a neotropical herb.” Oecologia 62(1)(1984):
31-36.

Schwartz, Joshua, and Wells, Kentwood D. “The influence of background
noise on the behavior of a neotropical treefrog, Hyla ebraccata.” Herpeto-
logica 39(2) (1983) :121-29.

. “Interspecific acoustic interactions of the neotropical treefrog Hyla
ebraccata.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 14(3)(1984) :211-24.

Seymour, C.; Peralta, P. H.; and Montgomery, G. Gene. “Serological evi-
dence of natural togavirus infection in Panamanian sloths and other verte-
brates.” American Journal of Tropical Medical Hygiene 32(1983) :854-61.

542 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Shelly, Todd E. “Prey selection by the neotropical spider Alpaida tuonabo
with notes on web-site tenacity.” Psyche 90(1—2) (1983) :123—33.

. “Comparative foraging behavior of neotropical robber flies.” Oeco-
logia 62(2) (1984) :188-95.

Shulman, Myra J.; Ogden, John C.; Ebersole, John P.; McFarland, William;
Miller, Steven L.; and Wolf, Nancy G. “Timing of recruitment and species
composition in coral reef fishes.” BioScience 34(1)(1984) :44—45.

Silberglied, Robert. “Anartia fatima (cocinera, White-banded Fatima).” In
Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 682-83. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1983.

Silberglied, Robert E.; Shepherd, Julian G.; and Dickinson, Janis Lou. “Eu-
nuchs: the role of apyrene sperm in lepidoptera?” The American Naturalist
123(2) (1984) :255-65.

Skinner, Carol A. A field study of Geoffroy’s tamarin, Saguinus geoffroyi, in
Panama. A Final Report to the Cleveland Zoological Society and the World
Wildlife Fund—u.S., 1984. 51p.

Smith, B. H., and Roubik, David W. “Mandibular glands of stingless bees
(Hymenoptera: Apidae): chemical analysis of their contents and biological
function in two species of Melipona.” Journal of Chemical Ecology 9(11)
(1983) :1465-72.

Smith, Alan P., and Young, Truman P. “The cost of reproduction in Senecio
keniodendron, a giant rosette species of Mt. Kenya.” Oecologia 55(2) (1982) :
243-47.

Smith, Neal G. “ ‘El Nino’ weather conditions in Pacific Ocean.” El Tropico
1(1) (1983) :28-29.

. “Host plant toxicity and migration in the dayflying moth Urania.”

Florida Entomologist 66(1) (1983) :76—85.

. “Migrant birds in the Neotropics.” The Torgos 3(2)(1983) :43—61.

. “Urania fulgens (Colipato Verde, Green Urania).” In Costa Rican

Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 775-77. Chicago: University of

Chicago Press, 1983.

. “Zarhynchus wagleri (Oropendola cabecicastana, oropendola, chest-

nut-headed oropendola.” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H.

Janzen, pp. 614-16. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. 1983.

. “Comment.” Natural History 93(9)(1984) :6—7.

Smythe, Nicholas. “Dasyprocta punctata and Agouti paca (Guatusa, Cheren-
ga, Agouti, Tepezcuientle, Paca).” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed.
Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 463-65. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

. “The park that protects the Panama Canal.” Oryx 18(1)(1984) :42—46.

Suman, Daniel Oscar. “Agricultural burning in Panama and Central America:
burning parameters and the coastal sedimentary record.” Ph.D. Disserta-
tion, University of California at San Diego, 1983. 156p.

. “Contaminacion por sustancias toxicas—Centroamerica: campo ex-

perimental para los productores de pesticidas.” Dialogo Social 158(1983):

41-44,

. “Los peligros del oleoducto—Ecologia panamena amendazada.” Di-

alogo Social 164(1984) :11-14.

. “Contaminacion en los ailmentos—sustancias toxicas en la dieta del

panameno.” Dialogo Social 167(1984): 24-27.

. “El problema de la basura y el crematorio.” Dialogo Social 171(Sep.)

(1984).

. “The production and transport of charcoal formed during agricultural

burning in Central Panama.” Interciencia 9(Sep.) (1984).

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 543
Sutton, S. L.; Ash, C. P. J.; and Grundy, A. “The vertical distribution of
flying insects in lowland rain-forests of Panama, Papua New Guinea and
Brunei.” Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 78(3)(1983) :287—97.

Sutton, S. L.; Whitmore, T. C.; and Chadwick, A. C., eds. Tropical Rain
Forest: Ecology and Management. Oxford: Blackwell Scientific Publications,
1983.

Taigen, Theodore L., and Pough, F. Harvey. ‘Prey preference, foraging be-
havior, and metabolic characteristics of frogs.” The American Naturalist
122(4) (1983) :509-20.

Thorne, Barbara L. Population and reproductive dynamics of arboreal Nasuti-
termes (Isoptera: Termitidae) in Panama. Ph.D. dissertation, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1983. 252p.

Trainer, Jill M., and Will, Tom C. “Avian methods of feeding on Bursera
simaruba (Burseraceae) fruits in Panama.” Auk 101(1)(1984) :193—95.

Troyer, Katherine. “Behavioral acquisition of the hindgut fermentation sys-
tem by hatchling Iguana iguana.” Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology
14(3) (1984) :189-93.

. “Diet selection and digestion in Iguana iguana: the importance of

age and nutrient requirements.” Oecologia 61(2) (1984) :201-7.

. “Microbes, herbivory and the evolution of social behavior.” Journal

of Theoretical Biology 106(2) (1984) :157-69.

. “Structure and function of the digestive tract of a herbivorous lizard
Iguana iguana.” Physiological Zoology 57(1)(1984) :1-8.

Ventocilla, Jorge L. “IX Congreso Internacional de Aracnologia.” La Estrella
de Panama, Supp. El Istmo, July 31(1983) :8-9.

. “III Congreso Mundial de Parques Nacionales.” La Estrella de Pan-

ama, Supp. El Istmo, January 9(1983) :24, 21.

. “Cria de iguanas en el Summit.” Quibo May 26(1984) :4.

. “El Parque Nacional Galapagos y la Fundacion Darwin.” La Estrella
de Panama Supp. El Istmo, Feb. 26(1984) :1, 8, 17.

Ventocilla, Jorge L., and Gonzalez, Alvaro. “Los pelicanos de Taboga.” La
Estrella de Panama, July 15(1983) :C-19.

. “Los pelicanos de Taboga.” La Estrella de Panama, Supp. El Istmo
(1983) :16—17.

Warner, Robert R. “Mating behavior and hermaphorditism in coral reef
fishes.” American Scientist 72(2) (1984) :128—36.

Wellington, Gerard M., and Glynn, Peter W. “Environmental influences on
skeletal banding in eastern Pacific (Panama) corals.” Coral Reefs 1(4)
(1983) :215-22.

Wells, Kentwood D., and Schwartz, Joshua J. “The effect of vegetation on
the propagation of calls in the neotropical frog Centrolenella fleischmanni.”
Herpetologica 38(4) (1982) :449-55.

Werner, Dagmar I. “Reproduction in the iguana Conolophus subcristatus on
Fernandina Island, Galapagos: clutch size and migration costs.” The Amer-
ican Naturalist 121(6)(1983) :757-75.

. “La iguana verde: un animal sin voz.” Boletin Harpia August (2)
(1984) :10-11.

Werner, Dagmar, and Miller, Tracy. “Artificial nests for female green iguan-
as.” Herp Review 15(2)(1984) :57—-58.

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Communication in social wasps: predicted and
observed patterns, with a note on the significance of behavioral and onto-
genetic flexibility for theories of worker ‘altruism.’ ” In La Communication
Chez Les Societes D’Insectes, Colloque International U.I.E.I.S. Section
Francaise, pp. 13-36. Barcelona: Bellaterra, 1982.

544 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “Diversity of dominance displays in Polistes and its possible evolu-
tionary significance.” In The Biology of Social Insects, ed. M. D. Breed,
C. D. Michener, and H. E. Evans, pp. 222-23. 1982.

. “Current problems in sociobiology: an adaptationist review.” Evolu-

tion 37(6) (1983) :1325—26.

. “Polistes (quita corazon, lengua de vaca [name of nest]), Paper

wasp.” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 758-60.

Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

. “Prologo.” In Introduccion a la Etologia, by A. de Haro, p.V. Bar-
celona, Ediciones Omega, 1983.

Windsor, Donald M. “Polybia occidentalis (cojones de toro [name of nest]),
Paper wasp.” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed. Daniel H. Janzen, pp.
760-62. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

Windsor, Donald M., and Massey, A. “Calynda biscupis (palito andando,
juanpalo, Guanacaste stick insect).” In Costa Rican Natural History, ed.
Daniel H. Janzen, pp. 705-6. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983.

Wolda, Henk. “Spatial and temporal variations in abundance of tropical ani-
mals.” In The Tropical Rainforest: Ecology and Management, ed. S. L.
Sutton, T. C. Whitmore, and A. C. Chadwick, pp. 93-105. Oxford, U.K.:
Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1983.

Wolda, Henk, and Denlinger, David L. “Diapause in a large aggregation of
a tropical beetle.” Ecological Entomology 9(2) (1984) :217—30.

Wright, S. Joseph. “The dispersion of eggs by a bruchid beetle among
Scheelea palm seeds and the effect of distance to the parent palm.” Ecology
64(5) (1983) :1016—21.

. “La extencion y las reservas naturales. Puedon los parques y reservas
naturales prevenir la extencion?” Boletin Harpia May (1)(1984):5, 7.

Wright, S. Joseph, and Biehl, Carl C. “Empty sites and the analysis of
presence-absence data.” The American Naturalist 122(6)(1983) :833-34.

Wright, S. Joseph, and Hubbell, Stephen P. “Stochastic extinction and reserve
size: a focal species approach.” Oikos 41(3)(1983) :466—76.

Wright, S. Joseph; Kimsey, Robert; and Campbell, Claudia J. “Mortality
rates of insular Anolis lizards: a systematic effect of island area.” The
American Naturalist 123(1) (1984) :134—42.

Young, Orrey P. “The distribution and ecology of Coilodes castanea (Coleop-
tera: Scarabaeidae: Hybosorinae).” The Coleopterists Bulletin 37(3)(1983):
247-53.

. “An example of ‘apparent’ dominance-submission behavior between
adult male howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata).” Primates 24(2)(1983):
283-87.

Zucker, Naida. “Courtship variation in a neotropical fiddler crab Uca deich-
manni: another example of female incitation to male competition?” Marine
Behaviour and Physiology 10(1) (1983) :57-79.

HISTORY AND ART

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Barrie, Dennis. “Regional Office Report—Midwest.” Archives of American
Art Journal 23(1-2).

Brown, Robert F. “Regional Office Report—New England.” Archives of
American Art Journal 23(1-4).

Karlstrom, Paul T. “Regional Office Report—West Coast.” Archives of Amer-
ican Art Journal 23(1-4).

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 545
Kirwin, Liza. “Regional Office Report—Mid-Atlantic.” Archives of American
Art Journal 23(1-4).

Levy, Sandra J. “Regional Office Report—Texas Project.” Archives of Ameri-
can Art Journal 23(1-4).

McCoy, Garnett. “Introduction.” The Card Catalog of the Oral History Col-
lections of the Archives of American Art. Wilmington, Delaware: Schol-
arly Resources, Inc., 1984.

McNaught, William. “Regional Office Report—New York.” Archives of Amer-
ican Art Journal 23(1-4).

Zanke, Jeanne. Regional Office Report—Midwest.” Archives of American Art
Journal 23(3—4.)

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Dee, Elaine Evans. To Embrace the Universe; The Drawings of Frederic E.
Church, catalogue for The Hudson River Museum, Yonkers, New York,
1984.

McFadden, David Revere. [Book review] The Wedgwood Family Circle, by
B. and H. Wedgwood. The Eighteenth Century: A Current Bibliography
The American Society of Eighteenth Century Studies, IV: 292: 1980 (not
published until 1984).

. “Documents of Design: Silver at Cooper-Hewitt Museum.” (Part I

of 2 parts.) The Magazine Silver 17, no. 1 (Jan.—Feb. 1984) :8—15.

. “Historical Revivals in Glass.” Glass Art Society Journal, 1983-1984,

jojo, ALA lr/-

. “Astrid Stampe: An American Perspective.” (Article published in

English and Swedish.) In Astrid Stampe—svensk industritextil (catalogue).

National-museum Stockholm, Sweden, Feb.—Apr., 1984.

. “Scandinavian Modern: 1880-1980.” Catalogue extract of essay from

major publication, issued in Danish for the exhibition Scandinavian Mod-

ern at Kunstindustrimuseum, 1984.

. “The design of Scandinavian Modern.” In Scandinavian Review (The
American Scandinavian Foundation) 72, no. 1 (Spring, 1984): 31ff.

Moss, Gillian. Embroidered Samplers. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum,
1984.

. Stitch Guide. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1984.

Taylor, Lisa. [Foreword] The Amsterdam School: Dutch Expressionist Archi-
tecture; 1915-1930. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1984.

, editor. The Phenomenon of Change. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Mu-

seum, 1984.

. [Foreword] American Enterprise: Nineteenth-Century Patent Models.

New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum, 1984.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Atil, Esin. “Anatolian Civilizations,” Hali 6, no. 2(1984) :152—-54.

Chase, W. Thomas, III. “Bronze Casting in China: A Short Technical His-
tory.” In The Great Bronze Age of China, A Symposium, ed. George Ku-
wayama, pp. 100-23. Los Angeles County Museum of Art (University of
Washington Press), 1983.

Cort, Louise A. “A Rob Barnard Teapot.” Ceramics Monthly 13, no. 10 (De-
cember 1983).

. “Shigaraki Tea Jars,” “Shinjiro,” “Official Tea Jars,” and “Shingen

Jars.” Entries for Tea Ceremony Encyclopedia. Tokyo: Kadokawa Shoten

(in Japanese).

546 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “The Peters Valley Woodfire Conference.” Studio Potter 12, no. 2

(June 1984).

. “Korean Influences in Japanese Ceramics.” Orientations 15, no. 5
(May 1984).

Curry, David Park. [Exhibition Catalogue] James McNeill Whistler at the
Freer Gallery of Art. New York and London, 1984.

Fu, Shen C. Y. “Chang Chi-chih and His Medium-Sized Standard Script,
Part II.” (in Chinese) National Palace Museum Quarterly, Second Series I,
no. 2 (Winter 1983) :11—26.

. Masterpieces of Chinese Calligraphy in American and European Col-

lections, vol. 6 (in Japanese); Tokyo, 1983.

. “The Related Works of Chu Ta and Shih-t’ao.” (in Chinese) In The

Paintings and Calligraphy of Pa-ta and Shih-t’ao, pp. 27-33. National Mu-

seum of History, Taipei, Taiwan (February 1984).

. “A Letter by Teng Wen-yiian (1259-1328) to Chin-liang.” (in Chi-

nese) The National Palace Museum Monthly of Chinese Art, no. 12 (March

(1984) :56-58.

. “Commentary on Various Theories of the Birth and Death Dates of

Shih-t’ao.” (in Chinese) Central Daily News, Taipei, Taiwan (April 10-12,

1984).

. “Teng Wen-yiian’s Son-in-Law and His Painting—Mount Lu.” (in

Chinese) The National Palace Museum Monthly of Chinese Art, no. 13

(April 1984) : 98-100.

. “A Painting by Kung Hsien Was Forged into a Yiian Painting.” (in

Chinese) The National Palace Museum Monthly of Chinese Art, no. 14

(May 1984) :35—41.

. “K’un ts’an and Mountain Huang.” (in Chinese) Paper presented at

the International Conference on Huang Shan School Paintings, Anhui,

China, May 1984.

. “The Great T’ang Calligrapher Yen Chén-ch’ing in Northern Sung
and the Establishment of His Historical Position.” (in Chinese) Hsiung
Shih Art Monthly, Taipei, Taiwan, 1984. (Forthcoming.)

Lawton, Thomas. “John Alexander Pope (1906-1982),” Archives of Asian
Art, 36(1983) :89-91.

Shimizu, Yoshiaki. “Calligraphy,” “Josetsu,” “Kichizan Mincho,” “Moku’an
Rei’en,” “Tensho Shubun,” “Tesshu Tokusai,” and “Toyo Sesshu.” En-
tries for Kodansha Encyclopedia of Japan, 9 vols., Tokyo: Kodansha In-
ternational, 1983.

. “A Chinese Album Leaf from the Former Ashikaga Collection in the

Freer Gallery of Art.” Archives of Asian Art, 37(1984) :96-108.

. [Exhibition Catalogue] Masterpieces of Japanese Calligraphy. Co-
authored with John M. Rosenfield, Asia Society and Japan Society, New
York, 1984. (Forthcoming.)

Winter, John. “Natural Adhesives in East Asian Paintings.” To appear in
Preprints of the 10th International Congress of the International Institute
for Conservation, Paris, France, September 2-8, 1984.

. “Pigments in China—A Preliminary Bibliography of Identifications.”
Paper submitted to the Seventh Triennial Meeting, ICOM Committee for
Conservation, Copenhagen, Denmark, September 10-14, 1984.

Yonemura, Ann. [Review] Japanese Lacquer Art: Modern Masterpieces. The
National Museum of Modern Art, ed., 1982. Monumenta Nipponica 38, no.
4 (December, 1983) :474-77.

. “Choju giga,” “Jigoku zoshi,” “Fujiwara Takanobu,” “Fujiwara

Nobuzane,” “Takuma Eiga,’” “Takuma Tamenari,/” “Takuma Tameto,”

“Takuma Shoga,” “Toba Sojo,” “Gakuo Zokyu,” “Sesson Shukei,” “Kenko

7

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 547
Shokei,” “Lacquer Ware,” “Inro,” “Maki-e,” “Rakkan (seals and signa-
tures).” Entries for Kodansha Encyclopedia of Japan, 9 vols., Tokyo: Ko-
dansha International, 1983.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Fox, Howard N. The City as Collector: Selections from Seattle’s Public Art
Collection. Exhibition catalog. Seattle, Washington: Seattle Art Museum,
1984,

. North Carolina Artists Exhibition 1984. Exhibition catalog. Raleigh
North Carolina: North Carolina Museum of Art, 1984.

Gettings, Frank. Genre Scenes: Works on Paper from the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden. Brochure. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.

Lawrence, Sidney. “Clean Machines at the Modern.” Art in America 72 (Feb-
ruary 1984) :127-41ff.

Lerner, Abram. [Foreword] Artistic Collaboration in the 20th Century by
Cynthia Jaffe McCabe. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press
for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, 1984.

. [Foreword] Drawings 1974-1984 by Frank Gettings. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden, 1984.

McCabe, Cynthia Jaffee. [Preface] The Miami Generation. Miami, Florida:
Cuban Museum of Arts and Culture, 1983; Washington, D.C.: Meridian
House International, 1984.

Millard, Charles. “Julio Gonzalez.” The Hudson Review (Spring 1984) :88-98.

Shannon, Joseph. “Interview with sey Arikha.” Arts Magazine 58 (Jan-
uary 1984) :130-33.

Weil, Stephen. “Breaches of Trust, Remedies and Standards in the American
Private Art Museum.” Quaderni di Scienze Criminali: The Penal Protec-
tion of Works of Art. Siracusa, Italy: Istituto Superiore Internazionale di
Scienze Criminali (International Institute of Higher Studies in Criminal
Sciences), 1983:245—76.

. “Enough Museum?” Artnews 82 (December 1983) :27.

. “Vincible Ignorance: Museums and the Law.” Museum News 62

(February 1984) :71-74.

. “Art, Law and Utopia: What Attorneys Can Offer to Artists.” Arts
Washington 7 (March/April) 1984) :1, 7.

Zilczer, Judith. “The Eight on Tour, 1908-1909.” American Art Journal 16,
no. 3 (Summer 1984) :20—48.

if

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

7

Field, Cynthia. “The McMillan Commission’s Trip to Europe.” Historical
Perspectives on Urban Design: Washington, D.C., 1890-1910. Washington,
D.C.: Center for Washington Area Studies, 1984.

Stine, Jeffrey K. “United States Army Corps of Engineers.” Government
Agencies, ed. Donald R. Whitnah. Westport: Greenwood Press, 1983.

Theerman, Paul. “The Smithsonian Castle.” Design Action 2, No. 5 (Septem-
ber—October 1983) :7.

ay

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Bertin, Margaret. [General museum brochure] National Museum of African
Art, Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1983.

548 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Jennings, Gretchen. [Gallery leaflet] Adire Cloth from Nigeria. Washington,
D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1984.

Jennings, Gretchen, and Edward Lifschitz. [Exhibition guide] Ethiopia: The
Christian Art of an African Nation. Washington, D.C.: National Museum
of African Art, 1984.

Lifschitz, Edward. [Gallery leaflet] Brass Staff Finial. Washington, D.C.:
National Museum of African Art, 1984.

Lifschitz, Edward, and Alicia Taylor. Education Programs and Resources,
1984-1985. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1984.

Saverino, Joan. [Teaching guide] African Islam. Washington, D.C.: National
Museum of African Art, 1983.

Sieber, Roy. [Gallery leaflet] Gold in Miniature. Washington, D.C.: National
Museum of African Art, 1984.

. [Introduction] Harrison Eiteljorg Collection of African Art by Theo-

dore Celenko. Indiana: Indiana University Press, 1983.

. [Introduction] Praise Poems: The Katherine White Collection. Wash-

ington: Seattle Art Museum, 1984.

. [Introduction] A Short History of African Art by Werner Gillon.
London, England: Viking Press, 1984.

Walker, Roslyn A. [Exhibition brochure and checklist] African Mankala.
Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Cosentino, Andrew J. The Capital Image: Painters in Washington, 1800-
1915. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Flint, Janet A. Provincetown Printers: A Woodcut Tradition. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

. “Comments on Howard Cook’s Graphic Work.” In The Graphic
Work of Howard Cook: A Catalogue Raisonné. Bethesda, Maryland: The
Bethesda Art Gallery, 1984.

Foresta, Merry Amanda. Exposed and Developed: Photography Sponsored by
the National Endowment for the Arts. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1984.

Gershuny, Lenore F. [Checklist] Fanfare. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1984.

Hartigan, Lynda Roscoe. Sited Toward the Future: Proposals for Public
Sculpture in Arlington County. Arlington, Virginia: Privately published,
1984.

Herman, Lloyd E. [Essay] Indoor Landscape: A Statement on the Jervis/
Krasnican Installation. Arlington, Virginia: Privately published, 1984.

. “Wood Endures for Art and Utility.” In A Show of Hands. Arling-

ton, Virginia: Privately published, 1984.

. “Fiber Artists Merge Traditional Techniques with Modern Imagery.”

In A Show of Hands. Arlington, Virginia: Privately published, 1984.

. [Edited transcript] “Museum Practices in Collecting.” National Coun-

cil on Education for the Ceramic Arts Journal, Volume 5. Privately pub-

lished, 1984.

. “Five Visiting Artists at Carnegie-Mellon University.” For the
Artist-in-Residence Program, Carnegie-Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Penn-

sylvania: Carnegie-Mellon University Publications, 1984.

Lewton, Jean L. [Essay] Alice Pike Barney: Pastel Portraits from Studio
House. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Mecklenburg, Virginia M. Woodworks: Constructions by Robert Indiana.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 549
. “Advancing American Art: A Controversy of Style.” In Advancing
American Art: Politics and Aesthetics in the State Department Exhibition,
1946-1948. Montgomery: Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts, 1984.

Norelli, Martina Roudabush. Werner Drewes, Sixty-five Years of Printmahing.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Nosanow, Barbara Shissler. Sawtooths and Other Ranges of Imagination:
Contemporary Art from Idaho. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1983.

Panzer, Nora. Art and Literature: Supplementary Reading for Explorations
in American Art. Washington, D.C.: Privately published, 1984.

. “Fifth Annual Family Arts Competition 1984: Chesebrough-Pond’s
Celebrates the Family.” Washington, D.C.: Privately published, 1984.

Rand, Harry Z. [Introduction] Connecting: The Art of Beth Ames Swartz.
Arizona: Northland Press, 1984.

. Louis Ribak: The Late Paintings. New Mexico: Roswell Museum,

1984.

. R. L. White: Messianic Memoirs. New Mexico: Santa Fe Museum,

1984.

. “Where Does Excellence Lie?” Design (for Arts in Education), Janu-

ary/February 1984.

. “Notes and Conversation: Randy Lee White,” Arts Magazine, Sep-

tember 1984.

. “Looking at Paul Manship.” FMR, Autumn 1984.

. “Jochen Seidel: Word Drawings.” Proceedings of VIII World Psychi-

atry Congress (reprinted in English), Plenum, England, 1984.

. [Book review] “Early American Modernist Painting.” Leonardo,

Spring 1984.

. [Book review] “Beauty and the Beasts.” Leonardo, Spring 1984.

Schimmel, Julie. The Art and Life of W. Herbert Dunton, 1878-1936. Austin,
Texas: University of Texas Press for the Stark Museum of Art, 1984.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Department of Social and Cultural History

Adrosko, Rita J. “The Jacquard and Woven Silk Pictures.” In Ars Textrina.
1(1983) :9-75.

. “Dyewoods.” In the Encyclopedia of American Forest and Conserva-

tion History. New York: Macmillian Publishing Co., 1983.

. “Anatomy of a Quilted Counterpane.” The Weaver's Journal 3, no. 4,
issue 32:42—46.

Blaszczyk, Regina L. “Ceramics and the Sot-Weed Factor: The China Market
in a Tobacco Economy.” Winterthur Portfolio 19, no. 1 (1984) :7-19.

Fesperman, John. Organ Planning. New York: Church Hymnal Corporation,
1984.

. “The Mexican Legacy of Organs.” Musical Times. February 1984:
107-9.

Groce, Nancy. The Hammered Dulcimer in America. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Hoover, Cynthia Adams. “Overture” to “The Beginnings: Recreating the
Eighteenth-Century American Musical.” In Musical Theater in America:
Papers and Proceedings on the Musical Theater in America, edited by
Glenn Loney, 21-22. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1984.

. “Three Recollections of the Sonneck Society’s Earliest Years.” The

Sonneck Society Newsletter 10(spring 1984) :9:10.

550 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Myers, Susan H. “Marketing American Pottery: Maulden Perine in Balti-
more.” Winterthur Portfolio 19, no. 1(1984) :51—66.

. “The Business of Potting, 1780-1840.” In The Craftsman in Early
America, ed. Ian M. G. Quimby. New York: W. W. Norton & Co., 1984.
Ostroff, Eugene. “Photographic Enlarging: A History.” Photographic Science

and Engineering. March/April 1984:54—89.

Roth, Rodris. “Recording a Room: The Kitchen.” In In Historic America:
Buildings, Structures and Sites, 106-25. Washington, D.C.: The Library of
Congress, 1983.

Serio, Anne Marie. “The Dietz Burner: The Earliest Known Flat Wick Coal
Oil Burner in America.” The Rushlight 50(June 1984) :8-13.

Torgerson, Maureen R. “The Influence of Chinese and Japanese Design on
European Porcelain in the Hans Syz Collection.” The 29th Annual Wash-
ington Antiques Show. 51-55.

Department of the History of Science and Technology

Daniel, Pete. “The Crossroads of Change: Cotton, Tobacco, and Rice Cul-
tures in the Twentieth-Century South.” Journal of Southern History 50
(August 1984) :429-56.

. “The New Deal, Southern Agriculture, and Economic Change.” In
The New Deal and the South, eds. James C. Cobb and Michael Namorato.
Jackson, Miss.: The University Press of Mississippi, 1984.

Ezell, Edward C. Small Arms of the World. 12th ed. Harrisburg, Pa.: Stack-
pole Books, 1983.

. Small Arms Today: Latest Reports on the World’s Weapons and

Ammunition. Harrisburg, Pa.: Stackpole Books, 1984.

, and Linda N. Ezell. On Mars: a History of NASA’s Explorations of
the Red Planet. NASA SP-4212. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing
Office, 1984.

Finn, Bernard. “The Incandescent Electric Light.” In Bridge to the Future,
Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 424(1984) :247-63.

Gibbs, Sharon, and George Saliba. Planispheric Astrolabes from the National
Museum of American History. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1984.

Green, Rayna. That's What She Said: Contemporary Fiction and Poetry by
Native American Women. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1984.

. “Honoring the Vision of Changing Women: A Decade of American
Feminism.” In Sisterhood Is Global, ed. Robin Morgan. New York: Double-
day and Co., 1984.

Hindle, Brooke. “Technology through the 3D Time Warp.” Technology and
Culture 24(1983) :450—64.

. “The Contriving Mind.” Science Digest 90(1983) :48.

. Emulation and Invention. Paperback reprint by W. W. Norton and
Co., 1983.

Jackson, Melvin H., ed. The Historic American Merchant Marine Survey.
7 vols. Salem, Mass.: The Ayer Co., 1983.

Kondratas, Ramunas. “Public Health Service.” In Government Agencies, ed.
Donald R. Whitnah. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1983.

Langley, Harold D. “Women in the Navy, 1983.” United States Naval Insti-
tute Proceedings, January 1983.

Melosh, Barbara. “History as Drama: The Constitution in the Federal
Theatre Project.” This Constitution, spring 1984.

. “More than ‘The Physician’s Hand’: Skill and Authority in Twen-

tieth-Century Nursing.” In Women and Health in America, ed. Judith

Walzer Leavitt. Madison, Wis.: University of Wisconsin Press, 1984.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 551
Merzbach, Uta. Carl Friedrich Gauss: A Bibliography. Wilmington, Del.:
Scholarly Resources, 1984.

Multhauf, Robert P. The History of Chemical Technology: An Annotated
Bibliography. New York: Garland, 1984.

. “Nachwort.” In Daz Salz by M. J. Schleiden, 1875 (Reprint, 1984).

. “Storia della Chimica.” Enciclopedia della Chimica 10(1984) :105—12.

Noble, David F. Forces of Production: A Social History of Industrial Auto-
mation. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1984.

Schlebecker, John T. “Agricultural Journalism and the Diffusion of Scientific
Knowledge in Twentieth-Century America.” In Twentieth-Century Agri-
cultural Science, 127-35. Beltsville, Md.: Associates of the National Agri-
cultural Library, 1983.

. “Ethics and Agribusiness.” Agricultural Change and Human Values,
1:226—29. Gainesville, Fla.: University of Florida Press, 1983.

White, John H., Jr. “The California State Railroad Museum: A Louvre for
Locomotives.” Technology and Culture 24(October 1983) :44—54.

. “American Locomotives in Russia.” Railroad History 149(Autumn

1983) :116-17.

. “Yankee, please come home!” Trains 44(September 1984) :21-28.

——.. “Who Was Ezra Miller?” Railroad History 150(Spring 1984) :115-17.

. “Once the Greatest Builders’: The Norris Locomotive Works.” Rail-
road History 150(Spring 1984)17—56, 86.

Withuhn, William L. “The Railroad History Awards.” Railroad History 149
(Autumn 1983) :7-10.

. “Slazburgers and Slavery: A Problem of Mentality.” Georgia His-

torical Quarterly 64(Summer 1984) : 173-92.

Department of Public Programs

“Go.” A Self-guiding brochure for parents and children visiting the Hall
of Land Transportation. 1984.

“Fitting In.” A brochure for adolescents touring the Nation of Nations ex-
hibition. 1984.

“School Programs and Tours, 1984-85.” Publicizes school programs.

National Numismatic Collection

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. “The Medals Leaving Our Hands.” In American
Medallic Sculpture Exhibition. New York: American Medallic Sculpture
Association, 1983.

Gillilland, Cora Lee. ““The American Medallic Sculpture Association, A Wish
and a Beginning.” The Medal September 1984.

. “An Art Form Too Long Stagnant.” Coin World (July 11, 1984) :4.

. “Foreword.” In The Resurgent Art Medal: An International Selec-
tion. State College, Pa.: Pennsylvania State University, 1984.

Hebert, Raymond. “An Armenian Devotional Medal.” Armenian Numismatic
Journal ser. 1, vol. 10, no. 3 (September 1984) :30—32, pl. 2.

. “The Lazarev Institute Medal.” Armenian Numismatic Journal ser. 1,

vol. 10, no. 1 (March 1984) :2-5.

. “The Megerdich Sanasarian Medal.” Armenian Numismatic Journal

ser. 1, vol. 10, no. 1 (March 1984) :6-8, pl. 1.

. “Three Coin Dies of Tonk State.” Journal of the Academy of Indian
Numismatics and Sigillography. The Dr. S. V. Sohoni Felicitation Volume,
4:60—63, pls. 1-4.

Vosloh, Lynn. “Celebrating Olympics with Silver Coins.” The Silver Institute
Letter, July 1984.

552 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “Gold Coins Perpetuating Olympic Ideals.” The Gold News, July
1984.
. Modern Gold Coinage, 1983. Washington, D.C.: The Gold Institute,
1984.

National Philatelic Collection
Bruns, James H. “Gravure Production of Small Business Envelopes.” The
United States Specialist 55, no. 5, May 1984.

. “Introduction of Highway Post Office Service.” The United States
Specialist 55, no. 8, August 1984 and 55, no. 9, September 1984.

Dwight D. Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research

Wolfe, Robert, ed. Americans as Proconsuls: United States Military Govern-
ment in Germany and Japan, 1944-53. Carbondale and Edwardsville, IIl.:
Southern Illinois University Press, 1983.

Afro-American Communities Project

Horton, James Oliver. “The Life and Times of Edward Ambush.” In History
and Tradition in Afro-American Culture, ed. Gunter H. Lenz. Frankfurt:
University of Frankfurt Press, 1984.

. “Shades of Color: The Mulatto in Three Antebellum Northern Black

Communities.” Afro-Americans in New York Life and History 8, no. 2,

July 1984.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Christman, Margaret C. S. Adventurous Pursuits: Americans and the China
Trade, 1784-1844. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1984.

Dearborn, Mona L. “Anson Dickinson, Painter of Miniatures,” The Maga-
zine Antiques 124(5) (November 1983) :1004-10.

Fern, Alan. “The Image . . . in Many Places,” Liber Amicorum Herman
Liebaers, Brussels, 1984.

. “Lance Hidy’s Posters: Designs Personal & Public,” In Lane Hidy’s
Posters. Natick, Massachusetts: Alphabet Press, 1983.

. “Introspection and Imagination: Portraiture in Twentieth-Century
Prints,” American Portrait Prints: Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Amer-
ican Print Conference. ed. Wendy Wick Reaves. Charlottesville, Virginia:
University Press of Virginia, for the National Portrait Gallery, 1984.

, and Judith O’Sullivan. The Complete Prints of Leonard Baskin. [Cata-
logue raisonné] Boston, Massachusetts: N.Y. Graphic Society/Little, Brown
and Co., 1984.

Henderson, Amy. [Review] Westering Man: The Life of Joseph Walker by
Gilbert Bil. History: Reviews of New Books (February 1984) :89.

. “The Grand Interpreters: Personalities in Opera in America,” [Check-
list for exhibition] Sponsored by the Library of Congress, April 1984.

Miles, Ellen G. “Saint-Memin, Valdenuit, Lemet: Federal Profiles,” American
Portrait Prints: Proceedings of the Tenth Annual American Print Confer-
ence, ed. Wendy Wick Reaves. Charlottesville, Virginia: University Press
of Virginia, for the National Portrait Gallery, 1984.

. [Catalogue entries] Masterpieces from Versailles: Three Centuries of

French Portraiture, by Alden R. Gordon. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1983.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 553
Miller, Lillian B., Sidney Hart, and Toby A. Appel, eds., The Selected Papers
of Charles Willson Peale and His Family. Vol. 1: Charles Willson Peale:
Artist in Revolutionary America, 1735-1791. New Haven, Connecticut: Yale
University Press, 1984.

Pachter, Marc. “Lifeline: The Evolution of Biography.” Humanities 5(3)(June
1984) :1-4.

Reaves, Wendy Wick. Variations: Musicians in Caricature, 1920-1960. Wash-
ington, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery, 1984.

, ed. American Portrait Prints: Proceedings of the Tenth Annual

American Print Conference. Charlottesville, Virginia: University Press of

Virginia, for the National Portrait Gallery, 1984.

. “Portraits for Every Parlor: Albert Newsam and American Portrait
Lithography,” American Portrait Prints: Proceedings of the Tenth Annual
American Print Conference. Charlottesville, Virginia: University Press of
Virginia, for the National Portrait Gallery, 1984.

Stapp, William F. Robert Cornelius: Portraits from the Dawn of Photography.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983.

Yellis, Ken, associate editor (with Susan Nichols, editor, and Mary Alexan-
der, associate editor), Museum Education Anthology: Perspectives on In-
formal Learning. A Decade of Roundtable Reports. Museum Education
Roundtable, Washington, D.C., 1984.

. Roundtable Reports: The Journal of Museum Education. Editor-in-
chief, 8(5), 9(1-3).

Yellis, Ken, and Education Department Staff. “Playing the Palace.” (Septem-
ber 1983.)

. “Clarence Darrow.” (October 1983.)

“Muses in the New World, Part II.” (November 1983.)

“By-line Ernie Pyle.” (December 1983.)

“A Victorian Christmas.” (December 1983.)

“The Provincetown Plays.” (December 1983.)

. “Big as Life, Part I—Tall Tales and Not-So-Tall Tales.” (January

1984.)

. “Big as Life, Part II—Epics, Fables, and Ironies: Tales in the Oral

Tradition.” (January 1984.)

. “Big as Life, Part III—Songs of American Heroes.” (January 1984.)

“In Good Company.” (January 1984.)

“A Portrait Gallery Valentine.” (February 1984.)

“Despite the Odds.” (March 1984.)

“Calamity! Wild Woman of the West.” (March 1984.)

“An Independent Woman.” (April 1984.)

“Eulogy for a Flapper.” (April 1984.)

“Words of Women, Music of Men.” (May 1984.)

. “A Charles Ives Fourth of July: Connecticut Valley Lives, Part I.”

(June 1984.)

. “White Ashes: Connecticut Valley Lives, Part II.” (July 1984), Por-

traits in Motion Program Notes.

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Washburn, Wilcomb, E. “A Rollback of Left in Nicaragua Too?” Op-Ed
page, The Washington Times, December 20, 1983.

——.. “Skins as Free Speech Defenders.” Op-Ed page, The Washington
Times, January 20, 1984.

. “Collecting Information, Not Objects.” Museum News 62,(3)(Febru-

ary 1984) :5-15.

554 / Smithsonian Year 1984
. “A Note on the Frontispiece [William Fox’s watercolor sketch of the
City of Washington, 1853].” Records of the Columbia Historical Society of
Washington, D.C., Vol. 51, edited by J. Kirkpatrick Flack with the assis-
tance of Madeleine B. Furth. Charlottesville: Published for the Society
by the University Press of Virginia, 1984, xv—xvi.

. “Quotas Are Tough if All Are Minorities.” The Wall Street Journal,
March 22, 1984.

. “A Fifty-Year Perspective on the Indian Reorganization Act.” Amer-
ican Anthropologist 86(2) (June 1984) :279-89.

. “The Canary Islands and the Question of the Prime Meridian: The
Search for Precision in the Measurement of the Earth.” The American
Neptune 1004(2) (Spring 1984) :77-81.

. “Queuing Up for Quotas Via the Census.” The Wall Street Journal,
July 26, 1984.

. “The Fight for Social Justice.” The Phenomenon of CHANGE pp. 16-
17. Cooper-Hewitt Museum, New York, N.Y., 1984.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Bishop, R. L. “El analisis de activacion de neutrones de la ceramica de El
Mirador.” In Proyecto de El Mirador de la Harvard University, edited by
A. Demarest and W. Fowler, pp. 148-159. CERMA, Antigua, 1982-83.

Blackman, M. J. “Provenance Studies of Middle Eastern Obsidian from
Sites in Highland Iran.” In Archaeological Chemistry III, ACS Advances
in Chemistry Series No. 205, edited by Joseph Lambert, pp. 19-50. Ameri-
can Chemical Society, Washington, D.C., 1984.

Erhardt, D. “Removal of Silicone Adhesives,” Journal of the American Insti-
tute for Conservation 22(Fall 1983) :100.

Gallagher, B. “Ambassador Breckinridge Long—A Bibliography,” Fireback,
Quarterly Newsletter of the Friends of Montpellier Mansion, 4, no. 3(Aug.
1984) :4.

Goodway, M. “Work cited,” Journal of the American Institute for Conserva-
tion 23(1983):pp. 63-64. “A cautionary note on the presence of silver
cyanide on museum objects,” by Donna Strahan. See “CAL 4366.”

Goodway, M. “News of Archaeometallurgy.” Society of Archaeological Sci-
ences Newsletter 6, no. 4(1983).

Goodway, M. “News of Archaeometallurgy.” Society of Archaeological Sci-
ences Newsletter, 7, no. 1(1983).

Goodway, M. “Theodore A. Wertime (obituary),” Journal of the Historical
Metallurgy Society, 17, no. 2(1983) :81—82.

Goodway, M. “Notes and News from Washington, D.C.,” Journal of the His-
torical Metallurgy Society, 17, no. 2(1983) :130-131.

Maggetti, M.; Westley, H.; and Olin, J. S. “Provenance and Technical Stud-
ies of Mexican Majolica Using Elemental and Phase Analysis.” In Archaeo-
logical Chemistry III, ACS Advances in Chemistry Series No. 205, edited
by Joseph Lambert, pp. 152-191. American Chemical Society, Washington,
D.C., 1984.

Allen, R. O.; Hamroush, H.; Nagle, C.; and Fitzhugh, W. “Use of rare earth
element analysis to study the utilization and procurement of soapstone
along the Labrador coast.” Archaeological Chemistry III, ACS Advances in
Chemistry Series No. 205, edited by Joseph Lambert, pp. 3-18. American
Chemical Society, Washington, D.C. 1984.

Rogers, M.; Allen, R. O.; Nagle, C.; and Fitzhugh, W. “The utilization of
rare earth element concentration for the characterization of soapstone
quarries.” Archaeometry 25(1983) :186-195.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 555
Olin, J. S., ed. Future Directions in Archaeometry. Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1982.

Rose, C. L., and Von Endt, D. W., eds. Protein Chemistry for Conservators.
American Institute for Conservation, Washington, D.C., 1984.

Von Endt, D. W. “Protein Chemistry and the Structure of Bone and Skin.”
In Protein Chemistry for Conservators, Rose, C. L. and Von Endt, D. W.,
eds., pp. 1-17, American Institute for Conservation, Washington, D.C.,
1984.

Von Endt, D. W. “Deterioration of Bone.” In Protein Chemistry for Conserv-
ators, Rose, C. L. and Von Endt, D. W., eds., pp. 31-35, American Institute
for Conservation, Washington, D.C., 1984.

Von Endt, D. W. “Protein Adhesives.” In Protein Chemistry for Conserva-
tors, Rose, C. L. and Von Endt, D. W., eds. pp. 39-47, American Institute
for Conservation, Washington, D.C., 1984.

Von Endt, D. W. “Analytical Techniques for Proteins.” In Protein Chemistry
for Conservators, Rose, C. L. and Von Endt, D. W., eds., pp. 107-122,
American Institute for Conservation, Washington, D.C., 1984.

Westley, H. “Provenance and Technical Studies of Mexican Majolica Using
Elements and Phase Analysis.” In Archaeological Chemistry III, ACS Ad-
vances in Chemistry Series No. 205, ed. Joseph Lambert, Chapter 9, Amer-
ican Chemical Society, Washington, D.C., 1984.

Papers Presented at Technical Meetings

Ballard, M. “Mothproofing Museum Textiles.” ICOM (International Council
of Museums) Seventh Triennial Meeting, Copenhagen, September 1984.

Ballard, M. and Baer, N. “Risk Assessment and the Use of Fumigants.”
Sixth International Biodeterioration Conference, George Washington Uni-
versity, Washington, D.C., August 1984. _,

Bishop, R. L.; Sayre, E. V.; and van Zelst, L. “Characterization of Meso-
american Jade.” Fifth International Seminar, “Applications of Science in
Examination of Works of Art,” Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, September
1983.

Bishop, R. L.; Harbottle, G.; Reents, D. J.; Sayre, E. V.; and van Zelst, L.
“Compositional attribution on non-provenienced Maya polychrome ves-
sels.” Fifth International Seminar, “Applications of Science in Examination
of Works of Art,” Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, September 1983.

Bishop, R. L. “Compositional traditions in 2000 years of Greater Nicoya
Pottery.” Tercer Congreso sobre la Ceramica de la Gran Nicoya y Panora-
ma Arqueologio de Costa Rica, August 13-21, 1984.

Bishop, R. L. “La Gran Nicoya de Costa Rica: una perspectiva arqueo-
metrica.” Museo Nacional de Costa Rica, August 13-21, 1984.

Bishop, R. L.; Olin, J. S.; and Blackman, M. J. “SARCAR: A new archaeo-
metric resource.” ICOM Seventh Triennial Meeting, Copenhagen, Septem-
ber 1984,

Blackman, M. J. “The History of the CAL-SI/NBS Collaborative Effort in
Archaeometric Research. NBS Analytical Chemistry Division Seminar,
Gaithersburg, MD, February 1984.

Spielmann, K. S., and Blackman, M. J. “Neutron Activation Analysis of
Smoky Hills Jasper.” Plains Archaeological Conference, November 1983.
Spielmann, K. S., and Blackman, M. J. “Trace Element Variability within an
Outcrop: Smoky Hills Jasper from Collyer, Kansas.” Second Conference on

Prehistoric Chert Exploitation, Carbondale, IIl., March 1984.

Blackman, M. J.; Olin, J. S.; and Jornet, A. “The Use of Interlaboratory Data
Sets in Provenience Studies.” Twenty-fourth International Symposium
on Archaeometry, Washington, D.C., May 1984.

556 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Olin, C. H.; Cheng, Y.; Blackman, M. J.; and Olin, J. S. “Neutron Induced
Autoradiography: A Novelty or a Useful Tool.” AIC (American Institu-
tion for Conservation) Annual Meeting, Los Angeles, May 1984.

Deal, E. C. “Determining the Provenance on Works of Art and Comparative
Samples by Lead Isotopic Ratio Analysis.” Poster Session and Abstract;
Twenty-fourth International Symposium on Archaeometry, Washington,
D.C., May 1984.

Barnes, I. L.; Deal, E. C.; Chase, W. T.; Holmes, L.; Meyers, P.; and Sayre,
E. V. “The Nine Tripods and the Six Formulas: Lead and Lead Isotope
Ratios in Ancient Chinese Bronzes.” Twenty-fourth International Sym-
posium on Archaeometry, Washington, D.C., May 1984.

Barnes, I. L.; Brill, R. H.; Deal, E. C.; and Piercy, G. V. “Lead Isotope
Studies of Some of the Finds from the Serce Limani Shipwreck.” Twenty-
fourth International Symposium on Archaeometry, Washington, D.C., May
1984.

Erhardt, D.; Hopwood, W.; Padfield, T.; and Veloz, N. “The Durability of
Incralac: Examination of a Ten Year Old Treatment.” ICOM Seventh
Triennial Meeting, Copenhagen, September 1984.

Frohlich, B. “Non-connecting Terrain Conductivity Measurements at Qalat
al Bahrein, Arabian Gulf.” Twenty-fourth International Symposium on
Archaeometry, Washington, D.C., May 1984.

Jornet, A.; Olin, J. S.; and Blackman, M. J. “Analysis of Glazed Ceramics
from Sevilla (Spain).” Conference on Underwater Archaeology, Seven-
teenth Annual Meeting of the Society for Historical Archaeology, Williams-
burg, VA, January 5, 1984.

Jornet, A.; Blackman, M. J.; and Olin, J. S. “Hispanic Majolica in North
America: New Explorations in Archaeology and Archaeometry.” Confer-
ence on Underwater Archaeology, Seventeenth Annual Meeting of the
Society for Historical Archaeology, Williamsburg, VA, January 5, 1984.

Jornet, A.; Blackman, M. J.; Westley, H.; and Olin, J. S. “Study of Majolica
from Three Production Areas of Spain.” Twenty-fourth International Sym-
posium on Archaeometry, Washington, D.C., May 1984.

Jornet, A.; Blackman, M J; Westley, H.; and Olin, J. S. “XIIIth to XVIIIth
Century Ceramics from the Paterna-Manises Area (Spain).” Eighty-sixth
Annual Meeting and Exposition of the American Ceramic Society, Pitts-
burgh, May 1984.

Maggetti, Marino, visiting CAL scientist, University of Freibourg, Switzer-
land, “Provenience and Technical Studies of Mexican Spanish-Colonial
Majolica Using Phase Analysis,” Conference on Underwater Archaeology,
Seventeenth Annual Meeting of the Society for Historical Archaelogy,
Williamsburg, VA, January 5, 1984.

Myers, J. E. “Inherent Production Rates of Two Potting Techniques: Impli-
cations for Social Analysis.” Forty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Society
for American Archaeology, November 1983.

Myers, J. E. “Pottery Production in a Medieval Economy.” Seventeenth An-
nual Conference of the Center for Medieval and Early Renaissance Studies,
and the Eighty-second Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological
Association, Chicago, 1983.

Olin, J. S.; Blackman, M. J.; and Jornet, A. “Elemental Analysis of Spanish-
Colonial Majolica to Determine Provenience.” Conference of Underwater
Archaeology Seventeenth Annual Meeting of the Society for Historical
Archaeology, Williamsburg, VA, January 1984.

Padfield, T., and Erhardt, D. “A Cooled Display Case for George Washing-
ton’s Commission,” ICOM Seventh Triennial Meeting, Copenhagen, Sep-
tember 1984.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 557
Vitale, T. “The Operating Parameters and Uses of ‘Large’ and ‘Small’
Tables.” ICOM Seventh Triennial Meeting, Copenhagen, September 1984.

Von Endt, D. W., and Jessup, W. C. “The Deterioration of Proteinaceous
Materials in Museums.” Sixth International Biodeterioration Conference.
George Washington University, Washington, D.C., August 1984.

Wright, R. P. “Standardization as Evidence for Craft Specialization: A Case
Study.” Eighty-second Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological
Association, Chicago, November 1983.

Wright, R. P. “Technology and Style in Ancient Ceramics.” Eighty-sixth
Annual Meeting and Exposition, American Ceramic Society, Pittsburgh,
May 1984.

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Native American Museums Program/Office of Museum Programs. Bibliog-
raphy on Native American Museums: Development and Related Issues.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, Revision 1984.

Spiess, Philip D., II. “Kellogg Project: Programs, Guidelines, Applications.”
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1983.

Office of Museum Programs. “Survey of Audiovisual Programs.” Smithsonian
Institution, Revision 1983-1984.

Non-Print Media
Videotapes:

On Guard: Protection Is Everybody’s Business.
Preventive Care of Outdoor Sculptures: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden.

Slide Programs:

Office of Museum Programs Slide Program.
Tribal Archives II: Basic Responsibilities and Operations.
Photographic Negatives in the Juley Collection: Their Care and Preservation.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Bain, Alan L., and Massa, William R., jr., eds. “Smithsonian Institution
Archival, Manuscript, and Special Collection Resources.” Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Archives, 1984.

Deiss, William A., Museum Archives: An Introduction. Chicago: Society of
American Archivists, 1984.

Henson, Pamela M. “Media and Oral History.” In The Craft of Public His-
tory: An Annotated Select Bibliography, eds. David F. Trask and Robert
W. Pomeroy, III. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press and the National
Council on Public History, 1983.

Massa, William R., Jr. “Guide to the Charles D. Walcott Collection, 1851—
1940.” Guides to Collections in the Smithsonian Archives, no. 2. Archives
and Special Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Archives, 1984.

Moss, William W. “Oral History: Evaluation, Standard, and Criticism.” In
The Craft of Public History: An Annotated Select Bibliography, eds. David
F. Trask and Robert W. Pomeroy, III. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press
and the National Council on Public History, 1983.

558 / Smithsonian Year 1984
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Bedini, Silvio A. “Jefferson, Man of Science.” Frontiers, Annual of the
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 3(1981-82) :10—23.

. [Historical introduction, text summary and bibliography] Giuseppe

Campani. Discorso Intorno A’Suoi Muti Orologi. 1660. Con l’Aggiunto della

Lettera di Pier Tommaso Campani Nelle Quale Dimostra l'Origine e I’ Arti-

ficiio dell’Oriolo. Milano: Edizioni II Polifilo, 1983.

. “The Cobbler’s Clockwork.” Annali dell’Istituto e Museo di Storia

della Scienza 8, no. 1(1983) :77—87.

. [Review] Surveyors and Statesmen: Land Measuring in Colonial Vir-

ginia, by Sarah S. Hughes. Technology and Culture, 24, no. 2(April 1983):

267-69.

. [Review] Geomagnetic Instruments Before 1900, by Anita McConnell.

Technology and Culture 24, no. 2(April 1983) :267.

, with Harris, Elizabeth M., and Wright, Helena. [Exhibition cata-

logue] “The Naming of America,” October 1983-1985, National Museum

of American History.

. [Review] The Compleat Surveyor, by James A. Bennett and Olivia

Brown. Annals of Science 40, no. 6(November 1983) :672.

. [Review] The Whipple Museum of the History of Science. Catalogue

1. Surveying, by Olivia Brown. Annals of Science, 40, no. 6(November

1983) :671-72.

. “The Mechanical Clock and the Scientific Revolution.” Swiss Air

Gazette, Zurich (November 11, 1983) :11-17, 19-20. Reprinted in L’Otelier,

Zurich (1984).

. “The Scientific Instrumentation of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.”

Journal for Great Plains Studies, 4, no. 1(January 1984) :54—69.

. [Review] Los Relojes y Automatas de Juanelo Turriano by Jose A.

Garcia-Diego. (Madrid/Valencia: Albatros Ediciones, 1982), ISIS 75, no. 2

(1984) :396-97.

. “Memorial. Derek J. DeSolla Price (1922-1983).” Technology and

Culture 25, no. 3(1984) :701-5.

. Thomas Jefferson and His Copying Machines. Charlottesville, Va.:

The University Press of Virginia, 1984.

. “Eulogy. Derek J. DeSolla Price’ with complete bibliography of

Price’s publications. Annali dell’Istituto e Museo di Storia della Scienza

(1984).

. “La Biblioteca di Bernardo Facini Fabbricante di Strumenti Scientifici
a Venezia e Piacenza (1665-1731).” Bolletino Storico Piacentino (Septem-
ber 1984).

Child, Margaret S. [Consulting Report] “Statewide Functions and Services.”
Documenting America: Assessing the Condition of Historical Records in
the States (June 24—25, 1983) :47—57.

Kenyon, Kay with Ryan, Kathleen. “Zoological Libraries.” Sci-Tech News
38, no. 2(1984) :33-34.

Levin, Amy Evans. Part-time work: A Bibliography. Second Edition. Alex-
andria, Va.: Association of Part-time Professionals, Inc., 1983.

Ratner, Rhoda S. “Report to ARLIS/NA on museum libraries sessions held
at the AAM.” Art Documentation, 5:2(October 1983) :129—30.

, ed. [Session proceedings] Cost Effectiveness in Museum Libraries.
American Association of Museums Annual Meeting, San Diego, California,
June, 1983. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1984.

Staff, Smithsonian Institution Libraries National Air and Space Museum
Branch. The Aerospace Periodical Index 1973-1982. Smithsonian Institu-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 559
tion Libraries Research Guide No. 2, Boston, Mass.: G. K. Hall & Co.,
1983.

Stanley, Janet L. [Review] Transformation and Resiliency in Africa as Seen
by Afro-American Scholars, eds. P. T. Robinson and Elliott Skinner.
Library Journal (August 1983).

, with Olaniyan, Richard. Ife, The Holy City of the Yoruba: An

Annotated Bibliography. Ile-Ife: University of Ife Press, 1982 [i.e. 1984].

. “Smithsonian African Art Activities.” Africana Libraries Newsletter
37(February 1984).

——. [Review] Rock Art of Africa, by A. R. Willcox. Library Journal (July
1984).

Wells, Ellen. [Exhibition catalogue] Donor Exhibition: Gifts to the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries 1982. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries, 1983.

, and Rutledge, Renata. Book Collecting. Washington, D.C.: Smith-

sonian Institution Libraries, 1983.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Books and Exhibition Catalogues

Altshuler, David, ed. The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from the Czech-
oslovak State Collections. New York: Summit Books, and Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983.

Arte/Objeto: Sculpture from the Tane Silversmiths Collection. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.

Burstein, Chaya. Joseph and Anna’s Time Capsule: A Legacy from Old
Jewish Prague. New York: Summit Books, and Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.

Corn, Joseph J., and Brian Horrigan. Yesterday’s Tomorrows: Past Visions of
the American Future. New York: Summit Books, and Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.

Keaveney, Raymond. Master European Drawings from the Collection of the
National Gallery of Ireland. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983.

Northern, Tamara. The Art of Cameroon. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.

Share, Marjorie, L., and Deborah Lerme Goodman. Bee Quilting. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983.

Stevens, Andrea, and Katherine Chambers, eds. Update, 1983-84. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983.

Weisberg, Gabriel P. Edgar Chahine: La Vie Parisienne. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1983.

Paper Panel Exhibition

Swerdlow, Joel, and Herb Golden. Getting the Picture: The Growth of Tele-
vision in America. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, 1984.

Booklets

Chambers, Katherine, ed. Siteline, nos. 17, 18. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.

Kavasch, Barrie. Herbal Traditions: Medicinal Plants in American Indian
Life. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice, 1984.

560 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Nooter, Nancy Ingram. The Art of Cameroon. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1984.

Posters

Exploring Microspace

The Image of the Black in Western Art

The Long Road Up the Hill: Blacks in Congress, 1870-1983

The Magic of Neon

Marconi

Master European Drawings from the Collection of the National Gallery of
Ireland

The Precious Legacy: Judaic Treasures from the Czechoslovak State Collec-
tions (4 posters)

Yesterday's Tomorrows: Past Visions of the American Future

PUBLIC SERVICE

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Hunt, Marjorie. “Born into the Stone: The Carvers of Washington Cathe-
dral.” Folklife Annual 1984. Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress, 1984.

. “Older Adults as Museum Resources.” Roundtable Reports: The

Journal of Museum Education 9, no. 4(Fall 1984).

, and Paul Wagner. The Stone Carvers. (A documentary film.) 16mm
color sound film, 29 min. Filmed at the Washington Cathedral, Washing-
ton, D.C., 1984.

Jamieson, Stu. Playparties from Anglo-American Tradition. (A teaching man-
ual.) Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1984.

Licht, Michael. “America’s Harp.” Folklife Center News 7, no. 3(July-Septem-
ber, 1984) :6-9.

Seitel, Peter. [Review] “Allegories of the Wilderness: Ethics and Ambiguity
in Kurauko Narratives,” by Michael Jackson. Journal of American Folk-
lore 97, no. 285(July—September, 1984) : 362-63.

. [Review] “Proverbs in Israeli Folk Narrative: A Structural Semantic
Analysis,” by Galit Hasan-Rokem. Proverbium 1(1984) :213-20.

Vennum, Thomas, Jr. [Introduction and Afterword] The Federal Cylinder
Project: A Guide to Field Cylinder Collections in Federal Agencies. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Library of Congress, 1984.

. At Laskiainen in Palo, Everyone is a Finn. (A documentary film.)

Smithsonian Folklife Studies Series. 16mm color sound film, 57 min. Filmed

in Palo, Minnesota, 1980 and 1981.

, ed. 1984 Festival of American Folklife Program Book. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1983.

Zeitlin, Steve, and Paul Wagner. Free Show Tonite. (A documentary film.)
16mm color sound film, 60 min. Filmed in Bailey, North Carolina, 1980.

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SMITHSONIAN GALAXY—104 two-and-one-half-minute radio features.
RADIO SMITHSONIAN—52 half-hour radio programs.

The partial listing of segments, which follows, contains material based on

research done by Smithsonian curators or other personnel:

“Gravitational Images in Space” Images that demonstrate how light is bent
by gravity from nearby galaxies are observed for the first time. (SAO)
October 2, 1983.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 561
“Flight of the Monarchs” Scientists ponder the wanderings of Monarch
butterflies on migrations covering thousands of miles from the United
States to South America. (MNH) October 16, 1983.

“An Appreciation of Orchids” Orchids are admired not only for their beauty,
but also for their unique evolutionary abilities. (GSTRI) October 23, 1983.
“Beach Bugs” Just when you thought it was safe to go back on the sand, out
come the water bears, mud dragons and nematodes. (MNH) October 23,

1983.

“Swing Time” An audio tour of America’s big band era. (SI Press) Novem-
ber 27, 1983.

“Ban Chiang” An exhibition at the Museum of Natural History reveals a
lost bronze age rediscovered in northeastern Thailand. (MNH) December
4, 1983.

“The Leonids Meteor Shower” Smithsonian astronomers recall history’s
greatest recorded shooting star spectacle. (NASM) December 11, 1983.

“Tracks of the Stars” Participants in the First International Conference on
Ethnoastronomy trace man’s relationships with the sun, moon, planets and
stars. (NASM) January 8, 1984.

“Words On Birds” Smithsonian Secretary S. Dillon Ripley on the birds of
India; Roger Tory Peterson on bird ecology in the U.S.A. (Secretary’s
Office) February 12, 1984.

“Coping With Cold” Researchers at the National Zoo reveal the wintering
strategies of bears, birds and other beasts. (NZP) February 26, 1984.

“Cosmic Super Structures” Smithsonian scientists explore the nature of
gigantic galactic “superclusters’” and massive “voids” in space. (SAO)
March 5, 1984.

“Sino-Soviet Science” Smithsonian botanist travels to Russia and China to
establish scientific and cultural ties. (MNH) March 5, 1984.

“Batting Around the Zoo” An examination of the ways and means of bats.
(NZP) April 8, 1984.

“Aldabra Must Be Saved” An island in the Indian Ocean, the world’s
largest coral island and one of the last outposts of pristine wilderness,
struggles for survival. (MNH) April 8, 1984.

“Early Ellington” A Smithsonian researcher presents rare recordings of Duke
Ellington. (MAH) May 27, 1984.

“Star Spots” Astronomers at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
track the activities of gigantic magnetic fields on distant stars in order to
learn more about similar occurrences on the Sun. (SAO) June 24, 1984.

“Tales Told in Bones” New chemical detection methods are revealing the
dietary and social habits of ancient human cultures. (MNH) June 24, 1984.

“Acid Rain’ Smithsonian scientists offer some answers about the nature of
acid rain. (CBES) July 1, 1984.

“For the Love of the Skies” A new facility at the Smithsonian’s Whipple
Observatory in Arizona is dedicated to, and for, amateur astronomers.
(SAO) July 29, 1984.

“The Stuff Between the Stars” Research at the Smithsonian’s Whipple Ob-
servatory in Arizona explores the interstellar medium, gamma ray photog-
raphy, and the Multiple Mirror Telescope. (SAO) August 5, 1984.

“The 1984 Festival of American Folklife” Highlights of this year’s festival in-
clude Alaskan songs and customs and big-city sounds from Philadelphia.
(OFP) August 12, 1984.

“First Landing: The British Come to America” A festival in North Carolina,
co-sponsored by the Smithsonian, celebrates the landing of the first English
colonists and explorers to set foot in the New World. (Co-sponsored by
SI) August 19, 1984.

562 / Smithsonian Year 1984
“Apollo’s Legacy” Moon rocks brought back to earth by the Apollo astro-
nauts have allowed scientists to determine the origin and make-up of the
moon and meteorites. (SAO, NASM) September 2, 1984.

“One Million Mosquitos” The Smithsonian’s mosquito collection, with more
than half the world’s species represented, is an invaluable aid for scientists
studying insects and diseases. (MNH) September 23, 1984.

“The World’s Biggest Tenderfoot” Little-known elephant facts and lore are
revealed along with a look at attempts to preserve endangered elephant
species. (NZP) September 30, 1984.

HERE AT THE SMITHSONIAN ...,—20 two-minute TV features.

This partial listing contains material based on research done by Smithsonian
curators or other personnel:

“Keeping Perfect Time” Smithsonian scientists build the hydrogen maser
clock, the stablest chronometer ever made. (SAO) February 21, 1984.

“Nature Through a Viewfinder” Nature photographer Kjell Sandved travels
the world with Smithsonian scientists, his photographs adding a new
dimension to their research. (MNH) February 21, 1984.

“Surgery is Painless” A tribute to the TV series M*A*S*H complete with
its operating room set. “Pain and its Relief,” exploring the development of
anesthesia in surgery. (MAH) February 21, 1984.

“Islam In Africa’ An exhibition at the National Museum of African Art
explores the blending of Islamic and African cultures in the art of Africa.
(AFA) February 21, 1984.

“Big Ideas in Small Packages” A look at 19th-century patent models—from
Bell’s telephone and Morse’s telegraph to the “newest and best” ironing
boards and sewing machines. (MAH) April 23, 1984.

“The 20,000-Year-Old Man” A renowned anthropologist and his young as-
sistant piece together a human skeleton from Egypt. (MNH) April 23, 1984.

“Microscopes Make It Big” A special exhibition now lets the public see the
latest microscopes in action. (MNH) April 23, 1984.

“The Plastic Historian” A look at the works of the celebrated sculptor Jo
Davidson. (NPG) April 23, 1984.

“More Than Whistler’s Mother’ A major exhibition on the work of Ameri-
can-born artist James McNeil Whistler reveals there was much more to
his art. (FGA) June 26, 1984.

“Collecting The ‘Stuff’ Of Politics” Smithsonian visitors can see some of the
30,000 banners, buttons, and political paraphernalia collected from nearly
every campaign since George Washington’s time. (MAH) June 26, 1984.

“The Golden Age of Aviation” Aviation and pioneers like General Jimmy
Doolittle and Jimmy Mattern gather to reminisce about the “golden age”
of aviation. (NASM) June 26, 1984.

“Celebrating American Folklife’ The sights and sounds of the Smithsonian’s
annual Festival of American Folklife—from Alaskans panning for gold to
the dances of black Philadelphians. (OFP) August 30, 1984.

“Eyes On The Universe” The revolutionary six-mirror design of the Multiple
Mirror Telescope has just been recommended for an even bigger national
telescope to be built later this century. (SAO) August 30, 1984.

“Strike Up The Band” The Smithsonian’s newest addition is a 19th-century
bandstand, bringing the pleasures of old-fashioned brass bands back to
the National Mall. (MAH) August 30, 1984.

“An Ancient Game Reborn” The game mankala is one of the world’s oldest,

and it’s now experiencing a new surge of popularity. (AFA) August 30,
1984,

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 563
“Past Visions of the Future” A compilation of ideas and paraphernalia show-
ing how Americans have viewed the future. (SITES) August 30, 1984.

FILM AND VIDEO PRODUCTIONS

This listing contains material based on research done by Smithsonian cura-

tors or other personnel:

Lou Stovall—1412 minutes. A look at how the artist creates his unusual silk-
screen prints. (ANM) October 1983.

Smithsonian Orientation—4¥2 minutes. A brief overview of Smithsonian
museums for prospective visitors. (VIARC) March 1984.

The Work of Peace—30 minutes. A chronicle of the significant events sur-
rounding the signing of the 1783 Treaty of Paris. (MAH, NPG) June 1984.

An Introduction to the Museum Support Center—10 minutes. A behind-the-
scenes tour of this model facility. (MSC) June 1984.

Yesterday's Tomorrows: Visions of the Future on Film—18 minutes. A com-
pilation of key scenes from futuristic and scientific films from 1902 to
1982. (SITES) August 1984.

The Sea: A Quest For Our Future—60 minutes. A documentary of the com-

plex ecosystems of tropical coral reefs. (MNH) September 1984.

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Associate, monthly 32- to 52-page newsletter, Janet W.
Solinger, publisher/executive editor, and Karen Sagstetter, editor.

Invitations

An Evening of Art: Different Worlds, Different Eras, November 1983.
Treasures from the Shanghai Museum: 6,000 Years of Chinese Art, August
1984.

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

RIF Newsletter. Published three times a year, the Newsletter reports on RIF
activities nationwide. A technical assistance insert, addressing local proj-
ects’ requests for information on how to motivate youngsters to read, is
included in Newsletters sent to RIF projects. The Newsletter reaches 20,000
people throughout the United States and offshore territories.

Books To Grow On: A Parent’s Guide to Encouraging Young Readers. A
magazine for parents of children from infancy to age 11.

The RIF Book of Ideas. A series of booklets on fundraising, on how to select
books for young people, and how to motivate children to read.

I Want You. A brochure to assist RIF projects in recruiting and training
volunteers.

Reading Is Fun: Tips for Parents of Children Age Birth to Eight Years.
Guidelines for parents on how to promote reading in the home.

Profiles. Descriptions of the publishers and distributors that serve RIF
projects. The Profiles list special discounts and services offered by each
supplier and are distributed annually to all projects.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Ash, Nancy, “A Note on the Use of Magnesium Bicarbonate in Hydrogen
Peroxide Solutions.” AIC Book and Paper Group Annual, 2(1983).

564 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Backlund, Caroline H. [Foreword] Art Research Methods and Resources. A
Guide to Finding Art Information. Dubuque: Kendal/Hunt, 1984. 2nd ed.
revised and enlarged.

Brown, David. Leonardo’s Last Supper: The Restoration. Washington, D.C.:
National Gallery of Art, 1983.

, contributor. Leonardo’s Last Supper: Precedents and Reflections.
Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1983.

Chotner, Deborah, contributor. The Orientalists: Delacroix to Matisse. [Ex-
hibition catalogue] Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1984.

Cikovsky, Nicolai, Jr. “Thomas Eakins: Strength of Mind.” Art and Antiques
(September 1984) :76-9.

, contributor. The Orientalists: Delacroix to Matisse. [Exhibition cata-

logue]Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1984.

Cowart, Jack. “Dale Chihuly: Cause & Effects.” Catalogue essay in Chihuly:
A Decade of Glass. Bellevue, Washington, 1984.

DeGrazia, Diane. Le Stampe dei Carracci. Bologna: Alfa, 1984.

. [Exhibition catalogue] Correggio and His Legacy: Sixteenth Century

Emilian Drawings. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1984.

, contributor. Renaissance Drawings from the Ambrosiana. Notre
Dame, 1984.

Denker, Eric. [Exhibition catalogue] Annotated bibliography and research
for Drawing Near, Whistler Etchings from the Zelman Collection, by Ruth
Fine. Los Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, June 1984.

Doumato, Lamia. Arthur Erickson and Sir Denys Lasdun. Monticello, IIli-
nois: Vance Bibliographies, 1984.

, contributor. American Reference Books Annual. Littleton, Colorado:

Libraries Unlimited, 1984.

. [Review] Alice Neel. Choice (February 1984) :74.

. [Review] Contemporary Photographers. Reference Quarterly, 23(Fall
1983) :102.

Edelstein, J. M. [Review] Passages by Stephen Vincent, and Shaving at Night
by Charles Simic. Fine Print, 10, no. 2(April 1984) :69.

Fine, Ruth. [Exhibition catalogue] Drawing Near: Whistler Etchings from the
Zelman Collection. Los Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 1984.

Fletcher, Shelley. “Two Monotype-pastels by Degas at the National Gallery
of Art.” Print Quantity, I, no 1(March 1984) :53-55.

. “A Preliminary Study of the Use of Infrared Reflectography in the
Examination of Works of Art on Paper.” ICOM (September 1984).

Freedberg, Sydney J. “Titian and Marsyas.” FMR 50, no. 4(September 1984).

, with Cox-Rearick, Janet. “A Pontormo (Partly) Recovered.” Burling-

ton Magazine.

. “A Fugue of Styles: Roman Drawings of the Sixteenth Century.”

The Art Institute of Chicago Centennial Lectures.

. “Raphael, Michelangelo and Others: Raphael and His Contempo-
raries in Rome.” Vassar College.

Graselli, Margaret, with Rosenberg, Pierre. Watteau, 1684-1721. Washington,
D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1984.

Grier, Margot E. Art Serials/National Gallery of Art. Washington, D.C.: Na-
tional Gallery of Art, 1983.

. “Notes on Problems and Irregularities.” Art Documentation, 3, no. 3

(Fall 1984).

Grossman, Sheldon. Caravaggio, the Deposition from the Vatican Collections,
Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1984.

Hirschauer, Gretchen, contributor. Leonardo’s Last Supper: Precedents and
Reflections. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1983.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 565
Lewis, Douglas. “The Sculptures in the Chapel of the Villa Giustinian at
Roncade, and their Relation to those in the Giustinian Chapel at San
Francisco della Vigna.” Mitteilungen des Kunsthistorischen Institutes in
Florenz 27, no. 3(1983) :307—52.

Luchs, Alison. “Demonet’s: Architecture and Ice Cream on Connecticut Ave-
nue.” Records of the Columbia Historical Society, 51(1984) :144—57.

Mann, Donna. “American Naive Paintings at the National Gallery of Art.”
Antique Market, 4, no. 6(June 1984) :20—24.

Price, Marla. “About Juan Gris.” The Washington Gallery/Museum News,
1, no. 2(October 1983) :3.

Skalka, Michael, contributor. Margaret Bourke-White: The Humanitarian
Vision. Syracuse: Joe and Emily Lowe Art Gallery, 1983.

Sturman, Shelley G. “Sorbitol Treatment of Leather and Skin: A Preliminary
Report.” In Preprints to the Seventh Triennial Meeting, Copenhagen.
ICOM, 1984.

. Photographs of papyrus manufacture in Our Green and Living
World. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1984.

Wheelock, Arthur K., Jr. Dutch Painting in the National Gallery of Art.
Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1984.

, contributor. Leonardo’s Last Supper: Precedents and Reflection [Ex-

hibition catalogue] Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1983.

. [Review] Haarlem: The Seventeenth Century (exhibition held at

Rutgers, The State University). The Burlington Magazine, CXXV (1983):

386.

. The Age of Rembrandt: Dutch Painting of the Seventeenth Century.
[Annotated slide presentation] Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art,
1983.

, with Kaldenbach, C. J. “Vermeer’s View of Delft and his Vision of
Reality.” artibus et historiae, 6(1982) :9-36.

Williams, William James. “The Introduction of Porcelain: The Medici Experi-
ment.” Washington Antiques Show [Catalogue], 1984:47.

Wilmerding, John. Audubon, Homer, Whistler and 19th-Century America.
(3rd edition) New York: Jupiter Art Library, 1984.

. [Exhibition catalogue] The Masters of America: Nineteenth-Century
American Paintings of Rivers, Lakes and Waterfalls. New Orleans, Louis-
iana: The Historic New Orleans Collection and New Orleans Museum of
Art, 1984.

Wolff, Martha, contributor. Leonardo’s Last Supper: Precedents and Reflec-
tions. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1983.

566 / Smithsonian Year 1984
APPENDIX 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1984

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

MSECCE ANY oa iccois ote aia o.o, 0.008 vec ns ROBERT McCORMICK ADAMS
(Appointed 9/17/84)
S. DILLON RIPLEY
(Retired 9/17/84)
Executive Assistant .... 0.2 ccince sce ss James M. Hobbins
SEEMICUASSISEANE oc cis o.ccuseie cette sees Joseph Coudon
Administrative Assistant
(APPOINEMENES)” Ge s.< ais.oyore crre ¢.ct<.6,6/5)08 Mary Lee Nissley
Supervisor, Secretary’s Files .......... Betty J. Edwards

OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
he Under Secretary. 2.0%). cc.ictl. sss. Phillip S. Hughes

OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT
fO THE SECRETARY

Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Richard H. Howland
Curator, Smithsonian Institution
i Ie Veal Ade aba topsite Ag aan James M. Goode

OFFICE OF AUDITS

[LISS Te oe See Aes ota ines One eter Chris S. Peratino
Assistant Directors
RUMECT IVAN ARUCIES: 6 hoe 2's aflhidieenieis as a ds Jerry L. Chandler
Mint ernial OATIGIESutyataeniteroieislstols-> eee John C. Fawsett
External rAiditsigcia jer seiseviereeios 6! sic, 6 Patrick J. Stanton
Barley Section Sy ait s Po tego wae" Benedict T. Maltagliati

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

DREOCEOT Ee er ens ee ae etree alas rs Walter J. Boyne
MEERIEEY DOITCCLOR 0 <1 )3 202i. nose nse e.e 0) as Donald S. Lopez
Associate Director for External Affairs. Brian Duff
Associate Director for Research ....... Paul A. Hanle
Administrative Officer .......6.0 0050000 Wendy A. Stephens
Puaorian Emerituss 2. 2: dcieiec..« sss Paul E. Garber
Director, Advanced Projects .......... Hernan I. Otano
Museum Facilities Manager ........... Claude D. Russell
Chief, Records Management Division .._ Karl P. Suthard
eeifar® Sete os Seite das oeravovsiee Robin A. Schroffel

567
Assistant Director for Resource
Management) <teroei-srariorte ales ie) steler ee
Theater, Manages’ <2.) «nie Salen atersce

Chief, Public Affairs and Museum
Services 1VisiOnes tec cies oie) lelerr =
Special Events Coordinator .........

Chief, Office of Research Support .....
Docent and Tour Program Manager. .

Chief, Special Projects and
Publications) Division’ 2 ...---+ +. >-
EGHOE caecwamie carota minaata bicios acocnmies

Chairman, Department of Aeronautics. .
Special Advisor for Technology .....
Senior (Gurdton erste: cic iteiiereri sires
MSIE AE OSEG Getto aot aan ace ee se lan age Sie ele

Associate Curators

Assistants (@urators) pecieeseieititene
Chairman, Center for Earth and
Planetary Stidies .v<.0.. scm meme atten
Geolocists ovis aap gates neind acess
Research Associate’. .-cc. 2+ oe scieee
Chairman, Department of Space
Science and Exploration ...........
G@uratonsice iis chiles aseaose

Associate: Gurators: Gece cisicroctelaeic
Research) Hustorianen cess ao
Assistant Director for Exhibits
and Production Operations .........
Chief Exhibits: Division) 2-11-01
Chief, Designi Unit 225.05 0005226 3
Chief, Production and
Goordination Unibet eee
Chief, Audiovisual Unit ..........
Chief, Spacearttim Unit >... ... <<:
Chief, Art Gollection’ Unit <.......
Chief, Preservation and
Restoration Operations ...........
Supervisory Museum Specialist ..

M. Antoinette Amos
Ronald E. Wagaman

Rita C. Cipalla
Marilyn E. Lyons
Kerry M. Joels
Patricia E. Johnston

Helen C. McMahon
Patricia J. Graboske
Edmund T. Wooldridge
Howard S. Wolko
Robert C. Mikesh
Tom D. Crouch

R. E. G. Davies

Von D. Hardesty
Claudia M. Oakes
Dominick A. Pisano
C. Glen Sweeting

Jay P. Spenser

Robert van der Linden

Ted A. Maxwell
Patricia A. Jacobberger
Priscilla L. Strain
Constance G. Andre

Paul A. Hanle
David H. DeVorkin
Louis R. Purnell
Gregory P. Kennedy
Allan A. Needell
Frank H. Winter

Edward B. Chalkley
Nadya A. Makovenyi
Lucius E. Lomax

Harold J. Pippin
John E. Hartman
James H. Sharp
Mary H. Valdivia

Walter R. Roderick
Alfred J. Bachmeier

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY/

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN

BRIO CEOR i553 cer Siete leiaie ele state chs one an0/s
(Assocrates DirectOreeniec oe ceietecieic osiets 6-2

Acting Assistant Director ............

568 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Richard S. Fiske

James F. Mello
(Resigned 4/23/84)

Stanwyn G. Shetler
(Appointed 4/23/84)
Special Assistant to the Director ......
Special Assistant to the Director ......

Special Assistant to the Associate
Director

*, See) © (6 0) 6 0): ao ea = cle 6 60 6 0 em ele

O91 mece) e160, s © © e\e.6 «8 @ Be else

MMECE CATIONS! 5.0 wach os o/4,cinnelb.0'a 0 0s
Administrative Assistant .............

Management Analyst ................
ee TAM MAN APSR iss cnci2 8 cisteyspys yale « 05 «6

RES ERAGplec cr ods, or soit epaetciala he cme lc «
memme Manager... pouch ex eis sss
Supervisory Information and Education
- SL S Se eae ok ee,
Information Systems Manager,
Automatic Data Processing Program .
Acting Chief, Office of Exhibits .......

Assistant Director for Exhibits ........

Supervisory Museum Specialist,
Scanning Electron Microscope
7 SOLES re ieee eedeegtea area eal ame at

Anthropology

PIER SS ee ree, POT sc
Administrative Assistant .............
@amections Manager {5..5..2)%.......
Conservation Laboratory, Supervisor ...
miettator, Supervisor’... ...42.2......
Public Information Specialist .........

HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS

OGRE CHON Manager 9. os. «:s.00,0010 000 9 oo
Management Services Assistant .......
ERNEST ce x raccun es ais cindis's ‘se: 3s
Linguist
Librarian

22.2 jo) 0m eae less) e.s, 6 sels: Lele joe 6 606)

6) Shee le lesipic 6's ofeets see) ete ata. ols sa

ee

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL ARCHIVES

DRECCLOT Meet ee eee Ce ee oe bsed
PMaststanit DirectOn st . fs ete bee es
MEY LAICCLOL oo 25s hoot eee cassie d

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 569

Catherine J. Kerby
Stanwyn G. Shetler
(Appointed 1/1/84)

Jerome A. Conlon
Thomas R. Harney
Mary Rakow Tanner
(Appointed 2/19/84)
Claretta B. Jackson-Niles
(Retired 8/30/84)
Noreen Dinndorf
(Appointed 4/1/84)
John C. Townsend, Jr.
Marsha Cox
(Appointed 8/7/83)
Margaret A. Santiago
Edward McCoy

Joan C. Madden

T. Gary Gautier

Carl A. Alexander
(Reassigned 3/2/84)

Laurence P. O’Reilly
(Appointed 3/4/84)

Walter R. Brown

Douglas H. Ubelaker

Clara Ann Simmons

Priscilla Rachun Linn

Carolyn L. Rose

George R. Lewis

Ann Kaupp
(Appointed 4/2/84)

William C. Sturtevant
Colin I. Busby
(Resigned 11/1/83)
Diane Della-Loggia
Melvina Jackson
Johanna C. Scherer
R. H. Ives Goddard, III
Lorraine H. Jacoby

Herman J. Viola
Berbara Johnson

Herman J. Viola
James R. Glenn
Paula Fleming
LATIN AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY

Expert; <SsctSotwetre oe etree weet errata eisiare: ©

NORTH AMERICAN ANTHROPOLOGY

Curators 23 FO ee ee EET cme dhe

Associate|Guratorse eee eee

OLD WORLD ANTHROPOLOGY
Gurators: hae sR ee 6 sce

PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY

Curators: =o ores epee ie ae en eke

LINGUISTICS
Curator: soci co Cece ee

Robert M. Laughlin
William H. Crocker
Betty J. Meggers

William W. Fitzhugh
Bruce D. Smith
Dennis J. Stanford
William C. Sturtevant
William L. Merrill

Adrienne Kaeppler
William B. Trousdale
Gus Van Beek
Ivan Karp

(Appointed 12/13/83)
Paul Taylor

J. Lawrence Angel
Donald J. Ortner
Douglas H. Ubelaker

R. H. Ives Goddard, III

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

James Adovasio (Archeology)
John Albanese (Geology)
Larry Banks (Archeology)
Virginia L. Bavendam (Ethnology)
Kathleen J. Bragdon (Linguistics)
Sarah Brett-Smith (Ethnology)
Alison S. Brooks (Archeology)
Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Archeology)
Margaret Caldwell (Physical
Anthropology)
Henry B. Collins (Archeology)
John C. Ewers (Plains Ethnology)
Don D. Fowler (Archeology)
George Frison (Archeology)
Bruno Frohlich (Physical Anthropology)
Gordon D. Gibson (Ethnology)
Kathleen Gordon (Physical
Anthropology)
James B. Griffin (Archaeology)
Gary Haynes (Archeology)
Brian Hesse (Zoo-Archaeology)
Neil C. Hughes (Archeology)
Tirachai Kambhu na Ayutthaya
(Ethnology)
Bennie C. Keel (Archeology)
Eugene Knez (Ethnology)

570 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Richard T. Koritzer (Physical
Anthropology)

JoAnne Lanouette (Education)

Paulina Ledergerber (Archeology)

Mary McCutcheon (Anthropology)

David Meltzer (Archeology)

Jerald T. Milanich (Archeology)

Stephen Potter (Archeology)

Walter G. J. Putschar (Physical
Anthropology)

Bruce D. Ragsdale (Pathology)

Saul H. Riesenberg (Ethnology)

Lucile E. St. Hoyme (Physical
Anthropology)

Robert G. Schmidt (Geology)

Shirley J. Schwarz (Archeology)

Andrew Sillen (Physical
Anthropology)

T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Anthropology)

Jean Umiker-Sebeok (Linguistics)

Paula C. Wapnish (Archeology)

Mildred M. Wedel (Archeology
and Ethnohistory)

Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)

Pamela J. Wintle (Film Archives)

Melinda Zeder (Archeology)
Botany

ASEIARD oy oc s..2 a a/aetata oes dele ee a eeeis Mark M. Littler
Administrative Assistant ............. Nella F. Lloyd
mallections Manager .:............205 George F. Russell
SEImOrepOtanistse a. «osc kee ae Edward S. Ayensu

Richard S. Cowan
Mason E. Hale, Jr.
PHANEROGAMS

ROPE TEES re Pee facets vei er cvcPa et cree iehe ice onels Dan H. Nicolson
Robert W. Read
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Dieter C. Wasshausen
John J. Wurdack

PNSGOGIATeNCUTATOTS secs ci us sis wiaueus cleiai sis Robert B. Faden
Vicki A. Funk
Marie-Héléne Sachet
Laurence E. Skog

FERNS
MEME AES (CUTALOL ny. ainsi «sinless oe os David B. Lellinger

GRASSES
(CIBER LO) Se Ore On OCs CI PEN at ee eneee Thomas R. Soderstrom

CRYPTOGAMS
Marators: . 295. Se SOM aa James N. Norris

Harold E. Robinson

PALYNOLOGY
KOTIMALOTMR Ie sale sistetetelo’ a eve RIAN Sioa 5 Joan W. Nowicke

PLANT ANATOMY
“CERES a oor pec 2 Re Rane Richard H. Eyde

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS
Pamela Balough (Orchids) Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
Katina Bucher (Algae) Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams)
José Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical Muriel E. Poston (Loasaceae)

South America) Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams)
Paul E. Desautels (Orchids) Amy Y. Rossman (Fungi)
James A. Duke (Flora of Panama) Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae)
F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Edith E. B. Scott (Bryophyta)
Island Plants) Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)

Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams) Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
Charles R. Gunn (Seeds) William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
LeRoy H. Harvey (Grasses) Phillip R. Taylor (Marine
Mark Edward Hay (Marine Algae) Botanical Ecology)
Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr. (Rubiaceae) Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)
Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology) Egbert H. Walker
Diane S. Littler (Marine Algae) (East Asian Flora)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical Botany)

Entomology
harman sess See ek eee’ Wayne N. Mathis
Sauections Manager’... 227022... 6 6.8. Gary F. Hevel
MEMIOLMOCIENESEO eT a oe cite Pore oe tis ee aes Karl V. Krombein

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 571
NEUROPTEROIDS AND DIPTERA

@urators; 24:523 koteba a erdee

LEPIDOPTERA

Guratorsy cto ee aE cto

COLEOPTERA

Curators

HEMIPTERA

Curator

HYMENOPTERA

Seniors SCIONHSEY are ciarsc asta actoletcl eterno
Curator

Cees eecneoe-eaveecacecaciecensesnee

MYRIAPODA AND ARACHNIDA

Curators: jase eins oot

Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Wayne N. Mathis

John M. Burns

Don R. Davis

W. Donald Duckworth
Robert K. Robbins

Terry L. Erwin
Paul J. Spangler

Richard C. Froeschner

Karl V. Krombein
Ronald J. McGinley
(Appointed 1/9/83)

Jonathan A. Coddington
(Appointed 12/11/83)

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Joachim Adis (Coleoptera)
Annette Aiello (Lepidoptera)
Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera)
Edward W. Baker (Mites)
S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera)
S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera)
Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera)
Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera)
J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera)
Carleton M. Clifford (Ticks)
Margaret Collins (Orthoptera)
Jerry Coyne (Diptera)
Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka)
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)
John H. Fales (Lepidoptera)
Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera)
Richard H. Foote (Diptera)
John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)
Raymond J. Gagne (Diptera)
Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera)
E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera)
Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera)
Ralph E. Harbach (Diptera)
Thomas Henry (Hemiptera)
John B. Heppner (Lepidoptera)
Jon L. Herring (Hemiptera)
Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera)
Harry Hoogstraal

(Medical Entomology)

572 / Smithsonian Year 1984

W. L. Jellison (Mites, Ticks)
James E. Keirans (Ticks)
John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera)
Lloyd Knutson (Diptera)
James P. Kramer (Homoptera)
Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera)
Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera)
Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera)
Scott E. Miller (Microlepidoptera)
Carl F. W. Muesebeck
(Hymenoptera)
David F. Nickle (Orthoptera)
Paul A. Opler (Lepidoptera)
David L. Pearson (Coleoptera)
Robert V. Peterson (Diptera)
Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera)
Robert W. Poole (Noctuidae)
George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera)
Mary Livingston Ripley (General
Entomology)
Louise M. Russell (Homoptera)
Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera)
Jay C. Shaffer (Microlepidoptera)
Sunthorn Sirivanakarn (Mosquitoes)
Gordon B. Small, Jr. (Lepidoptera)
Robert L. Smiley (Mites)
David R. Smith (Hymenoptera)
Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera)
George C. Steyskal (Diptera)
Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera)
F. Christian Thompson (Diptera)
Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera)
Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)
Hayo H. W. Velthuis

Ronald A. Ward (Medical
Entomology)

Richard E. White (Coleoptera)

Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera)

Willis W. Wirth (Diptera)

(Hymenoptera) David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)
Invertebrate Zoology
PRSEAT 15 2 soars 2c FRG RP teae em KO Sas g Clyde F. E. Roper
PEE ZODIORISE. «5 .aueisi5a jas ce neice ne 8 8 Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
(Retired 3/31/84
Collections Manager”... 5.0. .c0c.c05ss Roland H. Brown

administrative Assistant .........:... Martha J. Vincellette

CRUSTACEA
RB EN ALONS eeu eveyone eet orotate ee siciansts J. Laurens Barnard
Thomas E. Bowman
Roger F. Cressey
Charles W. Hart, Jr.
Robert P. Higgins
Louis S. Kornicker
Raymond B. Manning
meneciate Curators «./ SiSSA sees Brian F. Kensley
ECHINODERMS
AOTC Sn Gre rn Frederick M. Bayer
David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler
MOLLUSKS
MBTACOVS | 55.5 )cs sicdIO Siete PIRI oes cloe Richard S. Houbrick
Clyde F. E. Roper
Joseph Rosewater
WORMS
 CORENW ONT: im pepe rete Ohta ER eee ore ees Kristian Fauchald

W. Duane Hope
Meredith L. Jones

Mary E. Rice
REGISTRY OF TUMORS IN LOWER ANIMALS

MUIKCCLON ae ysis sian ee eee ee he ee John Harshbarger
BeMCMIIOpISE |" Nees cc ee tees © 6, diane Sing Chen Chang
Histotechnologic Specialist ........... Linda Cullen
BPMSCMI SPECIANSE 5.5... 5 ie csis ss eee fe Phyllis Spero
Biological Research Assistant ......... Christine Louton
BBBREAUCH. ASSIGEATIE! Vegi See ee cies + ores Marilyn Slatick

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

S. Stillman Berry
(Deceased 5/84)

J. Bruce Bredin

Stephen D. Cairns

Fenner A. Chace, Jr.
(Emeritus Zoologist)

Steven Chambers

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 573

Stephen L. Gardiner

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.
(Emeritus Zoologist)

Lipke B. Holthuis

Roman Kenk

J. Ralph Lichtenfels

Patsy McLaughlin
Charles G. Messing
Katherine Muzik
Isabel Perez-Farfante (Canet)
Richard E. Petit
Marian Pettibone

(Emeritus Zoologist)
Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.

Mineral Sciences

METEORITES

@riratorse cick ion aco eee se

AssociatesCutatonr min taco ace
Geochemist

0) \w Noy sl 6 (0 caela) 0) Gile) © (66 euelale oie) es. 6) '«

MINERALOGY

Gurator’ i... seeped cts Sateen core oe
Grystallographer : sient. sees t. 3
Associate  Guratona..2 6 a5ensee oo ee eee

PETROLOGY AND VOLCANOLOGY

@rratOrs ess eis ee eco o  ereres vere aire

Associate Guratonse seein aoe

PHYSICAL SCIENCES LABORATORY

Chemists

ed

SCIENTIFIC EVENT ALERT NETWORK

Museum: Specialist <4.) 50.5000 0520 0. 008
Museum hechnicianscenaueecccikie: cic

Harald A. Rehder
(Emeritus Zoologist)

I. G. Sohn

Ronald B. Toll

Geerart J. Vermeij

Gilbert L. Voss

Austin B. Williams

David K. Young

Robert F. Fudali
Elizabeth E. Greene

Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Brian H. Mason
(Retired 4/84)
Glenn J. MacPherson
Kurt Fredriksson

John Sampson White

Daniel E. Appleman

Jeffrey Post
(Appointed 5/9/84)

Richard S. Fiske

William G. Melson

Tom Simkin

Sorena Sorensen
(Appointed 5/9/84)

Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen
James E. Collins

Lindsay R. McClelland
Janet Crampton
Elizabeth Nielsen

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites)

William C. Buell IV (Volcanology)

Cathy Busby-Spera (Petrology)

Gary R. Byerly (Petrology)

Felix Chayes (Petrology and
Volcanology)

Suzanne P. DeAtley (Petrology and
Volcanology)

Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites)

John Filson (Petrology and Volcanology)

Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy)

574 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Martin Flower (Petrology and
Volcanology)

Edward Henderson (Meteorites)

Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)

Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy)

Debra S. Stakes (Petrology and
Volcanology)

Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology and
Volcanology)

Othmar T. Tobisch (Petrology and
Volcanology)
Paleobiology

MOIRA. patrsetate ten ae cette Gs
MOeaTOUS WEMELIEUS orci te iets cles a8 soos is

oallections Manager’... 20 cues. s
Administrative Assistant .............
Deputy Collections Manager ..........
Mmeeeitic TIMISEALOD «0.2 naan = oe sees

Vertebrate Paleontology Preparation
Eaporatory, Supervisor .............
ROE TICICTICISES, clo 1s ic she wie 6 tne sale oie

Senior Scientist and Geological
PBEEANOPTAPNED cin cciak § 5 che Biss 65.5.5
EMMI IB ER ces fer cr oie le x wa aig ais ee = ws

WO ALOLS HT errors ne crete theres cick 5 oes

Aecociate CuratOM <.....dmnsccsscneecs

Ian G. Macintyre

G. Arthur Cooper

C. Lewis Gazin

Frederick J. Collier

Betty M. Lomax

Jann W. M. Thompson

Mary A. Parrish
(Appointed 10/31/83)

Lawrence B. Isham
(Retired 10/3/83)

Arnold D. Lewis
Richard E. Grant
Porter M. Kier

Daniel J. Stanley
Ian G. Macintyre
James F. Mello
(Appointed 4/22/84)
Kenneth M. Towe
Walter H. Adey
Richard H. Benson
Richard S. Boardman
Martin A. Buzas
Alan H. Cheetham
Richard Cifelli
(Deceased 5/21/84)
Robert J. Emry
Nicholas Hotton III
Francis M. Hueber
Jack W. Pierce
Clayton E. Ray
Thomas R. Waller
Anna K. Behrensmeyer

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

Raymond L. Bernor
Arthur J. Boucot
Sankar Chatterjee
Anthony G. Coates
Josephine W. Cooper
Steven J. Culver
Daryl P. Domning
Raymond C. Douglass
J. Thomas Dutro, Jr.
Ralph E. Eshelman
Jerzy A. Federowski
Robert M. Finks
Frank A. Garcia
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Richard Graus

Peter J. Harmatuk
Jessica A. Harrison

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 575

Bruce N. Haugh

Leo J. Hickey

S. Taseer Hussain
Ralph W. Imlay
Jeremy B. C. Jackson
Gilbert Kelling

Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska
Carl F. Koch

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman
Venka V. Macintyre
Sergius H. Mamay
Robert B. Neuman
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Thomas F. Phelen
John Pojeta, Jr.

Roy H. Reinhart
Charles A. Repenning
Bruce Runnegar
William J. Sando
Judith Schneider
Vincent P. Schneider
R. Craig Shipp
Frederick J. Siegel
Elwyn L. Simons
Judith Skog

Roberta K. Smith-Everenden
Norman F. Sohl

I. Gregory Sohn

Vertebrate Zoology

Ghairmattienssscewies tee coe htoe ia nee

Gollections Manager’. 1/.%/scielsjeraiarciets ae

Administrative Assistant enone an
FISHES

Wuratorsy ces cain hereto ne rete eels

AMPHIBIANS AND REPTILES

Curators:-i.3. Sst Sete ieaion

BIRDS

Guratorstes ie cit acth areca ee coca

MAMMALS

Curators aocciecc tose eee eons

Associates Curator Sone oon

SECRETARY'S RESEARCH LABORATORY

Administrative Specialist .............
Museum Specialist... 5st duactien oes 4

Donald Spoon
George D. Stanley, Jr.
Steven M. Stanley
Robert S. Steneck
Margaret Ruth Todd
(Deceased 8/19/84)
Ronald R. West
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Druid Wilson
Ellis P. Yochelson
Rinaldo Zinardi

W. Ronald Heyer
J. Phillip Angle
Anna L. Datcher

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman
G. David Johnson
(Appointed 10/24/83)
Richard P. Vari

W. Ronald Heyer
George R. Zug

Storrs L. Olson
George E. Watson
Richard L. Zusi

Charles O. Handley, Jr.
James G. Mead

Richard W. Thorington, Jr.
Michael D. Carleton

Adele Y. Issa
Bruce M. Beehler

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES, COLLABORATORS, AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

John W. Aldrich (Birds)

John S. Ash (Birds)

Richard C. Banks (Birds)
John C. Barber (Birds)
William Belton (Birds)
Gregory D. Bentz (Birds)
Michael A. Bogan (Mammals)
Heraldo Britski (Fishes)
Eleanor D. Brown (Birds)

576 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Robert L. Brownell (Mammals)
Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)
Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)

C. Kenneth Dodd, Jr. (Amphibians

and Reptiles)
Louise H. Emmons (Mammals)
Robert K. Enders (Mammals)
Carl H. Ernst (Amphibians and
Reptiles)
Alan Feduccia (Birds)

Sara V. Fink (Fishes)

William L. Fink (Fishes)

Mercedes S. Foster (Birds)

Herbert Friedmann (Birds)

Thomas H. Fritts (Amphibians and
Reptiles)

Jeffery Froehlich (Mammals)

Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)

Michael Goulding (Fishes)

Martha B. Hays (Birds)

Richard Highton (Amphibians and
Reptiles)

George J. Jacobs (Amphibians and
Reptiles)

Frances C. James (Birds)

Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)

Warren B. King (Birds)

Gordon L. Kirkland (Mammals)

Irving L. Kornfield (Fishes)

William H. Krueger (Fishes)

Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)

John M. Legler (Amphibians
and Reptiles)

Roy W. McDiarmid (Amphibians
and Reptiles)

Francisco Mago-Leccia (Fishes)

Joe T. Marshall (Birds)

Linda R. Maxson (Amphibians and
Reptiles)

Naercio Menezes (Fishes)

Joseph C. Mitchell (Amphibians and
Reptiles)

Ralph S. Palmer (Birds)

Lynne R. Parenti (Fishes)

William F. Perrin (Mammals)

Allan R. Phillips (Birds)

Ronald H. Pine (Mammals)

Gregory K. Pregill (Amphibians
and Reptiles)

John E. Randall (Fishes)

G. Carleton Ray (Mammals)

Randall R. Reeves (Mammals)

S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)

C. Brian Robbins (Mammals)

Alan H. Savitzky (Amphibians
and Reptiles)

Albert Schwartz (Amphibians
and Reptiles)

Norman J. Scott, Jr. (Amphibians
and Reptiles)

William F. Smith-Vaniz (Fishes)

David W. Steadman (Birds)

Kenneth J. Sulak (Fishes)

Stephen G. Tilley (Amphibians
and Reptiles)

James C. Tyler (Fishes)

Richard J. Wassersug (Amphibi-
ans and Reptiles)

Marilyn Weitzman (Fishes)

John S. Weske (Birds)

Ralph M. Wetzel (Mammals)

Claudia F. Wilds (Birds)

E. O. Wiley (Fishes)

James D. Williams (Fishes)

Don E. Wilson (Mammals)

David B. Wingate (Birds)

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center

EL ECLOTIN ya cistacteie cl oo cisccios ones ousee5 6
Administrative Assistant ............
Riatine Biologists, «...- 2. ss.ccess ase

Leslie W. Knapp
Patricia Buckley
Frank D. Ferrari
Gordon L. Hendler
Betty Landrum
Ernani Menez

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port

Administrative @fficer!. «4-2... +6 < «
Betemiist WNCHALPE 26. sac a6 2 an.stvels ss ss
ineceanchwAtssistamtsms.t ces ee es es

June J. Jones
Mary E. Rice
William D. Lee
Sherry Anne Petry
Julianne Piraino
Hugh F. Reichardt

U. Vincent Wilcox
Patti B. Young

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 577
CollectionsGoordinator® ..2). 220.4 -....
Data Maniagenien stets 2 «= tellers of «1-1
Shipping Omicert. atocisiees slek-fain orale e's
Facility Manager

@ eke is) elvis si aim alenuwel «©0616 <6) :e

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director

anim e616.) \e: mia 6© wo akm Se) 6.0.0 6.6) '01'@) © a 8 0 6

Senior Advisory for Animal Programs.

Assistant Director for Support Services.
Assistant Director for Research and
Educational Activities ie. aeciciteei © = +11
Assistant Director for Conservation and
Captive Breeding Programs .........
Special Assistant to the Director ......
Registrar, Animal Programs ..........
Chief, Office of Management Services ..
Chief @ffice iof Education... ....0%..=-

Department of Herpetology

Guaraton oer cee ae eee ie ecue oe eialers

Department of Mammalogy

Guiratonge rie chattels eke steeie sens ois e
Researeh Primatologist ../5..2.220.. 55+

Department of Ornithology

Guraton asa nce an isin octeteie es oes

Department of Zoological Research

Scientist-in-Charge
Scientitich Staten acivecim leks hae ener iene

oor eeer eee eee e ee ees

Wendy C. Jessup
Joan B. Andrews
Mary L. Sheridan
Charles E. Dunn

Michael H. Robinson
(Appointed 5/21/84)

Theodore H. Reed
(Retired 7/3/84)

Gaetano G. Calise, Jr.

Devra G. Kleiman
(Appointed 7/12/84)

Christen M. Wemmer
(Appointed 7/12/84)

Robert J. Hoage

Judith Block

Vincent J. Doyle

Judith White

Dale L. Marcellini

Edwin Gould
Benjamin Beck

Scott Derrickson
(Appointed 7/12/84)

Devra R. Kleiman
Eugene S. Morton
Katherine S. Ralls
Miles Roberts

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES AND AFFILIATED SCIENTISTS

(ZOOLOGICAL RESEARCH):

Associate IsECOlOSY o.1 10650 610.8 os:0d
Golilaboratonsaes cesarean
Adelmar Coinbra-Filho

Priya Davidar

Wolfgang Dittus

John F. Eisenberg

Richard Estes

Richard Faust

John Frazier

Theodore Grand

Kenneth M. Green

Russell G. Greenberg

578 / Smithsonian Year 1984

S. Dillon Ripley
James G. Hallett
Susan Lumpkin
Charles McDougal
Jeffrey A. McNeely
Nancy Muckenhirn
Douglas Richards
John Robinson
Rasanayagam Rudran
Kenhelm W. Scott
Melvin Sunquist
Susan Wilson
Department of Animal Health

Veterinarian-in-Charge ............... R. Mitchell Bush
Mesociate Veterinarian, ............6.. Lyndsay Phillips, Jr.
Pemrittial PMYVSIOIOBISE .. 24/0... 0c 6 som ne David Wildt

ReSeATCH ASSOCIALES «,...)570 000000 2c os 0.8)s Michael D. Abramowitz

Prabir Chakraborty
Beverly Gilroy

Rar llabonatorsm sme mivaicisiecis siclie cisions Richard Alsakar

Max J. Appel Bill Lasley

Glen Boch Douglas W. McKay

Kenneth C. Bovée Stephen J. O’Brien

Art Clexton Carroll Platz

M. Kathryn Hammock Barry Potter

A. Everette James, Jr. Edward Ruley

John Knight U. S. Seal

Seth A. Koch Patricia Schmidt
Department of Pathology

Pathologist-in-Charge ..............-- Richard J. Montali

RESCATCHPASSOCIAteCSisiaeeh. 0's ne ceccs ee George P. Allen

Richard Alsaker Charles Shoem

Max J. G. Appel Bruce Smith

Chris Gardiner John Strandberg

Ted L. Hatfield Bernard Zook

Robert B. Shillinger

Department of Conservation, Front Royal, Virginia

arator-in-Charge “cists... . ues ele el Christen M. Wemmer
RiesearcheAssociates:2-iaes 0.0.6 ss 5 aiotete Joel Berger

Richard Estes Hemanta Mishra
Charles McDougal Rodney Jackson
Eacuity Manager .alsts sacle: cee se ee tale John N. Williams

Office of Support Services
Office of Construction Management

hie hee oe SE. sie bisa BOOS Donald Muddiman
Office of Graphics and Exhibits

ROR G Rear Ment do tts See wines co PRIS S Robert E. Mulcahy
Office of Facilities Management

(QNISE Ee Se Bac st 5 en Een Rn ad Emanuel Petrella
Office of Police, Safety, & Health

ICE co. asiatecornciens ha oun eget Aes Samuel L. Middleton, Jr.

Friends of the National Zoo

Executive: Director occ sce cone sess Sabin Robbins

OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS

Rercetar (ses 2: aN Ge eease ss 22 Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
Pracistant Directorisii.!..% ss s00ss + « .. Roberta W. Rubinoff
Adnunistrative: Officer! \..54 oecileis «yeps,0. Catherine F. Harris
Grants Program Manager ............. Francine C. Berkowitz
Grants Program Assistant ............ Jacki T. Rand

Academic Network Coordinator ....... Magali M. Carrera
Acting Academic Programs Specialist .. | Mary Estelle Kennelly
Academic Programs Assistant ......... Jennifer Cutting

mecoras. Managers) sash. enteeaee s,s Grace Murphy

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 579
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director a.560 es siecuene ts

Eugene H. Avrett
Robert W. Babcock
Sallie L. Baliunas
William P. Blair
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederic H. Chaffee, Jr.
Kelly Chance

John F. Chandler
John H. Chappell
Allan F. Cook, II
Alexander Dalgarno
Robert J. Davis
Andrea K. Dupree
Martin Elvis
Giuseppina Fabbiano
Daniel G. Fabricant
Giovanni G. Fazio
George B. Field
Edward L. Fireman
William Forman
Jane L. Fox

Fred A. Franklin
Larry D. Gardner
John C. Geary
Margaret J. Geller
Owen Gingerich
Isabella M. Gioia
Zachary M. Goldberg
Evelyn Goldfield
Leon Golub

Paul Gorenstein
Margaret M. Graff
Mario D. Grossi
Steven L. Guberman
Gordon E. Gullahorn
Alan H. Guth

Shadia Rifai Habbal
F. R. Harnden, Jr.

Daniel E. Harris

Lee W. Hartmann
John P. Huchra
Christine Jones
Kenneth Kalata
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Scott J. Kenyon
Kate Kirby

Frederick K. Knight
David G. Koch

John L. Kohl
Michael J. Kurtz
Robert L. Kurucz
Victor H. S. Kwong
Gregory P. Lafyatis
Donald Q. Lamb, Jr.
David W. Latham
Myron Lecar

Alan P. Lightman
Enrico Lorenzini
Tommaso Maccacaro
Richard E. McCrosky
Brian G. Marsden
Ursula B. Marvin-
Edward M. Mattison
Charles W. Maxson
Gary J. Melnick
James M. Moran, Jr.
Stephen S. Murray
Philip C. Myers
Peter Nisenson
Robert W. Noyes
Costas Papaliolios
William H. Parkinson
Michael R. Pearlman
Francis A. Primini
Harrison E. Radford
Harvey Rarback

Irwin Shapiro

John C. Raymond
Robert D. Reasenberg
Mark J. Reid
Thinniam N. Rengarajan
George B. Rybicki
Rudolph E. Schild
Daniel A. Schwartz
Joseph Schwarz
Frederick D. Seward
Michael Shao

Jack W. Slowey
Graeme Smith

Robert Stachnik
Steven W. Stahler
Robert P. Stefanik
Harvey D. Tananbaum
Jose Torrelles

Wesley A. Traub
Ginevra Trinchieri
Wallace H. Tucker
Giuseppe S. Vaiana
Leon P. van Speybroeck
Robert F. C. Vessot
George A. Victor
Trevor C. Weekes
Shen Wei

Barbara L. Welther
Fred L. Whipple
Charles A. Whitney
Belinda Wilkes
Steven P. Willner
George L. Withbroe
John A. Wood
Kouichi Yoshino

Zhai Zao-Cheng
Xing-Wu Zheng
Martin V. Zombeck

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Director foc oe see
Assistant Directors ....

Executive Officer .......

Administrative Officers

Facilities Manager .....

ee

ee ed

ee ey

alee levetellaaue «10 @ 6°

Sw) «in| ») bln eieie. 6) 6): 6) (0

William H. Klein
David L. Correll

Walter Shropshire, Jr.

Carolyn M. Walker
Joseph C. Fisher

Donald L. Wilhelm

Programs Assistants for Public

Intormaton..o scene

Agricultural Engineer

Anthropologist ........
BIOCHEMISED gore eveiches sete

Wl mtaye a: ae) wy e).e.6) 6 Te) ©

6) eele sye)lureye )'a) 0.6.6

Robert N. Davis

Linda Chick

Judy Collins

580 / Smithsonian Year 1984

John Sager
Robert Stuckenrath
Maurice Margulies
PRAOIORISE HAEIsE nin ake pe & eda «ie 'D Elisabeth Gantt

KGCMEHCISE 20: oy Absent icke eyes eh eC yonaissssy's tere Roy W. Harding, Jr.
RICKODIOIOPISE «<.. inion d Tet ae oie aac Maria A. Faust
Bysicict 06. < seushiyeet, mae eG. Bernard Goldberg
Peane ECOLOPISE | = Atty od. wel seunle «6 hs. Dennis F. Whigham
Beant PHYVSIOIOPISES . 2.06552 eee eases Charles F. Cleland

Gerald Deitzer
Bert G. Drake
William O. Smith
MONG PIRES acl oho nin tries, ala R wilh» 4 50s Anson H. Hines
James F. Lynch
Affiliated Scientists

MNMEPIREREIEE Ec 13, yap cin iors ar oi0se) «a: eie. wie 3 as Barbara Chereskin

RSCEMLOGASES wictes n  atie alas a's wis oe we Siete ete Thomas E. Jordan
Timothy Spira
Lisa Wagner
Jacob Weiner

(Tes cig a i a ee ae Henry McKellar
Donald Weller
PA UCOIOGISE AM ies 6 oass ca actetdeee Elizabeth Moore-Landecker
Plant Biologist i 224i... o 5 bie le Israel Levy
Plant Physiologists ......6.cescaecess M. G. Holmes

Kyotoshi Takeno-Wada
Laura Thompson
Ce Sera ed as eee Romuald Lipcius

Visiting Scientists

PMBUETEAS EL, ic EN Cs eS ais Gun alery wo HONS David S. Dennison
(Dartmouth)
SIPPY SICIBE Wk sia iclsa ses 6 eras vs 0a oll Danuta Frackowiak
(Poland)
Plant Physialogist! 8.08 5 8. od o'slete Yosi Ben-Tal
(Israel, Hebrew University)
“CCTs Phe 9s (2) a Michael J. Krones
(University of Maryland)
RE RAR IBE eso areas waco wi wis sms oan Seei acer Linda Jones
Sahle Melles
Mvork/Learn Students ......5......0.0. Cynthia Campisano

David Cramer
Craig Kelly

Christine Ross
Anatol Sucher

Elizabeth Farnsworth
Devin Reese

Lynn Sagramoso
Mark Tedesco

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH

OE Fe ha cual ree ay Srila das fe ake John H. Falk

Administrative Assistant ............. Mary Mangone

Senior Research Psychologist ......... John D. Balling

Research Psychologist. 2.0 seocasjs sess Deborah D. Hilke
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

PRPCCIOL.. . oo cteadik bene SHAS. sc Ira Rubinoff

Pep wey DUrectOL, + «54.0 056 deGia we 6 case ... Michael H. Robinson

(Resigned 5/19/84)
James R. Karr
(Appointed 8/19/84)

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 581
Special Assistant to Director .........

Program Specialist ....
Senior Scientist ......
Executive Officer .....

Sis Wintelels Cael wie ie om @

Staite) @ lee 6 8) 616 6 es

Adela Gomez

(Retired 1/1/84)

Superintendent, Barro Colorado

Nature Monument

Facilities Manager ....
Educational Coordinator
Budget Analyst .......

Scientific Staff

John H. Christy
Richard G. Cooke
John Cubit

Robert L. Dressler
William G. Eberhard
Peter W. Glynn
Stephen P. Hubbell
Jeremy J. C. Jackson

RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

Annette Aiello

Robin Andrews
Carlos Arellano
Charles Bennett, Jr.
Nicholas Brokaw
Gordon M. Burghardt
Terry E. Christenson
Mireya Correa

Luis D’Croz

Kerry Ann Dressler

aie wis © 0 © Ue 6.66 69 6

Nancy Knowlton
Egbert G. Leigh, Jr.
Harilaos A. Lessios
Olga F. Linares

G. Gene Montgomery
A. Stanley Rand

D. Ross Robertson
Arcadio F. Rodaniche

Robin Foster
Nathan Gale
Pedro Galindo
Judy Gradwohl
Jeffrey B. Graham
Leslie Johnson
Ross Kiester

Yael Lubin

Ernst Mayr

Jorge Motta

HISTORY AND ART

Assistant Secretary ...
Special Assistants .....

Administrative Officer

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

John R. Kinard

Audrey M. Archer

Louise Daniel Hutchinson
Vacant

Zora Martin Felton

CC

es) ae (el ©. 6 ee (6) ee le ee

Cl) wie: le) elle) 6, 6 us ete is, 66

©) ee ele = is) ss se) ais 6 16

Elistonian’ tagso0 sees es
Exhibits Program Manager
Education Specialist ...

© ean ele vie) ele 6 «se \

Elena Lombardo
Martin Moynihan
Franklin Morris

Gilberto Ocafia
Ramon Ely
Georgina de Alba
Carmen Sucre

David W. Roubik
Alan P. Smith
Neal G. Smith
Nicholas Smythe

Mary Jane West-Eberhard

Donald M. Windsor
Hindrik Wolda
S. Joseph Wright

Anthony Ranere
Michael Ryan
Myra Shulman
Gordon B. Small
W. John Smith
Frank G. Stiles
Henry Stockwell
Katherine Troyer
Paulo E. Vanzolini
Fritz Vollrath

John E. Reinhardt
Dean Anderson

Beverly Lang

Supervisory Visual Information

Specialist 2262222003
Supervisory Exhibits Specialist ........
Photographer .........

©) vive) ute) \) ule @ 60.0 0 = (6

aad = ele.6 @ © ee e 6 ee

582 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Patricia DuVall

Sharon A. Reinckens
James E. Mayo
Christopher Capilongo
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART
Washington Headquarters Offices

PRRECEOR i: teenie ae ies = Soak ls «wise Richard N. Murray
SemMionsiCuratOns |<... cies sy paievelan .-. Garnett McCoy
Gurator of Manuscripts s). .sse0.. «+ oc Arthur Breton
Mallections: Manager ........2 656.666: Judy E. Throm
mea COMCCtOL -< c. qatadiecs Saitials uke « ... Liza Kirwin
Administrative Officer». ..:is0)4 0060 5e Sherrill Berger
New York Headquarters Office
ADE PULVAN DD ITECEON wha iyeayaels avepetelotele: s- oy2,6 Susan A. Hamilton
Development Officer ..............4.. Ilene Rubin
Administrative Assistant ............. Larry Clark

Midwest Regional Center
PROS IOR AL TDITECIOL © <:cibis 2i- wetediuese hos si 0,0 Sue Ann Kendall

New York Regional Center
Perit al MOITCCIOT 25 ora hicure eadagdie acs « William McNaught

New England Regional Center
REPOnal eM DMITECLOR «6 cccse ere diss. 3 6s Robert Brown

West Coast Regional Center
eeienal (CSCtOR oie cys s ape amie. acn es Paul Karlstrom

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH CENTER
Areas Collector o).ccnn hoe ee cn een siete Stella Paul

CENTER FOR ASIAN ART

FREER GALLERY OF ART and the
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY OF ART

De Na et ae Thomas Lawton
Assistant Director, Freer Gallery ...... Richard Louie
Assistant Director, Sackler Gallery .... Milo C. Beach
Admunisirative: Officer 2-225 6805 cen Sarah Newmeyer-Hill
Curator, ChinesesATEy eis xe. «overs Shen C. Y. Fu
Curators JapanesexArt Sere oo 0 sions Yoshiaki Shimizu
Assistant Curator, Japanese Art ....... Ann Yonemura
Coordinator of Special Programs ...... Esin Atil
Head Conservator, Technical

AGANSOEAEOUY sono THT oe A o's ws W. Thomas Chase III
Conservation: Scientist! sor) 4.822... <0 John Winter
SHSERVALOL 1b shit's... SINR vs cne Paul Jett
Head Conservation Specialist ......... Ryo Nishiumi
Conservation Specialist ............... Yoshiyuki Nishio
Museum Specialist (Ceramics) ........ Louise A. Cort
Museum Specialist (Ceramics) ........ Josephine H. Knapp
Ribeariatigs. Us sonteeis2 Rad. «cece Ellen A. Nollman
Assistants Librarianwe neces ne eineiiees Lily Chia-Jen Kecskes
mepisrar? sist Ac RRs os a Eleanor Radcliffe
Repistrarial: Specialists: :). Juste... 605 Harriet McWilliams
Dacent Coordinatoceishs.cke ot. ses Gayle Southworth
Honorary Associates! 2 y7lwity 20%. vax Richard Edwards

Calvin French

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 583
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

DIO GEOE ly asin he Alta eps eee aisles sina ae Lisa Taylor
Assistant, Director Gon. Wauircleiens + «laters Harold Francis Pfister
Administrator... scanectote as tere sare Linda Dunne
Administrative Assistant to Director ... George King
Administrative Assistant to Assistant

Dine GEOR 4 i. ais) aya SN te ES o£ Stes William Gaske
Business Office Manager ............. Elizabeth McKirdie
Curator of Drawings and Prints ....... Elaine Evans Dee
Curator of Decorative Arts ........... David Revere McFadden
Curator of Textiles. 2A sade verses a hers Milton Sonday
Textiles: Assistant |... (S02 Rove io celeste Gillian Moss
TGED SAAD Y eset oti vo: cs wich Sta R Veal one late a io cae Kathy Martinez
Gonservator, Mextiles) -.-....006 onsen Lucy Commoner
Gonservator, Paper) is): movies civerrors Konstanze Bachmann
RRERIGER AT! Joc ic. ae fF sate a rae ottre Mila atale Cordelia Rose
EneOTa corpse chess it 5-5 alsin Ree aia marae Nancy Akre
Exhibition«Coordinator «2 .y.0.<. ss0.ine Dorothy Globus
Exhibition Designer!) 2 7. 2s. ve5. nantes Robin Parkinson
Exhibition: Researcher’ =. 2)... 6c ../s0 <6) Lucy Fellowes
Public Information Manager .......... Isabelle Silverman
Development Manager ............... Eileen White
Special Events Coordinator ........... Chauncie McKeever
Program Coordinator \..6Acscdneckn oak « Susan Yelavich
Education Specialist... 0). \cns--.e5'45e se Andrew Svedlow
GChieffofSecumnity: s)5..c).scnttse ceri Luis Palau
Building Manages... . 55 /¢..ticmtsieeas trae Jim Ledford
Building. Foreman: 4. su. eiteregod eens Ben Feudi

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

) Obie <1) Cane PAP ERERTS AroiRict aie ret. cone Aine Abram Lerner
Deputy Directors... sees sci Stephen E. Weil
Executive: :Officer(:: ss aaeiat ase eis suas Nancy F. Kirkpatrick
Chief Curatorahiaasceee taeeee oe Charles W. Millard
Curator of Exhibitionsenc eee ae Cynthia J. McCabe
Associate Curators nee ee eee cee Valerie Fletcher

Howard N. Fox
Frank B. Gettings
Phyllis Rosenzweig
Judith Zilczer

Bibratian © os ccee: dees eee eke Anna Brooke
Chief Conservator js 242 the eee eae Felrath Hines
(Retired July 31, 1984)
Gonservators. ....aGseyi eee eae en Leland Aks
Clarke Bedford
Susan Lake
Antoinette Owen
INC RISETAR - ..2 xd oie Ws Ges ani ole saree Douglas Robinson
Chief sEducation’ mrerasace cei crane Edward Lawson
Chief, Exhibits and Design ............ Joseph Shannon
Public Information Specialist ......... Sidney Lawrence
Pnoperapnen’s \s \cpase dels tieed seen Lee Stalsworth
Building Services Coordinator ........ Frank Underwood

584 / Smithsonian Year 1984
JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

ec RR ait asi Khe as 32, yes, hays 0 6 <8 Nathan Reingold
PRSRSEEALE ECHEOE is» ins, s3, 0/9500 0 5 0)0,0'0 0: 6:6 Marc Rothenberg
PUSEAGEAME EGUGOES 2 iwiarave os <u on ote nas oe Kathleen W. Dorman
Paul Theerman
Administrative Officer ................ Beverly Jo Lepley

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

PEPREME Ne Sa leicn'e esate tee ma's era hak ol o.w a Sylvia H. Williams
Associate Director for

Collections and Research ........... Roy Sieber
sistant DArectOr® ..) sc ieicee sien ob va ees Jean Salan
Founding Director Emeritus .......... Warren Robbins
WIRES cerita Ss chs, xg sth sates wind ais Nee) 4.0 Lydia Puccinelli

Roslyn Walker
Assistant Curator/Archives Assistant ..  Bryna Freyer

Public Information Officer ............ Margaret Bertin
uratorotEducatOnmeds caccacs oes cr Edward Lifschitz
Operations Manager ................. Basil Arendse
PATA eras ta ha a eye pisenaye la ia, Stg «esas Lee Williams
REGMISCEVALOE sion onsi0 Roce, ule =iss0,0. a. .sse. - Renee Welfeld
Docent/Intern Coordinator ........... Gretchen Jennings

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

MPERON > 2050.55.02 2G IRIN foe Charles C. Eldredge
Assistant Director, Chief Curator ..... Elizabeth Broun
Assistant Director, Programs ......... Barbara Shissler Nosanow
Assistant Director, Resources ......... Charles J. Robertson
Assistant to the Director ............. Julie Schimmel
RAUEISEOATOE oieses.e bf oiciaia'siehsgae0k we oe,8 Sherwood A. Dowling
Senior Curatorial Advisor ............. Adelyn Breeskin
Director, Renwick Gallery ............ Lloyd Herman
Curator, Renwick Gallery ........... Michael Monroe
Curator’ Research cee. ca esaee ss ode Lois M. Fink
Curator, Barney Studio House ........ Jean Lewton
Curators, Painting and Sculpture ...... Virginia Mecklenburg
Harry Rand

William H. Truettner
Associate Curator, Painting and

ELCUEEEIRO PON) hodetat swig a'4) 5s: yaiputyse' 0s Robin Bolton-Smith
urator, Graphic Arts’... 00.5. 0 cess. Janet Flint
Associate Curators, Graphic Arts ..... Merry Foresta

Martina Norelli
Assistant Curator, Joseph Cornell

Battay KCenter .....< Betas Aiea ks snd Lynda Roscoe Hartigan
Deputy Assistant Director for
MuseunY Prosrams: oc 526666 503ee65% Judith O’Sullivan

Chief, Office of Design and Production David Keeler
Chief, Design Unit, Office of

Design and Production ............. Val Lewton
Chief, Office of Intern Programs ...... Patricia H. Chieffo
Chief, Office of Public Affairs ......... Margery Byers
Chief, Office of Research Support ..... Eleanor Fink

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 585
Assistant Chief, Office of

Research. Support 2c.» wacjscu ss «2% Rachel Allen
Chief, Office of Special Programs ..... Margaret P. Cogswell
Senior Consenvatonme einer cre Stefano Scafetta
Editor, Office of Publications .......... Carroll S. Clark
Repictrat sac sce tere ate Cae cots fare xele.s W. Robert Johnston
Producer, Art Documentaries ......... Alison Abelson
Head of Docents and Volunteer

GELVICES: care carafe cies csshate cians CMeTe tks. aah eM Nora Panzer
Chief Photographer 2.0.05 os0.0< sie ees Michael Fisher
RibrartanuNMAa) NEG ser te cic orieie cise cr os Cecilia Chin

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Dinector of .0'.3 2 cote oss sheen sca ames Roger G. Kennedy
Meputy, Director ers... cies c ce cee tales Douglas E. Evelyn
Assistant Director for Administration .. | Ronald E. Becker
Assistant sAaministratores so. ee seiee: Richard J. Nicastro
Special Assistants to the Director ..... Naomi Glass

Lawrence A. Bush

Richard S. Virgo

Eleanor Trowbridge
Museum Program Coordinator ........ Susan B. Beaudette

National Philatelic Collections

Executives Directors nonce eer aen Herbert R. Collins
G@urators) ).5o1<5)0 cutee 4 se Soeter eos vac Reidar Norby
James H. Bruns
National Numismatics Collections

Historiansi ioe eee eae Elvira Clain-Stefanelli
Curators ee ee eon Coralee C. Gillilland

Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research

Historians: 28. sits sacnyorharitors ee ars: = aie Forrest C. Pogue
Michael R. Beschloss

FOMOWS) 23) 5 oe aoe eis © Sista Pricilla Roberts
Merritt Roe Smith

Research) Associate = nackin eit ele Derek Leebaert

Office of Building Management

Building Manager <0... ai ices .ca6 esse William F. Sanford
(Deceased 9/1/84)
James Whoolery
Division of Conservation

Meade Gonservatorie eee een oe J. Scott Odell

Department of Exhibits

Assistant Director for Exhibits ........ J. Michael Carrigan
Deputy Assistant Director ............ Leonard Faber

Acting Chief of Design .............. Deborah M. Bretzfelder
GhichSExhibits) Productions ne ecre ekice Walter N. Lewis

Chief, Historic Restoration ........... Charles Rowell

586 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Department of Public Programs

Assistant, DirectOriv.:.. 2. seiee es. 30s Josiah Hatch
BEEN 5 n,n, win PRR Behn 2.8 HANS De oe wane Lonn Taylor
Public Information Officer ............ Mary Dyer
Director, Program in Black

PRSCEICAI EXIG(OTY ain wie os injajs.ayore 0 5» « Bernice Reagon
BUUREN ott nh NE sip a crena 9 dia eters ei ayate so 6 va 6 Robert Selim
Peodtction ~“DirectOr oi. wee ae ciccsecace Harold Closter
Merrormance: DITectOr vase. sen eee «cs James Weaver

Office of the Registrar

RIPPED) oo oe a Raeias sh oath nye wine wR Alc ese 20 Martha M. Shannon
Pesaistant ReEPISEAL. sc vche deuce. sce Katherine Spiess

Archives Center

GeniOreACChiVist vole comes eee ee cose cies John Fleckner
MMSE SE caus nicca so a aa teate obs aitisee o's as Robert Harding
NHR BARE a Be ccie'e 0/3) Sap diertwd sis jo 4 '0's ue 5 ceeds p Spencer Crew

Technology & Culture
EEO thie vate Aa ot Eee & cusses Robert Post

Afro-American Communities Project

| DSICEYel 0) cue PP Piso es I ant fs et er James O. Horton

Department of Social and Cultural History

(LS eee POETS = Se ae oo ae Gary B. Kulik
Mee CHAUMAN oc ncdia ses sh aks esos Susan H. Myers

RMRERED) VER. dh Naked ctr Hate REA nlel ets b, oiretd ope Susan H. Myers
TIPALOLS MEMEDE sie sleie «cies ere eae ous Paul V. Gardner
J. Jefferson Miller II
C. Malcolm Watkins
esearch wA csOciaten seria .cmiseemicsexs.cusies Ivor Noél Hume
CANE we She «ob, ooatees oi Rial ee eters Maureen R. Torgerson

Community Life

(CeO UE a So 6G Gee eS Se Richard E. Ahlborn
Carl H. Scheele

Costume
RS TST AOL sia ceric oe eros Claudia B. Kidwell
GeiratOn PEMIEKIUISI Oe yn yorsuordie seis erekoreieusers Anne W. Murray
CMO WSR 5 .u.cacucsels io Ree ts oes eT ona ver ohare Valerie Fahnestock Steele

Catherine Beeker
Domestic Life

ELIT ALTOS! Sires ava cso es ore Anne C. Golovin
Rodris C. Roth
Barbara C. Smith

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 587
Graphic Arts

Gurators rs 2 sae siae aeerern cia iti Jo: svous Elizabeth M. Harris
Helena C. Wright
Musical Instruments

Gurators) chaste emis Siieiet cious eaieie saie's John T. Fesperman
Cynthia A. Hoover

ellowitacctee cine ee eee aes cisia elaine Mark Tucker

Gollaborators) Soaascses accent e ses e's Robert H. Hazen

Margaret Hindle Hazen
Sheridan Germann
Political History
GCUratOre a. eee oe erecta acters ae cele eles Margaret B. Klapthor
(Retired 12/31/83)
Edith P. Mayo
Keith E. Melder

Curator es se ee Stee ene Rita J. Adrosko

Department of the History of Science and Technology

Gharrenians sash s csc ainl asad wen wlaneuiate Arthur P. Molella
ISR EY cin. s\n cos sera ss a Sle a stone ate ere .-» William L. Withuhn

Electricity and Modern Physics

(GOVE Yo) RC ES heed FC GEC oD cto oT Bernard Finn
Paul Forman
Extractive Industries

Guratorsh sis tact cto Bret Spee oe James C. Daniel
John T. Schlebecker
George T. Sharrer

Mathematics

Guratorics os.ccs bccn eee Uta C. Merzbach
Mechanisms

CULAatO®rs...< »/s ade wavet.e coete rs seteene he Otto Mayr

(Resigned 4/1/84)
David F. Noble
Carlene Stephens
Medical Sciences
Guirators sisi... See es eet taal ac a5 Audrey B. Davis
Ramunas A. Kondratas
Barbara Melosh
Gurators Emeritus? -@o)secoecieieiccstects Sami K. Hamarneh

Mechanical and Civil Engineering
Curator: ah ose ac ceS awe ea Memes ieee Robert M. Vogel
Armed Forces History

(CUT AYoy fT Se OIG Bet iac a cameos Edward C. Ezell
Donald E. Kloster
Harold D. Langley

588 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Cr ce |

)

Photographic History

NIALL eerie cece reas cio eie eo ava aor Coates aietahe

Physical Sciences

Curators

CC

Transportation

Curators

<ase) | @) 6a fe Jele'e)e) 6.0) @ ele em aa) e 6a « eee

eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ese eee

@)@) ele) ©

Assistant Director for History and
Public Programs
Executive Officer
Chief Curator of Painting and Sculpture
Curator of Exhibitions
Curators of Painting and Sculpture ....

CD

eee eee ees eee eee

Curator of Prints
Curator of Photographs
Cnratomof Education»... ..c205. s+ «+
Editor of Publications
Chief, Design and Production
Keeper, Catalog of American Portraits
National Survey Coordinator, Catalog of
NMenicant FE Ortialts) se aoe iis oes
Editor of the Charles Willson Peale
Papers and Historian of American
Culture
Librarian

ee  )

eee eee eee eee ee ee

eee e ee eee

er |
rd

Ce 2 |

eee eee eee eee eo ee

Senior Photographer
PAG ECAR 8 ea i aiave lal oN tui lak aieieatins (aia 6.0
Public Affairs Officer

Ce |

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Director

Ce er}

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 589

James Hutchins
Craddock R. Goins, Jr.

Eugene Ostroff

Deborah J. Warner
Jon B. Eklund

John H. White
William L. Withuhn
Philip Lundeberg

Brooke Hindle
Robert P. Multhauf
Steven Lubar

Alan Fern
Carolyn K. Carr
(Appointed 11/27/83)

Marc Pachter
Barbara A. Hart
Robert G. Stewart
Beverly J. Cox
Monroe Fabian
Ellen Miles
Wendy Wick Reaves
William F. Stapp
Kenneth Yellis
Frances S. Wein
Nello Marconi
Mona Dearborn

Richard K. Doud

Lillian B. Miller

Cecilia Chin

Cindy Lou Molnar
(Appointed 6/4/84)

Eugene Mantie

Suzanne Jenkins

Sandra Westin

Wilcomb E. Washburn
MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Acting Assistant Secretary ............ William N. Richards
Gpecial Assistant, saqcac6 ols nic cte mn = <r W. Donald Duckworth
Prograny AtAlySt. wi ecco wie 6 ogee «+ = Thomas J. Peyton

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Director ac mec ear eee 8 tee, od Lambertus van Zelst
Deputy Director. csc. ce < canes svi 2s Alan W. Postlethwaite
Administrative Officer 2... .)...0. 00.05. Vernetta M. Williams
Information Specialist .............%.. Marjorie W. Cleveland
Conservation Information Aide ....... Bernard W. Gallagher
Conservation
Supervisory Conservator ............. Eleanor McMillan
Senior Textile Conservator ........... Mary W. Ballard
Senior Paintings Conservator ......... Roland H. Cunningham
Senior Objects Conservator ........... Carol A. Grissom
Objects) Conservator ...62. 0.05 500000% Mary Lou Garbin
Senior Paper Conservator ............ Timothy J. Vitale
Senior Furniture Conservator ......... Marc A. Williams
Furniture Conservator .............-. Donald Williams
Conservation Technician ............. Thomas MCT Raysor

Conservation Science

Supervisory SCIEntStas « a. caaciaacta's <<: Timothy D. Padfield
Gonservation Ocientist) ... sacc4ce =: sae Joan W. Mishara
Contract Instrumentation Engineer .... John Frieman
MWleballlitereast |< ccae munerscn pte cpa iarsitehat's eves Martha E. Goodway
Organic GHeMmiStS) 66... boise ee cielo oa David W. Erhardt
David W. Von Endt
Ghremusts:. «...a5's sce abc eiteyek shew Walter R. Hopwood
Harold Westley
Archaeometry
Administrator of Archaeometry ....... Jacqueline S. Olin
VER ACOIOSISE © aac eucpis aloha oiens aye alalerats Ronald L. Bishop
Research @hemiste ems sececee a. ocles cise James M. Blackman
Physical Science Analyst ............. Yu-Tarng Cheng
GS ONISE. Sie ooo is wyategsinla ca sateen =e oR Emile C. Deal
Gontract Archaeologist’... 0. . 1.0. 2s Bruno Frolich

Research Associates

Susan Hobbs
Robert M. Organ

NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT PROGRAMS

GCoordinatortes te ce he eosin Barbara K. Schneider

590 / Smithsonian Year 1984
OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

Chief, OEC

Director OF Design. 2) 6520.5 wicked ss ee ss James A. Mahoney, Jr.
Assistant Chief

Chiefrof Production: acriae thee. sl aos John Widener
Assistant to the Chief

Ghiefybditors) @©mce’....c0sc sa. soos Karen Hummer Fort
‘Administrative, Officer sin .2 ds. - ++ William M. Clark, Jr.
Assistant Chief of Production

Supervisor, Graphic Production ..... James A. Speight, Jr.
supervisor, Fabrication. 16.65 oi ..6 «6 6 sie Kenneth R. Clevinger
Supervisor, Models Shop ............. Walter G. Sorrell

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

MPECtOL Ae ene 5 oe aC eels eee James R. Buckler
ASsistatity Director Meese ae ec sss fee John W. Monday
Chief of Education Division .......... Lauranne C. Nash

Foreman, Grounds Management Division Kenneth Hawkins
Manager, Greenhouse/Nursery Division August A. Dietz IV

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Director. tee hte eee wee that Jane R. Glaser
Assistant Program Manager and Native
American Museums Program

REO ROMTALOL 6 sal! cre olore winie mie 4°66 0% Nancy J. Fuller
Kellogg Project Coordinator .......... Philip Spiess II
Kellogg Project Program Assistant .... | Margo Del Vecchio
Piusemn EValuatOr .. 00.2. c aac ess Robert L. Wolf
Training Program Coordinator ........ Mary Lynn Perry
Intern and Visiting Professionals

Propram Coordinator ..o.. 6a. 62.5 Raymond Branham
On-Site Workshop Program Coordinator Pamela W. Leupen
Audiovisual Program Coordinator ..... Laura Schneider
AcV. Production Specialist ............ Roger Wedgeworth
Distribution Coordinator ...4....0.--- Bettie J. Lee
Administrative Clerk ................. Mary J. Paden
Museum Reference Center Librarian .. Catherine Scott

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR
MONEE eens Scone egalnce Cine seose¥ee cee is; ccnp Philip Leslie

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Archivist BaasAAW seta Bcd eos 6 William W. Moss
Meputy cArchivist. on.esids dente oss «3 William A. Deiss
Acsociate: Archivists co cieiseeie  sacte Alan L. Bain
Richard V. Szary
Assistant -Atchivistsane mcsiieetioe. soc. William E. Cox

Susan Westgate Glenn

Harry G. Heiss

William R. Massa, Jr.

James A. Steed

Diane L. Vogt-O’Connor
AIST OTIAN . ../= «= 'yseoven.s ate eI = 6 «5 Pamela M. Henson

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 591
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

HERON | Goa co cremate sees stolen estes Robert Maloy
Research Associate .......-.sseeceees Jean Chandler Smith
Special Assistant ......6205%sseeese= Silvio A. Bedini
Manager, Planning & Administration .. Mary Augusta Rosenfeld
Publications Specialist ............. Nancy L. Matthews
Associate Director and Manager,
Bibliographic Systems Division ..... Vija L. Karklins
Systems Administrator ........-- Thomas Garnett
Chief, Acquisition Services ......... Mildred D. Raitt
Supervisor, Monographs Purchasing
and Gifts/Exchanges .........-.. William B. Neff

Supervisor, Serials Purchasing ....__ Lucien R. Rossignol
Supervisor, Binding Purchasing ... James E. Lawson
Chief, Automated Bibliographic

EGHETOl se = cikaeie cis idem said a « 00-2 Victoria Avera
Ghief, ‘Catalogue Records: ..iq./2-- <¢2 Brooke Henley
Chief, Original Indexing Services ... Mary Jane H. Linn

Cataloewers) \ejictm omsisveieannins « Sate Bertha S. Sohn

Margaret A. Sealor
Helen Nordberg

Trade Literature Indexer ......... Mildred Scharf
Assistant Director and Manager,
Research Services Division ......... Margaret Child
Chief Librarian, Central Reference
andy oan) SCLVICES! «sce ciiel sale) or Mary Clare Gray
Reference Librarians ............ Gloria Atkinson

Barbara Veloz
Library of Congress Liaison ......

Weibratialieme ecm cect ioeckaer Janette K. Saquet
Chief Librarian, Museum Reference
Genter eee ate eee hare brsars oa oke Catherine D. Scott

Chief Librarian, Special Collections .. _ Ellen B. Wells

Branch Research Libraries

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, SERC .. Angela Haggins
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, CHM .. Katharine Martinez
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NASM . Frank Pietropaoli
Reference Librariane. <o<.0.05-. <0 Philip Edwards
Amy Levin
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAfA Janet L. Stanley
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch,

Museum Support Center ......... Karen Preslock
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMAH. Rhoda S. Ratner
Reference Librarian ............. Charles Berger
Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NMNH. Sylvia J. Churgin
Assistant’ Librarian’. 0G0c62. 5... Ruth Schallert
Assistant Librarian .i7Rciee. snes Angeline Smith
Senior Science Reference Librarian. Jack Marquardt

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, NZP ... Kay Kenyon

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, STRI ... Carol Jopling

Chief Librarian, SIL Branch, SAO ... Joyce M. Rey
Assistant Director and Manager,

Collections Management Division .... Nancy E. Gwinn

592 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Book Conservation Laboratory:
Chief Conservator
Conservator

© e:e e @ Vs @ ee) a 6 « © 6 ee 6's

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

ete) sé 6s & 6) 6G) s Bhd 6) 80 6 oblate am 6. ¢ © 6 0

ed

Associate Director for Program
Assistant Director for Exhibition

Development
Senior Exhibition Coordinator
Exhibition Coordinators

wale ee cele

CC
06 (0) 8 @ ee 6

Se GU ee © 6 6 Ses 2 e

Associate Director for Administration ..
Head Registrar
Registrar for Scheduling
Registrar for Shipping
Budget Assistant
Associate Director for Communications
Publications Officer
Head Education Coordinator
Education Coordinator

< (mye) 6 16 8 (0) 6). © 0 U6 @.\6 e16' 6) ae! es ©
Pr CCC ei yi Yuet ax CMC)
Ce

Bi els 81,816) ©. (6) 0&0 8 8 56 6 6s
Ayal Sis Ie 8 (ewe, 6
Cr

ee

PUBLIC SERVICE

Assistant Secretary
Administrative Officer

© 6) @ 6 60 6 6) 6, 0) = 6 6.0 © 0 oe

Ce ce

Johannes H. Hyltoft
Maria Nugent

Peggy A. Loar
Irene Owsley
Eileen Rose

Anne R. Gossett
Martha Cappelletti
Judith Bell

Lori Dempsey
Elizabeth Driscoll
Matou Goodwin
Donald McClelland
Susan Schreiber
Betty Teller
Antonio Diez
Mary Jane Clark
Vera Hyatt

Janet Freund
Robert Thacker
Vacant

Andrea Stevens
Marjorie Share
Julia Shepherd
Vacant

Ralph Rinzler
Andrew McCoy

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

i |

Coordinator for Special Education
Career Awareness Program Coordinator
Assistant Intern Coordinator
Administrative Assistant
Program Assistants

eee @ ain alee
ed

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Director
Festival Co-Director
Senior Ethnomusicologist
Ethnomusicologist
Folklorist

er |

© wie « e's wis, 8.8 » 6 6 © 6.6

©. 6 ine) o) (0 1ei/e/ © sia) s)\6

CD

Ce eC  }

040 pis -s\/s le wiles yesele ec ©

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 593

Ann Bay

Alan Gartenhaus
Thomas E. Lowderbaugh
Janice Majewski
Montrose Cones
Fernando Silva

Mary Williams

Evelyn Reese

Ruth Sheets

Peter Seitel

Diana Parker

Thomas Vennum, Jr.

Kazadi wa Mukuna

Marjorie Hunt

Betty Beuck Derbyshire
(Sabbatical Leave)
Acting Administrative Officer ......... Jewell Dulaney

Festival Services Manager ............ Barbara Strickland
Technical Production Specialist ....... Richard Derbyshire
Program’ Spectalise'.s sh cje nt sleds 5 ols were Arlene Liebenau
Audio-Visual Assistant .............. Cal Southworth
Desipner s..2 se kere ees cae ees s Daphne Shuttleworth
Clerletypist cca ah sere aes ees o's ables Yvette C. Duffy

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Director’ 3. Scacchi Seaiaa ds swe. 3.3 Kennedy B. Schmertz
Deptty Directoriend }.sercicSakde wie \s,00les Richard T. Conroy
International Activities Specialists ..... Saundra Thomas

Brian J. LeMay

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Directors? 255 20ers ees te ckk Wilton S. Dillon
Associate Directors? i.'t0.% 3 atin st Dorothy Richardson
Carla M. Borden

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS

Disector te Bests 2 ow atcchetasiaras eal ae Nazaret Cherkezian
[JAssistantebirectone seer aero Paul Johnson
Director of Special Projects ........... Karen Loveland
Telecommunications Specialists ....... Ann M. Carroll
Jean B. Quinnette
Production ‘Coordinator... ...:5- o-0«. > Lawrence E. Kline
TV ‘Production, Specialist’; . 3.2 :.0-+ 5: Peter R. C. Erikson
Motion Picture Production Specialist .... John W. Hiller
Radio Production Specialists .......... Jesse E. Boggs

John P. Meehan
Ken Mason, Jr.
Radio Production/Marketing Specialist . | Denise E. Freeland

Administrative Officer .2.. 2.0. c0+.05 Kate M. Hartley
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

Divector \ 06 oes. oreo Pods Uae edt Felix C. Lowe

Assistant/ Director ak Jae ose 3 2 ook Vincent L. MacDonnell

Financial Manager 2.052 O20. 2 ess oie John R. Ouellette

Marketing Consultant ................ William Kelty

Administrative Officer: 2.2020 222s oss)" Dorothy Blaska

University Press Division

Assistant Director and Managing Editor Maureen R. Jacoby

SEMIOG SCIENCE. EGIEOL oi.ays, ane scinnete oo 6 es Edward F. Rivinus
Editor: ‘Special Projects’ 3: i a0 + asueese Martin Williams
Acquisitions Editor... s.. 00-55-00 sea Paula Roberts
Production and Design Manager ...... Lawrence J. Long
Series Publications Supervisor ......... Barbara J. Spann
Distribution Section Supervisor ....... Rosa E. Maness

Direct Mail Book Division

Edlitor=in-Chiek ig, «esos aeckcinesiaiaya sie ss) 0 Patricia Gallagher
SONIGEEGsOL) 5.0.0.5 aivtenteulitate nie @etath v8 Alexis Doster III

594 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Recordings Division

DMIBE TT ce nico aan BRATS ER Sete E bs e's d
PIEAVEVEGILOR: 2 os ows ne win eis esos
Members, Board of Editors:

Caroline Despard

Jim Doherty

Timothy Foote

Bennett Schiff

TE ty 8 Aa
Associate Publisher, Advertising ......
Associate Publisher, Circulation .......
memcral Manager: on. ss saeco 3.dee 2
Printing and Distribution .............
Peoguction Manager. "0... c's. ss...
Consultant to the Magazine ...........

James R. Taylor
Margaret Robinson
Jane Sapp

Don Moser
Ralph Backlund

Nancy Seaman
Paul Trachtman
John P. Wiley, Jr.

Joseph J. Bonsignore
Thomas H. Black
Anne Keating

Carey O. Randall
Ruth Ravenel

E. Cherry Doyle
Edward K. Thompson

VISITOR INFORMATION AND ASSOCIATES’

RECEPTION CENTER

| D HUEY Ase iceat cece bette ate Abie acs ea rea
Deputy Director aFeee nes. see ae ss ek
Manager, Information Resources

PDIVISION soc os eretene ee os Meenas ole ole 2
Manager, Staff/Volunteer/Intern

mrervice UIE 2M aes Seale wa niere
Manager, Public Inquiry Mail Unit .
Manager, Telephone Information

Sj [5 IR ae A es
Coordinator, Group Information Services
Coordinator, Information Outreach

SR ARE 6. 0k wie ein sa ale acts See toh
PC IAN AGED i086 5 acinpuceioacin ee es

ADMINISTRATION

Assistant Secretary ..................
remrine OMCET 5.0) 00s cee sinodinals ss as
Contracting Officer, Contracts Office .
Director, Management Analysis Office .
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity ..
Director, Office of Facilities Services ...
Director, Office of Design and
Gonstruction. <2 Aceh at Somes ote
Director, Office of Plant Services ....
Director, Office of Protection Services
Director, Office of Information Resource
Management

1.0 ete nie Je iow she leis sie .e' bes (s Kem ie

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 595

Mary Grace Potter
Carolyn Clampitt

Maria Heasly

Sally Covel
Debora Fletcher

Katherine Neill
Julia Daniel

Molly Sawyer Campbell
Bee Gee Livsey

John F. Jameson
Robert L. Farrell
Elbridge O. Hurlbut
John G. Motheral
Will Douglas, Jr.
Tom L. Peyton, Jr.

Phillip K. Reiss
Kenneth E. Shaw
Robert B. Burke, Jr.

Richard H. Lytle
Director, Office of Personnel

Alaministration® veces cins'ays.ccie,ssye < 22 os Howard Toy
Director, Office of Printing and

Photographic Services Jo... 052s. James H. Wallace, Jr.
Director, Office of Programming and

| Bia AN Deg pete el en dete Oe RRS PO ar Jon E. Yellin
Director, Office of Supply Services ... Robert P. Perkins
Director, Travel Services Office ....... Ann H. Krafthofer

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

TOE CONG eis Care ah Soe oaenomeaac Ann R. Leven
(Appointed 8/1/84)

(Assistantto the) Ureastrer s-\)ci1- <2 « John R. Clarke
Einanctal Analyste) il osieisiiaelsic 1.1 Frances C. Rooney
Assistant Treasurer, Office of

Accounting and Financial Services ... Allen S. Goff

Senior Systems Analyst ............ John P. Howser

Cash and Investment Analyst ....... Adele R. Bock

Chief, Systems and Payroll Division. . Edward J. Ballotta
Assistant Director, Office of Accounting

aria Financial, Services 2. ss 2s acs 5 <0 Shireen L. Dodson

Deputy Assistant Director .......... Forrest R. Park
Director, Office of Grants and Risk

IManApEMENE: cc csis ois os ccf eciesw's Phillip H. Babcock

Assistant Director, Grants

Management i.e sce tja's 5 aialsrerene bie «00,0 Rick R. Johnson

Assistant Director, Risk Management Robert J. Fellerath
Director, Business Management Office . James J. Chmelik

Product Licensing Specialist ........ Ann I. McClellan

Parking) Coordinator tyosnwtee ams 2 sins Carolyn E. Jones

Food Services Administrator ........ Roland W. Banscher

Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops Samuel J. Greenberg

Director, Mail Order Division ...... Donald E. Press

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

General Gounseli=:..-). oc. cose eee Peter G. Powers
Associate General Counsels .......... Marie C. Malaro
Alan D. Ullberg
Assistant General Counsels:
Robert A. Dierker Marsha S. Shaines James I. Wilson
George S. Robinson Sharon White Senghor

OFFICE OF MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

DIFC CEOLS a) osifayes's's 35! a tansie rales ore ctet akerers: es) a43 James McK. Symington
Biemaiy ICCLOL: 22.50% wv ainie stare eas ates E. Jeffrey Stann
Development Officers oi. .6sriicies fee ben xt Donna B. Ari

Catherine E. Baer

Salvatore G. Cilella, Jr.

Arthur W. Gardner
Research) Goordinator 2+ ss-ciecee + ee Susan J. Kalcik

596 / Smithsonian Year 1984
NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

NIE i a ora. sik sR ota RR Ie SS +)0/ 01m Jacqueline Austin
Administrative Assistant ............. Irene Iosefsohn
Program Coordinator for

the Women’s Committee ............ Marta Doggett

Lecture and Seminar Program

mroapram Manager ....:. 665001 .00060s Charlene James-Duguid
Program Assistants’. 223. 02. 0 3,22est. 3 Amy Kotkin
MaryBeth Mullen
Nancy Starr

Contributing Membership

Promina MERE bos aeoo ooodomboboUe Janet Fesler
Se TAM AGSISEANE so ieisc.cs ce vn eee sees William Stewart

Associates Travel

Program Manager, Domestic

BY LOUES) oss h ood oe Pe dcttttes 3 Prudence Clendenning
Program Manager, Foreign
Bey DOtirsie iets ised oO ds! nhs Barbara Tuceling

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

MRE BI PAE: a ry nah, 5hy-SnSxa ah auny Soeime ANG Janet W. Solinger
Associate Director, Administration .... Eugene S. Szopa
Associate Director, Programming ..... Edmund H. Worthy, Jr.
Propram Coordinators: i... 2c ...< 2.00 es Roslyn Beitler

Paul J. Edelson

Moya B. King

Carol L. Malmi

Marcus L, Overton
Associate Program Coordinators ....... Anna Caraveli

Penelope P. Dann

Karen M. Gray

Elizabeth H. McClung

Alice D. Spencer

Susan S. Taub

MRRP CLO 6 oss sia aa vicis tiene sevtiacars <8 0s Margaret V. Lee
Public Information Specialist/Editor ... Karen R. Sagstetter
Pup CEALe JEGALOE (26.17/20 S5. 0 ss cera e's oes Bruce E. Tapper
276] 5) (RSV IET O area aOR RY STO IE ERC EPIC LIRIGID eel cook Catherine J. Cole
Membership Coordinator ............. Jeanne B. George
Assistant Membership Coordinator .... Claudette E. Moore
meepistration Mariager .-..:.-......-.-. Marjorie L. Walker
Assistant Registration Manager ...... Xenia S. Arnelle
Volunteer Coordinator ............... Elinor K. Emlet

OFFICE OF COORDINATOR OF PUBLIC INFORMATION

mmpLGinator <2. P02). fess eS eee eo w oles Lawrence Taylor
Erecutive Officer 2.0252 250s. Pies aa ete Eileen Hall

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 597
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

DIPeCtOr o6c, «ac Meee ee eee « sas Alvin Rosenfeld

IASsistant IDITecLoneeeiernine calcite: nee Madeleine Jacobs

Public Affairs Specialists:

Susan Bliss Margaret Langrall Linda St. Thomas
Mary Combs Kathryn Lindeman William G. Schulz
Johnnie Douthis David Maxfield Rachel Sears
Richard Friedman Ingrid Mendelsohn Lilas Wiltshire

OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL LIAISON

Special Assistant to the Secretary ...... Margaret Hird
Congressional Liaison Assistant ....... Carey Wilkins

OFFICE OF SPECIAL EVENTS

Director) Siaesvcrs scare © SIS ots wrelss. 21.5 wie Barbara Spraggins
Assistant Director: a. 4.0isas shies 's.a'e.s Anne Blattberg

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

Chairman of the Board ............... Mrs. Elliot Richardson
President 228: S26 thre eee wines ocean Ruth Graves
Executive pAssistanteene eerie ono oer Nancy Sullivan
Director of Development ............. Wade St. Clair
Director of Supplier and

Organizational Relations ........... Barbara Atkinson
Director of Financial Operations ...... Todd Palmquist
Director of Parent Services and

Publications Gace cete ee oie etarotels James Wendorf
Program Services Officer ............. Jessie L. Lacy
Regional Program Coordinator ........ Mary Chor
Subcontract and Data Retrieval Officer . Don Perron
Resource Coordination Specialist ...... Harry Noles
Finance: Manager 2a 2c ees ssc. co Donna M. Wagley
Materials/Supplies Manager .......... Calvin L. McFadden
Writer/Editors' “52. ances cneletae.s ears ale Gail Oerke

Victoria Heland

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

DITeCtOR = isis. Se ae Lote aes James H. Billington
Deptty DirectOs axi.te2isrteasionisictetede oa, 6" Prosser Gifford
EQUEOE Pet's v's ats's: seinen nate Seles Masts Peter Braestrup
Elbrariat: 5... isscmalueds Se aaemeres ce. Zdenek V. David
Publications Program Manager ........ Elizabeth Dixon
Assistant Director for Administration .. William M. Dunn
Secretary, Kennan Institute ........... Herbert J. Ellison
Secretary, American Society and Politics

EIOReaie sn icc essence e tee oases Michael J. Lacey
Secretary, Latin American Program .... Richard M. Morse
Secretary, Asia Program ............. Ronald A. Morse

598 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Assistant Director for Development .... | George Liston Seay
Assistant Director for Fellowships and

Coordinator of History, Culture, and

SWNEACEY: Gx usin Sie Rete co REITS I os ae os Ann Sheffield
Executive Assistant to the Director ...._Mernie Wright Weathers
Secretary, International Security Studies

PRMGTAM§ & 35cm ita. bobs oe ae Samuel F. Wells, Jr.

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

wy Sia Es rai on i ore A aA Marta Istomin
Bisector of Operations »): . 2/24... 6: 2.0... Thomas R. Kendrick
Deputy Director of Operations ....... Geraldine M. Otremba
General Manager of Theaters ......... Judith O’Dea Morr
Associate Manager of Theaters ........ Richard H. Owens
GControllenmesa toes ie ince eso eeeels Clifton B. Jeter
Director of Development ............. Jillian H. Poole
Director of Building Services .......... Edward G. Schessler
LG 552 1) Ca | ne ee re Verda V. Welch
Administrative Assistant for

ETOP RARE 5 65am ararain Sats Srales'as 3c Wayne Richardson
Director of Eaucationu... - 2. miosis) < Jack W. Kukuk
MMarkebing: Director aij. ciioce sex sc ee ss John H. McAuliffe
Director of Communications .......... Laura Longley
ECR orcBt 0) ile | eS Carl A. Matte
Data Systems Manager .......0056..0% Thomas A. Hickok
Multi-Cultural Affairs Adviser ........ Archie L. Buffkins
Executive Director, Friends of the

meanedy Center cis apr piven oo 3 oe Thomas J. Mader

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Presidentmry are es cererae ion oeinuioe John R. Stevenson
Wice=President® suc ecan ces ete fnates Carlisle H. Humelsine
DITECLOLIONA, Jeecia eee eee cee hoe es J. Carter Brown
Deputy Director SG. 82 hs A John H. Wilmerding
Dean, Center for Advanced Study in

the Visual Arts 0 8 2 Oe oP AE Henry A. Millon
Fe ASUTET Seats ici aytce setae) siete ota Robert C. Goetz
Pucmacctratar 0056 5. STS oles 58 Joseph G. English
Secretary-General Counsel ............ Carroll J. Cavanagh
PSICPIMITALON 26 oidoc oc en daisies eos b ioxne Sydney J. Freedberg
Construction Manager ................ Hurley F. Offenbacher
Assistant to the Director, Music ...... Richard Bales
Assistant to the Director, Public

MALOTM Alongs Hoa coe oe ee ioe Katherine Warwick

Assistant to the Director, Special Events Genevra Higginson
Assistant to the Director,

Corporate Relations: ¢).).'.... 3.623400 A. C. Viebranz
Piasmne Consultant’... 6620. s2s0 8 David W. Scott
Chiekiibrariants)). 0s ee oo oe J. M. Edelstein
Chief, Education Department .......... Danielle Rice

Appendix 7. Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries / 599
Head, Extension Programs ...........
Head, Art Information Service ........
Editor
Chief, Photographic Laboratory .......
Curator of Photographic Archives .....
Head, Photographic Services ..........
Head: Conservatories: 2 eees oe ses me
Chief of Exhibitions Program .........
Chief, Department of Design and

Installation
Acting Repisttar. 07.0. o. see es te ee es
Managing Curator, Records and Loans.
Senior Curator, Curator of Prints

ANG PPEAWINES so crc oes wun © o's wipes cere
Curators of Northern Renaissance

alntim errata custeie oreiciela'e cpsvenspsta letedoie

soe a Oe 6 Bie 6 © © Clee C cine 66 0 © 0 616 0 oe

e668) swede es) Ree ein ee 6.858. me

Curator of Southern Renaissance
AINE Se vars ereaiel sraeretee seers orensro ore ver
Curator of Northern Baroque Painting. .
Curator of Southern Baroque Painting. .
Curator of American ‘Art. .-5 2.570065
Gurator of Sculpttire” = <0". os here nee
Curator of Twentieth-Century Art .....
Curator of Italian Drawings ..........
Gurator of Erench] Prints!) =. 2-10-15 scr
Curator of Contemporary Prints ......
Assistant Dean, Center for Advanced
Study in the Visual Arts S20 .5......
Assistant Treasurer/Controller ........
Assistant) Administraton oor
Associate Secretary-General Counsel ..
Assistant) Secretary “ciacieciierts si efcrerorrser
Personnel Officer! jn. - 4 eens ie oe ei

600 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Ruth R. Perlin

Elise V. H. Ferber
Frances Smyth
William J. Sumits
Ruth Rowe Philbrick
Ira A. Bartfield

Ross M. Merrill

D. Dodge Thompson

Gaillard F. Ravenel
Mary E. Suzor
Suzannah Fabing

Andrew C. Robison, Jr.

John O. Hand
Martha A. Wolff

David A. Brown
Arthur K. Wheelock
Sheldon Grossman
Nicolai Cikovsky
Douglas Lewis, Jr.
Jack Cowart

Diane DeGrazia

H. Diane Russell
Ruth Fine

Marianna S. Simpson
Michael W. Levine
George W. Riggs
Elizabeth A. Croog
Kathrvn K. Bartfield
Michael B. Bloom
APPENDIX 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1984

The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution join
with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for their gen-
erous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If perchance the
name of any donor has been omitted from the following list, it is an inad-
vertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s gratitude. Many gifts were
received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian
wishes to thank them for their generosity.

SCIENCE

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Donors of Financial Support

Estate of James P. Cahill National Space Club

Fairchild Industries Northrop Corporation

D. M. Hacker Mr. Grant E. Powell, Jr.

Mr. Sidney M. Hicks Senator Jennings Randolph

Mr. J. Mark Holmquist Rolls Royce

IDS Advisory Mr. George O. Sims

Mr. Robert M. Lunny Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Winkler

Mrs. Helen J. McCray Melvin Simon and Associates, Inc.

Donors to the Collection

Acorn Products (through David Quinn): 2 slipper socks.

Aerospatiale Inc. (through Georges P. Roche, President): painting, Avante-
garde of Vertical Flight, by Jack Pardue.

Agawam Historical Society (through Marilyn Curry): concrete door lintel.

Atlas Van Lines (through Bill Muncey Industries): Atlas Van Lines U-1 hydro-
plane.

Mrs. Bernt Balchen: flying helmet and goggles.

Lt. Jeff Bauer: U.S. Air Force navigator badge, and a 325th bomber squadron
patch.

Mr. Donald O. Beck: aircraft, Beck-Mahoney Sorceress.

Mr. Mike Bortsheller: model, Taylor E-2 cub.

Mr. Michael Boss: 2 paintings, Winnie Mae, and Alhambra Morning, by
Michael Boss.

California Institute of Technology (through James A. Westphal): 3 vidicon
tubes.

Mr. and Mrs. Warren Bush (Phyllis): painting, Spring Morning, by William S.
Phillips.

Ms. Kathleen Cantin: painting, Lone Eagle, by Kathleen Cantin.

Civil Air Patrol Historical Committee (through Col. Louisa S. Morse): collec-

601
tion of awards and insignia of the Civil Air Patrol including 3 chevrons,
35 badges, 9 insignias, 4 patches, 2 pins, 3 ribbons, 1 crest, and 1 medal.

Cessna Aircraft Company: collection of avionic equipment (88 items).

Color Marketing Concepts (through Edward E. Mullen): 2 bronze sculptures,
Dig and Continental Divide, by Greg LeFevre.

Mr. Steve Cox: painting, untitled (P-26 Peashooter), by Steve Cox.

Mrs. C. M. Cunningham: aircraft, Quickie, homebuilt.

Captain Arthur D. Dean, Jr.: U.S. Navy winter flying suit, World War II.

E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company: aircraft, Solar Challenger.

Egyptian Air Force (through General Saad Shabaan): aircraft, Hispano HA-
200 Cairo.

Mr. J. A. Eney: windscreen frame from Pitcairn Mailwing.

Federal Aviation Administration (through General Services Administration,
region 9): aircraft, Fairchild C-123 Provider.

Federal Express Corporation: aircraft, Dassault Falcon.

Mr. John R. Fleischer: 2 paintings, Gee Bee at Springfield and Rapide, by
John Fleischer.

Mr. James Frederick: 4 drawings, Stearman, P-26 Peashooter, J-3 Piper Cub,
and T-6 Texan, by James Frederick.

Mr. Louis Gallo: gunsight, German World War II.

Mr. Paul W. Gillan: painting, First Commercial Air Mail, by Paul W. Gillan.

Mr. Marvin M. Green: photo album with autographs.

Mr. Robert K. Grubb: painting, The Duck, by Robert Grubb.

Mr. Billy J. Guinnane: two-blade wood propeller.

Mr. George D. Guzzi, Jr.: 2 paintings, Wedell-Williams Racer and Super-
marine S6B, by George D. Guzzi, Jr.

Mr. J. Clifford Hanna: poster, French, World War I.

High Altitude Observatory, National Center for Atmospheric Research: Lit-
trow spectrograph.

Mr. Frank G. Hoffman: painting, Curtiss Carrier Pigeon, by Frank Hoffman.

Mr. Larry Janoff: 2 paintings, Montana Mail Contract and Cavorting Around
the Cumulus, by Larry Janoff.

Mr. Richard Johnson: U.S. Navy World War II flying jacket.

Mrs. Betty Johnson-Shoon and Allie B. Johnson: U.S. Army Air Service uni-
forms and memorabilia, World War I: 2 garrison caps, service coat, service
breeches, 4 pairs of leggings, dress service coat, dress service breeches, ser-
vice cap, helmet, service shirt, gas mask, 2 duffle bags, sewing kit, identifi-
cation tags, eyeglasses, 2 medals, lapel pin, 4 books, trench mirror, and
collection of personal papers of Forrest Larkin Berry.

Kaman Corporation: painting, The Lamps Team, by Donald Vance Cox.

Mr. Craig Kodera: painting, Beechcraft Means Business, by Craig Kodera.

Mr. Sarkis Kojoyian: pitot-static tube.

Mrs. Eva Kollsman: Kollsman altimeter.

Mr. Hugh Laidman: painting, Winnie Mae Hung up in Siberia, by Hugh
Laidman.

Mr. Peter Lautenslager: painting, untitled, by Peter Lautenslager.

Mr. George Lee: model, Sikorsky Spirit of America.

Mr. Anthony W. Levier: aircraft, Monocoupe Model 70.

Mr. Charles Lock: painting, Checking Drift: First Transpacific Flight, May,
1928, by Charles Lock.

Lockheed Missiles and Space Co.: camera, aerial, Moby Dick.

Marathon Battery Company (through Richard W. Cowan): painting, Mercury
Astronauts, by Ted Wilbur.

Martin Marietta, Denver Division: scale model, Titan Centaur launch vehicle.

Mrs. Chet McCall: painting, Polar Expedition, by C. A. L. Laterman.

602 / Smithsonian Year 1984
McDonnell Douglas Corporation: composite rudder, composite speed brake
for F-15, and Gemini spacecraft material samples.

Mr. J. G. Mercer: sailplane, Applebay Zuni II.

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Miller (Ivonette), Wilkinson and Marion Wright, Horace
and Susan Wright, Milton Wright and John Jameson: original propeller for
Wright 1903 Flyer.

Mr. Frank Mitchell: model, Boeing P12E aircraft.

Mr. Brian David Moose: painting, Wrong-way Corrigan’s Robin, by Brian
David Moose.

Mr. William H. Morris: U.S. Army Air Force World War II escape map and
2 escape flags.

Mrs. William Nance (Nancy): uniform accessories from Mohawk airlines.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Ames Research Center: air-
craft, HiMAT remotely piloted vehicle.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Headquarters, Washington,
D.C.: Guion Bluford’s STS-8 inflight coverall garment, 2 STS-8 mission
patches, and the publication Black Wings: The American Black in Aviation
carried on the Space Shuttle Challenger.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Jet Propulsion Laboratory:
model, Seasat remote-sensing satellite.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Johnson Space Center: STS-5
checklist, Richard Truly’s Space Shuttle inflight coverall garment, Apollo
16 lunar surface cosmic ray experiment, quadrant reaction control system,
six samples of space food from STS-1.

Mr. Robert Nevin: model, Curtiss 1911 Hydroplane.

Ms. Kena Rae O’Connor: 1 gun camera.

Mr. William Odell: model, gunnery training aid.

Ms. Jeanne Parker: painting, A Bit of Aviation History, by Jeanne Parker.

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: New Testament circa 1918, U.S. Army Air Force.

Mr. Martin Pearl: Breda machine gun for Italian aircraft, World War II.

Mr. Davis Perkins: 2 drawings, Alaska Smokejumper, Practice Jump, and a
painting Lindbergh’s Enroute to Nome, by Davis Perkins.

Petrus Operating Company (through H. Ross Perot Sr.): helicopter, Bell 206L-
I LongRanger II, Spirit of Texas.

Mr. Robert L. Plogman: painting, Island Airline’s Tin Goose, by Robert L.
Plogman.

Popular Mechanics (through John Linkletter, Editor): painting, Lt. George
Bush, 1943, by Ted Wilbur.

Post Offers International, Inc. (through Jack Carroll, President): painting,
Space Shuttle Columbia: The Pathfinder, by Kenneth Kotik.

Mr. George Pounden: German magneto.

Mr. Blair Tarley Pruitt: handwritten notebook on Liberty engine, circa 1918.

Radio Corporation of America, Government Systems Division: 2 radio trans-
ceivers and 2 radio control sets.

Mr. Jack Reed: Balcomp model PBM-3 computer.

Mr. Lawrence L. Rice: painting, The Ultimate Flight, by Lawrence L. Rice.

Mr. Edwin H. Ryan: painting, Buttoned Up for Paris, by Edwin H. Ryan.

Mr. Herbert Schimmel: 2 prints, Wright Brothers and Concorde, by Ay-O.

Mr. Mark W. Scott: painting, Sikorsky’s Classic, by Mark W. Scott.

Mrs. Vikki Slowe: 3 prints, Eclipse, Saturn Rings I, and Saturn Rings II, by
Vikki Slowe.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory: Baker-Nunn camera.

Smithsonian Institution Resident Associate Program: print, View of the Mall
from the Castle, by Richard Hass.

Mrs. Mary Smookler: Norden bombsight.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 603
Mr. Max R. Stanley: painting, Flying Wing, by Harlan Krug.

Mr. Ralph B. Steele: painting, Winnie Mae at the Volga, by Ralph B. Steele.

Mrs. St. Clair Streett: Mackay medal, and Aero Club of America medal.

Society of Flight Test Engineers: Kelly Johnson Award Trophy.

Mr. A. L. Sutton: aircraft, Bellanca monoplane, circa 1948.

Mr. Stanley Tate: two-blade wood propeller.

Mr. Edward Tindall: 9 propellers, 4 carburetors, 2 oil coolers, 2 antenna masts,
wheel assembly, rudder pedals, lift strut, and ailerons.

United Technologies (through Sikorsky Aircraft Division): painting, Evolution
of a Helicopter, by Victor Olson.

U.S. Army, Aircraft System Division, St. Louis, Missouri (through Paul Hen-
drickson): engine, Lycoming turboshaft.

U.S. Army, Center of Military History: 4 Japanese World War II bomb fuses,
2 aircraft signals, and 3 pairs of U.S. Army Air Corps flying trousers.

U.S. Navy (through James F. Goodrich, Secretary of the Navy): aircraft,
Grumman G-21 Goose.

U.S. Navy, Naval Air Propulsion Center, Trenton, New Jersey (through
Labro Parish): Japanese tire.

U.S. Navy, Naval Air Station, Willow Grove, Pennsylvania: Junkers Jumo 004
turbojet engine.

U.S. Navy, Naval Air Systems Command Headquarters: Allison T78A-2 tur-
boprop engine.

U.S. Postal Service (through William Bolger, Postmaster General): STS-8
philatelic cover.

Mr. Virgil W. Vaughan: U.S. Army Air Corps garrison cap, service coat, dress
gloves, handkerchief, scarf, and Air Transport Command garrison cap, ser-
vice coat, service shirt, and a pair of trousers with belt.

Mr. Myron Verville: engineering instruments; German depth guage, 2 plani-
meters, a pair of proportional dividers, and a turn buckle.

Mr. James Webb: Presidential medal of freedom, 2 pairs of bookends, a
plaque, and an autographed $20 bill.

Mr. T. M. Whaley: wire spoke wheels with tires.

Mr. Gordon E. White: collection of aircraft radio equipment; 49 radio receiv-
ers, 15 radio transmitters, relay unit, converter unit, 2 glidescope indicators,
navigation control switch, identification unit, 4 tuning units, 10 antennas,
direction finder, test set, 2 amplifiers, automatic selector, 27 control boxes,
5 frequency meters, 2 generators, 9 test units, switch box, 2 radio filters,
microphone, 7 radio racks, 7 radio mounting bases, signal converter, 4 junc-
tion boxes, 3 radio compasses, test harness, 4 power units, dynamotor, beam
filter, 5 coil sets, keyer, aligner adapter, vacuum tube, and a carrier homer
unit.

Mrs. Mary A. Yattaw: U.S. Navy winter flying trousers, World War II.

Donors to the Records Management Division

Allied Air Force Intelligence Summaries: Documents (7 cubic feet) on World
War II.

Mr. Warren Bodie: 250 aircraft photographs and negatives.

Mr. Gary Brounstein: 146 photographs and 756 negatives of aircraft located
in European museums.

Mr. Walter J. Boyne: 300 miscellaneous aircraft photographs.

General Ira Eaker: Photographs and scrapbooks from General Eaker’s aide,
James Parton.

Fairchild Industries: 87 boxes of aircraft technical manuals.

604 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Mr. Vic Fisher: 142 photographs of aircraft in the Pima Air Museum.

Ms. C. E. Ganse: Polish Pioneer Scrapbook.

Mr. Chalmers H. Goodlin: Biographic and Burnelli documentation and photo-
graphs on B-24 nose art.

Mr. B. P. Gracie: 4 photographs of the Burnelli X-10.

Mr. Peter Grosz: Weyl-Grosz Collection.

Mrs. P. I. Gunn and Mrs. Victor Bonnano: Clippings and biographical infor-
mation on P. I. “Pappy” Gunn.

Mr. Terry Gwynn-Jones: 150 early flight hand-tinted slides.

Mr. K. Hull: 4 photographs of Grumman seaplanes in Alaska.

Dr. Patricia Jacobberger: Autographed picture of Jimmy Doolittle in his Gee
Bee Racer.

Mr. Allen Levine: Mercenary pilots information.

Mrs. Sarah Lindsey: 150 books and copies of U.S. aeronautical charts from
Mr. McMullen’s collection.

Mr. Elliott Robinson: 7 scrapbooks of general aviation photographs taken in
Washington, D.C. area pre-World War II.

Mr. Victor Rosholt: Magazine and 9 photographs of the Flying Tigers.

Mr. Colin Smith: Postcards of Royal Air Force and aviation events—first-day
covers.

Prof. Luigi Stipa: Photographs, postcards, and a book on Stipa Caproni air-
craft.

St. Clair Street: Photographs and personal papers.

United Airlines: Manuals on Boeing SST and McDonnell Douglass DCX-200.

Mr. Bernard Vosh: Copies of the Wright brothers’ letters and sale of the
Army Flyer.

Mr. Woodbridge Williams: 6 photos of Peterson Field, Colorado, in World
War II.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY/
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN

Donors of Financial Support

American Gloxinia & Gesneriad Society, National Capitol Area
American Ornithologists’ Union
Bruce A. Anderson

Dr. J. Lawrence Angel

Anonymous

Atlantic Richfield Foundation

Mrs. Virginia E. Blair

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Moren Brown
Mrs. Beatrice L. Burch

Dr. John M. Burns

Mr. Paul Caron

Chevron U.S.A., Inc.

Daphne D. Comegys

The Cousteau Society

Mrs. Roberta D. Cranmer

Virginia Dalton

Estate of Francis Drouet
Earthwatch Expeditions, Inc.

Dr. Terry L. Erwin

EXXON Corporation

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 605
Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

University of Georgia

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Mr. Gordon P. Getty

Guilford Industries, Inc.

Frances D. Haverkampf

Mrs. Betty Jane Hays

Amy E. Higgins

Dr. Robert Higgins

The Henry L. Hillman Foundation
Houghton Mifflin Company
International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
John B. Iverson

Jeremy F. Jacobs

Mrs. Sara F. Kraus

Dr. Karl V. Krombein

Robert Lehman Foundation, Inc.
Dr. E. Lewis Lipps

Edgar J. Maiz

Lilly King Manning

Dr. Wayne N. Mathis

John H. Miles, Jr.

Mill Pond Press, Inc.

Mrs. Rosemary Monagan

National Geographic Society
National Institute on the Holocaust
Joan W. Nowicke

The Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation, Inc.
Mr. Phillip O’Farrall

Mr. Lloyd E. Raport

Eugene and Elise Resnick

Mrs. Mary L. Ripley

The Rock Foundation

Susan B. Rubnitz

Evert I. Schlinger

James and Shirley Seamon
Stanwyn G. Shetler

The South Florida Chapter of the Palm Society, Inc.
Marguerite M. Stinson

Mary Horner Stuart Foundation
Texaco, Inc.

Andrea Treiber

The Washington Biologists’ Field Club, Inc.
Elizabeth M. Watson

Elizabeth S. Watts

Cynthia Marie Weinand

Mrs. Carole M. Weinstein

Carolyn H. Weinstein

Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore
Weyerhauser Company Foundation
Mr. John White

Caroline W. Wilkes

Mrs. Priscilla N. Williams

Jean Davies Wright

George R. Zug

606 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Donors to the National Collections
INDIVIDUALS

Aaronheim, Robert E.: 325 butterflies (358116, 358517).

Abbott, Dr. R. Tucker: 1 mollusk (356602).

Agard, John: 29 mollusks (355556).

Albini, Anthony J.: 3 minerals (354606, 359316).

Al-Far, Dr. Darwish Mostafa: 1 meteorite (359989).

Alvarez, M. Belinda: 8 sponges (358236).

Amestoy, Mr. & Mrs. Simon: 1,117 miscellaneous insects (357182), 188 moths
(358508).

Amrine, Dr. J.: 16 black flies (358108).

Anderson, Mrs. Verne E.: 500 fossils, 500 mollusks (358002).

Andrews, George: 1 fossil whale rostrum (354780).

Angle, J. Phillip: 1 mink (360549).

Arif, Syed M.: 9 minerals (355930).

Arnal, Robert E.: 28 fossils (356099).

Ashby, Wallace L.: 1 porpoise skull and skelton (355504).

Asheim, Arne: 9 minerals (355918, 356825, exchanges).

Asher, Mr. & Mrs. Charles: 29 fossils (359800).

Ausich, Dr. William I.: 52 crinoids and cystoids (359831).

Avick, Ben: See also Charles Meltzer (340415).

Ayala L., J. Manuel: 1 butterfly (360353).

Axelrod, Miriam: 12 reptiles and amphibians (347624).

Babcock, Loren E.: 22 fossils (355855, 356558, 358155).

Baker, Alan: 1 echinoderm (359187).

Baker, Aura L.: 8 fossil seal and flounder remains (358191).

Baker, Wayne: 1 portion of a fossil whale skull (358193).

Ball, Dr. George E.: 8 insects (360139).

Barlow, F. John: 15 quartzs (359351).

Baum, John L.: 4 minerals (354676, 359331).

Baumann, Dr. R. W.: 2 stoneflies (359382).

Begley, R.: 1 crystal model (355958).

Bell, Rex R.: mineral samples (359329).

Bell, Dr. Ross T.: 2 insects (361336).

Belsky, Howard: 12 minerals (356748).

Bernabe, Ezio: 18 minerals (357529).

Beus, Professor Stanley S.: 21 fossils and 10 fossil casts (360721).

Bevins, Dr. R. E.: 1 mineral (360029).

Bideaux, Richard: 2 minerals (359339).

Biernbaum, Dr. Charles K.: 450 worms (360043).

Bivin, Kenneth L.: 1,636 beetles (360333).

Blade, Arlene: 8 plants (356146).

Blanchard, Andre: 4 small moths (358098).

Blasdell, Francis S.: 2 amphibians (353804).

Blood, Fred B. See also Marceile B. Riddich (307412).

Blodgett, Dr. R. B.: 8 fossils (358224).

Bogar, Daniel S.: 32 insects (358076, 360330).

Boggs, Robert: 5 minerals (359938).

Bogoch, Dr. Ron: 1 mineral (357522).

Bogum, Mary: 1 fossil seal toe bone (358192).

Bohaska, David J.: 37 fossil seal and bird remains (357302, 358035, 359928,
360132).

Boone, Daniel: 5 plants (357051, 357059).

Boucot, Dr. A. J.: 1 brachiopod (359892).

Boyce, James R.: 43 fossil plants and vertebrates (357449).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 607
Boyd, John: 1 fossil whales tooth (354784).

Braswell, Alvin L.: 4 lizards (357935).

Bray, Dr. Dale F.: 9 metallic wood boring beetles (358516).

Brayfield, Mr. & Mrs. William: 1 cast of a fossil walrus tusk (360514).

Brenkle, Dr. Paul: 148 fossils (356682).

Brenner, David: 6 plants (349698).

Brett-Surman, Michael: 1 fossil cast (360657).

Brinkhurst, Dr. Ralph O.: 26 worms and 20 worm slides (360386).

Brisbin, I. Lehr: 3 birds (358618).

Brittain, Mary Ann: 1 fossil seal phalanx (358064).

Brostoff, Bill: 2 worms (358120).

Brou, Vernon Antoine: 50 insects (360331, 361342).

Brown, Dr. Harley P.: 13 riffle beetles (360362).

Brozdowski, Dr. Robert A.: See also Dr. Gene C. Ulmer (358406).

Buchanan, Paul and Helen: 12 fossil vertebrates (355568).

Buchanan, Helen: See also Paul Buchanan (355568).

Burges, Roy H.: 1 fossil gray seal (360128).

Burns, Mr. & Mrs. Thomas: 3 fossil seal bones (359918).

Cadle, John E.: 2 fishes (350235).

Callegari, Mario C.: 76 insects (361338).

Campbell, Robert H.: 16 fossil woods (359216).

Canepari, Dr. Claudio: 234 beetles (357195, exchange).

Cannon, Bart: See also Stuart Fund (357553).

Cary, Steve J.: 13 skippers and butterflies (359374).

Cardinale, Gary: 1 fossil seal vertebra (358226).

Case, Gerard R.: 1 partial fossil sea cow rib and 30 fossil vertebrates
(358916).

Caspi, Uri: 2 butterflies (358082).

Cekalovic K., Dr. Tomas: 1 insect (360340).

Chace, Dr. Fenner A., Jr.: 1 crab claw (358152).

Chapman, Ralph E.: 5 fossils (356943).

Chavez, Mr. & Mrs. Henry: 1,188 moths (358509).

Chemsak, Dr. John A.: 26 beetles (358100).

Cheng, Hsien Yu: 119 geckos (357967).

Chess, Dr. Tony: 12 worms (355220).

Chilman, Mrs. Ruth E.: 90 ostracodes (358492).

Clarke, A. H.: 50 freshwater mollusks (359160).

Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates: 253 insects (358103, 361535).

Clench, Dr. William J.: 980 land and brackish water mollusks (359850).

Cocroft, Rex: 1 bird (356032).

Coffman, John F.: 68 moths (359368).

Collette, Bruce B.: 1 ratsnake (357969).

Collins, Dr. Henry B.: 1 walrus (357353).

Collins, Dr. Margaret S.: 25,967 miscellaneous insects and arthropods
(361555).

Coon, Mr. & Mrs. William: 3 fossil seal and whale remains (358062).

Correia, Robert F.: 1 fossil turtle pygal (356928).

Coull, Dr. Bruce C.: 56 worms (357024, 360975).

Covell, Dr. Charles V., Jr.: 35 butterflies and moths (358512).

Coveney, Raymond M., Jr.: 2 minerals (359941).

Cranfill, Julian: 15 minerals (354677, 356761).

Crawford, Robert: 7 birds (355758).

Cuffey, Dr. Roger J.: 5 zoarias and 4 epoxys (357878).

Cullinan, Michael D.: 2 fossil blue crabs and a fossil seal phalanx (359164).

Cutler, Dr. Edward B.: 41 worms (358065).

D’Attilio, Anthony: 3 mollusks (358997).

608 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Dastych, Dr. Hieronim: 1 worm (355567).

Davis, Dr. Don R.: 228 moths (358500).

Davis, Mark S.: 270 insects (358102).

De C. Rios, Dr. Eliezer: 2 mollusks (355885).

Degener, Dr. Otto: 14 plants (358798).

DeJong, Dr. D. C. D.: 1 plant (356234).

DeMark, Ramon S.: 14 minerals (355891, exchange); 1 mineral (356823).

Denham, Dale L.: 1 plant (356175).

Deno, Dr. Robert: 8 butterflies (359377).

Desautels, Paul: 4 minerals (361030).

de Vaugelas, Dr. Jean: 50 worms (360367).

Dillon, Dr. Lawrence S.: 383 mammalian hearts; 1 bird heart (353670).

Dinerstein, Dr. Eric: 3 bats (357377).

Diniz, Frei Jorge L. Machado: 4 ants (354140).

DiSalvo, Dr. Louis H.: 43 mollusks (354130, 355517).

Ditadi, Dr. A. S. F.: 1 worm (356593).

Douglas, Raymond: 31 fossil fish, bird, and mammal remains (357441).

Downs, Dr. William G.: 8 caddisflies (361334).

Drez, Paul E.: 1 partial fossil sirenian rib (354732).

Dunlap, Harry C.: 2 gray squirrels (357364).

Eaton, Dr. Stephen W.: 81 bird skeletons and 4 bird skins (347819).

Echols, Thomas G.: 1 frontlet with horns (360543).

Eisele, Reverand Robert: 102 butterflies (358085, 361340); 114 butterflies
(358101, exchange).

Eldredge, Glen A.: 80 mollusks (359883).

Eleischer, Dr. Michael: 1 beryl (358371).

Emerson, Dr. K. C.: 3,005 insects (361552).

Erdman, Donald S.: 12 crustaceans (358239).

Eriksson, Roland: 18 minerals (357518).

Erseus, Christer: 81 worms and 23 worm slides (358269, 359479, 359819,
361310).

Eshelman, Dr. Ralph E.: 1 fossil whale periotic (354782).

Evitt, Dr. W. R.: 374 fossils (359169).

Ewing, R. Michael: 5 worms (358156).

Feather, Russell, II: 3 minerals (359341).

Feinglas, Dr. Mark: 24 minerals (357575, 357576, 359335, exchanges).

Felix-Alves, Dr. Ilidio A.: 538 marine and freshwater mollusks (352510).

Ferguson, Albert L.: 1 fossil seal tibia, fibula, and pelvis (358222, 359501).

Ferguson, Dr. George R.: 20 wasps (358496, 361315).

Ferraiolo, James: 2 minerals (358421).

Ferris, Dr. C. D.: 215 butterflies (359372).

Finney, Dr. Stanley C.: 7 graptolites (358347).

Fishelson, Professor Lev: 10 marine mollusks (360310).

Fletcher, Art: 1 mineral (357528).

Fonger, George C.: fossil fish, mammal and reptile remains, 1 fossil seal
skull, 2 fossil bird bones (358219, 359125).

Ford, Everett J.: 3 beetles (358483, exchange).

Fordyce, Dr. R. Ewan: 11 casts of fossil whales (355524).

Foster, Dr. Nancy M.: 354 worms (356882).

Foye, Harry: 5 minerals (354670, 358434).

Franclemont, Dr. John G.: 251 moths (358106).

Frazier, Dr. John C.: 8 worms (356745).

Freed, Mr. & Mrs. Charles L.: 3 minerals (357544).

Freidberg, Dr. Amnon: 44 sawflies (361539).

Freitag, Thomas M.: 5 freshwater mollusks (358326).

Friedrichsen, Gary: 6 birds (349940).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 609
Fugler, Charles M.: 1,844 reptiles and amphibians (350381, 351804, 351806).

Funk, Dr. Vicki: 424 plants (356160).

Gaines, Richard V.: 3 tektites (359991).

Galli, Don: 4 worms (361360).

Galvani, G.: 14 minerals (355896, exchange).

Garcia-Vidal, Dr. Miguel: 2 scarab beetles (361343).

Garmo, Torgeir T.: 2 minerals (356796).

Gauthier, Gilbert: 11 minerals (358365).

Gaylord, Mr. & Mrs. Frank and Brian: 1 fossil seal jaw (358346).

Gerling, Dr. Dan: 6 bees (360361).

Gibson, Mark E.: 61 crustaceans (313514).

Gibson-Smith, Dr. J.: 19 marine mollusks (356979).

Gigase, Dr. Paul L.: 1 fossil whale skull and earbone (357431).

Gill, Bruce: 59 ground beetles (361341).

Gilmore, I. K.: 1 fossil sea cow vertebra, rib, and rib fragments (358466).

Goodyear, James: 3 toads and 1 lizard (298063).

Grady, Fred: 2 birds (358616).

Gray, James M. and Catherine D.: 1 petrified log (357189).

Gunther, Lloyd F.: 1 fossil rock slab and 4 eocrinoids (359798).

Hahn, Carl R.: 1 mollusk (358289).

Hall, Jack C.: 298 insects (361639).

Hammond, Dr. Paul L.: 2 butterflies (361350).

Hansen, Ernest E.: 1 mineral (356822).

Harding, Dr. R. R.: 4 minerals (358435).

Hardy, Dr. Alan: 12 beetles (359531).

Hardy, Dr. Clyde T.: 1 meteorite (358357).

Hardy, David: 1,000 crustaceans (345606).

Haridasan, V. K.: 21 plants (356269).

Haritos, Mike: 2 quartzs (355932).

Harlan, Major Harold J.: 268 true bugs (359370).

Harmatuk, Peter J.: 3,931 fossil vertebrates, fossil fish, reptiles, bird and
mammal remains (357440, 357651, 358261, 358535, 358876, 359167).

Harrington, Francis A.: 24 bats (350063, 353649).

Harris, Dr. C.: 1 mineral (359980).

Harris, Dr. Steven C.: 31 caddisflies (358071, 360345).

Harrison, Dr. Jessica: 43 casts of Tertiary mammal remains (360534).

Hartley, Dr. John: 13 worms (356708).

Hartsell, Joe: 1 fossil seal canine (357432).

Hartshorn, Dr. Gary S.: 3 plants (357844).

Hartstein, Eugene: fossil shark, bird, and seal bones (358154).

Harvey, Dr. LeRoy: 83 plants (357818).

Haslam, Dr. H. W.: 1 mineral (360012).

Hatziolos, Marea: 20 marine mollusks (359478).

Hauser, Trudy, Estate of: 3,320 fossils (355632).

Hawes, Bill, Jr.: 66 fossil seeds, flowers, cones, and leaves (359162).

Hayes, Howard J.: 9 crustaceans (356670).

Hayward, Dr. Bruce W.: 7 fossils (358989).

Henderson, Dr. E. P.: 10 minerals (358387).

Henderson, William A., Jr.: 4 minerals (354667).

Hendey, Dr. O. B.: 188 mollusks (355468).

Hentz, Dr. Tucker: 1 fossil (360515).

Herman, Dr. Rudy: 7 worms (356603).

Hespenheide, Dr. Henry A.: 31 beetles (359373, 361537).

Hevel, Gary F.: 14,454 insects (360334).

Higgins, Dr. Robert P.: 1,000 worms (357020).

Highton, Richard: 11 salamanders (356039).

610 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Hills, Iris: 1 fossil mastodon lower molar (359927).

Hilsenhoff, Dr. William L.: 5 caddisflies (361333).

Hitchcock, Dr. Stephen W.: 9,325 insects and arthropods (357865).

Hlavin, Dr. William J.: 8 fossils (359133).

Hodges, James C., Jr.: 200 caddisflies (359379, 359903).

Hollmann, Ken: 4 minerals (354671, 354675).

Holzenthal, Ralph W.: 12 caddisflies (360337).

Horodyski, Dr. Robert J.: 8 fossils (355511, 360699).

Houart, Roland: 2 mollusks (361139).

Houchins, Dr. Lee: 1 arctic fox skin (357397).

Houser, Mrs. Trudy: 1,276 minerals (355990).

Howden, Dr. Henry: 1,700 beetles (358495).

Howe, William: 78 butterflies (360350).

Hronik, Richard: 11 minerals (355916, 359955).

Hubbard, Dr. F. H: 1 mineral (359299).

Hueber, Dr. Francis M.: 1 fossil plant (357019).

Hughes, John M.: 5 minerals (357506).

Hulings, Neil C.: 151 mollusks (357200).

Hutchings, Dr. Pat: 67 worms (356467).

Hyatt, Dr. John A.: 19 skippers and butterflies (357637, 358497).

Hyne, Mr. & Mrs. Frank: 1,289 fossil fish, bird, reptile and mammal remains,
fossil vertebrates (356513, 358258, 358348, 359165).

Ikezaki, Dr. Yoshishiro: 11 flower flies (357639, exchange).

Ikuji, Dr. Yukio: 163 fossils (358259).

lliffe, Dr. Thomas: 25 worms (342201).

Ismay, Dr. John W.: 764 flies (361551).

Ivie, Michael A.: 760 insects (358104, 360360, 361335).

Jacobs, Jeremy F.: 1 gecko (357968) ; 13 beetles (358077).

Jamieson, Dr. Barrie: 2 worms (360312).

Jaxel, Robert: 1 mineral (361031).

Jensen, James A.: 1 fossile slab of bird tracks (356656).

Jensen, Martin: 25 minerals (354666).

Jinright, Prince E., Jr.: 1 fossil sea cow rib (360516).

Johnson, Bill: 1 worm (355579).

Johnson, Dr. C. D.: 817 seed beetles (360341, 361339).

Johnson, Dr. Gary D.: 300 fossil fish, amphibian, and reptile remains (358342).

Johnson, Paul J.: 2 pill beetles (360359).

Johnson, Thomas T.: 3 brachiopods (358661).

Johnson, Walter: 4 tiger beetles (358086, exchange).

Johnston, Mary: 5 echinoderms (355683).

Jones, Dr. Garry D.: 179 fossils (360085).

Jones, Larry and Mark: 1 fossil seal sternebra (357872).

Jones, Dr. Robert H.: 4,000 insects (358494).

Joy, Dr. James E.: 3 worms (357662).

Kanhouwa, Dr. S.: 1 worm (356980).

Karr, Mr. & Mrs. J.: 7 fossil fish skulls (358220).

Kato, Dr. Akira: 1 mineral (359308).

Kauffman, Garnet: 1 fossil seal tibia (357031).

Kavanaugh, Dr. David: 22 beetles (360332).

Kawakatsu, Dr. Masaharu: 16 worms (355685).

Kendall, Roy O.: 4 moths (358087).

Kenk, Dr. Roman: 8 worms (356466).

Key, Charles: 3 minerals (354648, 356762).

Kilburn, R. N.: 1 mollusk (356978).

King, Vandall: 3 minerals (356769).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 611
Kingery, Dennis: 2 fossil fruits (358954).

Kirchner, Dr. R. F.: 17 insects (360338, 360346).

Klein, William L.: 2 sponges (359518).

Knisley, Dr. C. Barry: 1 wasp (358504); 4 tiger beetles (358515).

Kohn, Dr. Alan J.: 25 mollusks (358450).

Kolic, John: 10 minerals (354669, 357519, 359297).

Kondratieff, Dr. Boris C.: 113 insects (358110, 358115, 358499, 361549).

Korpi, Chris: 10 minerals (354640, exchange).

Kosnar, Richard A.: 1 mineral (355928).

Krantz, Dr. Grover S.: 4 plaster casts of a hand and a footprint of “Big Foot”
(358068).

Kranz, Karl R.: 1 reptile (353661).

Kraus, Dr. Karl: 11 crustaceans (358530).

Krauss, Dr. N. L. H.: 387 insects (360344).

Kristensen, Dr. Reinhardt: 50 worms (358544, 358545).

Kristoffersson, Torgny: 7 minerals (354656, 357533).

Kudenov, Dr. Jerry D.: 30 worms (360323).

Kurz, Richard M.: 3 mollusks (358339).

Lago, Paul K.: 1 ground beetle (361347).

Lake, Dr. R. W.: 20 blackflies (360336).

Lane, John: 10 butterflies (358081).

Lanoie, Dr. Leo O.: 7 snakes (350027); 1 African squirrel (357371).

Larsson, Ronny: 2 echinoderms (356738).

Leitheuser, Arthur T.: 3 crayfishes (358020).

LeMone, Dr. David V.: 1 fossil (355853).

Lenczy, Dr. Rudolph: 243,726 insects (361553).

Leobrera, Carlos and Fely: 6 mollusks (356740).

Ling, Cliff E.: 3 minerals (354429).

Little, Dr. Elbert L., Jr.: 240 plants (357711).

Loeblich, Dr. Alfred R., Jr. and Dr. Helen Tappan Loeblich: 47 fossils (356581,
361024).

Longino, Dr. Jack: 10 stink bugs (358073).

Maciolek-Blake, Dr. Nancy: 7 worms (357663).

Macielek, Dr. John A.: 1,023 crustaceans (299205).

Mackay, Anna Case, Estate of: 1 emerald and diamond necklace (359946).

Magnusson, Fred: 1 fossil (357457).

Maksimovic, Zoran: 9 minerals (359943).

Maldonado Capriles, Dr. J.: 305 insects (358088, 361534).

Malinow, Mrs. Frances C.: 2 fossil teeth (358343).

Manby, Dr. G. M.: 1 mineral (360013).

Mancke, Dr. Rudolph E.: 12 fossil teeth (359762).

Mariano, Dr. Anthony N.: 1 mineral (358424).

Marrow, Maxwell P.: 50 mollusks (359511).

Marshall, Elsie J.: 44 mollusks (355884).

Martin, Larry: 64 mollusks (359852).

Masner, Dr. Lubomir: 5 insects (356920, 358123).

Mather, Bryant: 1 insect (358507).

Maxson, Linda: 2 frogs (357958).

Mayer, Dr. John J.: 1 mammal (357305).

McCoy, Dr. Floyd and Dr. Grant Heiken: 11 samples of dacitic pumice
(359933).

McGuire, Dr. William W.: 43 insects (359386).

McKinstry, Mrs. Tish: 1 fossil (360383).

McLean, Dr. James H.: 29 mollusks (358451, exchange).

McLellan, Jack H.: 3 fossils echinoids (358654).

612 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Means, D. Bruce: 4 reptiles (357943).

Megaw, Peter: 2 minerals (359312); 2 minerals (359312, exchange).

Meltzer, Charles and Samuel, and Charles Kaufman: 1 chrysoberyl (340415).

Merchant, Ginger: 1 hawk (355761).

Messer, A. C.: 2,536 insects (361550).

Metcalf, Dr. Arthur: 1 mollusk (360140).

Mikkelsen, Paul and Paula: 26 mollusks (356857).

Miller, H. Lyman: 1 fossil seal skull (357443).

Miller, Scott: 5 frogs (356004).

Mills, Dr. J. W.: 10 fossils (358257).

Moler, Paul: 5 frogs and tadpoles (356086).

Moore, Dr. Donald R.: 2 mollusks (361275).

Moore, Dr. Paul B.: 4 minerals (358415).

Moran, Nancy: 6 insects (360328).

Morgan, Leonard: 12 minerals (354665).

Morse, Dr. John C.: 56 insects (359109).

Morton, Professor Brian: 9 mollusks (358878).

Mortvedt, Art: 43 mammals (353613).

Murdy, Dr. Edward O.: 1 fish (356310).

Murphy, William L.: 297 flies (358091); 370 miscellaneous insects (359371,
360352).

Murter, Mrs. Ruth: 1 fossil seal left humerus (357429).

Muus, Mrs. Kristen: 500 worms (357021).

Nelson, Thomas W. and Jane P.: 2 plants (356194).

Nemuras, Kenneth T.: 5 bog turtles (356061).

Nestell, Dr. M.: 25 brachiopods (360384).

Neumann, A. C.: 1 worm (359248).

Newton, Dr. Alfred: 1 insect (358136).

Norris, Dr. James N.: 2 fishes (356314).

Nunnally, Douglas E.: 1 fossil seal astragalus (358225).

Oglesby, Dr. Larry: 1 worm (291629).

Opler, Dr. Paul A.: 1,858 butterflies and dragonflies (358498, 358501).

Osorio, R. Cecelia: 100 mollusks (360643).

O’Sullivan, John: 2 mollusks (360938).

Outlaw, C. B.: 21 minerals (355941).

Pague, Chris A.: 51 amphibians (356063).

Parker, Dr. C. R.: 3 insects (358111).

Parr, Dr. W. H.: 1 mineral (357520).

Parson, Donald: 64 birds (358631).

Peacor, Dr. Donald R.: 3 minerals (355974).

Pecor, James: 265 insects (358099).

Pence, Jesse: 1 fossil walrus jaw (359231).

Pericart, Dr. J.: 2 lace bugs (360343).

Pessagno, Dr. Emile A., Jr.: 8 fossils (360044).

Petersen, Dr. John L.: 27 blackflies (359381).

Peterson, Dr. Mary E.: 40 worms (358024).

Petit, Dick: 44 fossils (357875).

Philip, Dr. Kenelm W.: 3 butterflies (358083).

Phillips, Charles: 1 mineral (356760).

Pickett, Joseph F., Sr.: 71 crustaceans (342348, 357461).

Pinch, William W.: 29 minerals (357549, 357558).

Pinkerton, Mrs. C. E.: 26 mollusks (355600).

Pippin, Dr. Warren F.: 2 worms (356707).

Pletsch, Dr. Donald J.: 1,093 mosquitos (361546).

Pocklington, Pat: 2 worms (359260).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 613
Polhemus, John T.: 161 true bugs (358511).

Por, Professor F. D.: 250 worms (357022).

Preston, Douglas: 4 ranid frogs (356015).

Pulawski, Dr. W. J.: 10 insects (358131).

Quick, Mr. & Mrs. Murphy: 2 fossils (356897).

Radowsky, Dr. Frank: 36 insects (359532).

Rahn, Russell A.: 1,012 insects (357194, 358069, 361401).

Razowski, Dr. Jozef: 1 insect (358097).

Reddell, Dr. James: 8 true bugs (358506).

Reed, Clyde F.: 6 plants (359603).

Reese, Dr. Ernst S.: 60 worms (292714).

Rehder, Dr. Harald A.: 4 snails (360072).

Reid, Dr. David G.: 369 mollusks (356896, 361306).

Reiger, George: 4 birds (355791).

Rice, Dr. Stanley A.: 3 worms (361202).

Riddick, Marceile B.: 2,000 fresh water mollusks (307412).

Rigby, Dr. J. Keith: 1 fossil (356848).

Riker, Norman L.: 25 fossil bird, seal, and fish remains (357430, 359232,
360123); 4 sharks teeth (358958).

Riva, Dr. John: 26 fossils (358953).

Rivers, Ann: 1 fossil mastodon tooth (358341).

Roberts, Willard: 3 minerals (358410, 359313).

Robinson, Dr. A. G.: 14 insect slides (358514, 360347).

Robinbson, George: 2 minerals (357524).

Rodriquez, Charles: 1 fossil marlin hypural (360655).

Roemhild, Dr. George: 2 insects (361349).

Rozman, Dr. X. S.: 55 brachiopods (357301).

Russell, David: 300 worms (359170).

Sabrosky, Dr. Curtis W.: 1,790 flies (358084, 360342).

Sachet, Dr. M. H.: 45 snails (360071).

Sala, Mr. & Mrs. Frank P.: 353 moths (358505).

Salers, Thomas: 1 fossil mammoth tooth and partial scapula (358340).

Sato, Professor Naonobu: 1 meteorite (356753).

Schmetzer, Dr. Karl: 2 minerals (357523, 357593).

Schmieder, Dr. Robert W.: 21 crustaceans; 525 worms (355566).

Schneider, Vincent P.: 244 fossil vertebrates (358312, 360656).

Schneider, Mr. & Mrs. Vincent P.: 5,260 fossil fish, reptile, bird, and mammal
remains (357458) ; 3,370 fossil vertebrates (358256).

Schultz, Dr. George A.: 11 crustaceans (356668).

Scott, Dr. David: 6 fossils (358983, 361193).

Scott, Dr. R. W.: 1 fossil (355854).

Scott, Randy: 4 fossil seal portions; 2 teeth (357188).

Scudder, Dr. G. G. E.: 29 true bugs (358114).

Sheldon, Mrs. Alice Bradley: 25 ambers (356786).

Sherman, Kevin: 14 worms (357879).

Shipp, Dr. J. L.: 9 flies (358112).

Shulley, J.: 1 fossil whale vertebra (355569).

Simpson, Dr. Karl W.: 40 worms (356706).

Skafer, Jeffrey: 1 mineral (357580).

Smith, Anna M.: 1 fossil walrus skull (358344).

Smith, Doris: 1 fossil tooth (358484).

Smith, Dr. Julian P. S., III: 4 worms (358917).

Smith, Larry: 1 sharks tooth (360126).

Snyder, Dr. Scott W.: 3 fossil teeth (354783, 358988).

Sobrevila, Claudia: 60 spiders (360339).

614 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Soponis, Dr. Annelle R.: 7 insect slides (359385).
Spangler, Dr. Paul: 10 crustaceans (318427).

Spry, Dr. Paul G.: 2 minerals (358402).

Squires, Dr. Hubert J.: 30 crustaceans (357889).
Sreenivasan, P. V.: 6 mollusks (355886).

Staines, Charles: 333 water beetles (359380).

Stanaland, Mrs. L. J.: 1 fish (357238).

Stark, Dr. William P.: 2 stoneflies (359383).

Starnes, Dr. Wayne: 8 crustaceans (356531).

Steadman, David W.: 1 mammal (353607).

Steiner, Warren: 7 butterflies (358074).

Stewart, Dr. K. W.: 3 stoneflies (361348).

Stewart, R. L.: 4 minerals (358433).

Steyskal, George C.: 44 insects (361541).

Stockwell, Henry P.: 6 weevills (359375) ; 159 ground beetles (358105).
Stolburg, Craig S.: 5 minerals (354693).

Struve, Dr. Wolfgang: 9 plaster casts of 3 brachiopods (357459).
Sturmer, Dr. W.: 8 fossils (356098).

Sullivan, Dr. Bolling: 2 crustceans (358542).

Swanson, Fran: 1 pair of shark jaws (357212).

Swartz, Mrs. Ruth H.: 5,000 ostracodes (357877).
Swindell, Clyde: 171 fossil vertebrates (358237, 359258).
Tasch, Dr. Paul: 235 fossils (359855, 359931).

Taylor, Calvin E.: 9 fossil bird and pinnipeds (358221).
Taylor, Harold M.: 11 minerals (355894).

Taylor, Dr. Paul M.: 10,436 insects (359376).
Teichgraeber, Dr. R.: 1 mineral (357578).

Tezap, Brenda: 1 fossil crustacean (358453).

ten Hove, Dr. Harry A.: 1 mollusk; 265 worms (357652).
Terrell, Dr. E. E.: 2 plants (357060).

Theokritoff, Dr. George: 23 trilobites (360535).

Thomas, Richard: 15 blind snakes (353824).

Thomasson, Joseph R.: 30 fossil miocene sedges (361257).
Thompson, Dr. John N.: 1 moth (358493).

Thompson, Dr. Lynn C.: 10 ground beetles (358113).
Tichenor, Harold W.: 1 fossil (360501).

Tillmanns, Dr. E.: 3 minerals (358350).

Titgen, Richard H.: 1 worm (360974).

Townsend, Dr. Forrest I., Jr.: 1 whale skull; 1 dolphin skull (357375).
Trauth, Stanley E.: 2 geckos (353802).

Trelawney, John J.: 1,590 minerals (325152).

Trinkaus, Dr. Erik: 6 casts of Neanderthal skeletons (358066).
Tucker, John K.: 10 mollusks (356681).

Turner, Mrs. Lillian: 1 jadeite bracelet (355931).

Turner, Dr. Ruth: 100 worms (308383).

Tutt, Mrs. Henry, III: 1 fossil seal vertebra (358223).
Ulmer, Dr. Gene C.: 35 igneous rocks and xenoliths (358406).
van Achterberg, Dr. Ing. C.: 4 insects (358122).

van Dyk, Marius F.: 1 mineral (358407).

van der Vecht, Dr. J.: 5 wasps (358107, exchange).

Van Dooren, Dr.: 1 mineral (358398, exchange).

Vardy, Dr. Colin: 2 insects (360953).

Vokes, Dr. Emily H.: 3 mollusks; 8 fossils (358452).
Wagner, Paula: 1 partial fossil seal postcanine (357876).
Walenta, Dr. Kurt: 6 minerals (357521, 358436).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 615
Warwick, Dr. Richard M.: 30 worms (357023).

Wass, Dr. Robin: 2 bryozoas (356683, 358911).

Watkins, Dr. Rodney: 21 brachiopods; 3 latex pulls (359891).
Watters, G. Thomas: 3 marine mollusks (359851).

Weaver, Dr. John: 16 caddisflies (359378).

Weems, Dr. Robert E.: 240 fossils (358345).

Weir, Dugan R.: 3 opals (354664).

Welzenbach, Michael: 1 fossil mackeral; 1 fossil drumbfish (359233).
Wemple, Peter: 2 turtles (356005).

Werner, Tracey K.: 1 long-tailed weasel (350023).
Westcott, Jim: 1 meteorite (357515).

Wheeler, Dr. Walter H.: 1 fossil whale (354781).

White, John Sampson: 1 mineral (360030).

Whitney, Dr. Nathaniel R., Jr.: 1 grey owl; 1 grouse (355811).
Wighton, Dennis C.: 1 fossil plant (360248).

Wilbur, E. T.: 2 petrified woods (359259).

Wilke, Dr. E. J.: 1 mineral (358384).

Williams, Dr. James D.: 8 shrimps (358668).

Williams, Margaret A.: 1 mollusk (360642).

Wilson, David H., Estate of: 8,000 minerals (339767).
Wilson, John: 1 fossil manatee tooth (358190).

Wilson, Robin: 5 worms (360503).

Winters, Mrs. Charles E.: 15 minerals (354673).

Wolff, Dr. Jerry O.: 1 white-footed mouse (357403).
Woodhead, Alfred B., III: 1 fossil (357442).

Wright, Eugenia I.: 1,295 marine mollusks (355563).
Yager, Jill: 3 shrimps (355725).

Yntema, J.: 21 beetles (358079).

Young, Dr. Frank N.: 1,011 water beetles (358080, 359388).
Yount, Victor: 5 minerals (356797, 359305).

Yuou-ren, Dr. Chen: 10 brachiopods (357018).

Zeihen, Dr. Lester G.: 6 minerals (357534).

Zibrowius, Dr. Helmut: 100 echinoderms (355872).
Zimmerman, Dr. James R.: 6,800 beetles (361548).
Zottoliu, Dr. Robert: 14 worms (355723).

Zullo, Dr. Victor A.: 32 fossil barnacles (358944, 360698)

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Donors of Financial Support

Anonymous

Ms. Christine E. Haley

The Harkness Fellowships
T. H. Harris Junior High School students
Dr. July S. McKee

Olalla Guest Lodge

Ms. Samantha Pendleton
Ms. Nikki Schaubroeck

Ms. Joan M. Sobczak

Mr. Jay VanDerZee

The Warden-Garden School
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Warren

Grants

American Association of Zoo Veterinarians
Friends of the National Zoo

616 / Smithsonian Year 1984
The Wildcat Foundation

Wildlife Preservation Trust Fund International, Inc.
World Wildlife Fund

Zoological Society of Philadelphia

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
ALTERNATIVES TO DESTRUCTION

W. Alton Jones Foundation
DEFORESTED AREAS PROJECT

J. Smithson Society—-Smithson Award
MANAGEMENT OF THE GREEN IGUANA

J. Smithson Society
CONSERVATION IN PANAMA

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
AGRO-SILVICULTURE PROJECT

Downstate Medical Center

FELLOWSHIP/ ASSISTANTSHIP PROGRAM

Citibank, N. A./Panama Market Managers Limited, S. A.
Exxon Corporation Mr. and Mrs. Ben L. Moyer
Panama Kodak Companies

DIVING PHYSIOLOGY OF SEA-SNAKES

Tupper Foundation

ROBERT L. SILBERGLIED MEMORIAL FUND

M. Joseph Gordon Mr. and Mrs. Harold Newman
Professor James W. Grier Eileen K. Schofield

HISTORY AND ART
ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

Austin Edmund Bladen: Bill of Sale by Lee Whitson for one Negro woman
charity, dated 16 November 1826; two five dollar bills of the Confederate
States of America; one one-hundred-dollar bill of the Confederate States of
America.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART
Donors of Financial Support

$10,000 AND ABOVE

The Brown Foundation The Henry Luce Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II The John Sloan Memorial Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman
The Henry E. Huntington Library Times Mirror Foundation

and Art Gallery Warner Communications

The Lehman Foundation

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 617
$5,000 AND ABOVE

Miss Caroline R. Alexander

Mr. and Mrs. R. Stanton Avery
Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr.
Mrs. Henry C. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney
Mr. and Mrs. Irvin A. Levy

$1,000 AND ABOVE

Anonymous

“The AE Fund”

Atlantic Richfield Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Paul Beck

Mrs. Marion W. Berger

Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Bergman

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip J. Berman

Mr. and Mrs. Myron Blank

Mr. and Mrs. Eli L. Broad

Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce

Mr. and Mrs. Preston Butcher

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Butler

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Carlson

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen

Mr. William N. Copley

Mrs. Robert Coryell

Mr. and Mrs. John Crichton

Mr. Trammell Crow

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Mrs. Lucile Daum

Mrs. Elizabeth de Cuevas

Mrs. John de Menil

Mrs. Peggy de Salle

Mrs. George C. Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun

First Interstate Bank California
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Max Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Forsch

Mrs. Helena Fraser

Mr. Marshall M. Fredericks

The Garrett Corporation

The Wallace Alexander Gerbode
Foundation

Goldsmith-Perry Philanthropies, Inc.
George and Mary Josephine Hamman

Foundation
Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison
Mrs. James T. Holland
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Kemper

Mr. and Mrs. William F. Kieschnick

Mr. and Mrs. David L. Klein, Jr.

618 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. and Mrs. Howard W. Lipman
Miss Julienne Michel

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. David H. Murdock
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

Mrs. Marcia S. Weisman

Mrs. James D. Klingbeil

Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Landsman
Mr. Leonard Lauder

Mrs. Harry Lenart

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Manella
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manoogian
Mr. and Mrs. Tom F. Marsh
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Mayer
Mobil Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart G. Moldaw

Mr. and Mrs. Truman W. Morsman

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley

Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman

The New York Times Company
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer

Dr. and Mrs. David B. Pall

The Estate of Betty Parsons

Margaret M. Patch

Mrs. Shirley Polykoff

Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel P. Reed

Mrs. William L. Richards

Mrs. Ednah Root

Mr. and Mrs. John Rosekrans

Mr. and Mrs. Harris Rubin

Mrs. Madeleine H. Russell

Mrs. Adolph Schman

Mrs. Arlene Schnitzer

Mr. Peter Jay Sharp

Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald P. Stanton

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry I. Speyer

Mrs. Harold Uris

Mr. and Mrs. James Vaughn, Jr.

Mrs. Paul Wattis

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer

Mr. and Mrs. Dave Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey

Mr. and Mrs. C. Bagley Wright
$500 AND ABOVE

Mrs. Manville H. Abramson
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Acquavella
Mrs. Anna Bing Arnold

Mrs. Alice O’Neil Avery

Mrs. Lionel Bell

Mrs. Courtney M. Benoist

Mrs. F. Henry Berlin

Mrs. Marcia Bielfield

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Biggs
Mrs. Harry Bond

Warren and Margot Coville

Dr. and Mrs. Burrill B. Crohn
Leonard and Sophie Davis

Mrs. Gladys K. Delmas

Mrs. Maria Mercedes de Medina
Mrs. Lewis W. Douglas, Jr.

Mr. James F. Duffy, Jr.

Mrs. Dorothy H. Dunitz

Mr. and Mrs. Barney A. Ebsworth
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Feder

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Fleischman
Mrs. Ralph G. Fletcher

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Ford
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fraad, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Fraad

Miss Elizabeth H. Fuller

Mr. Frederic J. Fuller, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Gitterman, III
Mr. Arnold B. Glimcher

Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goldberg
Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas

Mr. and Mrs. Melville W. Hall
Mrs. David Handleman

Mrs. Iola S. Haverstick

Mr. James R. Harvey

Mrs. David Hinks

Mrs. Alexander Hixon

Mrs. Augusta Jacobson Hoiles
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Katzman
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Konheim
The Koret Foundation

Mrs. Joseph Lauder

$250 AND ABOVE

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Mr. and Mrs. Derby F. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie H. Arps

Mr. W. N. Banks

Mr. Morton Barak

Mr. Robert A. Belfer

Mr. John Berggruen

Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry

Mrs. W. Earl Blackburn

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald S. Lauder
Mr. and Mrs. Sam Maddox, Jr.
Mrs. Fleur Manning

Mrs. James E. Marcus

Mr. Donald B. Marron

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marstellar
Miss Eileen E. McKeon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Melville
Mrs. Vaughn B. Meyer

Mr. Jack Nash

Mrs. William Negley

The Nusbaums

Mrs. Henry O’Neil

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oronshnik
Mrs. Henry Pearlman

Mr. Stephen M. Peck

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Pustilnik
Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley

Mr. and Mrs. Felix Rohatyn
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob
Mrs. Herbert D. Schimmel

Mr. and Mrs. Sherman Schreier
Mrs. Mary-Leigh C. Smart

Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Smooke
Mr. Ira Spanierman

Elaine McKeon Steil

Mrs. Jay Sternberg

Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Susman
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Syufy
Thiry Foundation

Mrs. Alice Traub

Mr. J. T. Trotter

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Troubh
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Tufo

Mrs. Barry Wagner

Mrs. William C. Wallstein

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein
Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward
Mrs. Edward Wylie

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley

Dr. and Mrs. Richard M. Brown
Mr. H. B. Camden

Mrs. Edward W. Carter

Mrs. Chisholm Cole

Cynthia Collins

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Dahling
Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger
Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 619
Mrs. Madelyn dey Smith

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Erickson
Mr. and Mrs. David Evins

Mrs. Robert L. Farmer

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher
Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Fisher
Ms. Audrey Flack

Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Fried

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Friedlander
Mrs. K. Evan Friedman

Mrs. F. Daniel Frost

Mr. and Mrs. Seth M. Glickenhaus
Mr. Hyman N. Glickstein

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Goldman
Mr. and Mrs. Abner Goldstone
Mr. David S. Gottesman

Mr. Gordon Reeve Gould

Mrs. Hugh J. Grant

Mr. Bernard Green

Mrs. Robert S. Greenbaum

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Gruson
Mr. and Mrs. Peter V. Hall

Mr. Joseph Hardy

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Harris

Mr. Alfred C. Harrison, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Henritzy
Mrs. Walter W. Hess, Jr.

Mrs. Karen J. Hixon

Mr. William J. Hokin

Mr. and Mrs. Siavosh Honari
Mr. and Mrs. James Humphry, III
Dr. and Mrs. David Jacknow
Mrs. Katherine A. Johnson

Mr. Forrest L. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. John Lowell Jones
Mr. and Mrs. George S. Kaufman
Kennedy Galleries, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Charles Kessler

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard E. Kingsley
Mr. and Mrs. Nat Korash

Mr. and Mrs. David W. Kornblatt
Mr. Richard P. Kughn

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane

Dr. and Mrs. I. H. Leopold

Mr. Warner Leroy

Mrs. Fernand Leval

Mrs. Janice Levin

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Levin

Mrs. Leonard Levine

Mr. and Mrs. Alan D. Levy

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mrs. Irene Chapellier Little

Mr. and Mrs. James Lockwood
Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

620 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. Peter L. Malkin

Mrs. Phillis P. Marra

Nini Tobin Martin

Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Maveety
Mr. Robert B. Menschel

Mr. Douglas D. Mercer

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam
Mr. Jack Mognaz

Mrs. Franklin Murphy

Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Murray
Mrs. Annalee Newman

Mr. James Niven

Mr. William E. O’Reilly

Dr. and Mrs. R. F. Penido
Elizabeth Spencer Pfau

Mrs. Herbert Polacheck

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky
Riva Poor

Mrs. Barrie Ramsay

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond

Mrs. John P. Renshaw

Mr. and Mrs. Steven Robinson
Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Derald Ruttenberg
Yvonne Sangiacomo

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Schwartz
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Seid

Mr. and Mrs. Steven A. Seiden
Mrs. Daniel N. Selin

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Silver
Mr. Louis Sloss

Mrs. Robert L. Smith

Mrs. Nelson E. Smyth

Mrs. Arnold P. Spinosa

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Stein
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Stroh
Mr. and Mrs. David J. Supino
Willard and Frederieke Taylor
Mrs. William C. Tost

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend
Mrs. Hooper Truetter

Mrs. Richard Wagner

Mr. Sherle Wagner

Mrs. Hudson D. Walker

Ms. Patricia R. Warner

Mrs. Ann Kirk Warren

Mrs. Joan Washburn

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman
Mrs. Robert R. Williams

C. Wilson

Mrs. Enid S. Winslow

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Young, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Zurkowski
$100 AND ABOVE

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund T. Ahee
Dr. R. Ajluni

Mrs. Richard F. Alden

Dr. and Mrs. Gilman Alkire
Mr. and Mrs. Hale R. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Allesee
Dr. Lourdes V. Andaya

Mr. Adolphus Andrews, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Ash
Miss Susan J. Ashbrook

Dr. and Mrs. Donald C. Austin
Mrs. Samuel Ayers, III

Mr. and Mrs. David Bade

Mr. and Mrs. Eliot Bailen

Mrs. Norma Baker, Jr.

Mr. Richard Brown Baker

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis E. Ball, II
Mr. and Mrs. James Bannon
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Barnard
Mrs. Joyce Barnes

Mrs. Will Barnet

Lola Bauer

Mrs. S. Baumgold

Mr. and Mrs. Bogdan Baynert
Mr. Gifford R. Beal

Mrs. James H. Beal

Toni Beauchamp

Mr. and Mrs. B. G. Bechhoefer
Mr. and Mrs. Sherman Becker
Mr. Sidney L. Bergin

Mr. and Mrs. Mandell L. Berman
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Bernard
Mrs. Lise M. Besthoff

Mrs. Peter S. Bing

Mrs. Laura M. Bishop

Mr. and Mrs. H. Glen Bixby
Mr. and Mrs. M. Blanck
Chotsie and Allan Blank

Mr. Bill Blass

Mrs. Robert J. Blinken

Mrs. Alvin L. Blume

Miss Florence M. Blume

Mr. and Mrs. Johnson S. Bogart
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman
Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Bortz

Mrs. Rena Bransten

Mrs. Michael Braude

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Braun
Mr. Fred Braun, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Christoper Brent
Dr. Philip L. Brewer

Dr. and Mrs. William J. Briggs
Frances and Sidney Brody

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 621

Mr. and Mrs. David R. C. Brown

Mr. Peter A. Brown

Miss Doris Bry

Mrs. Gilda Buchbinder

Mrs. J. Lawrence Buell

Bullock and Jones

Mrs. John B. Bunker

Mr. and Mrs. Kelton M. Burbank

Mrs. Patricia Hill Burnett

Mrs. Gene Burton

Dr. and Mrs. Irving Burton

Mrs. Helen R. Busch

E. Button

Mrs. Martin L. Butzel

Maria Theresa Caen

Mr. Alan L. Cameros

Mrs. Montgomery Carter

Mr. and Mrs. Courtney J. Catron

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Chambers

Mr. and Mrs. Girard Chester

Mr. and Mrs. Roger Choukroun

Mr. Alfred C. Clark

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Clark

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence I. Clarke

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Collins

Dr. and Mrs. Jeffrey J. Colton

Mrs. David Z. Cook

Mrs. Janet Coors

Mr. and Mrs. F. duPont Cornelius

Mr. Gardner Cowles

Mr. John F. Coy

Dr. and Mrs. Earle E. Crandall

Mrs. Charles Crocker

Mrs. Joanne Toor Cummings

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Daitz

Mrs. Chester Dale

Miss Bernice F. Davidson

Mrs. Marion S. Davidson

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip Davidson

Mrs. Mary Macauley Davis

Mrs. Walter Davis

Mrs. Richard M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day

Mr. Henry De Baldwin

A. De Bretteville

Christian De Guigne, IV

Messrs. Dudley and Michael
Del Balso

Mr. Stephen N. Dennis

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Desilva

Mr. and Mrs. Irwin J. Deutch

Mrs. Hallie B. Dewar

Mr. and Mrs. Martin Diamond
J. Digrazia

Mr. C. Douglas Dillon

Gail C. Docktor

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Doerer
Mrs. Ray Dolby

Mr. Wilfred B. Doner

Mrs. Lewis W. Douglas, Jr.

Mr. Lawrence F. du Mouchelle
Larry and Jeanne Dunlap

Mr. Frederick Eberstadt

Mrs. Marriner Eccles

Mr. Sanford B. Ehrenkranz
Mrs. George M. Endicott

Mr. Mats Engstrom

Mrs. Robert F. Erburu

Mrs. Jimmy Ernst

Mr. Edward Estreito

Mr. and Mrs. Alex Etkin

Mr. Richard Evans, II

Mr. Howard Farber

Mr. Burton D. Farbman

Anne F. Farish

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Feigen
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Feigenson
Mr. Stuart P. Feld

Mrs. Hortense F. Feldblum
Mrs. Florence Feldman

Mrs. John H. Ferguson

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Fielding
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Findlater

Fischbach Gallery Association, Inc.

Mrs. Charles T. Fisher, III

Mr. George H. Fitch

Dr. and Mrs. Larry E. Fleischmann
Mrs. Mortimer Fleishhacker
Joan H. Fleming

Mrs. Edgar B. Flint

Mr. and Mrs. James Flood
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Foster
Mr. and Mrs. Thorne S. Foster
Xavier Fourcade, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Frank

Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Frankel
Mrs. Lonna Franklin

Mrs. Frank Freed

Dr. and Mrs. Jacob Freedman
Mrs. Richard D. Freemon
Mrs. John S. French

Mr. and Mrs. B. H. Friedman
Dr. and Mrs. M. W. Friedman
Mr. and Mrs. W. Robert Friedman
Mr. Vincent Friia

Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon Fuller
Mrs. David B. Fyfe

Mr. Karl Gabosh

622 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. and Mrs. Alan Gage

Mrs. Barbara T. Galpin

Mr. Marvin Gerstein

Mrs. Florence Gerstin

Mr. George P. Giaed, Jr.

Mrs. Ross Gilbert

Mr. Howard Gilman

Mr. and Mrs. Emilio Gioia

Mr. Herbert Glantz

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Glen

Dr. and Mrs. Frank C. Glover

Mr. J. Whitney Godwin

Ruth Goetz

Mrs. Jay Gold

Mr. Harmon H. Goldstone

Mrs. James L. Goodwin

Mrs. Mason L. Gordon

Mr. Alan L. Gornick

Mr. William T. Gossett

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Graber

Mr. Charles Grace

Mrs. Faye S. Green

Dr. and Mrs. Frank J. Greene

Mrs. Arthur N. Greenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard A. Greenberg

Ms. Juliane Greenwalt

Mr. Robert Grew

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Grinstein

Dr. and Mrs. Gerold M. Grodsky

Adrian Gruhn

Mr. Thomas Guinzburg

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood W.
Gumbinder

Mrs. Joseph Haddad

Mr. Philip J. Hahn

Anthony Hail Studio

Mrs. Emma Swan Hall

Mrs. Samuel Hamburger

Mrs. Robert Hamilton

Mr. and Mrs. William H. Hamm

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Hammonds

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Handler

L. Harlocker

Dr. and Mrs. Reginald Harnett

Dr. Susan E. Harold

Mr. and Mrs. E. Jan Hartmann

Mr. and Mrs. Neil Haslett

Mr. Frank G. Hathaway

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton

Mrs. Barbara Whipple Heilman

Mr. and Mrs. Scott R. Heldfond

Mrs. Stephen Heller

Mrs. Doris Hepner

Mr. and Mrs. Reinaldo Herrera

Mr. David Hill
Mr. Frederick D. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. James Berry Hill
Mr. and Mrs. Lee Hills

Mr. Gerald D. Hines

Hippo Hamburgers

Mrs. Oveta Culp Hobby

Mrs. Peter Holbrook

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay
Mrs. Arthur W. Hoppe

Mr. and Mrs. Gedale Bob Horowitz
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz
Mrs. Leonard J. Horwich

Mr. and Mrs. Reagan Houston
Nancy Hoving

Mrs. Edward A. Howard

Mr. Thomas Carr Howe

Lisa Hubbard

Mrs. J. Stewart Hudson

Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings

Mrs. Hadlai A. Hull

L. Hull

Mrs. Robert E. Hunter, Jr.

Miss Milka Iconomoff

Mr. John D. Ingraham

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Iselin

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Jacob
Mr. and Mrs. Earl R. Jacobs

Mr. Edward Jacobson

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.
Catherine H. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Winslow Jones
Miss Chrystine W. Jones

Mr. Raymond F. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Wolf Kahn

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

S. R. Kalt

Mr. Ron Kane

Mr. Richard L. Kaplin

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell E. Katzen
Mr. Eli Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann
Mr. Walter Keating

Mr. Martin A. Kellman

Mr. Matthew E. Kelly

Dr. and Mrs. Marvis P. Kelsey
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper
Mr. William Kemper

Mrs. Philip J. Keon

Mr. Tibor Kerekes, Jr.

Mr. Tarek Kettaneh

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

Mrs. Thais H. Keuls

Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder

Lyn S. Kienholz

Leslie J. Kitselman

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Klein
Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Klingenstein
Diana Dollar Knowles

Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Koenigsberg
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Kokas
Mrs. Norma Kosann

Mrs. Elizabeth Kramer

Mrs. Sylvia Krause

Mrs. Annette Kraushaar

Miss Brenda Kuhn

Mrs. Geraldine S. Kundstadter
Mrs. Richard Kux

Mrs. Roger M. Kyes

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Lambertson
Mrs. W. Loeber Landau

Dr. Henry C. Landon, III

Mrs. Richard E. Lang

Dr. Aveline E. Laxa

Mrs. Rodney M. Layton

Mr. Raymond J. Learsy
Harriet Lebish

Mrs. Herbert C. Lee

Mr. Orin Lehman

Mr. Budd Levinson

Mrs. Marcia D. Levine

Mr. and Mrs. Noel Levine

Mr. Walter Levy

Mrs. Maryon Davies Lewis
Mr. Orme Lewis

Mr. S. H. Lewis

Dr. Marjorie Lewisohn

Mrs. Kim Lie

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Liebowitz
Mrs. Ann J. Light

Dr. Donald G. Linker

Dr. and Mrs. Morris J. Lipnick
Mr. Carl D. Lobell

Mr. Peter Loeb

Mrs. Renee Logan

Marjorie S. Loggia

Mr. Meredith Long

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Lopatin
Mr. and Mrs. Harold O. Love
Mrs. Madeline M. Low

Mrs. Hugh Lowenstein

Mr. Henry Luce, III

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Luhn
Jane Lurie

Mr. and Mrs. Munro L. Lyeth
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes
Mr. C. Richard MacGrath

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Mack
Mrs. Walter S. Mack, Jr.

Mr. Russell MacMasters

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 623
Cyril Magnin

Mrs. Robert F. Maguire, III
Mrs. Lydia W. Malbin

Mr. Alexander P. Marchessini
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Marcus
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Marks
Mrs. Samuel Maslon

Barbara Mathews

Mr. David H. McAlpin

Mrs. Peter McBean

Mrs. Eugene McDermott

Mr. and Mrs. W. P. McDowell
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Mr. James T. McKay

Mrs. Hiram W. McKee

R. McLellan

Mr. Roderick A. McManigal
Mr. and Mrs. Allen Meier, Jr.
Mr. Richard Meier

Grete Meilman

Mr. and Mrs. Louis K. Meisel
Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip H. Meltzer
Judith S. Merrill

Drs. Paul and Laura Mesaros
Mrs. Jane B. Meyerhoff

Mr. Sam Michaels

Mrs. John Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Martin Miller
Mrs. Barbara B. Millhouse

Mr. and Mrs. Irving J. Minett
Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Minowitz
Mrs. Ralph Mishkin

Mrs. William H. Moorhouse
Mrs. Kyra Montagu

Mr. Edwin Lee Morrell

Aaron and Barbara Morris

Mr. Peter Morris

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Mortimer
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Mullan
Mr. and Mrs. Louis S. Myers
Mr. Raymond D. Nasher

Mrs. John U. Nef

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Netter
Mrs. Eldo Netto

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger
Jeanne Martin Neville

E. Newman

Mr. and Mrs. Paul L. Nine

Mr. Charles E. Noble

Mr. and Mrs. H. Roderick Nordell
Mrs. Dorothy S. Norman
Louise R. Noun

Mr. Calvin W. Odom

Dr. and Mrs. Kevin O’Donnell

624 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mrs. Ernst Ophuls

Mrs. Janice C. Oresman

Mr. Herbert H. Owens

Dr. and Mrs. John Q. Owsley, Jr.
Mrs. Lynda Palevsky

Joan R. Palmer

Mrs. Patricia M. Papper

Mrs. Henry Colb Parkinson
Pasadena Art Alliance

Mr. and Mrs. Blair C. Pascoe
Mr. Arthur Choate Patterson
Mrs. Carl Pearl

Fannie W. Pelavin

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Pelosi

Mrs. Gerd Perkins

Mr. Klaus G. Perls

Mrs. Cornelia Perry

Sally Blevins Peter

B. Petrie

Mrs. Donald A. Petrie

Mr. Donald Petrulis

Mr. and Mrs. Laughlin Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. W. Robert Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. Gifford Phyllips
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Lynn Pierson
Ms. Jeffie Pike

Dr. and Mrs. Harold Plotnick
Dr. and Mrs. Terry A. Podolsky
Mr. and Mrs. Saul Poliak

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Poplack
Mr. Charles Porter

Mr. William Postar

Mrs. Robert E. Power, Jr.

Mrs. John Pritzker

Virginia Pyke

Mr. and Mrs. John Rakolta, Jr.
Mr. Harvey Rambach

Ann M. Ramsay

Ms. Nanci J. Rands

Mrs. James A. Rawley

Mrs. Elizabeth Beach Rea

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Reder
A. Reeves

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey M. Resnick
Mr. and Mrs. Edgar P. Richardson
Dr. and Mrs. Harold Rifkin

Dr. and Mrs. Bruno Ristow

Dr. Launey F. Roberts, Jr.

Mr. Trevor C. Roberts

Sylvia Robins

Esther and Robert Robles

Mr. David Rockefeller

Mrs. James J. Rorimer

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rose

Mr. Frederick P. Rose
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Z. Rose

Dr. Victor J. Rosen

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rosenberg
Mrs. Shirley S. Rosenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Rosenfeld
Mr. and Mrs. A. Cal Rossi

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Roth

Mr. and Mrs. William M. Roth
Mrs. Georgina L. Rothenberg
Mary, Viscountess Rothermere
Mr. Irving A. Rubin

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Russell, Jr.

Anna-Wells Rutledge

Mr. Valerian Rybar

Saks Fifth Avenue

Ms. Judith Ann Schaffer

M. Schangen

Dr. Ivan C. Schatten

Mrs. Ann McGovern Scheiner

Rep. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Abbott Schlain

Mr. and Mrs. Albert F. Schlesinger

Mrs. Jo Anne Schneider

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Schoelkopf

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Schoenith

Mr. and Mrs. Morton L. Scholnick

Mr. Harold Z. Schreiber

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Schubot

Mr. Jacob Schulman

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Schultz

Mr. and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz

Mrs. Eugene M. Schwartz

Miss Ethel Reduer Scull

Mrs. Germain Seligman

Miss Judith Selkowitz

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Seybolt

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Shapero

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Sharf

Mrs. Allan Shelden, III

Dr. and Mrs. Harvey S. Sherber

Mrs. Richard E. Sherwood

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert B. Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. George Simon

Mr. Anthony Skvarla

Mrs. Charles P. Slater

Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

George M. and Mable H. Slocum
Foundation

SLSRKJL & G Charitable Committee

Mrs. Lawrence M. C. Smith

Dr. and Mrs. William D. Sohier

Ms. Janet W. Solinger

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Solomon

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome H. Solomon

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Solomon

Mr. Robert Sosnick

Mr. A. G. Spanos

Mr. Joel Spears, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. P. Spencer

Mr. Sam Spiegel

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin A. Starensier
Mrs. Alfred R. Stern

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Stevenson
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Stoneman
Mrs. Leonard H. Straus

Mrs. Philip A. Straus

Mr. Peter W. Stroh

Mr. and Mrs. David A. Stulberg
Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel M. Sulkes
Mr. and Mrs. John Sullivan

Jane E. Suydam

Mr. Ernest J. Tall

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Tanner

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Tanzer

Mrs. Barbara Temby

Jacob Y. Terner, M.D.

Mr. Eugene Victor Thaw

Mr. and Mrs. L. Harrison Thayer, III
Mrs. Louis Tishman

Mrs. Barbara B. Toole

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Toth

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Tower
Mrs. Joyce W. Treiman

Mrs. Louise Talbott Trigg

Mrs. George T. Trumbull

Mrs. Helen S. Tucker

Mr. Richard W. Tucker

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Turken
Mr. and Mrs. W. Anthony Ullman
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Ulstrup

Mrs. Helen Urban

Mrs. Joseph A. Vance

Mrs. Esteban Vicente

Dr. and Mrs. C. H. Vortriede
Mr. Abbott W. Vose

Miss Lois Wagner

Mrs. Sigmund Wahrsager

Mrs. Michael Wainstock

Duane A. Wakeham

Mrs. Norton Walbridge

Mrs. Brooks Walker, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. M. Warburg
Mrs. Jeanne L. Wasserman

Mr. and Mrs. Cameron Waterman
Mr. F. Carrington Weems

Mr. Maurice Weir

Benjamin Weiss

Stephen H. Weiss

Mrs. Rudolph W. Weitz

Mrs. Elaine Graham Weitzen

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 625
Herbert C. Wells

Mrs. Richard Wengren

Mrs. Karl L. Wente

Mrs. Victor Wertz

Mrs. Kathleen L. Westin

Mrs. Harry H. Wetzel

Mr. and Mrs. Buff Whelan

Mrs. Warren Whipple

Mrs. Frances J. Whitney

Mr. Brayton Wilbur, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Williams
Mrs. Frank Willie

Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Wineman
Mrs. Isadore (Beryl) Winkleman

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Donors to the Collection

Anonymous

Associated American Artists
Tony Atkin

Michelle Beiny

Mr. & Mrs. Charles Biggs
Bradbury and Bradbury Wallpaper
Robert Brooks

Boris Bucan

California Drop Cloth

Thomas Carnese

Mrs. William Chappell
Cleveland Museum of Art
Cohama Riverdale Decorative Fabrics
Robert Coleman

William Conklin

Rosemary Corroon

Jacqueline Davidson

Dayton’s Department Store
Hellmuth and Hellgah Dieken
Ann Dorfsman

Etalage Fabrics and Wallcoverings
Milton Glaser

John Goelet

Yves Gonnett Inc.

Marcia and William Goodman
Rose Gottschalk

Donna Guimaraes

Frank Haines

HGH Designs

Olav Holden

GES Ing

Andrea Jeffries

Mrs. Ely Jacques Kahn

Steven and Judith Katen
Michael Knigin

Knoll International

626 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. James L. Winokur

Mr. Marion J. Wise, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley W. Wojtalik
Mr. Erving Wolf

Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Wollenzin, Jr.
Mrs. Lois E. Womer

Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Wood
Mr. Robert Carleton Woolley

Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Wulfmeier, III
Mrs. C. Lacoppiban Wyers

Miss Virginia Zabriskie

Mr. Edward Zampa

Mr. A. Robert Zeff

Mr. Jerome R. Zipkin

Mrs. Margaret B. Zorach

Charles Lamar

David Landau

Carolyn Lansing

Jack Lenor Larsen

Nicholas Meredith Lederer, Jr.
Jurgen Lehl Co. Ltd.

Sonia List

Mary Matthews

Paul Maurer

Janet Mavec

Joseph McCrindle

Elinor Merrell

Mira-X International Furnishings
Henrietta Mueller

Ruth J. Newman

Marion L. Nickel

Oslo Museum of Applied Art
Marielle Patnaude

Glen Peckman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Pflueger
Bernard Poteau

Public I Publicity Services
Rosanne Raab

Carolyn Ray

Elizabeth Riley

Kjell Ringi

S. Dillon Ripley

Barbara Rogoff

Mary and Marcella Roladelli
Mrs. Marvin Rosen

Alta Grant Samuels

Lanette Scheeline

Ethel Stein

John Torson

Jeroen Vinken

Tsirl Waletzky
Leonard Weiss

Mark Feigenbaum & Ray Wenzel
Page Williams

Mrs. Edith H. Yewell

Donors of Financial Support

$50,000 OR MORE
Simpson, Thatcher & Bartlett

uP TO $50,000
Schieffelin & Company

$20,000 OR MORE
Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

$10,000 OR MORE

Mrs. Helen W. Buckner
Mr. Lester Morse

$5,000 OR MORE

Cadwalader, Wickersham and Taft
Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen and Hamilton
Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund
Haines Lundberg Waehler

$1,000 OR MORE

Mrs. Christan Aall (The Port Royal
Foundation, Inc.)

Anonymous

American Express Company

Barnett Banks of Florida

Louis L. Brizel

Coach Leatherware Foundation

Conde Nast Publications

DMC Corporation

Hallmark Cards

IBM Corporation

Knapp Communication

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Kristal

Lee/Jofa

Helen R. and Harold C. Mayer
Foundation

$500 OR MORE

William A. Anderson Foundation
Bloomingdale’s

Edward Lee Cave

Anne S. Dayton

A. Theodore Dell

Mr. Edward Finkelstein

Dr. George A. Zak
Horst Zimmer
Zoo-Ink

Mobil Oil Corporation

Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust
Helena Rubinstein Foundation

Johnson Matthey, Inc.
The Pfizer Foundation, Inc.
Salomon Brothers, Inc.

Metropolitan Life Foundation

Neuberger & Berman

The Ohrstrom Foundation

Lilliam Nassau Palitz

Edith and Bill Rudolph Philanthropic
Fund of the Jewish Communal
Fund

Frederick P. Sapirstein

Dr. Milton Sapirstein

Joseph E. Seagrams and Sons, Inc.

Mrs. Ben J. Slutsky

Dr. and Mrs. Frank Stanton
(Through New York Community
Trust)

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Watkins

John E. Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Harmon Goldstone

Grey Advertising & Good Neighbor
Foundation

Mrs. Donald Klopfer

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Sackler

Eric Shrubsole

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 627
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Donors of Financial Support

AT&T

Mr. Franz Bader (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)

Clark Endowment Fund

Mr. Peter F. Drucker

Mrs. Katharine C. Gettens (John A. Pope Memorial Fund)
Mrs. George Hegstrom

Mrs. Silvia D. Horvath

Mr. Thomas Lawton (John A. Pope Memorial Fund)

Mr. Richard Louie

Mr. John A. Pope, Jr. (John A. Pope Memorial Fund)
Reader’s Digest Foundation (John A. Pope Memorial Fund)
Mr. Marvin Sadik (Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund)

Donors to the Collection

Anonymous: In Memory of Collector | Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary

and Connoisseur Griggs Burke Foundation
Helen Dalling Ling James Smithson Society
Mrs. Margarite Church Dr. Stephen R. Turner

Mr. Mason M. Wang
Donors to the Study Collection

Antique Porcelain Society of Mrs. Nancy H. Keiser
Washington, D.C., through Mr. William Krossner
Mrs. Samuel S. Jack Mr. Fred L. Miller, Estate of
Mr. Montgomery Sears Bradley Mrs. Mildred R. Palmer
Mrs. Emily L. Callaghan Mr. Robert Lyle Rinehart

Mrs. Elinor L. Horwitz

Donors to the Library

Mr. and Mrs. Winfred H. Anders Mr. James W. Kerr
Mrs. Grace Caley Mr. and Mrs. Murray Lebwohl
Lily and William Chang Mrs. Dora Lee
Charlottesville/ Albemarle Foundation Margaret Mead, Estate of
for the Encouragement of the Arts Mr. Laurence Roberts
Institute of Oriental Culture, Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation
The University of Tokyo Miss Akiko Yamagata
International Cultural Society of
Korea

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Donors of Financial Support

William and Virginia Brody Jerome Greene

Foundation Sydney and Frances Lewis Foundation
Embassy of the Federal Republic of Women’s Committee of the

Germany Smithsonian Associate Program
T. M. Evans L. Yaseen Foundation

Donors to the Collection

Thomas J. Bacas Gene Davis
Lorenzo Bonechi Estate of John Day
Mrs. Kate Champa Mr. and Mrs. Sol Fishko

628 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Elinor Fleming

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Friedman
Mrs. Estella Katzenellenbogen
One anonymous donor

Max Robinson

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Rubin

Donors to the Library
Abram Lerner

Donors to the Curatorial Files
Mr. and Mrs. Sylvan Schendler

William Schack

Smithsonian Institution Resident
Associate Program

Smithsonian Institution Mail
Order Division

Charles Millard

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Donors of Financial Support

Atlantic Richfield Foundation

Martin W. Bell

Nancy Bloch

Mr. and Mrs. B. L. Brody

Rosemary F. Crockett

David C. Driskell

John B. Duncan

Emil Eisenberg

Friends of the National Museum of
African Art

Joseph Gerofsky

Stanley N. Goff

Hon. S. I. Hayakawa

Mrs. Milton P. Higgins

Michael and Janine Hymann

Nancy Hull Keiser

Donors to the Collection

Vincent Abramo
Anonymous

Dr. and Mrs. Ernst Anspach
Samir Borro

Marla Bush

Richard M. Cohen

Marc Leo Felix

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross
Mr. and Mrs. George Lois
Mr. Salomao Julio Manhica

David Lloyd Kreeger

Richard A. Long

John L. Loughran

Beatrice C. Mayer

G. William and Ariadna Miller

Frank E. Moss

Robert H. Nooter

Phelps-Stokes Fund

Mr. and Mrs. M. A. Samuels

Shell Companies Foundation

Siff Charitable Foundation

Irwin Smiley, C.L.U.

Michael R. Sonnenreich

Walter E. Washington

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Institution

Nancy McMurray

Robert and Nancy Nooter

Mrs. Arthur Okun

Mme. Aristides Pereira

Ms. Maria Carmen de Oliveira
Ramos

Warren Robbins

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Syrop

Mr. Jorge Tembe

Mr. and Mrs. Luell A. Watts

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Donors to the Collection

Mrs. Gertrude Aarons
Steven Aarons

Donald B. Anderson
Franz Bader

Dr. Ruth B. Benedict
Berry-Hill Galleries, Inc.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 629

Milton C. Bickford, Jr.
Adelyn D. Breeskin
Herbert Brook

Conrad Buff, III

William Christenberry
Haryette and Marcus Cohn
Max Arthur Cohn

Columbia Historical Society

Barbara Latham Cook

Joseph and Robert Cornell
Memorial Foundation

Mrs. Stefano Cusumano

Olin Dows, Estate of

Werner Drewes

Mr. and Mrs. James Foster

Messrs. Melvin and H. Alan Frank

W. David Frenzel

Eugenie Gershoy

Albert Glinsky

Gordon Holler

Robert Indiana

Institute of the American West

Mary and Richard Isaacson

Mrs. Milton Janus

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.

Gilbert Kendrick

David Lloyd Kreeger

Mr. and Mrs. Ferdinand LaMotte III

Scott H. Lang

Jack Lenor Larsen

Carole Sue Lebbin

Mr. and Mrs. Murray Lebwohl

William H. Levitt

Lee Lozowick

Mary Ryan Gallery

Mrs. Alice Lowdon McGowan

Catherine McIntosh

Dr. Francis J. Newton

Frederick C. Page and Lowell B.
Page, Jr.

ART-IN-ARCHITECTURE PROGRAM

U.S. General Services Administration
(Transfer)

Donors of Financial Support

The Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Foundation

Louise Okie Baker

Sondra Bleich

Ruth F. and G. B. Bohn

Colleen Brown

Crystal M. and Wesley A. Brown

George W. Brown

Simonne L. and John L. Brown

C&P Telephone

Mr. Paul Chesbro

Chesebrough-Ponds Inc.

William Montague Cobb

Harryette and Marcus Cohn

630 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

University of Pennsylvania, School
of Dental Medicine (Thomas W.
Evans Collection)

Mrs. Carl W. Peters

Henry H. Ploch

Mrs. Charles Prendergast

Henry Ward Ranger Fund, through
the National Academy of Design

Juliet Man Ray

Edward Reep

James R. Renwick Collectors’
Alliance

Smithsonian Institution, Archives of
American Art (Transfer)

Smithsonian Institution, Museum of
African Art (Transfer)

Smithsonian Institution, Resident
Associate Program

Mr. and Mrs. Jeremiah W.
Robinson, III

Chuck and Jan Rosenak

Judge and Mrs. Oliver Seth

Laura Shechter

Carlyle H. Smith

Carolann Smurthwaite, Estate of

Janet W. Solinger

Eloise Spaeth

Prentiss Taylor

Miss Mildred A. Thompson

U.S. Federal Trade Commission
(Transfer)

Raymond Wilkins

Virginia Zabriskie

D.C. Postsecondary Education Fund
Dr. A. W. and Sophie Danish
Christine Ray and Steve G. Davis
Sylvia V. Dean

/Vera Deckelbaum

Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation, Inc.

Dresher, Inc.

Jane M. and Charles C. Eldredge

Phyllis G. Fauntleroy

Mary Louise and Edward D.
Friedman

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

Mrs. Secondris A. Haukins

The Hechinger Foundation
Libby B. Dunn Hertzmark

Howard University

Thomas C. Howe

Caroline H. Hume

Jane L. Hummer

Gertrude T. Hunter, M.D.

Idaho Art at the Smithsonian

Industrial Bank of Washington

Elizabeth Johnson

Edith A. and Alton M. Jones

Ambassador William B. and
Joanne R. Jones

Enid and Crosby Kemper Foundation

R. C. Kemper Charitable Trust
and Foundation

Kathryn and Christopher Kent

David Lloyd Kreeger Charitable
Foundation

Beverly J. Lang

John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation

Michal W. Mainwaring

Doris and Lawrence S. Margolis

Dr. and Mrs. S. P. Massie

Rosamond E. and Joseph O.
Matthews

Judith F. Mazo

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Helen P. Medwed

Evalina P. and James A. Mitchell

Edna M. Morris

Dr. Jean C. Mosee

Nazarian Brothers, Inc.

Majorie H. and Barrington D. Parker

D. Cynthia Peters

Donna M. Peterson

Delilah W. Pierce

Lois Jones Pierre-Noel

Ruth G. and Hildrus A. Poindexter

David S. Purvis

Austra Puzinas

Dorothy Quander

Mr. Michael M. Rea

Mary R. Robbins

Judith N. and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Marilyn R. and Jessie H. Roy

Katherine C. and Charles H. Sawyer

Louise C. and Robert L. Scranton

Caroline T. Simmons

Elaine D. and William H. Simons

William B. Snyder

Elosie Spaeth

Carol Spilman

Stamford Community Arts Council

Nelda C. and H. J. Lutcher Stark
Foundation

Malan S. Strong

May M. Sullivan

Betsy Summer

Mary H. D. Swift

Miss John Maurice Thomas

Thurlow E. Tibbs, Jr.

Dr. Bennetta B. Washington

The Washington Craft Show

The Washington Post

The Washington Print Club

Doris Y. Wilkinson

Virginia Bloedel Wright

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Donors to the Collection

3M Company (through R. L. Johnson): 2 keychains with samples of Tartan
brand track-surfacing material attached and a sample mounted on hard-
board (1983.0319).

Ita Aber: embroidered Passover matzo cover, ca. 1935, and a pillowcase cut
down in 1950 from a tablecloth made by Tess Eichler Aber in 1922 (1983.
0892); embroidered cover for a Passover matzo box signed “Ita 1974”
(1984.0025) ; Jewish wedding canopy made by Ita Aber, 1980 (1984.0163).

Anne E. and Ronald D. Abramson: black and red “reeded” glass bowl titled
Ist Survivor made in New York by Mary Ann Hall, also known as “Toots
Zynsky,” 1981 (1981.0699).

Anne E. and Ronald Abramson, Mrs. Charles Carroll, Jean S. and John
Michael, Elmerina L. and Dr. Paul D. Parkman, Samuel J. Rosenfeld, and
Anne and Jack Ryan: glass “prism cut” vase made by Tom McGlauchlin,
1981 (1982.0189).

Acousticon: 43 hearing aids, 1902-68 (1978.0328).

Dr. Willis A. Adcock: Regency model TR-1 pocket transistor radio (1984.
0040).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 631
Hartwig M. Adler, M.D.: microtherm unit, cameron unit, central field pro-
jector and screen, bipolar cautery, ultraviolet light, and a box of eye instru-
ments (1980.0363).

Rita J. Adrosko: 8 curtain pins and 2 baby carriage blanket clips, ca. 1930
(1984.0177); 3 prayer cards, 2 photographs, a prayer book The Shield of
Faith: Reflections and Prayers for Wartime, and a book New Testament:
Roman Catholic Version (1984.0404); glass-covered cocktail tray with
patent date of August 3, 1926, and an aluminum cooking pot marked
“Majestic Cook-Ware,” ca. 1927 (1984.0405).

Richard E. Ahlborn: “Bowman” patch archery award, 1944, and a ticket for
the Cracker Jack Old Timers Baseball Game held at RFK stadium, July 19,
1982 (1983.0530).

Government of Aitutaki, Post Office, Philatelic Branch: 12 souvenir sheets
and 6 first-day covers of Aitutaki (1983.0336); 3 mint stamps and a first-
day cover of Aitutaki (1984.0257).

W. Albersheim: studio view camera with stand and accessories (1984.0401).

John W. Aldrich: red earthenware ring jug with white slip under clear glaze
inscribed “Seth Aldrich,” possibly 19th century (1982.0812).

Alenco Corporation (through Jerry Allman): 3 display boards of electronic
watch components (1984.0093).

Albert (Johnny) and Raymond C. Altieri: bellhop uniform jacket, pants, and
cap used by Albert (Johnny) Altieri in his public relations role as “Johnny

Morris, Jr.” with the Philip Morris Company, 1935-82, and 5 advertising signs
featuring “Johnny” (1983.0391).

American Greetings Corporation (through Joy Sweeney): 23 Christmas greet-
ing cards, 13 seals, 4 pictures, 3 printed messages, and a brochure, all made
for presidents and other government officials, 1960s and 1970s (1983.0593).

The American University, Office of Continuing Education, Campaign Manage-
ment Institute (through Paul David Munger): program and flyer about the
1984 election season (1984.0214).

Donald W. Amstutz: envelope of 72 cartes de visite (1983.0837).

Dorothy May Anderson: album containing name cards, acknowledgment
cards, greeting cards, advertising cards, a bookmark, and a card of 68
needles and a threader, 19th century (1983.0411).

George Aneiro: parchment diploma from Harvard University awarding a
Bachelor of Arts degree to Robert Hebert Terrell in 1884, mounted in
wooden frame, ca. 1890 (1984.0287).

Anonymous: photograph of the “Rockville Bridge, Pennsylvania Railroad”
(1982.0672).

Government of Antigua, Barbuda Dependency, Barbuda Post Office, Philatelic
Bureau: 119 mint stamps and first-day covers of Barbuda (1984.0260).

Arena Stage (through Mary Ann Powell): 6 women’s dresses, a 2-piece suit,
mantle, and a jacket, all late 19th to early 20th century (1981.0023).

Government of Argentina, Postal Administration: 242 mint stamps and sou-
venir sheets of Argentina (1984.0258).

Willy Arnheim: 17 stone anchors, dowels, and bolts used during construction
of the National Museum of American History building, 1961-64 (1984.0125).

Dr. Joseph and Rochelle D. Aschheim: poster of South Vietnam depicting the
voting process in six drawings, 1967 (1983.0583); lacquered wedding photo-
graph album from Saigon, South Vietnam, 1960s (1983.0815).

Rochelle D. Aschheim: button kit for “The Self-Adjusting Patent Boot But-
tons,” 1875-1925, and a box of “Regalia White Lace Collar Supports for
Gentlewomen,” 1890-1915 (1982.0650).

Horst Augustinovic: first-day cover commemorating the 50th anniversary of
air mail service to Bermuda, issued April 28, 1975 (1983.0526).

632 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Reserve Bank of Australia (through A. H. Wilson): Australian $100 note
numbered 350, first issued on March 26, 1984 (1984.0519).

Auto-Bus, Inc. (through Robert E. White): school bus window broken during
desegregation violence in Boston, 1974 (1983.0457).

B & M Sales and Service, Inc. (through Robert J. Odee and Michael J. Rosa):
Atco taximeter, ca. 1930 (1983.0503).

Wilfred E. Babcock, Estate of (through John J. Laffey): 6 letters and a tele-
gram from Frances F. Cleveland to Mrs. E. M. Bacon dated 1905-7 and an
envelope addressed to Mrs. Grover Cleveland (1983.0478).

Bernice Baer: plastic penlight flashlight with inscription “American Women
1963, 1983, 2003” (1983.0594).

Brian M. Bailey: red and black plastic ““Mouseguitar,” ca. 1957 (1984.0031).

Betty B. Baker: campaign button from Louisiana with slogan “J’aime Ike’
(1984.0137).

Susan Harriet Baker in memory of Robert H. Baker: Harrington & Richard-
son revolver, P. Berretta semi-automatic pistol with 2 magazines, and an
officer’s garrison cap (1983.0875).

Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh, Ministry of Posts
(through Mayeedul Islam): 15 mint stamps and a first-day cover of the
People’s Republic of Bangladesh (1984.0259).

M. Elizabeth Barger: duckpin, ca. 1930, duckpin ball, ca. 1950, trophy won by
Ms. Barger, 1953-54, and a bowling shirt which belonged to David Volk,
1961 (1984.0200).

La Vita Barnett: American Definition Spelling Book by Abner Kneeland, 1809
(1983.0563); Dowmetal cigarette roller and a book of Zig-zag cigarette
paper (1983.0610).

Laura L. Barnhart: 2-piece gym suit worn by Ms. Barnhart at Towson High
School, Maryland, 1977—80 (1983.0690).

Ann I. Barone: pair of white canvas bathing shoes with black binding, metal
eyelets, and laces, 1910—20 (1984.0038).

Helen Lawrence Barr: 3 model steam engines constructed by Sven John Law-
rence (1984.0194).

Mary E. Bartelmes: banner made in Upper Volta with wording in French con-
cerning the International Women’s Year of 1975 (1983.0846).

Jeanne M. and Preston R. Bassett: 31/2-hour sandglass timepiece used in a
Swiss monastery (1984.0065).

Bruce S. Bazelon: 14 reproduction and replica 18th- and 19th-century buttons
(1983.0890).

Joyce Becker’s Soap Opera Festivals (through Joyce Becker and Allan Sugar-
man): 6 Soap Opera Festivals posters from throughout the U.S. (1983.0726).

Paul P. Becker: “Piccolino” gown designed by Bernard Newman and worn by
Ginger Rogers in the RKO film Top Hat, 1935 (1984.0434).

Dr. Paul Bedoukian: medal commemorating the consecration of St. Vartan
Armenian Church in New York City (1978.2496).

Burk E. Beerli: safe used by the post office at “Little America, South Pole” by
Admiral Byrd’s second expedition, 1935 (1984.0015).

Henry S. Belden III and Margaret D. Belden: first inaugural ball gown worn
by Mrs. William McKinley, top hat and derby hat worn by President Mc-
Kinley, and a baby shawl made for the McKinley daughters (1983.0889).

Don Bell: nylon rope, a pair of silver spurs, and a pair of leather cowboy
boots used by Mr. Bell during his career as a rodeo rider and range cowboy
(1984.0253).

Archbishop Bergan Mercy Hospital (through Elizabeth G. Cambridge, R.N.
and Becky Gunthert, R.N.): Gomco Surgical Company electric breast pump
with 10 nipple shields and 2 glass bottles, ca. 1947 (1982.0450).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 633
Maurice H. Berlin: Aman plastic bugle made for use by the U.S. Army during
World War II (1983.0622).

Ronald D. Berman: empty soda can of the “American Bicentennial Patriot
Series 1776-1976” with a picture of John Jay (1984.0136).

Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Lackawanna Plant, Department of Plant Engi-
neering (through Jerry Soltis): last blast furnace cast of pig iron and the
last basic oxygen furnace heat sample of steel produced at the Lackawanna
Plant in October 1983 (1983.0887).

Billie Billing: Joss cue stick given to Ms. Billing for producing and promoting
the first Women’s Professional Billiard Alliance tournament in August 1977,
a chalk cube, and 3 posters (1983.0580).

Countess Mona von Bismarck: 6 dresses, a jacket, and a 2-piece suit by
Givenchy, 2 blouses by Emilio, a blouse by Chanel, 2 belts by Fortuny, a
purse by Hermes, 3 hairpins, a bracelet, pair of earrings, and a ring (1981.
0801).

Richard Blackston: 11 decals, 10 bumper stickers, 7 banners, 6 posters, and
2 broadsides all relating to Republican campaigns (1983.0581).

Mel Blanc: 7 animation cells of Mel Blanc’s most famous voice characters, 4
posters from Warner Bros. movies, 3 Mel Blanc phonorecords, 2 talking
Bugs Bunny dolls, a Bugs Bunny clock, Bugs Bunny toy telephone, and a
talking Tweety Bird bank (1983.0555).

Charles A. Blank: globe “Gold Medal” accordian with case made in Ger-
many, ca. 1930 (1983.0588).

A. R. Bonorden: 4 electric gas lamp igniters (1983.0756).

Mrs. Gertrude (Arthur L.) Bostedt: Disabled American Veterans uniform
worn by Arthur Bostedt consisting of a blue wool jacket with DAV pins on
lapels, pants, hat, and a yellow tie, 1930s—40s (1984.0440).

Marguerite Z. Bottorff (through William Gundlach): 5 programs of the NBC
orchestra conducted by Arturo Toscanini, 4 bound musical scores, and 2
flyers mounted on a card (1983.0549).

Robert D. Bowser: map of the March 4, 1889, inaugural parade route and a
business calling card from the National Mosiac Co., Inc. (1984.0377).

Helen King Boyer: 85 prints and sketches, 11 greeting cards and bookplates,
3 aluminum plates executed in dry point, and 2 sketch books by Louise M.
Boyer, 57 prints and sketches by Helen King Boyer, and 16 prints and
drawings by Ernest W. Boyer (1984.0338).

Mrs. Charles R. Brady: red plastic University of Arkansas “Razorback” hog
helmet, ca. 1977 (1984.0104).

William G. Brandt and Bill Dietze: book Lincoln Campaign Songster, 1864
(1984.0216).

Todd M. Brennan: 162 trading cards, 4 dolls, 2 bottles of hair conditioner,
2 T-shirts, and a pillow case relating to the television series ‘Charlie’s
Angels” (1984.0495).

Helene Bress: spool rack with 4 spools, 6-arm reel, squirrel swift, and a flax
brake all used in 3-yarn processing (1983.0807).

British Information Services (through P. Beckingham): videotape cassette of
British political campaign advertisements (1983.0672).

Claudia Kyle Brush: folding umbrella-style canvas tent with stakes and
poles, ca. 1925 (1983.0392).

Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun: Stanley “Steamer” model 60 roadster, 1910 (1982.
0417).

Ervin T. Bullard, Mary B. Duncan, Agnes B. Maglin, and Dorothy J. Stewart:
Bausch and Lomb microscope (1978.0982).

Helen Duprey Bullock: life portrait of Thomas Jefferson drawn in 1804 by
Fevret de Saint-Memin (1983.0600).

634 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Bulova Watch Company, Inc. (through Benjamin Matz): 8 Bulova watch heads
(1984.0096).

John S. Burgess: pair of black rubber Khmer Rouge sandals from Aranya-
pratet, Thailand, 1980 (1983.0765).

Helen Burner: 2 cards, 2 medals, a bonnet, hatchet, belt, coat, pair of pants,
envelope, and a booklet, all used by Otto Fischer as a member of the
Order of Red Men (1984.0312).

Carol Burnett: charwoman costume worn by Ms. Burnett on various televi-
sion and theater programs (1984.0223).

2d Lt. Richard B. Burns: 3 shirts of Soviet and Cuban manufacture and 2
shovel covers of East German manufacture taken during U.S. military ac-
tion on the Island of Grenada in 1983 (1984.0414).

Wayne E. Busbice: 2 phonorecords of bluegrass artist Buzz Busby (1983.0893).

Frank B. Bushey: 2 booklets about Buffalo Bill’s Wild West Show, 1907-8, and
2 booklets about the King Brothers Circus, 1951-52 (1984.0042).

Iva M. Bushman: armor mounted on a plaque and a metal chain used by
Francis X. Bushman as “Messala” in the 1926 motion picture Ben Hur, an
oil portrait of Mr. Bushman wearing the armor, and a painting of the
movie's chariot race scene (1983.0564).

CBS/Fox Studios (through Robert W. Norvet): brown felt Stetson hat worn
by James Arness as “Matt Dillon” on the television series “Gunsmoke”
(1983.0687).

Leopoldo Cancio: 6 bonds and certificates issued by the International Bank
of Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank (1983.0446);
bronze coin struck at the recently discovered mint of Pedasa in the Jonian
Provence of Asia Minor, 3rd or 2nd century B.C. (1984.0460); 2 specimen
registered bond certificates, 1982 (1984.0462).

Dr. Edward W. and Irene E. Cannon: 15 reproducing piano rolls by Ampico
(1983.0589).

Rev. Howard W. Carroll on behalf of the Carroll Family: cover with letter
carried by U.S. Navy seaplane N.C.-4 from Halifax, Nova Scotia across the
Atlantic Ocean to the Azores in May 1919 (1982.0681).

David C. Carruth in memory of Mildred Carruth: 4 necklaces, 4 pairs of ear-
rings, a set of 2 buckles, a bracelet, and a brooch, all mid-20th century
(1983.0384).

Harold D. Carter: Hall Braille writer, ca. 1910, and a Marburg German lan-
guage Braille writer, ca. 1960 (1984.0240).

John F. Cataldi: stained glass window in metal frame of Gothic arch design
possibly made by Frank & Co., New York, late 19th to early 20th century
(1981.1001).

Catholics Act for Equal Rights Amendment (through Maureen Fiedler): 4
flyers, 3 letters, 2 envelopes, and 2 membership forms concerning women’s
rights (1982.0415).

Rafael Cepeda Atiles: 2 pandereta tambourines made by Jesus Cepeda in
1983, a bomba drum made in 1954, and a rasp and scraper, ca. 1982 (1983.
0686).

James F. Channning: commemorative Centennial cotton bandana with a black
leather presentation case, 1876 (1984.0073).

Eloise D. and John W. Charlton: leather case containing 96 glass stereo trans-
parencies and negatives by Albert Noel (1983.0785).

Marie Cheatham: black straw mourning hat and a pair of scissors used by
Ms. Creatham as “Stephanie Wyatt” on daytime television series “Search
For Tomorrow” (1984.0199).

Government of the Republic of China, Postal Administration (through the
Director General of Posts): 435 postage stamps, 131 specimen stamps, 65

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 635
first-day covers, 14 souvenir sheets, and 8 covers of the Republic of
China (1984.0261).

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: hybrid aureus of the Roman Emperor Antoninus
Pius (1979.1252); 96 silver and bronze commemorative medals (1980.0943) ;
2 steel dies with cast bronze inserts for striking counterfeit silver staters
from Tarentum in Calabria, 302-281 B.C. (1981.1063); 4 steel dies for strik-
ing counterfeit gold coins from Populonia, Etruria, 450-350 B.C. (1981.
1064); 2 steel dies with cast bronze inserts for striking counterfeit solidi
in the name of Aelia Zenonis, wife of Emperor Basiliscus, A.D. 475-476
(1981.1065); 2 steel dies with copper inserts for striking counterfeit gold
half staters of Tarentum, 340-334 B.C. (1981.1066); 2 steel dies with cast
bronze inserts for striking counterfeit silver octadrachms of King Ptolemy
I of Egypt, 323-285 B.C. (1981.1067); 2 German and Greek commemorative
medals, a Russian badge, and a French art medal (1983.0436).

V. Clain-Stefanelli: 2 dies with copper inserts for striking counterfeit silver
didrachms of Himera, Sicily, 482-472 B.C. (1981.1057); 2 steel dies with
cast bronze inserts for striking counterfeit aurei and denarii of Mark
Antony and Octavius with the name Marcus Barbatius, ca. 41 B.C. (1981.
1058); 2 dies with cast bronze inserts for striking a counterfeit denarius or
“tribute penny” of Roman Emperor Tiberius, A.D. 14-37 (1981.1059); 2
steel dies with cast bronze inserts for striking counterfeit gold medallions
of Queen Helena, mother of Constantine the Great, A.D. 307-337 (1981.
1060); 4 steel dies for striking counterfeit gold coins from Populonia in
Etruria, 450-350 B.C. (1981.1061); 2 steel dies with copper inserts for
striking counterfeit silver staters from Tarentum in Calabria, ca. 375 B.C.
(1981.1062).

J. F. Gates Clarke: 29 teapots and 2 sugar bowls illustrated with “Rebekah
at the Well” scene, 6 molded earthenware pitchers, and 2 12-paneled tea-
pots, all 19th century American (1981.0134).

Thomas P. Cocke: woman’s pink silk dress with skirt, 2 bodices, and trim-
mings, 1880—90 (1980.0872).

Barbara J. Coffee: bridge tally in the shape of a hatchet (1983.0119).

William H. Cohrs and John Steele: wooden bowl from the propeller steamer
Vernon which foundered in Lake Michigan on October 29, 1887 (1983.
0496).

Coin World (through Margo Russell): 8 bronze medals commemorating the
U.S. mints issued by Coin World newspaper (1984.0461).

Pearl B. Cole: 7 buttons and 2 pins from political campaigns (1984.0447).

College, U.S.A. (through Kerry H. Stowell): publicity poster for the animated
film I Go Pogo (1983.0554).

Government of the Republic of Colombia, Postal Administration: 92 first-day
covers and 2 presentation folders of Colombia(1984.0262).

Colorado Railroad Historical Foundation, Inc., Colorado Railroad Museum
(through Robert W. Richardson): harp-style switch stand of the Denver &
Rio Grande Railway, ca. 1880 (1982.0521).

Aileen Harris Conkey: black and white photograph of President Truman
decorating General Eisenhower with the Congressional Medal of Honor
(1984.0021).

Government of the Cook Islands, Ministry of Posts, Post Office, Philatelic
Bureau: 37 postage stamps, 22 souvenir sheets, and 15 first-day covers of
the Cook Islands (1984.0263).

John Cook: bronze medal designed by Mr. Cook for the U.S. delegation of
the 1983 Federation Internationale de la Medaille Congress in Florence,
Italy (1983.0675).

Gisela S. Cooke: used cover with Amelia Earhart label, 1948 (1983.0362).

636 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Diane M. Cornell: pillow with picture and signature of Franklin D. Roose-
velt (1983.0500).

Cracker Jack Old Timers Baseball Classic (through Larry Moffi): 2 programs
and 2 posters from the 1982 and 1983 games and a baseball and ticket
from the 1983 annual game (1984.0229).

Government of Cuba, Minister of Communications, Philatelic Services: 49
stamps, 23 first-day covers, a souvenir sheet, and a mini sheet all of Cuba
(1984.0264).

C. E. Curtis: polychrome pieced-work wool bed cover made by Jewett W.
Curtis, 1889-93 (1984.0406).

Government of the Republic of Cyprus, The Director of the Department of
Postal Services, Ministry of Communications and Works: 2 mint specimen
stamps “Europa 83” (1983.0369); General Post Office, Philatelic Service:
121 stamps and first-day covers of the Republic of Cyprus (1984.0265).

Government of the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus, Director of the Postal
Department: 85 mint stamps, 21 first-day covers, 2 souvenir sheets, 2 com-
memorative mailing labels, and a post card with first day cancellation all
of the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus (1984.0266).

Gail B. Dalmat: 3 posters, 2 bumper stickers, a sticker, and a balloon con-
cerning women’s rights, Senator Sarbanes, and jobs for Americans (1982.
0593).

Rep. Tom Daschle: 50-star U.S. flag adorned with eagle claws, feathers, and
native American beadwork (1983.0324).

Diane V. Daum, M.D.: political button “Elect Marty VINIKOOR City Coun-
cil Republican” (1984.0131).

Jim Davis: original drawing and proof for the first “Garfield” comic strip
by Jim Davis for United Feature Syndicate, Inc., 1978 (1983.0480).

Joy Powell Davis: embroidered and appliqued wool quilt top signed and
dated “Frances M Jolly 1839” (1983.0241).

Martha B. Davis: 4 dishes, 2 dresser bottles with stoppers, a bowl, and a
creamer and sugar bowl of cut lead glass and a “book” flask of non-lead
cut glass with silver cap, all 1900-20 (1983.0195).

Edith Joy Dawson: photograph of Eleanor Roosevelt with American military
personnel, September 1943 (1984.0395).

L. F. Deardorff & Sons, Inc. (through Merle S. Deardorff): Deardorff camera
with carrying case and lenses, a view camera, Zeiss lens, and a Meyer dou-
ble plasmat lens (1984.0045).

Mary A. DeLaurier: “Champion of Champions” belt presented to John L. Sul-
livan as the last heavyweight bare-knuckles boxing champion on July 4,
1887, and a wooden case (1983.0401).

Don Dellair and Tommy Wonder 123: 2 red velvet jackets studded with glass
beads and 2 pieces of sheet music (1983.0070).

Dorothy Norton Denecke and Frederick Whitney Denecke in memory of
Helen Marie and James Patrick Norton: Peerless “pail-a-day” hot water
supply boiler manufactured by the Eastern Foundry Co., ca. 1920 (1984.
0178).

M. G. Detweiler: Leica camera in leather case with accessories (1983.0793).

Ruth Freeman Dickinson: engraving of John Dickinson and a letter of autho-
rization and a payment authorization both signed by John Dickinson (1984.
0221).

Eddie Dimond: 62-button concertina made by inventor C. Wheatstone of Lon-
don, early 20th century (1981.0778).

Eileen K. Dodd: woman’s 2-piece suit designed by Christian Dior of Paris,
France, 1960-65 (1982.0581).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 637
Robert “Bo” Donly: bumper sticker “Re-Elect ‘Bo’ DONLY for Dania. . .”
(1984.0222).

Ann Hysa Dorfsman: ribbon sash from the National ERA March in Chicago,
Illinois on May 10, 1980 (1983.0590).

John R. Doss: 267 ancient Greek bronze coins and medallions of Cilicia
(1979.0703).

Gladys C. Dougherty: 5 phonorecords, a 2-deck card set, and a “Coca-Cola”
cribbage board (1983.0117); white metal lime squeezer, lid opener, bottle
opener, punch can opener, tongs, and a lemon twist peeler (1984.0107);
13 phonograph records in 8 record albums (1984.0134).

Jean T. Downs: magazine insert about the John Birch Society, ca. 1963 (1983.
0585).

Lawrence Drake and M. G. Drysdale: 6 candleshades with cast metal orna-
ments, 3 clear mica candleshades, a pair of metal candleshades with 6
liners, and a pair of pink silk candleshades in their original boxes (1983.
0371).

J. Harry DuBois: 110 historical plastic artifacts (1983.0538); 32 18th- through
20th-century plastic artifacts (1983.0626); 20 bakelite and plastic artifacts,
early 20th century (1984.0138); 19 artifacts of molded and cast bakelite,
resin, nylon, and urea plastics (1984.0410).

Duke University, William R. Perkins Library, Manuscript Department
(through Ellen G. Gartrell): 7 swatches of printed cotton fabric found in
the ledger of a general store in Yadkin County, North Carolina, 1850-60
(1983.0312).

Robert Duphorne: 3 U.S. financial documents (1983.0575).

E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Incorporated (through C. R. Burt
and Kenneth M. Smith): DeVry 35-mm motion picture news reel camera
in case (1983.0223); Central Research & Development Department, Experi-
mental Station (through D. E. Arch); automatic photometer (1983.0523).

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest du Pont: 2 refined earthenware portrait busts, one in-
scribed “Washington” and the other “Old English Gentleman,” Stafford-
shire, England, 19th century (1982.0549).

June W. Echols: brown Rockingham-glazed ceramic pitcher with portrait
busts of President James A. Garfield, ca. 1881 (1981.0626).

Carl Ek: 5 cut glass plates, a cut glass dish, cut and engraved glass bowl, cut
glass covered sugar bowl with “pillar” rib and fan pattern, blown glass
covered compote, three-quarter whisky tumbler with engraved floral deco-
rations and the initials “WC,” and a “craquelle” glass covered jar with gilt
and green snake decoration, all 19th century (1982.0501).

Harold W. Ellis: 7 posters, 2 flyers, 2 brochures, a newspaper, official program,
pamphlet, map, and a button, all from the 20th anniversary “March on
Washington,” August 27, 1983 (1983.0545).

Margaret Northcross Ellis, Madison E. Mayre, Elizabeth B. and Julia Ellis
Robinson, and Tyler Robinson Stuart: white chiffon crepe dress worn by
Julia Gardiner Tyler when presented at the Court of Louis Philippe, ca.
1843 (1984.0491).

Mrs. Robert B. Ellison: medical examination chair (1980.0355).

Dorothy Olcott Elsmith: 5 boxes containing wooden trays of glass stereo
slides, a wooden Taxiphote stereo viewer, and a stereo hand viewer (1984.
0044).

Lt. Col. William K. Emerson: 19 chevron insignia, late 19th century (1983.

0509); 6 enlisted-rank collar insignia manufactured in Germany, 1950s
(1984.0148).

638 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Evan-Picone Fashion Studio (through Frank R. Smith): ruler, square, tape
measure, grader, weight, and needlepoint pattern tracer, all mid-20th cen-
tury (1982.0015).

Sarah Eveleth Antiques (through Sarah C. Hansen): porcelain teabowl and
saucer from Nyon, Switzerland, early 19th century (1982.0427).

Dr. Mabel R. Farson: gold pocket watch marked “Jean Hendrik Kuehn,
A. Amsterdam,” ca. 1800 (1982.0302).

Henning Fernstrom 2nd: souvenir stamp case with a booklet of 12 2-cent U.S.
postage stamps commemorating President William McKinley’s second
inauguration on March 3, 1901 (1984.0028).

Marabeth S. Finn: pair of woman’s high-heeled pumps made of Corfam syn-
thetic leather (1983.0623).

Charles P. Fisher: bass viol made in New England in the late 18th century
(1983.0633).

Shelly J. Foote: wooden darning egg with handle (1984.0180).

Elsie B. Ford: 2 officer’s collar insignia of the Corps of Engineers, World War
II (1984.0145).

Alice Woodson Forester: glass vase titled Fantasy Vessel made by David R.
Huchthausen, 1977 (1982.0419).

Jacqueline Fowler: woman’s chemise, 1800-50 (1982.0526).

Dauphine and Patricia A. Frame: box of 110 cartes de visite, tintypes, cabinet
prints, and oval prints, all late 19th and early 20th centuries (1983.0376).
The Franklin Mint: 5 bank notes from Botswana and 3 bank notes from the
Solomon Islands (1981.0637); 2 silver medals from the “History of the

United States” series (1983.0680).

Kurt Fredriksson: 4 sheets of 160 Vatican City stamps commemorating Pope
Paul VI’s visit to New York in 1965 (1984.0116).

Helen-Marie Fruth: lead glass chocolate pot and cover with engraved
Chinoiserie decoration, probably of 19-century English manufacture
(1983.0305).

Frederick C. Gaede: reproduction of a Civil War blanket (1984.0311).

D. L. Ganz: 6-piece process set of official Hawaiian statehood medals, 1959
(1979.1242); gilt presentation medal of Pope Leo XIII designed by F. Bian-
chi, 1879 (1984.0002).

Paul V. Gardner: polychrome millifiori plaque made by Mr. Gardner while
an assistant to Frederick Carder at Steuben Glass Works, ca. 1930 (1983.
0811).

Mary Potter Garrett: James K. Polk silver Indian peace medal (1984.0003).

Carl W. Gatter: 2 velvet carpet fragments and a matching border strip from
the Parry House, Wyncote, Pennsylvania, 19th century (1982.0061).

Jane K. and John E. Gehring: dark blue cobalt glass bottle and stopper titled
Ancient Plum Blossom Tree Bottle made by John F. Nygren of Walnut
Cove, North Carolina, February 15, 1980 (1982.0811).

General Electric Company (through Guido DiGrigorio and Kenneth J. Hig-
gins): Burgmaster drilling machine and a General Electric Mark II numeri-
cal control unit adapted to function with the drilling machine, ca. 1958
(1982.0674); (through George Wise): 4 comic books about light, space,
electronics, and jet power (1983.0671).

Edward J. Gentsch in memory of Hugo E. Gentsch: 16 woodworking and
metalworking drill bits used by Hugo Gentsch to train machinists during
World War II (1982.0607).

Estate of Wilma L. Gerber (through Truman N. Case): U.S. government
thrift card with 4 25-cent thrift stamps attached, issued to Ms. Gerber in
1918 (1983.0429).

Sylvia M. and William Gersch: miniature teapot, teabowl and saucer, a pear-

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 639
shaped cream piacher, and a blue jasper cup, all late-18th-century ceramics
and a “Lord Nelson” portrait tankard, egg-shaped tankard, simulated cop-
per glazed jug, unglazed mortar and pestle, pink lusterware teabowl and
saucer, and a covered box, all 19th-century ceramics (1982.0808).

Barry, M., and Robin Gibb: 3 sets of costumes worn by the BeeGees during
their 1979 concert tour and 17 phonorecords (1983.0781).

Madeleine R. and Sidney Gleason: silk commemorative menu from a dinner
to celebrate the 79th anniversary of the American Declaration of Inde-
pendence held in Melbourne, Australia, 1855 (1984.0439).

Sen. John Glenn: videotape cassette from the Glenn for President campaign
titled “Believe in the Future Again” (1983.0773).

Dorothy T. and Steve Globus: 5 glass-decorated metal curtain pins, ca. 1930
(1984.0176).

Mrs. Rachel M. Goetz: decorated ostrich egg commemorating the 1956 presi-
dential campaign of Adlai E. Stevenson (1984.0129).

Ira M. and Lawrence S. Goldberg: 117 California gold coins (1981.0498).

Jose C. Gomez: charro-type Mexican saddle with a pair of spur straps, strap
with end loops, machete in scabbard, and a breast band, 1972 (1984.0456).

James M. Goode: green painted hand-carved wooden window cornice, 1825—
60 (1984.0341).

Mack L. Graham: glass vessel decorated with 4 blue-green and red butterflies
made by Mark Peiser, 1973 (1982.0810).

L. Gramberg: engraving titled The Exhibition and an engraved plate for
printing From the Bridge, both by Liliana Gramberg (1983.0709).

Juanita Gray: 2 costumes worn by Mrs. Gray while a rodeo trick rider (1983.
0346).

The Greater New York Conference on Soviet Jewry (through Carolyn
Greene): 2 T-shirts “Speak Out For Those Who Can’t” and “Run March
For Soviet Jewry” (1983.0597).

Ralph Greenhill: photograph of John Roebling’s Allegheny River Bridge at
Pittsburgh, 1859-60, and an advertising card from the H. & F. Blandy
Steam Engine Works at Zanesville, Ohio, ca. 1876 (1983.0891).

Nicholas Grossman: Carl Zeiss and Jena “zieldosechs” rifle telescope (1983.
0614).

Grove Corporation (through Philip K. Edwards): Grove medical orthoprobe
(1984.0036).

Algirdas Gustaitis: 2 covers commemorating the 50th anniversary of the
transatlantic flight by Stephen Darius and Stanley Girenas in 1933
(1984.0079).

Beth A. Hager: red metal button with slogan “I don’t bowl .. . and I keep
my figure!” (1983.0573).

Doris Williams Hailey: 2 books Congressional Vest-Pocket Directory and
Platforms of the Two Great Political Parties, 1856-1912 by Senator Joseph
L. Bristow (1984.0236).

Conrad S. Ham: 3 surveyor’s transits, 2 surveyor’s compasses, surveyor’s
chain, wye level, Burt solar compass, and an Astro solar compass
(1983.0548).

Faye J. Hamilton: blood transfusion bottle, early 20th century (1984.0547).

William G. Hamilton: home-crafted hand-operated drill press (1983.0857).

Frances Miller Hanover: manuscript about Dr. Dayton C. Miller and an
x-ray photograph of Dr. Miller (312613).

Florence E. Hardwick: black lace shawl in shape of butterfly wings made
for the wife of President Benjamin Harrison (1984.0083).

Hart Schaffner and Marx (through Robert G. Connors): 18 suit jackets
showing variety of sizes manufactured in 1974 (1979.0883).

640 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Harvard University, Department of Physics, Gordon McKay Lab: 2 labial
organ pipes (322616).

Herbert H. Harwood, Jr.: 4 floor plans, a cross section, and a rendering of
the facade of, possibly, the New York Central Railroad station at Syra-
cuse, ca. 1930 (1983.0854).

Robert Hauser: wood engraving of a paper marbler’s workshop and a book
titled American Decorative Papermakers, 1983 (1983.0880).

Helen M. and Werner K. Hausmann: 139 ancient Jewish bronze coins
(1983.0453).

Haverford College (through G. Holger Hansen): 14 19th-century astrophysical
instruments (1981.0745).

Clayton R. Hawkins: baseball autographed by members of Washington
Senators baseball team, 1924, and a souvenir booklet World Series, 1924
(1984.0201).

Jerry Hawkins: phonorecord titled “Lord I Was Born to Ride a Harley”
by Jerry Hawkins (1983.0370).

Eleanor R. and Province M. Henry: 48 19th-century glass objects manu-
factured in New England, Pittsburgh, and the Ohio area (1979.1262).

Glenn S. Hensley: cast brass patent data plate from a Busch-Sultzer diesel
engine, patents date 1895-1900 (1984.0010).

Herder’s Cutlery, Inc. (through Lynn H. Walker): 33 name punches, 9
scissors, 8 advertising objects, 6 buttonhole cutters, 6 miscellaneous hand
tools, 4 sharpening and honing stones, 3 metalworking tools, 3 razors, 3
buttonhooks, 2 printing plates, a set of razor blades, razor case with stop-
per, crochet needle, lot of claim tagsfi ice skate, skate print block, and a
stool all made or used by Herder’s Cutlery, Inc., 19th—20th centuries
(1983.0406).

Bernard L. Herman: T-shirt with slogan “Give ‘em an Inch and We Get
Three Miles” made for the Great Washington Meltdown demonstration
on May 6, 1979 (1983.0669).

Leo Hershkowitz: 2 rubber bands, ca. 1844 (1983.0624).

Hewlett-Packard Company, Desktop Computer Division (through Michael R.
Radisich): 32-bit chip in a block of lucite (1984.0029).

Marion A. Hickernell: pair of brown shoes worn by Louise M. Ayres on her
wedding day, October 13, 1889 (1982.0448).

Susan Hickmott: woman’s dress designed by Claire McCardell, 1946
(1983.0243).

Sheila B. Hoermann: deep amethyst transparent glass tumbler decorated with
polychrome enamel coat-of-arms, beaded bands, and inscription, possibly
made in Germany, 1850s—90s (1983.0812).

Lawrence Hoes: handkerchief, black billfold, and a pair of silk lavender
evening shoes (1983.0123).

John N. Hoffman (through Rev. Dr. James B. Parsons): 5 patent model
school desks, a patent model lawn seat patented in November 1873, and a
patent model barber/dentist chair patented in June 1871 (1983.0508);
folding armchair patent model, patent granted to George E. Whitmore of
New Haven Folding Chair Co. on March 16, 1875 (1983.0642).

Mrs. Hoge: Spencer microscope with 4 cover slides, a monocular in case with
3 objectives, 2 oculars, 2 bottles of immersion oil, a test tube holder, and
a test tube (321702).

Muriel C. Hoitsma: 82 phonograph records (1982.0613).

David Holland: 7 panels and 2 racks from the first numerically controlled
machine tool, developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
1949-52 (1983.0712).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 641
Prof. James C. Holland: photographs of a temporary rock crushing operation
and a lumber mill yard of the late 19th century and a blast furnace and
molding floor in Alabama, ca. 1900 (1984.0074).

Prof. James C. and Mary G. Holland: albumen photograph of Litchfield’s
Granite Quarry in Fitchburg, Massachusetts (1983.0762).

George B. and Nancy T. Holmes: autoharp by American Victor Harp
Company with key, probably early 20th century (1983.0605).

Stu Holzman: Johnson model D bus fare box, ca. 1949 (1983.0321).

Herbert Hoover III: hip-length pale green satin cape with matching chiffon
lining worn by Lou Henry Hoover (1983.0596).

Dr. Richard H. Howland: photographic print of the Duchess of Kent, Princess
Marinia of Greece, by the photographer Cecil Beaton (1983.0834); bill of
sale for furniture sold to C. A. Hubbard by Potter, Denison & Company in
Providence, Rhode Island, December 9, 1868 (1984.0397).

Debra M. and V. Bruce Hunt: blue denim infant’s diaper covers designed by
Calvin Klein and an infant’s knit T-shirt with decal heart, both 1981
(1982.0585).

Dora Pedery Hunt: bronze medal representing Erasmus of Rotterdam
(1983.0632).

R. Peter Hutchinson: 2 flour sacks concerning war relief embroidered by
Stephanie Demeestere while a refugee from Belgium during World War I
(1983.0220).

Insilco Corporation (through Donald J. Harper and John J. Weber): 6-piece
tea and coffee service, 4 open salts, 2 cake baskets, a coffee urn, butter
dish, syrup pitcher with stand, fruit stand, jewel box, and a card receiver,
all silver-plated, made by Meriden Britannia Co., ca. 1876 (1984.0424).

Kathy Merlock Jackson: cowrie shell with carved inscription ‘“Souvenir/
Mother from/Galveston” (1984.0350).

Jacques N. Jacobsen, Jr.: overseas cap and insignia patch from the Civilian
Conservation Corps, ca. 1939 (1984.0385).

Jacuzzi Whirlpool Bath (through Roy Jacuzzi): prototype and production
models of the Jacuzzi Hydromassage whirlpool bath (1982.0121).

Kurt Jaeger: German World War II 20 Reichsmark emergency bank note
(1983.0574).

James Industries Incorporated (through Betty M. James): “Slinky” spring
toy used by the over-all winner of a charitable fund-raising contest in
1975 (1984.0182).

Eric C. Jenkins: pair of shoes and rubber covers, 1898, excavated from Camp
Alger, Virginia (1983.0015).

Edward C. Johnson, O.D.: student’s microtome (1984.0484).

Col. William P. Jones, Jr.: 2 Brazilian “bull’s eye” postage stamps, 1843
(1984.0080).

W. J. Jung: “Washington” style hand press made by the Cincinnati Type
Foundry (1983.0452).

Albert E. Kane: telescopic revolving back Graflex camera with Zeiss, Mentor,
and Ihagee lenses, 2 carrying cases, and accessories (1983.0423).

Alvin R. and Marjorie S. Kantor: undivided 20 percent interest of the
Benjamin Franklin General Post Office Account written entirely in Mr.
Franklin’s own hand and includes 8 of his signatures, 1770-72 (1982.0786).

Alice A. and Aubrey F. Kelch, Jr.: 13 coronary artery bypass graft markers
made of stainless spring steel (1983.0799).

Dorothy E. Kellum: book Poems by Yanks in Britain written by members of
the U.S. armed forces, 1942-45 (1983.0772).

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Kennedy, Sr.: 18th-century Windsor fanback chair and
stretcher-based table and a 19th-century oblong wooden bowl (1983.0770).

642 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Roger G. Kennedy: reed organ made by Alexandre Pere et Fils of Paris,
France, ca. 1898 (1983.0497).

Paulette Kerstitch: jacquard woven silk portrait of J. M. Jacquard (1982.0311).

Claudia B. Kidwell: freshman beanie worn by Richard Kidwell at the
University of Maryland, 1956-60 (1983.0534).

The Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change, Inc.
(through D. Louise Cook): T-shirt with slogan “Jobs/Peace/Freedom” from
the 20th anniversary “March on Washington,” August 27, 1983 (1984.0205).

Mrs. Leonard Kirby: flag with eagle and 13 stars on a shield (1984.0077).

Miriam L. Kirkland: European red shawl with asymmetrical paisley design
(1982.0368).

Frank E. Klapthor: signed pen and ink drawing titled Golf Girl by Charles
Dana Gibson (1983.0531).

Dorothy L. Klausli: “Tekniklavier” practice keyboard instrument made by
Mrs. A. M. Virgil, early 20th century (1983.0482).

Hendrine Kleinjan: jacquard woven silk picture of the Zurcherische Seiden-
webschule 1881 (1980.0404).

Ted Knight: blue blazer worn by Mr. Knight as “Ted Baxter” on “The Mary
Tyler Moore Show” television series, 1972—77 (1983.0201).

Janet Kogut in honor of Della Kogut: woman’s yellow dress with fabric
flower decorations, 1948 (1982.0618).

Noelle Kominoth: T-shirt, shorts, shoes, and socks worn by Ms. Kominoth
while playing elementary school soccer (1984.0347).

Howard Koslow: etching of the Brooklyn Bridge by Howard Koslow, 1983
(1983.0855).

Theodore A. Krieg: 14 brass pulleys, 9 brass and iron picture hooks, 3
decorated window shades designed by Frederick Krieg, and 2 nickel shade
pulls (1983.0567).

Cameron J. LaClair, Jr.: Philips radio receiver, model B3X98A (1983.0187).

Gloria LaFay: 2 pairs of skis and a pair of ski boots on a stand (1983.0387).

Mary Lily H. LaMar: letter from Eleanor Roosevelt to Mrs. James B. LaMar
dated April 1, 1944 (1984.0444).

Ruth J. Lambries: 2 letters, one from Anwar El-Sadat and the other from
Mahmoud H. Abdel Nasser, written to Mrs. Lambries (1984.0085).

Landes Manufacturing Company (through Martin R. Liebhold): 3 units of
Northridge storage systems designed by Jerry Johnson in 1977 and made
by Landes Manufacturing Company (1984.0102).

John P. Langellier, Ph.D.: 2 pairs of shoulder knots, a cap insignia, helmet,
and a coat, all of the Signal Corps, ca. 1890 (1983.0615); white summer
helmet, kepi cover, leather gauntlets, and a pair of cavalry shoulder knots,
all late 19th century (1984.0141); 2 bugle cords, 2 fatigue hats, a cap with
shawl, shoulder knot, havelock, and a white cap (1984.0402).

Lige H. Langston: braided rawhide quirt made by Leo Duarte, ca. 1970
(1984.0156).

Gracie and Walter Lantz: 21 pieces of original art work from the first
Woody Woodpecker cartoon titled Knock, Knock, 1940, 2 16-mm films,
2 videotape cassettes, and a wooden model of Woody Woodpecker (1982.
0567).

Benjamin T. Layton: Lord Elgin wrist watch (1984.0094).

Jack LaZard, Jr.: serigraph Roebling’s Dream Realized by Otto Neals, 1983
(1984.0109).

Edmond J. LeBreton: Christmas card signed “Tip O'Neill” (1983.0413).

Estate of Adelaide Leier (through Eugene F. Behlen): 19 19th-century U.S.
coins and 17 17th- through 19th-century foreign coins (1980.0986).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 643
Jane Lentz: 3 woman’s felt hats and 2 pairs of stockings, 20th century
(1982.0065).

Erminia C. Leonardo (through Ercole Leonardo): 2 hand irons and an electric
iron used by tailor Enrico Leonardo, 1910-49 (1982.0431); 10-piece Ameri-
can Legion uniform, 12 badges, 4 ribbons, 2 medals, a cuff link, tie pin,
plate, and a flag-tenna from Ms. Leonardo’s American Legion activities
from the 1920s through the 1970s (1983.0516).

Sara L. Lepman: 2 political banners and a poster from the campaigns of
Thomas E. Dewey and Earl Warren (1983.0668).

Hope Anthony Levy: 2 cotton towels, 2 lengths of ingrain carpeting, 2 cover-
lets, a tablecloth, piece of embroidered canvas, pair of sheap shears, and a
brass name stencil, all 19th century, an 18th-century glazed wool quilt, a
copy of Mrs. Levy’s book The Craft of Needlepoint, and a proof sheet,
work sampler, and stitch diagram used to make the book’s cover design
(1981.1020).

Mrs. Stanley C. Lewis: Shaker-style dark red wool doll’s cloak with cape
collar and lined hood, early 20th century (1984.0175).

David K. Lieberman: political button “NATIONAL War Fund SCHOOLS
New York” (1984.0206).

Robert Loeffler, M.D. and Vera Loeffler: glass sculpture of a 3-dimensional
grid-like rectangular form made by Steven I. Weinberg, 1981 (1981.0964) ;
glass vase titled Aventurine Star by Michael Glancy, 1982 (1982.0814).

Charles T. G. Looney: aluminum tray, dish, and knife (1984.0394).

George T. Lopez: cedar and cottonwood sculpture of San Rafael made by
Mr. Lopez and dated February 10, 1982 (1983.0774).

Jack Lord: 19 objects used by Jack Lord in the portrayal of the title character
on the television series “Stoney Burke” and a poster of Mr. Lord’s photo-
graph used as a TV Guide cover (1984.0388).

Lorimar (through Russel Goldsmith and Larry Hagman): hat worn by Larry
Hagman as “J. R. Ewing” on the television series “Dallas,” 1979-83
(1984.0193).

Alice Tucker Lowe: pink satin cape worn to the Lincoln Inaugural Ball
(1983.0661).

Mrs. Marion Lund: 3 ophthalmoscopes (1983.0742).

Kenneth Lynch (through Patricia A. Lynch): 8 axe handle patterns, 3 saw
hammers. a horse collar mallet, shoe hammer, stake anvil, and a cooper’s
anvil (1983.0403).

Roberta A. McAllister: 3 U.S. Army insignia and a pair of blousing bands,
1970s (1983.0357).

M. Sgt. Charles W. McCann: 5-star Fleet Admiral’s flag, 7-star commission
pennant, and a photograph of the USS Dauntless with her crew, World
War II (1983.0416).

Patricia Hill McCloy and Kathryn Hill Meardon: appliqued and embroidered
wool quilt titled Solar System and signed “E. H. Baker A.D. 1876” (1983.
0618).

Russell L. McLaughlin: “A Sound Mind in a Sound Body” health medal
given by the Pittsburgh High Schools (1983.0204).

A. W. MacLeod, M.R.C.V.S.: pair of field glasses made by T. W. Watson
of London and a leather case, early 19th century (1983.0515).

William McMillen: shoemaker’s round knife (1983.0333).

James Madison University, Physics Department (through James D. Lehman
and Raymond A. Serway): educational seismic system sensor and illumina-
tion case built by James D. Lehman (1984.0017).

Nadya Makovenyi: 15 phonorecords (1984.0004).

644 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Katheryn Dorflinger Manchee: cut glass vase and a vase with green glass
casing made by Christian Dorflinger & Sons, ca. 1900 (1983.0288).

Hessina Mann: lead glass vase decorated in a “Brilliant Period” cut pattern,
1900-17 (1982.0502).

Marble Collectors’ Society of America (through Claire W. and Stanley A.
Block): 348 glass, ceramic, and stone marbles and 2 ceramic carpet balls
(1981.0746).

Francis Marion College, Francis Marion College Library (through Paul Dove):
memento card from the memorial service of President James Abram Gar-
field (1983.0660).

James E. Maros: Ronald McDonald, Mayor McCheese, and Big Mac dolls
created by Mr. Maros, ca. 1968 (1983.0366).

Elizabeth B. Martin: blue parasol, long white silk knit mitts, black lace mitts,
widow’s veil, and 2 mourning handkerchiefs all owned and used by Mrs.
William McKinley (1983.0598).

Alyce Maylard: 8-keyed boxwood flute made by Thomas Key of London,
England in the early 19th century (1984.0339).

Otto Mayr: electric “Booklite’ lamp in original container, ca. 1953 (1983.
0769).

Medtronic, The Medtronic Archive on Electricity in Medicine and Biology
(through Dennis Stillings): 3 slide sets titled Myocardial Implant, Endo-
cardial Unipolar, and Endocardial Bipolar, ca. 1973 (306405).

Herbert Melnick: $50 note on the Citizens Bank of Louisiana at Shreveport
(1980.0945).

Darroll Ann Midgette: 2-piece gym suit worn by Ms. Midgette at State
University College in New Paltz, New York, 1968-69, and a gym blouse
worn by Flora Di Paolo Midgette, ca. 1923 (1983.0685).

Charles W. Millard III: portfolio of 95 prints and photographs (1983.0838).

George L. Miller: English earthenware muffin plate with black transfer
printed image inscribed “The Potters’ Art/Printing,” mid-19th century
(1982.0804).

Stanley Millimet: field overcoat with liner, 1946 (1982.0690).

Ruth H. Millington: 2,404 color transparencies, 99 prints, and miscellaneous
publications, illustrations, correspondence, and ozalid prints all on the
subject of covered bridges collected by Raymond E. Wilson, and a photo-
graph of Mr. Wilson taken in 1912 (1984.0009).

R. S. Moody: 100 pairs of spectacles and cases (317912).

Charles Moravec: 52 phonograph records (1983.0822).

Meyer Morse: U.S. Silver Center cent, 1792 (1981.1022).

David L. Moser: Robinson templet odontograph used to mark and shape
gear teeth, in original case with instruction booklet, ca. 1883 (1983.0353).

Frances M. Rudell Moyer: 2 woman’s brooches, a woman’s cape, girl’s
bracelet, and a pair of infant’s shoes, all early 20th century (1982.0456).

William Mozey: New York State Militia cap plate, ca. 1825 (1983.0355).

Ms. Foundation for Education and Communication, Inc., Ms. Magazine
(through Patricia Carbine and Joanne Edgar): cover of Ms. magazine with
feature story on Sally Ride, first U.S. woman astronaut, January 1983
(1984.0230).

Wm. P. Mulvaney, M.D., F.A.C.S.: baseball autographed by Babe Ruth and
Hank Aaron (1984.0479).

Mrs. John H. Murray: woman’s black dress with long net sleeves, 1969
(1982.0580); 11 examples of pewterware, set of 20 pieces of chrome-plated
nickel-silver flatware, and a minature brass and wood bedwarmer (1983.
0566).

Musicbox, Inc. (through Dean and Sheryl Foster): courier tuxedo consisting

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 645
of pants, jacket, shirt, cuff links, studs, gloves, shoes, and a bow tie and
3 badges, 2 buttons, and 2 plaques from the singing telegram service
Musicbox, Inc. and Western Union, Inc. (1983.0572).

Susan H. Myers: 3 reproductions of Moravian roof tiles made of coarse
earthenware by Epro, Inc., 1968-69, and a coarse red earthenware drain
pipe, 19th century (1982.0505).

Perham C. Nahl: 132 U.S. first flight covers (1984.0013).

County of Nassau, Department of Recretation and Parks, Nassau County
Black History Museum (through Willie Houston): cacheted cover com-
memorating the 69th anniversary of the founding of the National Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Colored People (1983.0269).

The National Committee for the Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris (through
Joan R. Challinor): first-day cover signed by Graham Elson commemorating
the bicentennial of ballooning and of the Treaty of Paris, 1783-1983
(1983.0438).

National Education Association Communications (through Keith B. Geeger):
2 videotape cassettes, 2 posters, poster art, and a storyboard (1983.0601).
National Organization for Women (through Judy Goldsmith): 5 videotape
cassettes of newsclips and a videotape cassette of the “ERA Countdown”

film (1983.0126).

National Society Daughters of the American Revolution (through Patricia W.
Shelby): Yorktown Bicentennial bronze medal, 1981 (1981.0545).

Mortimer L. Neinken: 6 Indian Hundi notes of the King George V period
(1980.0896); 106 ancient Greek coins and 5 weights from the Black Sea
region (1980.0942).

Willie Nelson: black polyester “Willie and Family on the Road Again” tour
jacket and a red cotton neck scarf (1983.0551).

Y. T. Nercessian: 6 Armenian Los Angeles medals (1984.0246).

The City of New York, Department of Consumer Affairs (through Simon P.
Gourdine and Edward I. Koch): 27 weighing and measuring devices, 19th
and early 20th centuries (1983.0514).

David A. Nicksay: 3-piece clown costume, undershirt, bow tie, black shoes,
red felt hat with rhinestones, red gloves, red socks, 2-piece clown boxing
outfit, 2 pairs of boxing gloves, brass trumpet in case, make-up kit, sewing
kit, and an oil painting all relating to the career of Ringling Brothers Circus
clown Zapata (1983.0571).

Government of Norway, General Directorate of Posts: 19 mint stamps and
first covers of Norway (1983.0136).

Harold L. Oberheim, Jr. and Tillie N. Oberheim: 2 ticket checks and a menu
from President Roosevelt’s Birthday Ball, January 30, 1934 (1984.0220).
Tillie N. Oberheim: 2 pieces of President Roosevelt’s birthday cake, Jan-

uary 30, 1934 (1984.0054).

Peter Obershoff, M.D.: office model space eikonometer made by the American
Optical Company (314554).

Catharine C. Olds: book Anti-Suffrage Essays by Massachusetts women,
1916 (1983.0670).

Elisabeth Pal: 11 puppets made by George Pal and 2 videotape cassettes of
George Pal’s puppetoons “Date with Duke” and “Tubby the Tuba”
(1983.0361).

Mildred R. Palmer: 3 woman’s silver bracelets set with rhinestones, 1927-35
(1983.0373).

Joseph Parisi: 7 AFSCME buttons (1984.0344).

Janie Parker: pair of ballet slippers worn by Ms. Parker during Houston
Ballet’s performance of The Sleeping Beauty in Washington, D.C. on
October 11-16, 1983 (1983.0552).

646 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 49 33-rpm phonorecords, 15 45-rpm phonorecords,
3 riding crops, 2 horse show ribbons, a pennant, pair of ice hockey gloves,
folding fishing knife, Dale Carnegie course pin, and a set of cuff links and
tie clasp with a ski motif (1983.0393); 4 medals, 2 red silk rally ribbons,
magazine dated April 1954, 1959 National Republican Associates elephant,
1968 Republican campaign bottle, United Nations arm band, medallion,
pro-choice button, banner, straw hat, post card, and a paper weight
(1984.0308).

Verna G. Patterson: 12 pieces of sheet music (1984.0024).

Sidney A. Peerless, M.D.: 165 ancient lead tesserae (1982.0035).

Magdalene M. Perrou: handbill poem titled The Assassination of President
McKinley by H. M. Black, ca. 1901 (1983.0160).

Virginia E. Peterson on behalf of the children of James F. Easton, M.D.:
2 nebulizer bottles, an electro-therapeutic machine, atomizer spray appara-
tus, diploma, and a picture of the first graduating class of the University
of Maryland Medical School (1984.0576).

Dr. John Misha Petkevich: 13 “An Evening with Champions” skating pro-
grams, 1970-82 (1983.0550); 8 posters and a program from “An Evening
with Champions” ice skating exhibitions (1983.0859).

Phelps Dodge Refining Corporation, Laurel Hill Works (through Raymond
Scheurer): Herreshoff triple expansion steam engine with direct-connected
Westinghouse direct current generator, ca. 1904, a Herreshoff Manu-
facturing Company builder’s plate dated 1904, and a Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Company builder’s plate, ca. 1892 (1983.0090).

Clifford F. Pinkham: 16 World War II maps (1982.0167).

Polish American Nuismatic Association (through Louis Koncza): 2 bronze
medals, one commemorating the 300th anniversary of the Relief of Vienna
and the other commemorating Pope John Paul II’s 60th birthday (1984.
0463).

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Porter: glass bowl in Sirenes pattern made by Rene
Lalique et Cie of Paris, France, ca. 1932 (1983.0495).

Alan W. Postlethwaite: silicon transistor slice and a subminiature transistor
prepared by Raytheon Company for use by Bulova in Accutron watches
(1984.0097).

Vocille M. Pratt: plate and 4 stemmed glasses in the Cactus pattern, bowl
decorated with high relief band of parakeets, and a tumbler with a fern
design made by Rene Lalique et Cie, 1930-33, and a toilette jar and cover
in the Dahlia pattern made by Cristal Lalique, ca. 1960 (1983.0312); 5-piece
place setting of blown molded colorless glass in Cactus pattern made by
Rene Lalique et Cie, Paris, France, 1930-33 (1983.0828).

Procter & Gamble Productions, Inc. (through Fred Bartholomew): coffee
pot and house coat from the television daytime series “Guiding Light” and
an apron, globe, and Thank You card from the series “As the World Turns”
(1984.0198).

Brian Pugh: 2 Spalding baseballs, one autographed by Don Drysdale and
the other autographed by the L.A. Dodgers (1984.0228).

Puritan-Bennett Corporation (through John B. Weium): Puritan-Bennett
ventilator (1982.0382).

Railroaders Memorial Museum (through Robert L. Emerson): rail drill
(1983.0087).

Juliette K. and Leonard S. Rakow, M.D.: preliminary sketch for the cameo
glass Pegasus vase by John Northwood I, England, ca. 1878 (1983.0884).
Julian A. Rand, Jr.: blown “Favrile” art glass vase made by Louis Comfort

Tiffany, ca. 1915 (1983.0172).
Thomas M. Raysor, Jr.: 5 posters, 2 fans, a flyer, pennant, boutonniere, and

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 647
a button, all from the 20th anniversary “March on Washington,” August
27, 1983 (1983.0540); yellow felt banner with purple lettering reading
“Gay Farm Workers” (1983.0877).

John P. Remensnyder: 21 plaster molds and a stamp from the American
Pottery Manufacturing Company of New Jersey, 1833-45, 16 pieces of
19th-century American earthenware and stoneware mugs, flasks, jars,
and inkwells, a 17th-century possibly Swedish stoneware mug, and a
ceramic tile from the Rookwood Pottery Company of Ohio, 1900 (1978.
0938).

Estate of John Paul Remensnyder (through Doris R. Ballantyne and J. P.
Remensnyder, M.D.): 92 iron, copper, and brass objects used in the home
in the 18th and 19th centuries (1982.0090); 67 late 18th- through early-
20th-century ceramic objects (1982.0423).

Barbara G. Reno: phonograph turntable, phonograph record recorder, 4
public speech recordings, 2 blank disks, 2 microphones, 2 headphones, and
miscellaneous cords (1984.0098).

Rexnord, Inc., Process Machinery Division (through Richard R. Bains): 40
linen tracings and drawings, 29 glass negatives, 24 blueprints, 3 sales
books, 3 pairs of double calipers, 2 builder’s plates, and a pressure rise
scale used by the Nordberg Manufacturing Company (1984.0243).

Ira Rezak, M.D.: “Genesis” and “Exodus” medals by Brian Watkins (1983.
0676).

Harriet C. Riddile: 7 woman’s dresses, 5 hairpieces, 3 cards of trimmings, a
woman’s hoop and instruction sheet, pair of shoes, sweater, chemise,
bonnet, and a pair of drawers, late 19th to early 20th centuries (1981.0250).

S. Dillon Ripley: 9 Bulgarian commemorative coins (1983.0435); Cyprus 500
mils silver proof coin commemorating the 30th anniversary of the Univer-
sal Declaration of Human Rights, 1978 (1983.0677).

Seymour Robins: 19 paper graphics designed by Mr. Robins (1984.0379).

Rockaway Corporation (through Robert Jania): secondary standard balance
handmade for Triner Scale & Manufacturing Company by a German ma-
chinist in 1910 (1984.0583).

Fred Rogers: rust colored knit sweater worn by Fred Rogers on the children’s
television program “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood” (1984.0219).

Curtis and Jeanette S. Roosevelt: 5 gowns, 4 pieces of lace, 3 coats, 3 collars,
2 jackets, a pair of shoes, pair of sleeves, pair of cuffs, slip, shawl, and a
piece of fabric which all belonged to Eleanor Roosevelt (1983.0405).

Abraham A. Rosen: 1,944 ancient Greek and Roman coins (1981.1025).

Jonathan P. Rosen: 1,215 ancient and medieval coins (1981.1024).

J. William Rosenthal, M.D.: 15 intraocular lenses, 4 glasses frames, 1930s and
1950s, and a French lens edger machine, ca. 1750 (1984.0483).

Rowantrees Pottery (through Sheila B. Varnum): 6-piece place setting of
luncheon dishes of the same pattern presented to Mrs. Eisenhower in 1955
(1983.0052).

Mrs. Sumner Rowe: militia dress coat, ca. 1850, and a pair of gilt epaulettes
(1984.0256).

Edwin A. Rowlands: 6 golf gloves, 2 pairs of racing gloves, 2 pairs of football
stockings, 2 horseshoes, 2 baseballs, a baseball bat, baseball cap, basketball
jersey, hair ribbon, whisk broom, whistle, and an emory cloth (1983.0347) ;
autograph of J. Honus Wagner, first-base coach of the Pittsburgh Pirates,
dated 1935 (1984.0135).

Royal Copenhagen Porcelain Corporation (through Per Sorensen): 5-piece
silver place setting in the Acorn pattern designed by John Rohde in 1915
and made by Georg Jensen in 1982 (1983.0645).

John E. Ruedy: 4-inch refracting telescope with a set of 4 eyepieces, star diag-

648 / Smithsonian Year 1984
nol, accessary box, equatorial mount, and a tripod, built by John A. Bra-
shear, ca. 1896 (1983.0579).

Bernard R. Rumbutis: Remington electric typewriter (1982.0334).

SAS Philatelic Club: 7 first-flight covers of the Scandinavian Airline System
(1983.0400).

Dr. Michael A. Sabia, D.C.: “Enswell” device invented by Dr. Sabia to reduce
eye swelling of boxers between rounds (1983.0076); scoliometer invented
and patented by Dr. Sabia, 1983 (1984.0286).

Estate of Sen. Leverett Saltonstall (through William L. Saltonstall): fence
rail split by Abraham Lincoln and John Hanks, 1829-30 (1983.0418).

William M. Sandridge: bronze medal of Franklin D. Roosevelt by French
medalist Anie Mouroux, 1945 (1983.0427).

Kitchens of Sara Lee (through Peg Ransom): plaque commemorating the
“Bicentennial Birthday Cake of the United States” which was made by the
Kitchens of Sara Lee and displayed in Philadelphia’s Memorial Hall, July 4,
1976 (1983.0663).

Carl H. Scheele: 2 medals and a plaquette (1981.0621); booklet Family Shelter
Designs (1983.0582); shopping bag and litter bag with political campaign
slogans (1984.0368).

Nadine and William F. Schmitt: solid brass prisopiometer with lenses made
by the Standard Optical Company, patented September 21, 1886 (312673).

Catherine M. Schroeder: handkerchief box which belonged to Caroline C.
Fillmore, second wife of President Millard Fillmore (1983.0278).

Howard Schwartz: 2 tickets to “Woodstock Music and Art Fair,” August 16
and 17, 1969 (1983.0154).

Dr. L. Albert Scipio II: 9 reproduction enlisted-rank collar disks, 1907-26
(1983.0766).

Scovill, Inc. (through Josephine Byrolly): 1,715 coins, tokens, medals, and
campaign buttons (1981.0296).

Kenneth Akiva Segan: etched print portrait of Albert Einstein by Mr. Segan,
1981 (1983.0707).

Daniel M. Semel: socket chisel marked “James Cam” (1983.0331).

Carl A. Sferrazza: political button “Re-Elect Rosalyn/First Lady” (1983.0351) ;
2 movie posters and a pair of 3-D glasses from the movie Jaws III, 1983
(1983.0553); 2 political buttons, a Bicentennial flag, and a “Khomaniac
Dartboard” poster (1983.0599); booklet titled How to Become a Citizen by
Charles Kallmeyer, 1925 (1983.0824).

Neil Shafer: 616 pieces of paper scrip items and tokens given by food stores
as change to customers in the USDA food stamp program (1983.0454).

Mrs. Blanche Shavers: trumpet used by Charlie Shavers and a framed oil
painting of Mr. Shavers playing the trumpet (1983.0479).

Dr. Margery W. Shaw: 180 Napoleonic and French Revolution covers and
documents from volumes 8 and 9 of the Henry A. Myer Collection (1983.
0780).

David H. Shayt: certificate for good behavior and regular attendance awarded
to Allen Searle from the public schools of Rochester dated April 13, 1865
(1983.0203).

William F. Showers, P.E.: Leeds & Northrup temperature recorder, ca. 1920
(1984.0026).

Shriners Hospital for Crippled Children, Burns Institute—Cincinnati Unit
(through Bruce Glenn MacMillan, M.D. and Matthew P. Maley): 2 patient
isolator units with components used in specialized treatment of severe
burns (1980.0187).

Alberta R. Shy: post card with drawing of an elephant and the words ‘Pull

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 649
My Tail and See—The Next President” which is a photograph of William
H. Taft, November 1908 (1983.0483).

Vijai Pal Singh, M.D.: 6 sheets of 261 postage stamps from Nepal (1983.0640).

Vilma F. Slingerland: petit point purse with scenes of George Washington
entering Philadelphia and the Declaration of Independence and a “Capitol
Building” handle (1984.0323).

Harriet K. Smith: log cabin pattern pieced-work quilt, 19th century (1983.
0731).

Ruth Marie Smith: child’s 9-patch pieced-work quilt embroidered with “Char-
lotte Roe Virgil, 1806” (1984.0092).

Velda Tindall Smith: brown tooled leather saddle used by Velda Smith while
a rodeo trick rider and a quilt with tan squares embroidered with signa-
tures of various rodeo stars made by Mrs. Smith (1983.0386).

Verna E. Smith: Chicago World’s Fair stereoscopic viewing device with 6
photographic slides of views of the Fair contained in the original box, 1933
(1984.0525).

Smithsonian Institution, Business Management Office, Mail Order Division
(through Luna Lambert): 2 pressed glass goblets in Broken Column pattern,
one ca. 1886 and the other a 1982 reproduction, a pitcher, spoonholder, and
sugar bowl of pressed glass in Lion pattern, 1867—1930s, and a bone china
reproduction of a Chinese bowl, 1980 (1982.0499); bone china platter repro-
duced from an 18th-century Hochst “raised flower” patterned piece and a
bone china teapot and cover reproduced from an 18th-century English tea-
pot (1983.0161); bone china cup and saucer reproduced from an 18th-cen-
tury Vienna piece, made by Lenox, Inc., 1983 (1984.0238).

Albert Soiland Cancer Foundation, Southern California Cancer Center
(through James F. Nolan, M.D.): 3 self-regulating x-ray tubes (1981.0588).

Joseph C. Sonntag: 2 samples of Edison wire and tube, telegraph relay, and
a cable splice (1983.0334).

South African Mint: set of 8 commemorative coins of South Africa, 1979
(1979.0822).

Alice L. Sparrow: 2 woman’s 2-piece suits designed by Adrian and Gunther
Jaeckel, 1949-52 (1982.0177).

Benjamin Stack: 136 Greek coins from Pontus (1983.0512).

Benjamin, Harvey G., and Norman Stack: 120 French medals and plaquettes
(1977.1210) ; 176 gold mohurs issued by the Mogul Emperors of India, A.D.
1556-1806 (1977.1214); 11 ancient Greek and Roman counterstamped coins
(1980.0938); 9 ancient Greek tetradrachms from Agrigentum and Messana
in Sicily, 5th century B.C. (1981.1049); 10 ancient Greek silver tetradrachms
from Syracuse and Messana in Sicily, 5th century B.C. (1981.1050); 10 an-
cient Greek silver tetradrachms from Leontini and Messana in Sicily, 5th
century B.C. (1981.1055); 8 ancient Greek coins from Messana in Sicily and
a bronze weight for one mna from Cyzicus in Mysia (1981.1056) ; 10 dies for
striking ancient Greek coins (1981.1075); 10 dies for striking Siculo-Punic
coinage, 410-310 B.C. (1981.1076); copper gilt twenty-dollar piece from the
California Miners Bank, San Francisco, 1850 (1983.0426); box-taler of Lud-
wig III of Bavaria with portraits, 1914-16 (1983.0428); 6 letters and finan-
cial documents, 18th and 19th centuries (1983.0431); letter written by
Catherine II of Russia to Lt. Col. Baron Osten Sacken in reference to the
Order of the Holy Apostolic Sant Prince Vladimir, written from St. Peters-
burg on December 4, 1792 (1983.0432); 4 letters, an engraved portrait, and
an obituary all related to Francis Elias Spinner, 1802-90 (1983.0433); 23
French and Italian personal medals (1983.0445); 2 ancient Greek and 2
Roman Imperial coins (1983.0674); 28 gold and electrum Byzantine coins,
A.D, 1025-1225 (1983.0682); 31 Roman Republic silver denarii (1983.0683) ;

650 / Smithsonian Year 1984
64 dies used to strike counterfeit Roman Imperial and Byzantine coins
(1983.0784).

Harvey G. Stack: 145 Greek coins from Paphlagonia (1983.0510).

Norman Stack: 98 Greek coins from Nysia (1983.0511).

John N. Stafford: fascimile of a Department of State $10.00 stamp (1984.0186).

Carl L. and Elaine Steiner: 5 pieces of “tin” glazed porcelain made in Doccia,
Italy, ca. 1750, a porcelain basket made in Worcester, England, 1765-75,
porcelain cup and saucer made in Germany, 1825-50, and a porcelain
chocolate pot made in China, 1775-1810 (1981.1026).

Richard L. Steiner: piece of an 18th-century silk brocade dress which be-
longed to Martha Washington (1984.0132).

Anne W. Stockvis: carved, burnished, and pit-fired ceramic vase made by
Nancee Meeker, ca. 1979 (1982.0809).

Marion B. Stokes: direct disc recording in jacket titled “Lincoln Mayorga
and Distinguished Colleagues” recorded at Sheffield Lab Inc., ca. 1968
(1983.0577).

Elizabeth Dutton Stone: crocheted and embroidered afghan made by Annie E.

Given Dutton in the 19th century (1983.0869).

Lois Greene Stone: plastic “dog tag’ identification on chain worn by Mrs.
Stone as a school child in New York City during World War II (1984.0254).

Stop the War (through Jay Johnson): 15 post cards from Nicaragua (1983.
0543).

Diana and J. G. Stradling: blown cobalt-blue glass pitcher, Pittsburgh area,
19th century (1981.1041).

Estate of Alys L. Strauss (through James H. Ridgely): 2-page letters patent
for an apparatus for spinning cotton and other fibrous substances granted
to Asahel M. Lanpher and signed by Andrew Jackson, 1834 (1983.0292).

Leonard H. Strittmatter: World War II Japanese surrender leaflet found on
the streets of Naha, Okinawa (1984.0490).

Mary Stuart: blue cotton apron worn by Ms. Stuart as “Joanne Toureur” on
the daytime television series “Search For Tomorrow,” 1951-60 (1984.0208).

Mr. and Mrs. Galen P. Suiter in memory of Miss Sarah G. Hall: wooden
niddy noddy used to wind yarn, inscribed “GAB 1779” (1981.0910).

Mrs. W. A. Sutherland: Chinese export porcelain teapot, cover, and stand
decorated with transfer printed image of the Goddess Juno, ca. 1750 (1982.
0790).

James M. Swain, M.D.: silver flute made by Theobald Boehm of Munich,
Germany in 1848 and a period case (1984.0070).

Government of Sweden, PFA, The Swedish Post Office, Stamps and Philatelic
Services: 281 mint stamps, booklets, and first-day covers of Sweden (1983.
0137).

Dr. Hans Syz: porcelain teabowl and saucer decorated with handpainted Corn-
flower pattern, Nyon, Switzerland, ca. 1770, and a porcelain tureen cover,
Meissen Germany, 1730-35 (1981.0931); porcelain saucer made by Joseph
Gaspard Robert in Marseilles, France and a porcelain coffee pot decorated
with fruit and butterflies from Zurich, Switzerland, both ca. 1780 (1981.
1027).

David L. Tapscott: white T-shirt with “The Grin Will Win” in green (1984.
0204).

Samuel Teicher: 2 account books from the National Theater in Washington,
D.C., 1883-85 and 1899-1905 (1983.0202).

Temple University, School of Communications and Theater, Department of
Radio—Television—Film (through Prof. Francis L. Heying): 97 radio tran-
scriptions of presidential campaign addresses and public service programs
of the World War II period (1983.0578).

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 651
Texas Instruments Incorporated (through Dr. Willis A. Adcock): micropro-
cessor, silicon wafer, and a solid state chip (1984.0128).

Joseph M. Thatcher: 3 cast pewter Legion buttons, 1792-98, excavated from
Ft. Washington and Ft. Jefferson sites in Ohio (1983.0817).

Earle A. Thomas, Jr. and Jane M. Thomas: coarse stoneware pottery vase
with rare “Oxblood” glaze made by Hugh Robertson’s Chelsea Keramic
Art Works in Chelsea, Massachusetts, 1884-89 (1984.0049).

Andrew F. Thompson in honor of Anna L. and Roy W. Thompson: bench-top
gear-cutting machine with a brass table of ratios plate and 40 cutting
wheels, 1850—75 (1983.0606).

Harry and Henry Tobias: 50 pieces of sheet music of songs written by
Charles, Harry, and Henry Tobias (1983.0529).

Col. Paul E. Todd: woman’s dress with embroidered white roses and rhine-
stone decorations worn by the wife of Assistant Secretary of State John E.
Osborne, 1913-15 (1982.0094).

Paul A. Tolovi: 2 coat of arms plaques of the Defense Communications
Agency (1983.0702).

Cynthia R. and Stephen F. Townsend in memory of Woodrow E. Townsend:
banner taken from a town building in Eisengen, Germany, April 1945 (1982.
0504).

Thomas N. Tully: roofer’s soldering hatchet copper (1983.0332).

Lillian Scheffers Turner: Lady Diana sculpture of a woman on horseback
made by Lenox, Inc., 1940s, and a Lenox porcelain cream pitcher and sugar
bowl with cobalt-blue glaze and silver overlay, 1910-30 (1981.0700); 3
Lenox porcelain demitasse cups in silver holders by Gorham (1981.0758).

Lillian Scheffres Turner: Lady Diana sculpture of a woman on horseback
containing a 22-karat gold portrait bust of Martin Luther King, Jr. made by
Compagnie des Cristalleries de Baccarat of France, signed by sculptor
Joseph Goy, 1979 (1981.0032).

Marian B. Tuthill: autograph album containing signatures of outstanding
people of the early 20th century collected by Elizabeth Tuthill Johanknecht
(1983.0758).

Naomi Uemura: silver medal commemorating Mr. Uemura’s solo dog sled
expedition to the North Pole, 1978 (1979.0843).

Union Carbide Corporation, Speciality Chemicals Division (through Warren
M. Anderson and Dr. Nathan L. Zutty): original reaction vessel used by
Leo H. Baekeland to mix the first batch of bakelite plastic, ca. 1909 (1983.
0524).

United Nations, Postal Administration: 100 mint stamps and panes of the
United Nations (1983.0135).

Unknown: white satin robe with red trim, hood with support, and a mask of
a Ku Klux Klan costume, 1960s (1983.0595); pink crackle-glazed Japanese
porcelain vase, 20th century (1983.0753); souvenir silk stockings from the
visit of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth to the U.S. in 1939 (1984.
0496).

U.S. American Revolution Bicentennial Administration: 26 silver and 23
pewter plaquettes from “The Bicentennial History of the United States
Ingot Series” issued by the Franklin Mint (1980.0947).

U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration (through Alice
Tinn): counterfeit U.S. silver dollar, 1804 (1983.0434); U.S. Marshals Ser-
vice (through Michael Spearman); 3 twenty-dollar and 2 ten-dollar gold
pieces, 1883-1903 (1983.0033).

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Mint (through Donna Pope):
8 coin and proof sets composed of 48 coins issued by the U.S. Mint, 1980—
82 (1983.0430).

652 / Smithsonian Year 1984
U.S. Postal Service, Philatelic Design Section, Stamps Division (through Jack
Williams): 6 first-day covers commemorating the 100th anniversary of the
opening of the Brooklyn Bridge, May 1983 (1984.0087).

V. Ushanoff: lithographic print of The Formal Transfer Ceremony of Alaska
Territory, Oct. 18, 1867, at Sitka, Alaska by Mr. Ushanoff, 1983 (1983.
0814).

Winifred M. Valentine: 2 letters handwritten by Susan B. Anthony to Senator
Palmer of Michigan, December 1884 (1984.0366).

Robert R. Van Deventer: 4 embroidered doilies, late 19th to early 20th cen-
turies (1984.0324); Briggs textile marking pen of glass in a 2-piece wooden
case (1984.0325).

Vocational Guidance and Rehabilitation Services (through Olive K. Banister) :
dress, bib, slacks, apron, blouse, tool belt, back pack, blanket, and crutch
bag made by and for the handicapped (306628).

Martin Vogel, Jr.: 55 textile objects of European origin dating from the 17th
through the 19th centuries (1981.0704).

Robert M. Vogel: 14 photographs documenting the construction of the
Moravian-Silesian North Railway in Austria-Hungary, 1866-69 (1983.0634) ;
7 stereographic views of industrial papermaking, ca. 1900 (1983.0708); 3
engraved plates of a wood engraver’s shop and tools and an explanatory
letterpress text, all from Diderot’s Encyclopedie (1983.0878).

David Volk: shirt and rubber duckpin ball used by Dave Volk and his 1962
DPAA Duckpin All-Star Match Game Championship Trophy (1984.0197).
James H. Wallace, Jr.: 3 handouts, 2 posters, a letter, and a bumper sticker
all relating to the 20th anniversary “March on Washington,” August 27,

1983 (1983.0542).

Florence E. and Franklin W. Wallin: parlor “cocked hat” style grand piano
made by Chickering & Sons Co. of Boston, Massachusetts in 1857, a piano
stool, and a period tuning hammer (1983.0377).

Edward J. Ward: cap and collar insignia of a U.S. Army Air Corps cadet,
World War II (1983.0886).

Deborah Jean Warner: bumper sticker “Harold Washington-Punch-8-For-
Chicago” (1984.0403).

C. Malcolm Watkins: coarse red earthenware jar of a type made in Buckley,
North Wales, mid-18th century, and a clear colorless blown glass sugar
bowl and cover made at Thomas Cains’ South Boston Flint Glass Works or
at his Phoenix Glass Works, 1813—30 (1981.1038); round brass box with
art pottery tile cover made by Low Art Tile & Metal Manufacturing Co.,
1877-1902 (1982.0144); pair of andirons with human-head-shaped finials,
fluted pillars, and bow-shaped front legs, 1786-1820 (1983.0808); crossing
tender’s stop sign, early 20th century (1984.0112).

Joan Pearson Watkins: 7 stoneware and earthenware cooking and preserving
objects and a blown amber glass bottle (1980.0786); 9 teaspoons, 4 dinner
forks, 4 dinner knives, 2 serving spoons, and a butter knife, all silver-
plated flatware (1983.0461); pink “crackle” glass pitcher and lid, 1920s—30s,
and a pale aqua glass vase with striated yellow areas made by James M.
Wayne, ca. 1969 (1983.0494); set of 14 fork-spoons and a set of 12 picnic
spoons cut from thin panels of wood and a set of 12 drapery hooks on
original cardboard (1983.0643); painting of a Race on Long Island Sound
between 2 steamboats, ca. 1870 (1984.0358).

Helen E. Weber: woman’s green coat made by Zelinka and Matleck and a
green felt hat, 1949-50 (1983.0850).

Margaret B. Wennersten: pillow top with “Flags of Nations at War with
Germany” on one side and “Remember Me While I am Helping to Make
the World Safe for Democracy” on the other side (1981.0985).

West Virginia Independence Hall Foundatin (through Dr. Emory L. Kemp):

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 653
section of wrought iron “I” beam rolled by the Trenton Iron Works in
1856 and removed from the Custom House of Wheeling, West Virginia
between 1856 and 1859 (1983.0764).

Phyllis S. Wetherill: 36 cookie, biscuit, and doughnut cutters (1983.0711).

Rodd L. Wheaton: 13 samples of pile carpet from the Marcus Daley Hotel
in Anaconda, Montana and 2 samples of ingrain carpet from Maryland
churches, all 19th century (1980.0616).

John N. White: 2 reproduction golf clubs and a set of 6 golf balls mounted
in a case showing the development of golf balls (1983.0532).

Maxwell Whiteman: 14 Afro-American figurines (1983.0689).

Frances F. Wilkins: violin and bow made by John Albert of Philadelphia, ca.
1876 (1981.0781).

Kenneth A. Williams: 3 fezzes and 2 pins used by Roy G. Genneary while
a member of the International Order of Odd Fellows (1984.0315).

Hugh Allen Wilson: Chickering & Sons clavichord designed by Arnold Dol-
metsch, 1908 (1983.0157).

Gretchen L. Witt: fashion plate from Petit Courrier des Dames, ca. 1837, and
a woman’s dress, 1977 (1982.0447).

George W. Workman: police chaplain’s badge, Long Beach, California (1984.
0346).

David Wright: 2 ceramic dishes in the Celebron pattern made by the AI-
bright China Co. of Ohio, early 20th century (1983.0325).

Victoria Wyndham: bust of Steve Frame sculpted by Ms. Wyndham on the
daytime television series “Another World” (1984.0252).

David E. Zeitlin: black basalt stoneware teapot with impression “Turner’
on base, ca. 1790, and a ceramic creamware “loving cup” inscribed “1769”
made by Leeds Pottery (1982.0807); 2 blue jasper stoneware pitchers by
William Adams & Sons, covered brown jasper-dip stoneware game pie
dish made at Turner Works, and a pearlware tea caddy, all English, ca.
1800 (1983.0302).

Zimmerman, Galanty & Fiman (through Sidney Galanty): 2 videotape cas-
settes, 2 audio tapes, 2 photographs, 2 descriptive literature packets, news-
paper advertising art, and a storyboard from advertising campaigns for
presidential candidate Barry Commoner of the Citizen’s Party, 1980, and
for the Citizens for Common Sense in National Defense, 1982 (1983.0155).

Zippo Manufacturing Company (through William W. Jones): 3 lighters made
by the Zippo Manufacturing Company in 1932, 1943-45, and 1983 (1983.
0394).

{4

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Donors of Financial Support

Roberta Rymer Balfe Robert A. Hauslohner
Florence Knoll Bassett The Clarence and Jack Himmel
Barry Bingham, Sr. Foundation
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Beverly J. Lang
Foundation Chester H. Lasell
Carter Inaugural Committee Katie Louchheim
Danmarks Radio James E. Macatee
The Eakins Press Foundation Paul Mellon
Eastman Memorial Foundation, Merrill Lynch, Pierce Fenner &
Lauren Rogers Library & Smith, Inc.
Museum of Art The National Committee for the
The Gillette Company Bicentennial of the Treaty of Paris
Guerlain, Inc. The New York Community Trust

654 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Peace Pardners, Peace Lutheran
Church ‘

Margaret L. Smith

Time-Life Books, Inc.

Donors to the Collection

H. V. Allison Galleries

Mrs. Marvin Beerbohm

Alfred Bendiner Foundation

Barry Bingham, Sr.

Florence Richberg Campbell

Ailene Conkey

S. Arlent Edwards, Jr.

Theresa L. Fairbanks

Leonda Finke

The Friends of Milton Friedman

Liz Hart

The William T. Hornaday
Conservation Trust, Inc.

Douglas S. Jordan

Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan

Mrs. Virginia Kincaid

Mrs. Carroll A. McGowan

Mr. and Mrs. James Bland Martin

David Mellinkoff

James J. Miller

Colonel Merl M. Moore

University of California
Gale E. Vrtiak

The Washington Post

The Washington Print Club

Christopher Murray

Yasuo Ohi

Postamerica Gallery

Sylvester G. Prime

Elizabeth E. Roth

Marvin Sadik

Robert Schoelkopf

George C. Seybolt

Eleanor Richberg Small

The Smithsonian Institution’s
Regents’ Major Acquisitions Fund

Smithsonian Resident Associates

Frank Stanton

Robert Stoller

Prentiss Taylor

The Veblen Preservation Project

Erwin Vollmer

E. Weyhe, Inc.

John Wheeler

Virginia Zabriskie

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Donors of Financial Support

W. K. Kellogg Foundation: grant for programs to “Expand the Educational

Influence of Museums.”

Society of American Archivists: grant for production of slide/cassette pro-
gram, “Tribal Archives II: Basic Responsibilities and Operations.”

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Donors to National Orchid Collection

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst: 247 rare “stud” orchid plants.
Mr. Brad Van Scriver: 200 species of orchid plants.

Donors to the Trees of Christmas Ornament Collection

Judy Ford Hogan and Mary I. Llewellyn: 204 handmade decorations for the
Christmas tree “State Birds and Flowers.”
Virginia C. Truslow: 110 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree

“Muslin and Lace.”

Embroiderers’ Guild of America, Inc., Washington, D.C., Chapter: 191 hand-
made decorations for the Christmas tree “Nutcracker Suite.”

Helen Haywood, Dorothy Scimshaw, and Priscilla Sparks: 121 handmade
decorations for the Christmas tree “Crocheted Snowflakes.”

National Society of Tole and Decorative Painters, Inc., Nation’s Capital
Chapter: 275 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree “Folk Art Tree.”

Sunny O’Neil: 236 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree “Red,

White, and Blue.”

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 655
Scandinavian Council of the Washington, D.C., Area: 479 handmade dec-
orations for the Christmas tree “Scandinavia.”

National Society of Tole and Decorative Painters, Inc.: 362 handmade dec-
orations for the Christmas tree “Tole and Decorative Painting.”

American Crafters: 116 handmade decorations for the Christmas tree “Amer-
ican Crafters.”

Donors to the Seed-Trade Collections

Gladys and Florence Whitehead: records, correspondence, and utensils re-
lated to the Bedman Brothers Seed Farm established in 1843 near Rahway,
New Jersey.

Donors to the Floral Crafts Collections

Mr. John Garrity: hair floral cross in frame.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES
Donors to the Collection

INDIVIDUALS

Barnard, J. Laurens: papers of J. Laurens Barnard.

Berger, Andrew J.: papers of Andrew J. Berger.

Coues, William P.: Elliott Coues’ “Book of Dates, 1896.”

Cowan, Richard S.: papers of Richard S. Cowan.

Crovello, Theodore: papers of James A. Peters.

El-Baz, Farouk: papers of Farouk El-Baz.

Fireman, Edward L.: papers of Edward L. Fireman.

Froeschner, Richard C.: papers of Doris Holmes Blake.

Giacconi, Riccardo: papers of Riccardo Giacconi

Hughes, Phillip S.: Smithsonian Annual Reports, 1854 and 1861

Keen, Myra: papers of Myra Keen.

Kellogg, Mrs. A. Remington: papers of A. Remington Kellogg.

Klapthor, Margaret B.: papers of Margaret B. Klapthor.

Marti, Albert R.: exposition postcards.

Miller, J. Jefferson, II: taped reminiscences.

Peters, T. Michael: papers of Charles P. Alexander.

Ray, Clayton E.: papers of Clayton E. Ray.

Ray, G. Carleton: publications of the United States Marine Mammal Pro-
gram, 1967-1971.

Ripley, S. Dillon: papers of S. Dillon Ripley.

Walkinshaw, Lawrence H.: papers of Lawrence H. Walkinshaw.

Wallen, Mrs. Clare Mills: John W. Mills Photograph Collection.

Williams: Austin B.: papers of Austin B. Williams.

Wilmeth, Verna Z.: papers of A. Gilbert Wright.

Wirth, Willis W.: papers of Willis W. Wirth.

Wright, A. Gilbert: papers of A. Gilbert Wright.

Yochelson, Ellis L.: papers of Ellis L. Yochelson.

INSTITUTIONS

American Ornithologists’ Union: records of the Union, 1850-1982.

American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists: records of the So-
ciety, 1947-1962, and 1976-1982.

Chesapeake Research Consortium, Inc.: records of the Consortium, 1970-
1981.

Colonial Waterbird Group: records of the Group, 1983.

656 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Estuarine Research Foundation: records of the Foundation, 1971-1983.
International Union of Directors of Zoological Parks: records of the Union,
1972-1983.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES
Donors of Financial Support

$1,000 OR MORE

Dibner Fund Inc., Norwalk, Connecticut.

Donors to the Collection

Richard Ahlborn: Traditional Crafts and Craftsmanship in America.

Burton E. Ashley: Text of Palaeontology, 2 volumes.

Mrs. Bernt Balchen: Aerospace and Dirigibles of War.

Russell T. Barnhart: Gamblers of Yesteryear.

J. Ralph Bell: California Bit and Spur.

Miss Gretchen Bellinger: various journals.

Daniel Boorstin: various volumes.

Dr. Thomas Bowman: 2 volumes.

Walter Boyne: various volumes.

Michael Brett-Surman: 5 volumes.

Dorothy Joesting Brown: 1 volume.

Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke: Minen-Herbarium.

Joan Lebold Cohen: Painting the Chinese Dream.

Dr. Bruce B. Collette: 2 volumes.

Frederick J. Collier: several copies of Smithsonian Contributions to Paleo-
biology.

Mrs. Christiane C. Collins: 2 volumes.

Mrs. Fleurette Colucci: 39 volumes.

Joseph V. Columbus: various books and journals.

Alfred Copeland: Copies of the Wills of General George Washington.

Dr. Richard Cowan: various volumes.

Dr. Roger Cressey: The Fauna of the Hortobagy National Park, II.

Charles R. Crumly: The Evolution of Land Tortoises (Family Testudinidea).

R. E. G. Davies: 4 volumes.

Audrey B. Davis: American Cookbooks and Wine Books, 1797-1950.

Dr. Bern Dibner: various volumes.

Robert Dreesan: 1 volume.

Dr. Rex Drescher: 1 journal.

Polly Dufresne: The Art of Weaving.

Pete Dunn: 11 volumes.

Robert Jr. Elder: Fine di una civilta.

Nigel Elmore: Bilinqualism: Social Issues and Policy Implications.

Dr. Andrzej Elzanowski: Photogramme zur Ontogenie der Vogel.

Dr. Richard Eyde: Ti Chih-wu-chieh ti Fa-Chan ho yen-hua.

Dr. Robert Faden: 2 volumes.

William Fellenberg: various journals.

Dr. William Field: various books and journals.

Dr. Michael Fleischer: various volumes.

Dr. Oliver Flint: De libellen van Nederland (Odonata).

Dr. Richard Foote: various journals.

Dr. Paul Forman: various volumes.

Dr. Raymond Fosberg: Transactions of the National Academy of Science and
Technology, vols. 1-111.

Linda Campbell Franklin: 300 Years of Kitchen Collectibles.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 657
Kurt Fredriksson: I.P.N.S. Progress Report, 1981-1983.
Raymond Gagne: Latinsko—Russkii Slovar.

Dr. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.: various journals.

Dr. Gordon Gibson: various volumes.

Cora Lee Gillilland: 7 volumes.

Anne Golovin: Pewter in American Life.

Mary Clare Gray: 2 volumes.

Guy Greenwell: 1966 Random House Dictionary.

Dr. E. E. Grissell: subscription to Chalcid Forum.

Dr. Charles Gunn: A Nomenclator of Legume (Fabaceae) Genera.
Fritz Hamer: Los Orquideas de El Salvador.

Patricia Hammel-Schneider: various journals.

Mrs. Elisha Hanson: 59 volumes.

Dr. John Harshbarger: Marine Biology, vols. 2-4.
Raymond J. Herbert: various volumes.

Daniel Higman: The Nature of Naturalization II.

Dr. Ronald Hodges: Illustrated Flora and Fauna of Korea, vols. 26, 27.

W. Duane Hope: 3 volumes.

Dr. Richard S. Houbrick: Seashells of Oman.

Dr. Richard Howland: various books and journals.

Mr. G. Hurd: The Health Care of the Growing Child.

Kerry Joels: 2 volumes.

Dr. Ivan Karp: 3 volumes.

Dr. James Keirans: 4 volumes.

Dr. Roman Kenk: Natural Disasters in Slovenia.

William K. Kershner: 4 volumes.

John Kingsolver: A Selected Bibliography of Insect-Vascular Plant Associa-
tional Studies.

Dr. Lloyd Knutson: National List of Scientific Plant Names, vols. 1, 2.

Ray Kondratas: 1 volume.

Debbie Kransi: various volumes.

Dr. Karl V. Krombein: 3 volumes.

Leo Lehrman: various volumes.

Dr. David Lellinger: 2 volumes.

Dr. Philip Lundeberg: 2 volumes.

Dr. Roy McDiarmid: various volumes.

David McFadden: 2 volumes.

Dr. Ron McGinley: various volumes.

Nadya Makovenyo: various volumes.

Fern Mallis: various journals.

Dr. Arnold Manke: Chetyrekhkrylye Korsary.

Raymond B. Manning: Biology Curators Group Newsletter, various issues.

Dr. Joe T. Marshall: 17 volumes.

Tex Maxwell: 2 volumes.

Marcel W. Mayer: various volumes.

Pauline Metcalf: various journals.

Mrs. Lee Moss: various journals.

Robert Multhauf: Alchemy and the Occult: A Catalogue of Books from the
Collection of Paul and Mary Mellon.

Mrs. Anne W. Murray: Master Weaver.

Dr. Dan Nicolson: Analyse des Families des Plantes.

Jay Scott O’Dell: Thomas Scientific Apparatus, 82/83.

Jacque. Olin: Einfuhrung in die Naturwissenschaftlichen Methoden in der
Archaologie.

Dr. Storrs Olson: 1 volume.

658 / Smithsonian Year 1984
Paul Perrot: various volumes.

Capt. Carl F. Pfeifer: 2 volumes.

Dr. Jose Ramirez Pulido: 2 volumes.

Mary Hammond Raitt: The Virginia Soldiers’ Claim to Western Lands Ad-
jacent to Fort Pitt.

Mildred Raitt: The Red Crowned Crane.

Dr. Robert Read: various volumes.

Dr. Harald A. Rehder: Pearls and Pearling Life.

Dr. John Reinhardt: 47 volumes.

Chava Wolpert Richard: 3 volumes.

William Richards: Art in America, 4 volumes.

Irving Richter: 3 volumes.

S. Dillon Ripley: The Orders Lawes and Ancient Customes of Swanns.

Joseph Rosewater: Crustaceans and Mollusks Trawled Off Surniname and
French Guiana.

Dr. Christopher Roy: 4 volumes.

John Schlebecker: Shucks, Shocks, and Hominy Blocks.

Nick Schliapin: 6 volumes.

John Seidensticker: Conservation in the Bangladesh Coastal Zone.

Anne Serio: 2 volumes.

Norma Shapinsky: 2 volumes.

Dr. Stanwyn Shetler: 6 volumes.

Dr. Walter Jr. Shropshire: various volumes.

David Smith: subscription to Symphytos.

Dr. Lawrence A. Smith: Flores do Amazones.

Dr. Lyman B. Smith: various volumes.

Steve Smith: various volumes.

Dr. Thomas Soderstrom: Graminees et Cyperacees du Togo.

Dr. Paul Spangler: various books and journals.

Ted Spilman: Segunda Conferencia Mundial sobre Parques Nacionales,

Dr. Victor Springer: various volumes.

John Stein: Full Speed Ahead: The Story of the Steamboat Era on Lake
Geneva.

George Steyskel: 29 volumes of Review of Applied Entomology.

Connie Strawbridge: 3 volumes.

Dr. John K. Sullivan: various volumes.

Dr. F. Christian Thompson: photocopy of Philosophia Entologica.

Catherine M. V. Thuro: 8 volumes.

S. David Tillis: various books and journals.

Stephen Toney: 8 volumes.

Robert Vogel: various volumes.

Todd M. Volpe: 6 volumes.

Dr. David Von Endt: Arabic text on archaeology.

William B. Walker: various journals.

James S. Watkins: funds to purchase a complete run of the London Gazette
on microfilm.

Dr. George E. Watson: various volumes.

Suzanne and Frederick Weinstein: 5 volumes.

Ellen Wells: various volumes.

Dr. Christen Wemmer: Treasures of the Smithsonian.

Dr. Dennis Whigham: various volumes.

John H. White: various volumes.

John S. White: various volumes.

Roger White: various volumes.

Dr. James D. Williams: 3 volumes.

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 659
Frank Winter: various volumes.

John Winter: various issues of Accounts of Chemical Research.
Mary Winters: Geology and Mineral Wealth of the California Desert.
William E. Woolfenden: various volumes.

Mrs. Gesine Worm: various journals.

Dr. Willie Worth: Ecology of the Pollinators of Passion Fruit.
Dr. Richard L. Zusi: Myology of the Purple-throated Carib (Eylampis jugu-
laris) and other Hummingbirds (Aves: Irochilidae).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Joan and Stanford Alexander

Anonymous

Arabian American Oil Company

The Weiler Arnow Investment
Company

Theodore and Mina Bargman
Foundation

Mrs. Saul Becker

Benton Foundation

Nancy T. Beren

Dr. Gerald S. and Joan S. Berenson

Norman Bernstein Management, Inc.

H. W. and Goldene Z. Blumberg

Mr. Leon H. Bracman

Jeffrey Breslow

Nancy R. Brizel

Martin Burros

CBS Software, Inc.

The Cedarhurst Foundation, Inc.

The Clark Foundation

Ms. Evelyn G. Clyman

Albert B. and Bernice Cohen

George H. and Phyllis G. Cohen

Joyce Arnoff Cohen

Nadine Cohodas

Columbia Jewish Foundation

Council of Jewish Federations

Council of Jewish Federations Inc.

Arie and Ida Crown Memorial

Dorothy D. Dablosky

Paul and Merry Danaceau

Herbert P. and Ruth H. Dooskin

Jeremy Dworkin

Education Outreach Fund

Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers

The Elizabeth Agency, Inc.

Alyn V. and Marilyn R. Essman

William Feingold Associates

Bertha Feist

Paul and Lyn Fenton

Foundation of Jewish Philanthropies

660 / Smithsonian Year 1984

of the Greater Miami Jewish
Federation, Inc.

Victor Arnold Freedman

Eugene and Marilyn Glick
Foundation

Ruth Glickman

Billy B. Goldberg Real Estate

Edgar and Carolyn Goldenberg

E. M. Goldfine

The Aaron and Cecile Goldman
Foundation

S. R. Goldstein

Allen Gordon

Greater Hartford Jewish Federation
Endowment Fund

The Green Fund, Inc.

The Gulf and Western Foundation

Ms. Mary Hall

Janet J. Hampton

H J Heinz II Charitable & Family
Trust

Sophia Herman

Marvin S. Holland

Remembrance of the Holocaust
Foundation

Stanley Imerman Memorial
Foundation

Barbara Jackier

Jacobi Society of Washington

Jewish Communal Fund

Jewish Community Endowment Fund

Jewish Community Fund of
New York

The Jewish Federation of Cincinnati

Jewish Federation of Greater
Houston, Inc.

The Jewish Federation, Inc.

The Jewish Federation of Palm Beach
County, Inc.

Jewish Federation of St. Louis

Jewish Welfare Federation, Inc.

Kenneth and Sally Kaplan

Herb Katz Philanthropic Fund
Ezra Katz

Barton L. Kaufman

Dr. Daniel and Barbara Kingloff

Kirschen Fine Art, LTD.

Sidney and Judith Kirschner

James M. and Elaine E. Klineman

Livingston Kosberg

The Lauder Foundation

The Gary and Bernice Lebbin
Foundation, Inc.

William Lehman, M.C.

Elliot D. Levin

Morris L. Levinson Foundation, Inc.

S. Lichter

Jerry Litwack

William J. Lowenberg

E. Ralph Lupin, M.D.

Noel Brown Mcclure

The A. L. Mailman Family
Foundation, Inc.

M & M Super Markets, Inc.

Barbara & Morton Mandel L.
Foundation

Florence & Joseph C. Mandel
Foundation

Lilyan & Jack N. Mandel

Frederic R. Mann Foundation

Mendik Realty Company Inc.

Edward and Vivian Merrin

Minneapolis Federation for Jewish
Service

Mobil Oil Corporation

Elliott and Estelle Nelson

Rabbi Norman and Naomi Patz

Optical Society of America

Jane L. Overman

Perkins School for the Blind

Joseph G. Perpich, MD, and Cathy
S-1lzberger

Harry Persky

Philip Morris Incorporated

Judith L. Portner

The Regis Foundation

Carl H. Reich

Barbara and Howard Rich

Renee B. Rinzler

Irwin R. Rose

Ricardo M. and Nancy Rosenberg

Leo Rosner Foundation, Inc.

J. A. Rothbard

Donald A. and Sandra L. Rothbaum

La Baronnie, Baron Philippe de
Rothschild, S.A.

William and Helen Ruder Family
Foundation

Rabbi Dennis C. and Rabbi E. Sasso

Susan and Ravmond Schoenbaum

Mrs. S. G. Seldin

The Sharon Gallery

Selma Shavitz

Shell Companies Foundation, Inc.

David S. Sher

Warren M. Silver

Klara and Larry Silverstein

The Sisterhood of the Washington
Hebrew Congregation

The Smithson Society

Smithsonian Institution Women’s
Committee

Harry H. Stone Family Philanthropic
Fund

The Suisman Foundation

Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger

Irwin R. Swartzberg

Mark E. Talisman

Tane, S.A.

Henry & Marilyn Taub Foundation

Ronald S. and Adele Tauber

Temple Sholom Rabbi’s Good
Works Fund

Mr. David Tendler

George and Priscilla Tievsky

Time, Inc.

Tisch Foundation, Inc.

Robert V. Tishman

Sidney and Charlene Tuchman

Carl R. Tuvin

United Jewish Appeal

United Jewish Appeal Federation of
Greater Washington

Victor E. and Phyllis D. Vernick

Edward J. and Erva M. Wagner

Warner Communications Foundation
Inc.

Therma G. Ralph Wechsler Memorial

Mrs. Leon Weiner

Peter I. and Marilyn F. Weiner

Lawrence A. and Judith H. Weiss

George Weisman

The Wilf Family Foundation

David & Dianne Yalowitz

Elliott A. Yolles, M.D. and
Jane G. Yolles

Judy O. Zaban

Eva Zeisel

Zeman Endowment Fund

Harriet M. Zimmerman

Rosanne Diamond Zinn

Lois Zoller

Louis and Mary S. Zorensky

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 661
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Alaska Department of Commerce and Economic Development through its
Division of Tourism and the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute

American Association of Retired Persons

Atlantic Richfield Foundation

Music Performance Trust Fund

National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Donors of Financial Support

Benton Foundation Charles F. Kettering Foundation
Ford Foundation Hideo and Yukiko Nagata
Barrick W. Groom Tandy Corporation/Radio Shack

SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Donors of Financial Support

Smithsonian Women’s Committee: partial funding for the Free Film Theater
during first quarier of fiscal year.

Office of the Mayor, District of Columbia Commission on the Arts and Hu-
manities; Stephenson, Inc., Printers; and the Educational Outreach Fund,
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service: partial funding of
“Discover Graphics” program for area high school students and teachers.

Office of the Mayor, District of Columbia Commission on the Arts and Hu-
manities, and C & P Telephone Company: partial funding of “Langston
Lives!” performing arts event.

Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Ser-
vice: partial funding of “Samul-Nori” Korean dance-drummers performing
arts event.

Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Af-
fairs: partial funding of “Kapelye” klezmer band performing arts event.
Educational Outreach Fund, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Ser-
vice: partial funding of “Central Traditional Orchestra of China” perform-

ing arts event.

Truman Centennial Commission: partial funding for “Truman’s Great Deci-
sions” course; “The Truman Years” film series; “Harry S. Truman, The
Man and His Years” seminar; and “The Buck Stops Here” performing arts
event.

Hechinger Foundation: partial funding for equipment and materials for
woodworking classes and workshops.

Mrs. Milton Turner: partial funding of “Baubles, Bangles and Beads!”

American Chemical Society: partial funding of “The Cutting Edge of Science”
lecture series for area high school students.

Battelle Memorial Institute: partial funding of “Toward Human Perfectability:
Genetic Engineering and Artificial Intelligence” seminar.

Association for Educational Communications and Technology: partial funding
of “The Telecommunications Revolution” course audio-bridge.

The American Institute of Architects and Pennsylvania Avenue Development
Corporation: partial funding of “Pennsylvania Avenue: Barrier or Break-
through?” symposium.

662 / Smithsonian Year 1984
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE

PERFORMING ARTS

CORPORATE FUND LEADERSHIP

BOARD OF GOVERNORS

Roger B. Smith, Chairman

Vice-Chairmen:

Robert A. Beck
Charles L. Brown
James E. Burke
Donald F. Craib, Jr.
Wm. C. Douce
James H. Evans
James L. Ferguson
John H. Gutfreund
Robert A. Hanson
Edward L. Hennessy, Jr.
John J. Horan
Edward G. Jefferson

Harold Burson, Secretary

GOVERNORS

Warren M. Anderson
J. W. Bates, Jr.
Theodore F. Brophy
John J. Creedon
Hugh Cullman
Michael D. Dingman
Evans W. Erikson
Thomas F. Frist, Jr.
Howard Goldfeder
Henry H. Henley, Jr.
Carla A. Hills

Edwin K. Hoffman

Howard C. Kauffmann
James L. Ketelsen
William F. Kieschnick
James E. Lee

Ruben F. Mettler

john R. Opel

Joseph H. Riley

James D. Robinson, III
Rawleigh Warner, Jr.
Lew R. Wasserman
John F. Welch, Jr.
Thomas H. Wyman

Amory Houghton Jr.
William R. Tiowell
Charles F. Knight
John G. McElwee
Charles Moritz

Max Pine

Edmund T. Prait, Jr.
Donald E. Precknow
Theodore C. Rogers
Thomas F. Russel]
Donald R. Sloan

CONTRIBUTORS TO THE CORPORATE FUND FOR THE

PERFORMING ARTS

CORPORATE LEADERSHIP CIRCLE

AT&T Foundation

American Digital Systems
Corporation

Atlantic Richfield Foundation

Conoco Inc.

Digital Equipment Corporation

Exxon Corporation

The General Foods Fund Inc.

CORPORATE PATRONS

Allied Corporation Foundation
CBS Inc.

General Motors Foundation, Inc.

International Business Machines
Corporation

Merrill Lynch & Co. Foundation Inc.

Mobil Foundation, Inc.

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

Standard Oil Company (Indiana)

Champion International Foundation
The Chevron Fund

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 663
Clark Winchcole Foundation

The Community Foundation of
Greater Washington

The General Electric Foundation

Merck & Co. Inc.

The Proctor & Gamble Fund

Shell Companies Foundation Inc.

CORPORATE SPONSORS

Alcoa Foundation

Alexander Grant & Co.

The Allstate Foundation

American Can Company Foundation

American Express Foundation

American Security Bank, N.A.

Ashland Oil, Inc.

Bristol-Myers

Burson-Marsteller

The Chase Manhattan Bank

Citicorp

The Coca-Cola Company

Deloitte Haskins & Sells

E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. Inc.

Electronic Data Systems

Ernst & Whinney

E-Systems, Inc.

Ford Motor Company Fund

GTE Foundation

Gulf Oil Corporation

Halliburton Company

Herrick Foundation

Hess Foundation, Inc.

Johnson & Johnson Family of
Companies Contribution Fund

CORORATE DONORS

A. Alfred Taubman Foundation

A. G. Becker Paribas

American Broadcasting Companies,
Inc.

American Can Company Foundation

Anheuser Busch Charitable Trust

Arthur Andersen & Co.

BDM International, Inc.

BankAmerica Foundation

Bankers Trust Company

Bechtel Group, Inc.

Bender Foundation, Inc.

Beneficial Corporation

Bethlehem Steel Corporation

Bigheart Pipe Line Corporation

The Boeing Company

Borg-Warner Foundation, Inc.

Brown-Forman Corporation

Burlington Industries Foundation

664 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Tenneco Inc.

Texaco Philanthropic Foundation
Time Incorporated

Union Pacific Foundation

United States Steel Foundation, Inc.
The Xerox Foundation

LKP International, Ltd.

Metropolitan Life Foundation

NL Industries Foundation, Inc.

Nabisco Brands, Inc.

Northrop Corporation

Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.

Philip Morris Incorporated

Phillips Petroleum Foundation Inc.

Potomac Electric Power Company

Price Waterhouse

The Prudential Foundation

Raytheon Company

Sears, Roebuck and Co.

Sheller-Globe Foundation

Southwestern Bell Corporation

Sperry Corporation

Sundstrand Corporation Foundation

TRW Foundation

The Times Mirror Foundation

Warner Communications Program
for the Arts

The Washington Post Company

Whirlpool Foundation

C&P Telephone

Cameron Iron Works Inc.

Capital Cities Foundation

Caterpillar Foundation

Celanese Corporation

Charles E. Smith Companies

Chemical Bank

Chesebrough-Pond’s Inc.

Chrysler Corporation Fund

CIBA-GEIGY Corporation

COMSAT

The Continental Group Foundation,
Inc.

Coopers & Lybrand

Corning Glass Works Foundation

Cox Communications Inc.

Dart & Kraft Foundation

District Photo Inc.

Dow Corning Corporation
Dresser Industries, Inc.

The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
Foundation

Eastman Kodak Company

Emerson Electric Co.

Esmark, Inc. Foundation

Fairchild Industries Foundation, Inc.

Federal-Mogul Corporation
Charitable Trust Fund

Federal National Mortgage
Foundation

Federated Department Stores

Fluor Foundation

Fox-Stanley Photo Products, Inc.

First Virginia Banks, Inc.

Gannett Foundation

General Dynamics

General Mills Foundation

The George Hyman Construction Co.

Getty Oil Company

The Gillette Company

Gould Foundation

Grace Foundation Inc.

Grumman Corporation

HCA Foundation

Hallmark Cards Inc.

Harris Foundation

Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.

Honeywell Foundation

Hughes Aircraft Company

Humana Inc.

International Telephone & Telegraph
Company

Jim Walter Corporation Foundation

John Hancock Charitable Trust

Johnson & Higgins

The Johnson’s Wax Fund Inc.

K Mart Corporation

Kimberly-Clark Foundation, Inc.

King Ranch

The Kiplinger Foundation, Inc.

Lomas & Nettleton Financial
Corporation

MCA Foundation Ltd.

The McGraw-Hill Foundation, Inc.

McLachlen National Bank

Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Corporation

Martin Marietta

CORPORATE CONTRIBUTORS

AMF Foundation
AVCO Foundation
Abacus Group
Acacia Mutual Life

Mary Horner Stuart Foundation

The May Stores Foundation Inc.

Meredith Corporation

Mesa Petroleum Foundation

Monsanto Fund

Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
New York Charitable Trust

NEC America, Inc.

N. W. Ayer Incorporated

National Broadcasting Company, Inc.

National Distillers and Chemical
Corporation

National Geographical Society

National Intergroup, Inc.

Nissan Motor Corporation in U.S.A.

Norfolk Southern Foundation

The Olayan Group

Occidental Petroleum Corporation

Owens-Illinois, Inc.

J. C. Penney Company, Inc.

The Pfizer Foundation, Inc.

Pneumo Foundation

The Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.

Reynolds Metals Company
Foundation

Rockwell International Corporation
Trust

St. Regis Corporation

Saks Fifth Avenue

Salomon Brothers, Inc.

Schlumberger Foundation

Security Pacific Foundation

The Signal Companies, Inc.

The Singer Company

SmithKline Beckman Corporation

Sooner Pipe & Supply Corporation

The Standard Oil Company (Ohio)

Sun Company, Inc.

Ticor Foundation

Union Carbide Corporation

Union Oil Company of California
Foundation

United Technologies

Warner-Lambert Foundation

Wells, Rich, Greene, Inc.

Wells Fargo Foundation

Woodward & Lothrop, Inc.

Young & Rubicam Inc.

The Air Products Foundation
The Allen Group, Inc.

Allied Stores Corporation
Amerace Corporation

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 665
American Airlines, Inc.

American Cyanamid Company

American Stock Exchange

Automatic Data Processing

Bank of Oklahoma

Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn,
Inc.

CPC International Inc.

CIGNA Foundation

Campbell Soup Company

Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.

Comerica Inc.

Combustion Engineering, Inc.

Consolidated Natural Gas Service
Company

Continental Bank

Continental Telecom, Inc.

Cooper Industries Foundation

Cooper Laboratories, Inc.

Cross & Trecker Foundation

D’Arcy MacManus Masius

Damon Raike and Company

Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, Inc.

Detroit Bank & Trust Company

Donohoe Construction Co., Inc.

Earle M. Craig, Jr. Corporation

Economics Laboratory, Inc.

Edward F. Hutton Foundation

Edward Larrabee Barnes
Associates, P.C.

Ellen Newman Associates

Enserch Foundation

Ethyl Corporation

Federal Express Corporation

Fieldcrest Mills, Inc.

The First Boston Foundation Trust

L. B. Foster Company

G. D. Searle & Co.

GEICO Philanthropic Foundation

GK Technologies Incorporated

Garfinckel’s

General Signal Corporation

The General Tire Foundation, Inc.

Giant Food Foundation, Inc.

Goldman, Sachs & Co.

B. F. Goodrich Company

Grey Advertising Good Neighbor
Foundation

Gulf & Western Foundation

Guy T. Steuart Foundation

Handy & Harman Foundation

Harnischfeger Foundation, Inc.

Hecht’s

H. J. Heinz II Charitable and
Family Trust

666 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc.

Hitachi America, Ltd.

Hoover Universal

Howard P. Foley Enterprises

International Paper Company
Foundation

The Interpublic Group of
Companies, Inc.

J. P. Stevens & Co., Inc.

J. Walter Thompson Company
Fund Inc.

Jewish Communal Fund

John Deere Foundation

Kellogg Company

Ketchum Communications

Kidder, Peabody & Co.

The Kissinger Family Foundation

Koret Foundation

Lazard Freres & Co.

Leo Burnett Company, Inc.

Levi Strauss Foundation

Liberty Foundation, Inc.

Litton Industries

Loews Corporation

Lutz and Carr

Main Hurdman

Mapco Inc.

Mars Foundation

Material Service Foundation

Maugus Manufacturing, Inc.

McCaffrey and McCall, Inc.

Melville Corporation

Mickelberry Corporation

Milwaukee Foundation

Mitsui & Co. (U.S.A.), Inc.

Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc.

NS&T Bank

NVF Company Community Services
Trust Fund

National Bank of Detroit

National Corporation for Housing
Partnerships

Neiman-Marcus

Noland Company Foundation

Oakleigh L. Thorne Foundation

Ogilvy & Mather Advertising

The Oliver T. Carr Company

Owens-Corning Fiberglas
Corporation

PACCAR Foundation

PPG Industries Foundation

Parsons Corporation

Peoples Drug Stores, Inc.

Pittsburgh Corning Corporation

Pittsburgh National Foundation
Primark Corporation

Pritzker Foundation

Raleigh Stores Foundation

Reading & Bates Corporation
Republic National Bank of New York
Restaurant Associates Industries, Inc.
The Riggs National Bank

Rorer Group, Inc.

The Rouse Company

Sandoz, Inc.

B. E.,Saul Co.

Scali, McCabe, Sloves, Inc.

The Scott Fetzer Foundation

Scurlock Foundation

Silverstein Family Foundation
Southland Corporation

Sovran Bank, N.A.

Square D Foundation

Squibb Corporation

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Donors during Fiscal Year 1984

Sabatino J. Abate, Jr.

Acacia Mutual Life Insurance
Company

William A. Albaugh

Alcoa Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Edward K. Aldworth

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Alsdorf

American Association of Retired
Persons

American Express

American Security Bank

Helen and Paul Anbinder

Walter H. and Leonore Annenberg

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Arnold, Jr.

The Art Lovers League, Baltimore

Arter & Hadden

The Artery Organization, Inc.

Atlantic Research Corporation

Avalon Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Franz Bader

Margaret M. Bailey

Mr. and Mrs. A. L. Ballard

Bankers Trust Company

The Barra Foundation, Inc.

Xavier Barral i Altet

Jacques Baruch Gallery in honor of
Harold Joachim

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Bass

Bechtel Foundation

The Stouffer Corporation Fund
Suburban Bank

A. Sulka & Company

Survival Technology, Inc.

SYMS Clothing Inc.

Taft Broadcasting Company
Technicolor, Inc.

Temporaries, Inc.

Thomas J. Lipton Foundation

The Raymond John Wean Foundation
UOP Foundation

U.S. News & World Report

USAir

Washington Fish Exchange, Inc.
Weaver Brothers, Inc.

Wechsler Coffee Corporation
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation
The Williams Companies Foundation

Professor Daniel Bell

Bell Atlantic Corporation

Dr. Ruth B. Benedict

Diane and Norman Bernstein

Nelson Blitz

Charles Blitzer

Margaret Bouton

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Brady, Jr.

Gerald J. Brody

William and Virginia Brody
Foundation

David A. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Brown

J. Carter Brown

Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

June P. Carey

Family of Oliver T. Carr

Amon G. Carter Foundation

Cassa di Risparmio di Parma

The Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Phillip A. Charles

Mr. and Mrs. George V. Charlton

Melvin S. Cohen

Mrs. Sterling Cole

Collectors Committee

Communications Satellite
Corporation

Catherine M. Conover

Covington & Burling in honor of
David Brown

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 667
Allyn Cox

The Marshall B. Coyne Foundation

Madeleine R. Cury

Peter Davidock, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. De Costa

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas H. Dittmer

Mary Pascall Young Doty

J. M. Edelstein

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Edelstein

Samuel Edwards

Mrs. Robert Eicholz

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr.

Mrs. Charles W. Engelhard

Thomas M. and Betty B. Evans

The William Stamps Farish Fund

Walter Farmer

Dorothy Faul

Paul B. Fay, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart P. Feld

David Edward and Margaret Eustis
Finley

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher

Lawrence A. Fleischman

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mrs. John Clifford Folger

Mr. and Mrs. Ben J. Fortson

Arnold D. Frese Foundation

The Fuller Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger

GTE Corporation

Jo Ann and Julian Ganz, Jr.

Mrs. George Angus Garrett

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

The General Foods Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty

Goldman, Sachs & Company

E. C. Goodstein

Herb Gordon Oldsmobile Inc.

Philip L. Graham Fund

James K. Gray

Dr. and Mrs. George B. Green

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Griswold

Mr. and Mrs. George Gund, III

Leo S. Guthman

Mr. and Mrs. Prentis Cobb Hale

Gertrude Hallo

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Hampton

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Clarence B. Hanson

The Very Rev. and Mrs. Charles U.

Harris
Henrietta Harrison
John Davis Hatch
Olivia Stokes Hatch

668 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen

Henrietta Hoopes Heath

Louis J. Hector

Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Heinz II

Professor Julius S. Held

Leon Hess

Suzanne H. Hill

Susan Morse Hilles

Oveta Culp Hobby

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Anne Horan

Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Hudson, Jr.

The George Hyman Construction
Company

IBM Corporation

INTELMET Videoconference Service
in memory of Mrs. Mary Elizabeth
“Liz” Kinzie

John Irwin

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Irwin, II

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Lars B. Johanson

Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson

Mrs. J. Seward Johnson

Mary Lou Jones

Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical
Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Kaufman

Katharine Campbell Young Keck

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kellen

Kentucky Educational Television

Mr. and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder

The Elbrun & Peter Kimmelman
Foundation, Inc.

Richard A. Kirstein

Mrs. Donald Klopfer

Seymour H. Knox

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Ralph Landau

The Lauder Foundation

Eva Rita Rowedder Lehni

Mr. and Mrs. Judd Leighton

Charles-Guy and Judy LePaul

Bertha Leubsdorf, in memory of her
husband Karl

Mr. and Mrs. Irvin L. Levy

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mrs. Pym Lucas in memory of
Frank Epping

Mr. and Mrs. John A. McCone

Edward C. MacEwen

H. P. MclIlhenny

Frank L. Mansell

Martin Z. Margulies
John A. Masters

Mrs. Robert B. Mayer

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

The R. K. Mellon Family Foundation

Dr. Georges and Dr. Lois de Menil

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation

Mickelson Gallery

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Van R. Milbury

Charles Millard

Mark Millard

Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund

Jan and Meda Mladek

Modern Master Tapestries

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Moncrief

Mrs. O. Ray Moore

Robert Mueller

William B. Mullins

Franklin D. Murphy

Lisa Musante

National Geographic Society

National Security & Trust Bank

Nancy Brown Negley

Hugo V. Neuhaus, Jr.

Mrs. P. Rousse! Norman

John O’Brien

Ralph E. Ogden Foundation

William B. O’Neal

Olivetti

Ourisman Chevrolet Company, Inc.

William S. Paley

Charles Parkhurst

Henry Pearlman

Perpetual American Federal Savings
& Loan Association

Mrs. Joseph D. Person, Jr.

Milton J. and Carroll Petrie

Ruth R. Philbrick

Mr. and Mrs. Sumner Pingree, III

Dr. and Mrs. Julius S. Piver

Mr. and Mrs. Abe Pollin

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

Annemarie Pope in memory of
John A. Pope

Potomac Electric Power Company

The Princeton Club of Washington,
D.C

Mr. and Mrs. A. N. Pritzker

Dr. and Mrs. Coleman Raphael

General Dillman A. Rash

Gaillard Ravenel

Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.

Thomas F. Reese

Mrs. E. P. Richardson

Riggs National Bank

David Rockefeller

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Rogers

Cornelius Van S. Roosevelt

Rosenthal Automotive Organization

Rosenwald Collection

Arthur Ross

David Rust

Russell Sale

Lili-Charlotte Sarnoff, in memory of
her grandfather, Mr. Louis Koch

B. Francis Saul, II

Mrs. Melvin E. Sawin

Mr. and Mrs. Benno C. Schmidt

Florence & John Schumann
Foundation

Seymour and Iris Schwartz

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Schwartz

Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Selin

Evelyn Sharp

William K. Simpson

Carolyn Skelly

Dorothy J. and Benjamin B. Smith

Robert H. and Clarice Smith

Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program

Mr. and Mrs. Rudolf Sobernheim

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Sowell

Springs Industries

Leonard Richard Stachura

The Starr Foundation

Mrs. Jules Stein

H. Peter Stern

Stoddard M. Stevens Memorial Fund

Ruth Carter Stevenson

David Tatham

Joseph D. Tydings

Josephine and George Vargas in
memory of D’Arch Clyde
Browning

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Vaughn, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Vershbow

Anne M. Walker

Brooks Walker, Jr.

John Walker

Lila Acheson Wallace

Mr. and Mrs. F. Howard Walsh, Jr.

The Rachel Mellon Walton Fund of
the Pittsburgh Foundation

Warner Communications

Rawleigh Warner, Jr.

The Washington Post Company

Mrs. Paul L. Wattis

Gabriel P. Weisberg

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 669
Yvonne Weisberg

Pierre J. Wertheimer Foundation, Inc.

Westminster High School

Westmoreland Hills Garden Club

Harold E. Wethey

The John C. and Jaan Whitehead
Fund

Mrs. John Hay Whitnev

Richard P. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson

Women of St. Barnabas Church

670 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Dorothy Woodford

Ian Woodner

William and Eleanor Wood Prince

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward

Mrs. Lowe Yost

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Young

Z-Bank of Vienna

Julius L. and Anita Zelman Fund

Emma P. and Fred Ziprik Memorial
Fund
APPENDIX 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution
in Fiscal Year 1984

As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution
has received federal support since it was established in 1846 to carry out the
terms of James Smithson’s will. Appropriated funds have long provided
important additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subsequent
benefactors, to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for
research and exhibition of the national collections and maintenance of the
valuable objects and records of science, history, and culture entrusted to the
Institution.

The Smithsonian’s basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the
elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative
growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research,
acquisition, and educational programs that are central to the Smithsonian’s
achievements.

The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to the foundations, corporations, and
individuals listed below for their gifts, bequests, and contributing member-
ships in the Smithsonian Associates. If the name of any benefactor has been
omitted from the following list, it is unintentional and in no way lessens the
Smithsonian’s appreciation.

GIFTS AND BEQUESTS TO THE SMITHSONIAN

$1,000,000 or more
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
$100,000 or more

Anonymous W. K. Kellogg Foundation
Atlantic Richfield Foundation Enid and Crosby Kemper Foundation
The Boeing Company R. C. Kemper Charitable Trust and
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation

Foundation Mobil Oil Corporation
Champion International Foundation Owens-Corning Fiberglass
Chevron U.S.A., Inc. Corporation
Commemorative Association for Dr. Arthur M. Sackler

Japan World Exposition Elbridge and Mary Stuart Foundation
Estate of Francis Drouet Time, Incorporated

W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc.

$10,000 or more

Alcoa Foundation The Weiler Arnow Investment
The Alvord Foundation Company
American Association of Retired Mr. Arthur Ross

Persons The Barra Foundation, Inc.
American Telephone and Telegraph Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass
Anonymous Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Brown
Arabian American Oil Company The Brown Foundation, Inc.

671
Mrs. Helen W. Buckner

Burlington Northern Foundation

CBS Software, Inc.

Mr. Keith P. Carpenter

Carter Inaugural Committee

Chemical Manufacturer

Chesebrough-Ponds, Inc.

Clark Endowment Fund

Clark Winchcole Foundation

The Cousteau Society

Arie and Ida Crown Memorial

Mr. Xavier de Eizaguirre

Dresher, Inc.

Earthwatch Expeditions, Inc.

Edison Electric Institute

Mr. and Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun

Exxon Corporation

Roger S. Firestone Foundation

The Ford Foundation

Foundation of Jewish
Philanthropies—Miami

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

Mr. Barrick W. Groom

Guerlain, Inc.

H. J. Heintz, II Charitable and
Family Trust

Mr. Richard D. Hill

Estate of John N. Hoffman

Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust

Henry E. Huntington Library and
Art Gallery

International Union for Conservation
of Nature

The Mary Hillman Jennings
Foundation

The Jewish Federation of St. Louis

Foundation of Jewish Philanthropies
of the Greater Miami Jewish
Federation, Inc.

Jewish Community Endowment Fund

Jewish Federation of Greater
Houston, Inc.

Greater Hartford Jewish Federation
Endowment Fund

Josylin Art Museum

David Lloyd Kreeger

The Lauder Foundation

Robert Lehman Foundation, Inc.
The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

John D. and Catherine T. MacArther
Foundation

672 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mendik Realty Company, Inc.

Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith, Inc.

Lester Morse Company, Inc.

The National Geographic Society

Northrop Corporation

The Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation,
Inc.

Paccar Foundation

Pepsi Cola Co.

The Regis Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Lester Robbins

The Rock Foundation

Helena Rubenstein Foundation, Inc.

Schieffelin & Co.

Lt. General and Mrs. George M.
Seignious, II

Shell Companies Foundation, Inc.

Melvin Simon Associates, Inc.

Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Sims

John Sloan Memorial Foundation, Inc.

Professor Barbara Smith

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

The Sporting News Publishing Co.

E. R. Squibb & Sons

Stamford Community Arts Council

Nelda and H. J. Lutcher Stark
Foundation

Mary Horner Stuart Foundation

TRW Foundation

A. Alfred Taubman Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Texaco, Inc.

Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc.

Times-Mirror Foundation

Mr. Robert V. Tishman

Union Pacific Foundation

United Jewish Appeal

Mrs. Honore Wamsler

Warner Communications

The Washington Post

Estate of Leon Wencmer

Weyerhaeuser Co. Foundation

World Wildlife Fund

World Wildlife Fund—u.S.

Mr. J. Wolback

The Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

American Association of Zoo
Veterinarians
$1,000 or more

Joan and Stanford Alexander

Miss Caroline R. Alexander

Frances Allen Foundation

Amax Foundation, Inc.

American Express Company

Amos Press, Inc.

Mr. William S. Anderson

Dr. J. Lawrence Angel

Anonymous

Estate of George Arrowsmith

Atwood Foundation

Mr. Stanton Avery

Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Baker

Theodore and Mina Bargman
Foundation

J.M.R. Barker Foundation

Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc.

The Bass Foundation

Florence Knoll Bassett

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Paul Beck

Bender Foundation, Inc.

Beneficial Foundation, Inc.

Benton Foundation

Mrs. Marion W. Berger

Berman Family Charitable Trust

Mr. Philip I. Berman

Mr. Philip J. Berman

Norman Bernstein Management, Inc.

The National Committee for the
Bicentennial

Mr. William Blackie

Mr. and Mrs. Myron Blank

H. W. and Goldene Z. Blumberg

Mr. Nicholas F. Brady

Miss Eleanor Briggs

Brizel Leather Corporation

William and Virginia Brody
Foundation

Mr. Howard P. Brokaw

Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce

Mr. and Mrs. Preston Butcher

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Butler

C&D Paint Supply Corporation

Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft

Estate of James P. Cahill

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Carlson

Mr. Paul Caron

Mr. Frank T. Cary

Champion International Corporation

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Mr. William H. Chisholm

Claneil Foundation, Inc.

The Clark Foundation

Cleary, Gottleib, Steen & Hamilton

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 673

Ms. Evelyn G. Clyman

Mr. and Mrs. Albert B. Cohen

Columbia Jewish Foundation

Communications & Business
Consultants, International

The Consolidated Natural Gas
System Foundation

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. William N. Copley

Ms. Margaret A. Coryell

Council of Jewish Federations, Inc.

Mrs. Roberta D. Cranmer

Dale Crichton

Crow Administration

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman, 3rd

Mr. W. King Cummings

D.C. Commission on Arts &
Humanities

The DMC Corporation

Dansmark Radio

Class of 1930 Fellowship at
Dartmouth College

Ms. Lucile Daum

Ms. Elizabeth De Cuevas

Mrs. John De Menil

Ms. Peggy DeSalle

Mr. and Mrs. E. M. De Windt

The Dibner Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation

Mrs. Dorothy Ranney Donnelley

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Foundation

Downstate Medical Center

Mr. Peter F. Drucker

The Eakins Press Foundation

The Armand G. Erpf Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Alyn V. Essman

Estee Lauder, Inc.

T. M. Evans

Fairchild Industries

Fir Tree Fund

First Interstate Bank of California
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Max M. Fisher

Walter & Josephine Ford Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Forsch

The Fountain Gallery of Art

Mrs. Helena Frazer

Mr. Marshall Fredericks

Friends of the Museum of African
Art
The Jo Ann and Julian Ganz, Jr.
Foundation Trust

The Garrett Corporation

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

The Wallace Alexander Gerbode
Foundation

The Gillette Company

Billy B. Goldberg Real Estate

The Aaron and Cecile Goldman
Foundation

Goldsmith-Perry Philanthropies, Inc.

Mr. S. R. Goldstein

Aaron Gordon Trust

Viola E. Gray Charitable Trust

The Green Fund, Inc.

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Hallmark Cards Incorporated

George and Mary Josephine Hamman
Foundation

The Harkness Fellowships

Mr. Robert A. Hauslohner

The Honorable S. I. Hayakawa

Mr. Peter Hermes

The Henry L. Hillman Foundation

The Clarence and Jack Himmel
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

Ms. Cynthia C. Holland

Mr. Marvin S. Holland

IDS Advisory

Idaho Art at the Smithsonian

Stanley Imerman Memorial
Foundation

International Association of
Amusement Parks

Mr. John N. Irwin, II

JEM Foundation

Jacobi Society of Washington

Jewish Communal Fund

Jewish Community Fund of
New York

The Jewish Federation of Cincinnati

Jewish Federation of Palm Beach
County, Inc.

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Ms. Dorothy Johnson

Ms. Elizabeth Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Johnson

Johnson Controls Foundation

Juvenile Sales Co.

Herb Katz Philanthropic Fund

Mr. Ezra Katz

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Robert L. Kemper

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

674 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Charles F. Kettering Foundation

Mr. W. F. Kieschnich

Mr. Warren B. King

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Kirschen Fine Art, Ltd.

Ms. Sally A. Klingbeil

Mr. Livingston Kosbere

Estate of Grace S. Kreck

Mr. Alexander Kristal

The Landsman and Katz
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Chester H. LaSell

Dr. Catherine Coolidge Lastavica

Di. Thomas Lawton

Mrs. Henry Lenart

Morris L. Levinson Foundation, Inc.

Sydney & Frances Lewis Foundation

Lilli Ann Corporation

Howard & Jean Lipman Foundation,
Inc.

Mrs. Kathleen S. Louchheim

Mr. William J. Lowenberg

E. Ralph Lupin, M.D.

M&M Supermarkets, Inc

Mr. James E. MacAtee

Ms. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Dextra Baldwin McGonagle

Rand McNally and Company

Mr. and Mrs. W. MacNeil Rodewald

The Magowan Family Foundation,
Inc.

The A. L. Mailman Family
Foundation, Inc.

Barbara & Morton L. Mandel
Foundation

Florence and Joseph C. Mandel
Foundation

Lilyan and Jack N. Mandel
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Manella

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney

Mrs. Lilly King Manning

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manoogian

Tom and Charlene Marsh

Mr. Wayne N. Mathis

The Helen R. and Harold C. Mayer
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Mayer

Melville Corporation

Menil Foundation, Inc.

Metropolitan Life Foundation

Barbara and Clifford Michael
Foundation

Houghton Mifflin Company

Mill Pond Press, Incorporated
Minneapolis Federation for Jewish
Service

Minneapolis Star and Tribune
Company

Ms. Marian S. Mitchell

Mobil Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Truman W. Morsman

David H. Murdock Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Murdock

The NCR Foundation

The NL Industries Foundation, Inc.

National Space Club

National Research Council

Mrs. William Negley

Mrs. Nancy Negley

The New York Community Trust

The New York Times Company
Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Albert H. Newman

Mr. Bruce W. Nichol.

Occidental College

The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer

Optical Society of America

PCS Foundation

PPG Industries Foundation

Ms. Lillian Palitz

Dr. and Mrs. David B. Pall

Paper Group, Inc.

Paragon Paint and Varnish
Corporation

Estate of Betty Parsons

Betty Parsons Foundation

Mrs. Margaret Merwin Patch

Perkins School for the Blind

Permanent Charity Fund of Boston

Ms. Toni Petersen

The Pfaltzgraff Company

Phillips Petroleum Foundation, Inc.

Polaroid Corporation

Mrs. Shirley Polykoff

The Port Royal Foundation, Inc.

Mr. David S. Purvis

Mrs. Alfred M. Rankin

Mr. Lloyd E. Raport

Dr. Milton Ratner

Mrs. Dorothy R. Rautbord

Mr. Michael M. Rea

Reader’s Digest Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Pryer Reed

R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II

Mr. and Mrs. Lester Robbins

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mrs. Ednah Root

Mr. and Mrs. John Rosenkrans, Jr.

Leo Rosner Foundation, Inc.

Wilbur L. and Judith N. Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin

William and Helen Ruder Family
Foundation, Inc.

Edith & Bill Rudolph Philanthropic
Fund

Madeleine H. Russell Philanthropic
Fund

Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund

Mr. Frederic P. Sapirstein

Mr. Milton R. Sapirstein

Estate of Hope Sayles

Sarah I. Schieffelin Residuary Trust

George Schwartz

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro

Mr. Peter Jay Sharp

Ms. Selma Shavitz

Siff Charitable Foundation

Klara and Larry Silverstein

Caroline T. and Mrs. John Farr
Simmons

Mrs. Ben J. Slutsky

Mrs. Jane Will Smith

Ms. Margaret L. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry I. Speyer

Dr. Frank Stanton

Stephenson, Inc.

Mr. Charles A. Steward

The Suisman Foundation

Estate of Donald Sultner

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Mr. Mark E. Talisman

Tandy Corporation/Radio Shack

Tane, S. A.

Henry & Marilyn Taub Foundation

The Taubman Company

Mr. David Tendler

Tenneco Oil Company, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. E. Christian Thompson

Tisch Foundation, Inc.

Transammonia, Inc.

Tupper Foundation

Mr. Carl R. Tuvin

United Technologies

United Technologies Hamilton
Standard

Mrs. Harold Uris

Jimmy Vaughn Mathematical
Foundation

Haines Lundberg Waehler

The Washington Craft Show

Ms. Piera Maria Watkins

Mrs. Paul Wattis

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 675
Dr. William Weber

Therma G. Ralph Wechsler
Memorial

The Ellen Bayard Weedon
Foundation

Mrs. Marcia S. Weisman

Mr. Hans Weisshaar

Mr. George Weissman

Wenner-Gren Foundation

Ms. Nina W. Werblow

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer

Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore

The Whitney Foundation

Wildlife Preservation Trust
International, Inc.

$500 or more
AKC Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Manville H. Abramson
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Acquavella

The Joe L. and Barbara Allbritton
Foundation

William H. Anderson Foundation

Mr. William H. Anderson

Anonymous

Mrs. Alice O’Neil Avery

Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Bell

Mr. C. Benoist

Mr. Ralph F. Bergman

Ms. Ruth M. Berlin

Mrs. Barcia Bielfield

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Biggs

Mrs. Virginia E. Blair

Bloomingdale’s

Ms. Althea Bond

Mrs. Dorothee N. Bowie

Mr. Jeffrey Breslow

Ms. Crystal M. Brown

Mr. John M. Burns

C&P Telephone Co.

Mr. Edward Lee Cave

Cessna Aircraft Company

Cohen Charitable Trust—1982

Mrs. Joyce Arnoff Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Warren J. Coville

Mrs. Rose B. Crohn

Leonard Davis and Sophie Davis

Ms. Anne S. Dayton

Mr. A. Theodore Dell

Mrs. Gladys K. Delmas

The Dog Museum of America

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis W. Douglas, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Saul H. Dunitz
Mr. Jeremy Dworkin
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. T. Emond

676 / Smithsonian Year 1984

The Wilf Family Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Dave H. Williams
Wilsey Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Irwin Winkler

Mr. G. Bagley Wright

Mrs. Virginia Bloedel Wright
Yale Class of 1936

Leonard C. Yaseen Foundation, Inc.
Eva Zeisel Designer

Zeman Endowment Fund

Ms. Harriet M. Zimmerman

Mrs. Rosanne Diamond Zinn
Zoological Society of Philadelphia
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Zorensky

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder

Ms. Bertha Feist

George R. & Elsie M. Fink
Foundation

Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman

Mrs. Mary M. Fletcher

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

William and Martha Ford Fund

Garden State Numismatic
Association, Inc.

Joseph L. Gitterman, III and
Joanna Gitterman

The Henry L. Goldberg Foundation

Mr. E. M. Goldfine

Mr. Harmon Goldstone

Admiral Alfred M. Granum

Mariam and Peter Haas Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Melville W. Hall

Mr. and Mrs. David Handleman

Ms. Pauline L. Harrison

Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison

Alice Kales Hartwick Foundation

Mr. James R. Harvey

Mrs. Iola S. Haverstick

Mrs. Betty Jane Hays

Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, Inc.

The Hechinger Foundation

Mrs. Amy E. Higgins

Mrs. David Hinks

Remembrance of the Holocaust
Foundation

Mrs. Helen S. Hopkins

Howard University

George A. Jutila, M.D.

Mrs. Mariam Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Falph Konheim

Koret Foundation

Kransco Foundation

Dr. Karl V. Krombein
Mrs. Joseph Lauder

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Lauder

The Gary and Bernice Lebbin
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Lipman

Mrs. Helen J. McCray

James A. MacDonald Foundation

Mr. E. MeKeon

Mr. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr.

Fredric R. Mann Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Marcus

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller

Mr. Ernst Mayr

The Mediators, Inc.

Mr. Alexander R. Mehran

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Melville

Mrs. Rosemary Monagan

Mrs. Phillip R. Morss

National Railway Publication Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Nelick

New York Carpet World

Occidental Petroleum Corp.

Odyssey Partners Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Henry O’Neil

Samuel and Rose Oronshnik

The Pace Gallery of New York, Inc.

Paine Webber Group, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Pearlman

Mr. Stephen M. Peck

Joseph G. Perpich, M.D., and
Cathy Sulzberger

Ms. Delilah W. Pierce

Mr. John A. Pope, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Pustilnik

Ridgewells Caterer, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley

Ms. Mary R. Robbins

Mr. and Mrs. Felix Rohatyn

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Rousseau Foundation

Mr. Marvin Sadik

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Schnitzer

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwin Schreier

Mrs. S. G. Seldin

Seven Eleven Foundation

S. J. Shrubsole Corp.

The Sisterhood of the Washington
Hebrew Congregation

Ms. Mary Leigh Smart

Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Smooke

Mrs. Elaine McKeon Steil

Mrs. Jay Sternberg

Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens

Mr. Melville Straus

Mr. Malan S. Strong

Mr. Albert Susman

Ms. Sally Sweetland

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig

R. J. and Marcia A. Syufy

Ronald S. and Adele Tauber

Thiry Foundation

Tiffany & Company

Mrs. Alice Traub

Trotter Education Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Troubh

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Tufo

United Jewish Appeal Federation of
Greater Washington

Lee and Rose Warner Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Warriner

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein

Lawrence A. and Judith H. Weiss

Mrs. Priscilla N. Williams

Mrs. Robert Williams

Mr. Warren R. Woodward

Mrs. Jean Davies Wright

Mrs. Edward Wylie

Mr. and Mrs. Louis N. Zelle

SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates support
the Institution’s work through annual contributions of $50, $100, $250, $500,
and $1,000.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and recog-
nize major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. The Society, which is the
highest order of the Contributing Membership in the Smithsonian Associates,
is comprised of Annual and Life Membership categories. Extraordinary con-
tributions to the Smithsonian Institution are recognized through the Society’s
Founder Medal award and Life Membership.

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous support
of the James Smithson Society and the Contributing Membership of the
Smithsonian Associates.

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 677
JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY LIFE MEMBERS

Mrs. Anni Albers
Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Mr. David K. Anderson
Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo
Mr. Scott R. Anselmo
Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains
Mrs. Joan Hay Baizerman
Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett
Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett
Mrs. Donald C. Beatty
Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford
Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton
Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Best
Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat
Mr. Richard A. Bideaux
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner
Mr. Leigh B. Block
Mr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd
Mr. Lee Bronson
Mrs. David K. E. Bruce
Dr. Ruth Dowling Brunn and
Dr. Bertel Brunn
Dr. and Mrs. George E. Burch
Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Barnet Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Hyman Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hubbard
Caldwell, Jr.
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel Stone
Campbell
Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell
Mr. Allan Caplan
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Mr. Robert L. Coleman
Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Mrs. Howard F. Cook
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell
Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II
Mr. John R. Doss
Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.
Dr. Dale B. Dubin
Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont
Mr. Duncan L. Edwards

678 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi
Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II
Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield
Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson
Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott
Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould
Mr. Jerome L. Greene
Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross
Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall
Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer
Mrs. Richard Harkness
Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt
Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning
Mrs. Edith Mansfield Hills
Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
Mr. Paul Horgan
Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merrill Klein
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler
Dr. and Mrs. David Landau
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land
Dr. Morris P. Leibovitz
Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger
Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon
Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and

Mr. Joshua M. Lepman
Mr. and Mrs. John Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord
Mrs. Louis Lozowick
Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Magowan
Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian
Mr. John A. Masek

Honorable and Mrs. Robert M.
McKinney

Mr. Vincent Melzac

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. Fredric Mueller

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. and Mrs. James Brooks Newbill

Honorable and Mrs. R. Henry
Norweb

Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Honorable and Mrs. G. Burton
Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John H. Phipps

Mrs. John A. Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. John Paul Remensnyder

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis H. Robison

Honorable Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mrs. Edgar L. Rossin

Mrs. Howard J. Sachs

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. and Mrs. Harry I. Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz

Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

The Drs. Yen and Julia Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper
Mrs. Edith Hale Thomas

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mrs. Juan Terry Trippe

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley
Mrs. Victoria E. Wilkinson

Mr. Leonard J. Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Withers

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten II
Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Woodward
Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

$1,500 JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY ANNUAL MEMBERS

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
Mor. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
Hon. and Mrs. Walter H. Annenberg
Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hood Bassett
Mr. Lucius D. Battle

Mrs. Henry C. Beck

Mr. William Blackie

Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Mr. and Mrs. Winton M. Blount
Mrs. John Bowles

Hon. and Mrs. Nicholas F. Brady
Mr. and Mrs. Bob Brinkerhoff
Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. Keith S. Brown

Hon. and Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr.
Hon. and Mrs. Philip Buchen
Mrs. Jackson Burke

Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner
Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 679
Mr. and Mrs. William D. Campbell
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.
Hon. and Mrs. Henry E. Catto, Jr.
Hon. and Mrs. Robert Horne Charles
Mr. Taylor Chewing, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Blair Childs

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement
Mr. David L. Coffin

Mr. Melvin S. Cohen

Hon. and Mrs. James M. Collins
Mr. Joseph E. Connor

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles
Mrs. Raymond E. Cox

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin E. Cox

Miss Louise Crane

Mr. John D. Crow

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mr. Arthur J. Curry

Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry

Mrs. Justin Dart

Hon. and Mrs. Shelby C. Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona
Mr. Norman L. Dobyns

Mrs. Kathryn W. Donaldson

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Dorrance, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr.

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Hon. and Mrs. William H. Fitzgerald
Mr. John Dulin Folger

Mrs. John Clifford Folger

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Gantt

Mrs. George A. Garrett

Miss Rachel Gay

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. Henry H. Goldberg

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. William B. Graham

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Greer, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes
Mrs. Olivia A. Griscom

Mr. William A. Hall III

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Hon. and Mrs. W. A. Harriman
Mr. J. Warren Harris

680 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison

Hon. and Mrs. Parker T. Hart

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy III

John and Lucia Heard

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Heiskell

Mr. Richard D. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Holladay

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Ireland III

Hon. and Mrs. John N. Irwin II

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Col. and Mrs. F. M. Johnson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Jonsson

Mrs. Garfield Kass

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. W. John Kenney

Mrs. Virginia K. Kettering

Hon. and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Hon. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick

Mrs. S. K. Legare

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Love

Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mrs. Edward Macauley

Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr.

Mrs. Louise F. Maedgen

Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott, Sr.

Hon. and Mrs. William McC. Martin,
| frp

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Mascioli

Mr. David O. Maxwell

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Hon. and Mrs. George C. McGhee

Mr. and Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Dr. R. A. McReynolds

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. Dan M. Moody, Jr.

Mr. M. G. Morris

Dr. Josephine L. Murray

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley

Hon. and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Norton, III

Cmdr. Lester E. Ogilvy

Mr. and Mrs. George Ohrstrom

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Oliver

Mr. M. G. O’Neil

Hon. and Mrs. Daniel Parker
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott
Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury
Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Polk

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price

Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Reed

Mr. H. Smith Richardson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Ridder
Mrs. Dorothy H. Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson
Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock

Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller

Mrs. William P. Roth

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Roth
Hon. and Mrs. Kenneth Rush
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Solomon
Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Frates Seeligson

$1,000 PATRON MEMBERS

Mr. W. Mike Adams

Ms. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. John A. Blakemore

Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H. Blessman
Mrs. John W. Bowman

Mr. and Mrs. Townsend Burden, III
Mrs. Poe Burling

Mr. Laurence L. Champion

Mr. and Mrs. Francis X. Coleman, Jr.
Mr. William N. Copley

Mr. James H. Curl

Mr. Charles T. Fisher, III

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hoover
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Kaufmann
Mr. E. C. Kubik

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Mrs. Jacob L. Lehrman

$500 SUSTAINING MEMBERS

Mr. and Mrs. Byrle M. Abbin
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Agger
Mr. James E. Akins

Mr. Thomas Aldredge

Mrs. Paul S. Anderson

Col. and Mrs. John S. Anderson
Mr. F. C. Andreson

Mr. G. J. Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.

Lt. Gen. and Mrs. George M.
Seignious, II

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Silverstein

Dr. and Mrs. Lionel J. Skidmore

Mr. and Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. Gerald Slawecki

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond F. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith

Hon. and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper

Ms. Marilyn L. Steinbright

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. and Mrs. Jean L. Vaillant

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.

Mrs. Paul L. Wattis

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.

Mr. Leigh R. Weiner

Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann

Mr. and Mrs. Howard S. Wright

Mr. Parke Wright

Mr. James O. Wright

Mr. John G. Makauskas

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead
Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. John F. Olmstead

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Poweli
Mr. Charles Schwartzkopf
Mrs. Kathryn Simonds

Mrs. Gardiner Symonds

Dr. Arthur L. Thiele

Ms. Nancy B. Wagner

Dr. Jeremy P. Waletzky

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Wallerich
Mr. Warren K. Wilhelm

Mr. Robert Windsor

Mr. W. H. Wolf

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Woolverton

Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes
Mr. George A. Argabrite
Mrs. L. M. Aroniss

Mrs. Theodore Babbitt
Mr. Jean L. Barker

Mrs. Earl W. Barnes
Mrs. W. P. Battell

Mr. James C. Beatty

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 681
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Bemis
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Bennedict
Col. and Mrs. George C. Berger
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black
Mr. John L. Black

Mr. C.N. Blair

Dr. Joan Blondin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Blum
Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg
Dr. George P. Bogumill

Ms. Nona G. Bolling

Mr. J. A. Boorman

Dr. Harold M. Boslow

Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T. Bowie
Col. Donald S. Bowman

Mr. and Mrs. George J. Brown
Mr. Nicholas Bush

Dr. and Mrs. Rocco Cassone
Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett
Mrs. Louis Black Clark

Mr. and Mrs. Jerald L. Clark
Dr. and Mrs. Warrington C. Cobb
Dr. David A. Cofrin

Ms. Virginia M. Collins

Col. J. M. Compton

Mrs. Jack Coopersmith

Mr. William N. Copley

Mr. Curtis W. Cox

Mr. James R. Cramblett

Ms. Joyce Creamer

Mr. Joseph William Cuddy

Dr. Robert D. Cunningham
Capt. and Mrs. R. L. Daniels
Mr. and Mrs. Elwood Davis
Mrs. Keith Davis

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Dean
Mr. Arthur F. Dellheim

Mr. Charles S. Draper

Mr. David C. Dressler

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Irenee Dupont, Jr.
Mr. Edward E. Eckert

Mr. F. H. Ellenberger

Mr. Ward Ellis

Mr. Harry Emlet

Mr. Richard England

Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein

Mr. W. M. Evans

Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Feslex

Mr. Julius Fleischman

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph B. Folladori, Jr.

Mr. Kenneth Foster
The Morningstar Foundation

682 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Thiry Foundation

Mr. Henry W. Franklir

Capt. and Mrs. J. E. Galloway
Mrs. J. Gardine.

Mrs. Melvin Gelman

Mr. Mario F. George

Mr. Dan Gilbert

Mr. Richard W. Goldman

Mrs. Seabury S. Gould, IV

Mr. Thomas J. Grady

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green
Dr. H. D. Green

Mr. Barron K. Grier

Mr. and Mrs. William P. Groves
Mr. David L. Guthrie

Mr. Ernest T. Guy

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. Haas
Mr. Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley W. Hamilton
Mr. Howard R. Handler

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. William J. Harris, Jr.

Mrs. Robert K. Hartwick

Mr. Mones E. Hawley

Mr. Daniel P. Hays

Mr. and Mrs. Felder F. Heflin
Mr. Frederick H. Heierding

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hickman
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Hinton
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond T. Holden
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Holden
Col. and Mrs. Harry C. Holloway
Mr. and Mrs. Edgar W. Holtz
Mr. J. King Horner

Dr. and Mrs. John H. Hoyert
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes
Dr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey

Mr. Eugene C. Johnson

Mr. Edward Jonas

Dr. Charles Joseph

Mrs. Herbert L. Jukes

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. A. Atwater Kent, Jr.

Mr. Patrick T. King

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Kirby
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer
Ms. Anne Knowles

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. Albert Kramer

Mr. Norman H. Kreisman

Ms. Janet Anastacia Krombar
Mr. Stanley J. Kuliczkowski

Mr. Sanford A. Langworthy
Ms. Agatha Larson

Mr. Melvin F. Lee
Mrs. Halleck Lefferts

Mr. William Leier

Ms. G. E. Lemos

Mr. and Mrs. M. William Levy
Mr. Charles Lindberg

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield
Edmund Wattis Littlefield

Mrs. Comfort Lord

Miss Doris J. Lothrop

Mr. Robert MacCrate

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm MacIntyre
Mr. E. Mandac

Mr. F. E. Mars, Jr.

Ms. Rebecca Mathews

Lt. Col. and Mrs. Glenn W. Mayer
Mr. Terence McAuliffe

Mr. Gordon W. McBride

Mr. Thomas C. McCague

Mr. James D. McClary

Mr. E. J. McCormack, Jr.

Mr. Clayton McCuistion

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. McHugh
Mr. Marcus Mehtonen

Mr. Benjamin T. Meintzer, Sr.
Miss J. Virginia Messick

Mr. John E. Meyer

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone
Dr. William J. Mitchell

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Monrose
Mr. Mark Moorman

Mr. Michael A. Moran

Mr. James Mulshine

Mr. Stuart C. Nichols

Mr. William J. O’Connor, Jr.
Ms. R. O’Hara

Mrs. John Omaster

Mr. Arnold E. Palmer

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick
Mr. C. L. Pecchenino

Dr. J. C. Petricciani

Mrs. Alys E. Phreaner

Mr. W. M. Piatt, III

Mr. Bruce Piegols

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike
Mr. George B. Pletsch

Ms. Doris D. Poole

Mrs. Helen G. Price

Mr. and Mrs. Philip E. Ratcliffe
Mrs. H. I. Rhine

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Richardson
Dr. J. Jerome Rinaldi

Ms. Mary M. Roberts

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root
Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal

Mr. Ray W. Rosevear

Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Rowe

Mr. Dave Royer

Dr. Philip Rubovits-Seitz

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr.
Ms. Louise Sagalyn

Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike Saville, Jr.
Mr. Morton W. Schomer

Mr. C. W. Scott

Mr. W. W. Sidney

Mr. and Mrs. M. Silverman

Mr. A. R. Jarvis Sinclair

Mrs. E. Slack

Mrs. Beth D. Small

Mr. Charles E. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith

Dr. Hugh M. South

Mr. and Mrs. David L. Stanford
Mr. John J. Stanton

Mr. Sydney Stein, Jr.

Mr. William R. Sullivan, II

Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger

Ms. Jacqueline T. Sunderland
Mr. Craig D. Sutherland

Mr. S. C. Sviokla, Jr.

Ms. Mary Swanson

Mrs. May Day Taylor

Ms. Arlene K. Thomashow

Dr. John L. Thornton

Mr. H. E. Thurman, Jr.

Mr. George S. Trees, Jr.

Mr. Charles Lee Turner

Mr. John H. Turner

Mr. Charles A. Turner, III

Mrs. Jean A. Twitchell

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Valencourt, Jr.
Ms. Ann T. Vanrosevelt

Mr. and Mrs. Ottie T. Vipperman
Mr. and Mrs. L. Vonhoffmann
Mr. Lawrence Wahl

Dr. Joseph Walker

Mr. Richard B. Wallace

Mr. and Mrs. Frank S. Walters
Mr. Dennis A. Wheeler

Miss Lida Whitaker

Col. and Mrs. Grove C. White, Jr.
Mrs. B. A. Whitmarsh

Mr. and Mrs. P. A. B. Widener
Mr. Thomas L. Wiebe

Mrs. Vivian Wildman

Mr. J. Humphrey Wilkinson

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson, Jr.
Ms. Pauline E. Williman

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 683
Mrs. John M. Willits
Mrs. Louise W. Wilson
Mrs. S. T. Wyland

$250 SPONSORING MEMBERS

Mr. David E. Aaronson

Mrs. David C. Acheson

Mr. John A. Adams

Ms. Drucilla Adams

Dr. B. N. Addis

Mr. David Agnew

Mr. P. Albiez

Mr. Michael S. Albritton

Mr. Danny Alexander

Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Alexander
Mr. Richard T. Alexander, Jr.
Mr. Allen W. Alexopulo+

Mrs. Lynne L. Alfieri

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Allbert
Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Allen

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Allen
Mr. Thomas Roy Allen

Mr. Ethan Allen

Mr. Charles D. Allen

Ms. Katherine Allen

Ms. Marcia Y. Almassy

Mrs. Carolyn Alper

Mr. and Mrs. H. Max Ammerman
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson
Dr. Thomas W. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. M. E. Anderson
Mr. Samuel David Anderson
Mrs. Myron Anderson

Mr. David R. Anderson

Mr. Arthur Andraitis

Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz

Miss Marcia Ann Appel

Mr. Walter W. Arensberg

Ms. Marlene A. Atkinson

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Atwood, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Augl

Mr. G. Augustin

Mr. and Mrs. Norman G. Bach
Ms. Mildred Bach

Mr. Harold Baer

Mr. Warren Baker

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Balfour
Mr. James R. Ball, II

Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Ball, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Barbieri

Mr. Michael Barczak

Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld

Mr. and Mrs. Allen E. Barlow
Mr. Lee Barnes

Ms. Janine F. Barre

684 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. Leo A. Young
Mr. Bernard J. Young
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Zitter

Mr. William Barstow

Mr. Jay Barton

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Bash
Ms. Ileana C. Basil

Ms. Margaret R. Baudoin

Ms. M. G. Baumgarten

Mr. and Mrs. Ovid Bay

Mr. Ralph B. Beals

Mr. Donald R. Bean

Mr. John W. Bean

Mr. W. H. Beardsley

Mr. R. Gifford Beaton

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Becker
Mr. Kenneth W. Beckman
Mr. Charles Beer

Mrs. Jack Bender

Dr. and Mrs. Richard W. Benjamin
Mr. C. R. Bennett

Dr. C. M. Berfield

Dr. Barry M. Berger

Ms. Marie Bergmann

Mr. James H. Berkson

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Bermant
Mr. John A. Bernard

Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Jules Bernstein
Dr. William R. Bertelsen

Ms. Margaret Bethany

Mrs. Wm. J. Bettingen

Mr. Albert J. Beveridge, III
Mr. Harry M. Bickford

Mr. John A. Biddle

Mr. Joseph B. Bidwell

Ms. Mary E. Biehusen

Mr. E. A. Bigornia

Mr. H. Harold Bishop

Mr. Timothy N. Black

Mrs. Deane M. Black

Mrs. Page Blackstock

Mr. B. Thomas P. Blady

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair
Ms. Annalee Blanchard

Mr. James Blaser

Mr. Harrye Blethroad

Mr. Frank Bliss, Jr.

Mrs. Edna F. Blum

Mr. Carl L. Bock

Enola V. Bode

Ms. Rosemary V. Bonar

Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Borowsky
Mr. Fred W. Borrish

Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini

Mr. Steven R. Bowen

Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles
Mrs. Constance T. Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. John Gordon Boyd
Mr. Jay M. Boyd

Miss Eugenie R. Bradford

Mrs. Frank Brandon

Mrs. Helen M. Brandt

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Brantley
Mrs. F. E. Brantley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Brechler
Mr. Robert C. Breckenridge

Mr. and Mrs. Karl K. Breit

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Bremerman, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Leo V. Brenna

Mr. and Mrs. Clemens B. Bribitzer

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Brickel
Mr. and Mrs. Ross B. Bricker
Mr. John F. Bricker

Mr. Robert L. Bridges

Mrs. Diane A. Bringgold

Miss E. G. Brintnall

Mr. Ronald C. Britt

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Brock
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Brodie
Mr. William R. Brown

Ms. Patricia L. Brown

Mr. Jack W. Brownyard

Mr. Steven Brummel

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Brundige
Mr. Glen W. Bruner

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant
Mrs. Alger T. Bunten

Mr. Frederick P. Burgee

Mr. James M. Burger

Mrs. R. M. Burgess

Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Burka
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks
Mrs. Julia T. Burlen

Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Burnham, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Burr
Miss Edna-Lea Burruss

Miss Martha E. Burton

Mr. Joseph Burton

Mrs. Zorayda S. Bussom

Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Buttner

Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Cades

Mr. Boyd W. Caffey

Mr. Donald E. Callahan

Mr. G. W. Callender

Gen. Thomas J. Camp, Jr.

Mr. George Campbell

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 685

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Campbell
Mr. Lawrence E. Cantrell, Jr.
Mrs. Mary H. Carder
Mr. Albert I. Cardiff
Mr. J. D. Carmichael

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth S. Carpenter

Mrs. Philip L. Carret

Dr. and Mrs. Frank E. Carroll
Ms. Patricia Carroll

Mr. and Mrs. Barry J. Carroll
Mr. Mark J. Carroll

Mr. David C. Carruth

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten
Col. and Mrs. Douglas H. Carter
Mrs. Robert A. Cashell

Mr. John J. Cashmire

Mr. and Mrs. William H. Casson
Dr. Alejandro F. Castro

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Catania
Mr. Richard S. Cayo

Dr. William M. Chardack

Mr. and Mrs. Clifford S. Charles
Mr. Harry R. Charles, Jr.

Mr. Robert David Charny

R. Adm. and Mrs. John D. Chase
Mr. Joel Chaseman

Mr. Henry S. Chenault, Jr.

Mr. Boris E. Cherney

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Chester
Mr. John C. Cini

Mrs. Sylvia M. Clark

Mr. H. Lawrence Clark

Mr. William H. Cochrane

Mr. S. Harold Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace M. Cohen
Mr. Victor Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Cole

Ms. Margaret S. Collins

Mr. T. Clyde Collins, Jr.

Mr. Philip L. Collyer

Miss Bertita E. Compton

Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Conant
Mrs. Herman Cong, Jr.

Miss Vivian G. Conklin

Mr. Gerard Conn

Mr. Thomas Cook

Dr. and Mrs. William L. Coon
Mr. Mark E. Cooper

Ms. Gladys O. Cooper

Ms. Mary L. Cooper

Mr. Edward M. Cooper, III

Mr. William Copley

Mr. and Mrs. George L. Cornell
Mr. Walter H. Corson

Mrs. Louis Corson
Mr. Ralph J. Coselli

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Crabtree
Mr. Geoffrey Creede

Mr. David Cremers

Ms. Margery Cridland

Mr. W. Raymond Crosier

Mrs. Richard S. Cross

Mr. D. L. Crossley

Mr. James W. Crowley

Mr. James J. Cunningham

Mr. Charles S. Curran

Mr. Mark H. Curtis

Mrs. Richard M. Cutts

Mr. Terry G. Dallas

Mr. Kevin B. Dalton

Mrs. Marshall B. Dalton

Maj. Robert E. Dalton

Mr. Douglas Dalton

Mr. W. Wallace Dansereau

Ms. Nancy Darby

Dr. T. G. Daughtridge

Mr. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis

Mrs. Jerry R. Davis

Mr. D. Earcy P. Davis, Jr.

Mrs. Alva A. Dawson

Mr. E. A. Dawson

Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Day, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. C. Woodford Dayton
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander E. Dean
Mr. and Mrs. Ben T. Delahay
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Deming
Dr. Hugh F. Demorest

Ms. Margaret St. Denis

Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Denzler, Jr.
Mrs. N. J. Detor

Mr. M. Diaz

Dr. Paul F. Dickens, Jr.

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Dickerson
Mr. Phil Dickey

Ms. M. Dillon

Hon. Douglas Dillon

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest M. Dixon
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr.
Mr. J. G. Dobry

Mrs. Walter W. Doescher

Mr. Gerald P. Doherty

Mr. Thomas I. Dolan

Mr. Sumner A. Dole, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Dolstra

Mr. Sigmund R. Domanski

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Donaghy
Mrs. David Donovan

Mr. and Mrs. D. A. Doran

686 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. Alden Lowell Doud

Mr. Joseph F. Douglas

Mr. Karl Douma

Mr. George A. Dragan, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Drummeter, Jr.
Mr. Russell F. Dubes

Ms. Mary Jane C. Due

Mr. and Mrs. David A. Duff
Mr. and Mrs. Barnwell S. Dunlap
Dr. and Mrs. Vernon J. Dwyer
Mr. A. Dzigas

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Earnest
Mr. Mark K. Edmondson

Miss V. A. Edwards

Mrs. Eleanor B. Edwards

Mr. Edward W. Ehle

Mr. Lawrence A. Ehrhart

Mr. Bertwin Einfalt

Dr. Paul T. Elder

Mr. Robert B. Eldridge

Mrs. Leila Eley

Mrs. Virginia Ellingsworth
Mrs. R. E. Ellingwood

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Ellis

Mr. Bernard Ellis

Mr. George T. Elmore

Ms. Helen J. Emigh

Mr. Ostrom Enders

Col. Charles O. Eshelman

Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Estridge
Mr. and Mrs. John N. Eustis
Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr.
Mr. Henri Eyl

Mr. John Farnam

Ms. Marilyn Farrand

Mr. and Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner
Mrs. Ernest R. Feidler

Dr. Michael Jon Feinstein

Mr. Joseph T. Fenn

Miss Patricia Fenton

Col. and Mrs. Lucian M. Ferguson
Mr. Nicholas M. Ferriter

Mr. Joseph C. V. Ferrusi

Col. Gerald Fink

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Col. and Mrs. Robert B. Fisher
Ms. Mary G. Fitzpatrick

Miss Caroline L. Flaccus

Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty
Mr. Dennis M. Flemons

Mr. Gordon J. Flesch

Ms. Josephine E. Flood

Mr. R. E. Fochtman

—
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Folkerth
Mr. Albert A. Folop

Miss Helen E. Forshier

Dr. and Mrs. Giraud V. Foster
Miss Alta Fowler

Mrs. Janet E. A. Freeman

Mr. Wilbur H. Friedman

Mr. Cary J. Frieze

Mr. William C. Frogale

Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Fuller

Mr. Reginald H. Fullerton, Jr.
Mr. Eugene R. Gabriel

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Gadde
Miss Mildred L. Gambill

Mr. John W. Gardner

Mr. Bob Gardner

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm O. Garfink
Mr. and Mrs. John Garney

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey G. Garney
Mr. and Mrs. Carleton G. Gebhardt
Mr. Edward K. Geehan

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Geller

Dr. William H. Gerber

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Gerding
Mr. Carl S. Gewirz

Mr. Joseph P. Ghilardi

Miss Helen W. Giacobine

Ms. Frances E. Gibson

Dr. and Mrs. David M. Gibson
Mr. Wallace E. Giles

Mrs. Sara E. Gillis

Mr. and Mrs. Oscar S. Glasberg
Mrs. E. W. Glascock

Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Glaser

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald K. Gleason
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Gleim
Mrs. C. Leslie Glenn

Mr. W. J. Godard

Col. and Mrs. Julius Goldstein
Mr. Stuart N. Goodman

Mrs. Lois R. Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. William Gouldsbury
Ms. Margaret Grady

Mr. Harold D. Grant, Jr.

Mrs. Earle Gray

Mrs. Dorothy Green

Ms. Rosemary Green

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Green, II
Mr. Preston Greene

Mrs. Judith Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Peter B. Greenough
Mr. Seymour D. Greenstone
Mr. Mark Greenwold

Mr. Richard T. Gregg

Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg

Mr. Richard P. Grill

Mr. William A. Grimes

Mr. Donald O. Grimes, Jr.
Ms. Audrey J. Groene

Ms. Nancy Grove

Ms. Marilyn L. Guerra

Miss Elizabeth P. Hagen

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander S. Haig
Mrs. Najeeb Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell L. Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Halpern
Mr. Kenneth A. Hamman

Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Hammock
Mr. H. H. Hamra

Ms. Morella R. Hansen

Mr. Bernard J. Hansen

Mr. Charles C. Hansult

Mr. and Mrs. Paul O. Harder
Miss Dorcas Hardin

Mr. Paul Hardy

Mr. Hardy Hargreaves

Dr. Robert A. Harper

Mr. Robert C. Harris

Dr. Michael J. Hartman

Mrs. William W. Hatfield

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald W. Haughton
Mrs. Florence Ogier Hawley
Dr. John T. Hayes

Dr. Kenneth P. Head

Miss Annabelle Heath

Mr. Robert C. Hector

Dr. T. W. Heil

Mr. H. C. Heldenfels

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas B. Hendrick
Mr. Jack E. Herington

Mrs. Catherine W. Herman
Mr. Paul C. Herndon

Mr. Arnold L. Hespe

Mr. S. O. Hessler

Dr. Margaret S. Hibbs

Mr. William L. Higgins

Mr. and Mrs. Friedrich Hilken
Col. and Mrs. George M. Hinckley
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines
Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson

Mr. Joseph U. Hinshaw

Mrs. Robert H. Hoexter

Mr. Andy W. Hogan

Mr. Duncan A. Holaday

Mr. Nick Holland

Mr. Richard Hullander

Mr. John M. Holm

Mr. Franklin P. Holman

Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Hommet
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Hood

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 687
Ms. Ann Hopping

Miss Jennifer J. Horinek

Mr. and Mrs. William E. Horn
Mr. John K. Hoskinson

Mrs. Ruth Houser

Mr. J. W. Howell

Mr. Samuel G. Hubbard

Mr. William R. Humphrey

Mr. William R. Hunter

Mr. Claude D. Hurd

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Hurd
Ms. Emma Gade Hutaff

Ms. Eleanor Ingman

R.Adm. and Mrs. Walter D. E. Innis
Mr. John Ippolito

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Ireson
Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Isinger

Dr. Robert R. Jackson

Mr. Rollo E. Jacobs, Jr.

Dr. John R. Jacoway

Mr. John M. Jacquemin

Dr. and Mrs. Jonathan Ravid Jaffe
Mr. Sidney A. Jaffe

Mr. Reinhardt H. Jahn

Mr. William P. Jambor, Jr.
Mrs. W. N. Jardine

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Jaske
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Jenks
Mr. J. J. Jeresek

Gen. and Mrs. Chester L. Johnson
Ms. Diane S. Johnson

Col. Alfred H. Johnson

Mr. Ernest S. Johnston

Mr. Charles Johnston

Mr. William J. Jones

Mr. Thomas O. Jones

Dr. Gordon W. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Jones
Mr. Charles W. Jones

Mr. Quinton Jones

Miss Charlotte Jones

Mr. G. Quinton Jones, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Jones, Jr.
Mr. Thomas A. Jordan

Dr. Norman Jorgenson

Dr. Herbert H. Joseph

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund J. Kahn
Dr. and Mrs. S. C. Kaim

Mr. John M. Kalbermatten
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne W. Kaley
Mr. John D. H. Kane

Mr. Emanuel Karadimos

Mrs. R. H. Karns

Dr. and Mrs. Richard A. Kaslow
Mr. Walter Keating

688 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. Dennis A. Keefe

Major John R. Keiper, Jr.

Mr. Robert Keller

Ms. Candace H. Keller

Ms. Juanita C. Kelly

Dr. George A. Kelser, Jr.

Rev. Patrick W. Kemp

Mr. and Mrs. Harris L. Kempner, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. George P. Kendall, Jr.
Mr. David T. Kenney

Ms. Anna Marie Kent

Mr. B. R. Kent

Mr. Thomas C. Kerr

Mr. Walter H. Kidd

Mr. Gary Kilpatrick

Mr. George H. Kinkel

Sgm. David P. Kirschbaum
Mr. Stephen L. Kitterman
Mr. and Mrs. K. W. Klages
Mr. Kenneth W. Klein

Ms. Lynda Heckman Kling
Mrs. J. K. Knee

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Knight
Ms. Diana Sinkler Knop

Mr. John W. Knowles

Ms. Jean R. Knutsen

Mr. Steven R. Koman

Ms. Jane E. Kosa

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Kotler
Ms. Anna Kovasznay

Mrs. June F. Kraft

Mr. Irving Kreisberg

Ms. Barbella F. Kuenz

Mr. and Mrs. Morton J. Kuff
Mr. Clarence M. Kuntsmann
Mr. and Mrs. W. O. Kurtz, Jr.
Mrs. E. N. Laboyteaux

Miss Martha Ladd

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Ladd
Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig
Mr. John A. Laird

Mr. James H. Landers, Jr.

Mr. John Lansdale

Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Lauderdale
Mr. J. W. Laughlin

Dr. Jack M. Layton

Mr. Sperry Lea

Mr. C. W. Ledebur

Mrs. Florence J. Lee

Mr. and Mrs. William Lehfeldt
Ms. Jeanne Lemmer

Mr. Richard J. Leonard

Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard
Hon. William Leonhart

Mrs. Lawrence S. Lesser
Mr. Daniel W. Leubecker

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Levin, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred B. Lichtenstein
Mr. Gayle W. Lichtenstein
Mr. James R. Lightfoot

Mr. Frank W. Lindenberger
Mr. Gary Dean Lindsay

Ms. R. Lindstrom

Mr. Robert F. Lint

Mrs. Eunice K. Lipkowitz

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List
Dr. R. H. Lloyd

Mr. David H. Lloyd

Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Locker
Mr. C. Henry Lockwood, II
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Leowy
Mr. Everett J. Long

Mr. William A. Long

Mr. Walter H. Long, Jr.

Mr. Joseph R. Lorence

Mr. P. H. Loughlin, III

Mr. Bart W. Lovins

Mr. Charles L. Lowery

Mr. La Rue R. Lutkins

Mrs. Mike Lyman

Mr. Maurice B. Lynch

Mr. James I. McAuliff

Mr. Walter J. McBride

Mr. Donald E. McCallister
Mrs. Violet McCandlish

Ms. K. M. McCauley

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey E. McCool
Mr. John O. McCracken

Mr. Jack H. McCreery

Mr. Matthew B. McCullough
Mr. Robert McFadden

Mr. Joel U. McFarland

Ms. Nancy J. McGinness

Mr. James P. McGranery, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth C. McGuiness
Mr. John S. McInnes

Dr. and Mrs. W. E. McIntyre
Dr. and Mrs. Douglas W. McKay
Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean
Ms. Priscilla J. McMillan

Mr. W. H. McNaughton

Mr. James A. McNeese

Mrs. W. J. McNeill

Mr. R. V. McPherron

Mr. Ralph Eugene McWhorter
Mrs. Alexander F. MacDonald
Ms. Marian S. MacIntyre

Ms. Ellen B. MacNeille

Mr. and Mrs. A. Martin Macy

Mr. Rex A. Maddox

Mrs. James T. Magee

Mr. Philippe L. Maleval

Ms. Helen J. Malmstead

Mr. Harry Mandil

Mr. Michael L. Mangan, III

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes

Mr. E. Manuel Manning

Mr. Paul Margus

Mr. Edward Marks

Mr. Robert A. Marmon

Mr. S. C. Marshall

Mr. Robert C. Marston

Mr. George H. Marston

Mr. Alfred S. Martin

Mrs. Elizabeth Martin

Mr. M. S. Martin

Dr. Robert B. Matheny

Dr. and Mrs. Glenn B. Mather
Mrs. B. E. Matheson

Mrs. Elbert G. Mathews

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne A. Mattox
Miss Julia A. Maxwell

Dr. William B. May

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Mazza
Mr. and Mrs. David L. Mead
Mr. Hans M. Mende

Mr. Leon A. Mensing

Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Meroney
Mr. Ted S. Merrill

Mrs. Kathryn Mervenne

Mr. Paul D. Meyer

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel M. Meyers
Mr. Dominic L. Meylor

Ms. Carla Michaels

Col. and Mrs. James E. Miller
Mr. Warren G. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. E. Kirkbride Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. James T. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. James T. Milne
Mr. Glenn J. Mischel

Mr. and Mrs. Ford F. Miskell
Mr. Walter W. Mitchell

Mr. Earle W. Mitchell

Mr. and Mrs. George B. Mitchell
Mr. Dexter N. Mohr

Mr. Leo Molinaro

Mr. David R. Montz

Col. and Mrs. E. W. Moody

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Moore
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore
Mr. Richard H. Moore

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 689
Mrs. E. Moore

Mr. Cecilio J. Morales
Mr. J. Maxwell Moran
Mrs. Theda A. Moreno
Ms. Margaret Morgan
Mr. Harold F. Morgan
Mr. Shane Moriarity
Mr. Charles W. Morris
Mr. J. C. Morris

Mr. Richard E. Morrison
Dr. W. Dickson Moss, III
Mr. Philip M. Mount

Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Mountfort

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr.
Mr. Jerry L. Mungo

Dr. and Mrs. John C. Munson
Mr. Burnaby Munson

Mr. and Mrs. James Murphy
Mr. John M. Murray

Mr. Gary A. Murrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence S. Myers, Jr.

Mr. Raymond R. Myslivy

Dr. Mathew L. Namikas

Mr. and Mrs. Ward R. Neely
Mr. Robert H. Neff

Mr. John T. Nelson

Mr. Clifford M. Nelson

Dr. Heidar Nemat

Ms. Nancy C. Nersesian

Mr. Andrew K. Ness

Mrs. M. E. Newcomb

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Niles
Mr. Allen Nixon

Mr. Donald O. Noehre

Mr. Carl F. Norden

Mr. Giles R. Norrington

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. North
Mr. Milton G. Nottingham, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Michael P. Novelli
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Nunez
Col. William F. O’Meara

Mr. Leonard Oberlander

Ms. Eileen O’Brien

Mr. Robert C. Ochsner

Mr. Carl L. Olson

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Olyniec
Mr. Robert Orben

Mrs. Arthur E. Orloff

Mr. Robert D. Orton

Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Osborne
Ms. Christine C. Osmun

Mr. James C. Overholt

Mrs. Leah H. Owen

Mrs. Henry S. Owens

Dr. and Mrs. Michael N.

690 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Papadopoulos
Cmdr. Everett A. Parke
Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Parker
Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Parsons
Ms. Mabel Parsons
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard E. Pasek
Mr. William Patterson
Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr.
Mr. James R. Peace
The Peacock Foundation
Mr. Raymond Pearlstine
Mrs. Julia Peden
Mr. Louis Peller
Mr. Edmund Pendleton
Mrs. Doris T. Pendleton
Mr. William C. Penick
Mr. Clarence Pennington
Mr. J. Perruzzi
Mr. James P. Perry
Ms. Dorothy F. Perry
Mr. Gene Perry
Miss Jacqueline Perry
Mr. John F. Perry
Mr. John W. Pfeiffer
Mrs. Jackman Pfouts
Mr. Joseph J. Phelan
Mr. and Mrs. Howard L. Phillips
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Picken
Ms. Jacqueline Pierce
Mr. Welch Pogue
Mr. and Mrs. R. Stephen Polley
Mr. Paul E. Pontius
Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor
Ms. Janice Popp
Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter
Dr. Reno R. Porter
Mr. Louis Potkonski
Dr. and Mrs. W. F. Pounds
Mrs. Anne D. Pozzi
Mrs. Charles P. Price
Mr. and Mrs. Melville J. Price
Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Price, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Purcell
Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Purnell
Miss Anne E. Quiggle
Mr. N. B. Randall
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Raso
Mr. Carl Ratner
Mr. W. Ray
Mr. Michael F. Reagan
Mr. Philip D. Reed, Jr.
Mr. Rollin M. Reeder
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Reese
Mr. Robert J. Reid
Mr. and Mrs. Albert P. Reidhead

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads

Mr. George F. Rhodes

Mr. R. L. Rhodes, Jr.

Mr. Arthur H. Rice

Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. Richards

Ms. Melissa J. Richens

Mr. B. A. Richmond

Mr. Daniel M. Ricker, Jr.

Mrs. Richard Riddell

Dr. Monira K. Rifaat

Mr. and Mrs. S. Donley Ritchey

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Rixse, Jr.

Ms. C. J. Roach

Mr. Lew Roberts

R.Adm. W. D. Robertson

Ms. Nancy J. Robertson

Mr. Ray Robinson

Mr. Walter P. Robinson, Jr.

Mrs. Dori Selene Rockefeller

Dr. Ava D. Rodgers

Mr. D. Roesler

Mrs. Claire V. Rogers

Mr. Thomas D. Rogers

Mr. John F. Rolph, III

Mr. Irving Rose

Mr. Charles H. Rose

Mr. John H. Rosenhamer

Mr. Kurt E. Rosinger

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence J. Ross

Mr. Arnold Rothstein

Mr. and Mrs. Josiah P. Rowe

Mr. Arthur R. Rule

Mr. Peter T. Russell

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo

Dr. and Mrs. Edward C. Ruth

Mr. and Mrs. Jack B. Ryan

Mr. Wayne D. Rydberg

Dr. Stephen K. Rymer

Mr. and Mrs. Kelsey Y. Saint

Mr. Lee S. Salsbery

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Sander

Mr. and Mrs. Cameron H. Sanders,
Jr:

Mr. A. Herbert Sandwen

Mr. Milton C. Sappe

Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff

Mr. David Saunders

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Sawick

Mrs. Lillian M. Saxe

Mr. James P. Scannell

Mr. Charles W. Schaffer, Jr.

Ms. Elizabeth W. Schappals

Mr. Michael B. Schaub

Major and Mrs. Ronald A. Schena
Hon. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer
Miss Matilda P. Schlicht

Ms. Ann D. Schmidt

Miss Marguerite V. Schneeberger
Mrs. Agnes Schnurer

Mr. Anthony A. Schoendorf
R.Adm. Joe G. Schoggen

Mr. and Mrs. J. Schroeder

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Schubert
Mr. Edward Schuster

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Schwab
Dr. and Mrs. James Schwartz
Mr. Alton N. Scott

Mr. Beldon D. Scott

Mr. Robert M. Scott

Mr. Ellwood S. Seifert, II

Mr. Richard J. Sekerka

Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Selinsky
Mr. Arnold Selk

Mrs. Catherine H. Sells

Mr. Sol Seltzer

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph E. Seubert
Dr. and Mrs. Gordon T. Shahin
Mr. James G. Shakman

Shaw Investment

Ms. Ada Shearman

Mrs. W. Mason Shehan

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E. Shelton
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Sherman
Miss Katherine Shilling

Mr. Theodore J. Shively

Mr. Rufus Shivers

Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Shore
Mr. Robert H. Short

Dr. Stefan Shrier

Mr. Roy Shrobe

Ms. M. L. Sibley

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Silberman
Dr. A. E. Silver

Mr. M. R. Sim

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Singer
Mr. Richard A. Sites

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small
Ms. Janice W. Smith

Mr. Thomas F. Smith

Mr. Edward M. Smith

Ms. Ella E. Smith

Mr. James B. Smith

Mr. Zachary Smith

Mr. Howard F. Smothers

Mr. W. P. Snyder, III

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Sobeck
Mr. Richard P. Solloway

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 691
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Sottile
Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Soxman
Mr. D. B. Spangler

Mrs. Roger Squire

Mrs. Donna W. Stanford

Mr. Ellwood C. Stang

Mr. Gary Staples

Mr. Stuart L. Stauss

Mr. R. N. Stefan

Mr. John A. Steib

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens
Mr. W. Clinton Sterling, III
Mr. William C. Sterling, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. T. Stewart

Mr. William O. Stewart

Mr. Donald A. Stewart

Mr. L. K. Stork, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton
Dr. Warren J. Strudwick

Miss Sally A. Sullivan

Mr. Vincent M. Sullivan

Dr. Russell Swanson

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Swart, Jr.
Mrs. B. J. Sweetwood

Mrs. Phelps H. Swift

Mr. and Mrs. Richard O. Swim
Mr. Paul C. Symmors

Mr. Albert Szvetics

Mr. and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott
Dr. H. L. Taylor

Col. and Mrs. J. T. Taylor

Mrs. Richard R. Taylor

Mr. John Taylor

Mr. Joseph M. Tessmer

Mr. Alan Thebert

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Therrell
Mr. Barry Dan Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. Holcombe H. Thomas
Mr. Allen D. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Thomas
Mr. W. Thompson

Mrs. Gilda B. Thompson

Ms. Sylvia Marie Thompson
Mr. James L. Thompson

Mrs. Margot K. Thomson

Mr. D. S. Thorne

Mrs. B. W. Thoron

Mrs. Vincent M. Throop

Ms. Barbara L. Tierney

Mrs. L. E. Tierney

Mr. Neil Tillotson

Mr. Richard Timmons

Mr. H. Titchell

Mrs. Clarence O. Tormoen
Mrs. William C. Tost

692 / Smithsonian Year 1984

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L. Townsend

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Tralla

Mrs. Austin E. Trask

Mr. Timothy Traub

The Treuhaft Foundation

Mr. Robert L. Tull

Mrs. James N. Tulloh

Mr. David S. Turner

Mr. and Mrs. Lee E. Tuveson

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Ulrich

Mrs. George C. Underwood, II

Mr. S. J. Ungar

Mr. Donald Usher

Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Vanhaeften

Ms. Caroline E. VanMason

Ms. Natalie D. Venneman

Mr. Theodore H. N. Wales

Ms. Susan P. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Wallick

Mr. and Mrs. Carl Walske

Mrs. Harry Wanger

Miss Carolee J. Ward

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Warinsky

Mr. V. Phillips Weaver

Mrs. Mary E. Weber

Mr. Nathan Wechsler

Mr. and Mrs. Emil P. Weilbacher, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Weinberg

Mr. and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann

Dr. H. T. Weinstein

Dr. and Mrs. Alan Weintraub

Mr. Leonard W. Weis

Mr. J. R. Weiss

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Wells

Ms. Lucille Wendt

Mr. O. B. Werntz

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Wertheimer

Mr. J. H. Wesson

Miss Hilda Wexler

Ms. Annette P. Whatley

Ms. Adelia C. Wheeler

Mr. George Y. Wheeler, III

Mr. and Mrs. A. Whitaker

Mr. Maurice E. White

Mr. Peter C. White

Dr. John P. Whiteley

Mrs. Catherine L. Whitsitt

Ms. Mary Wibel

Mr. Richard J. Wicklund

Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke Wilkinson

Mrs. Dorothy R. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. H.
Williams, Jr.

Mr. J. Reid Williamson

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis W. Williamson
Mr. David C. Willmon

Mr. and Mrs. Kendall W. Wilson
Mr. Henry T. Wilson

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.
Mrs. Harriet L. Wilt

Mr. Russell R. Witherow

Ms. Louise Woerner

Mr. Thomas P. Wolf

Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff
Mr. Peter K. Wolff, Jr.

Ms. Audrey J. Wolfinger

Dr. and Mrs. Allan Y. Wolins
Mr. F. Wayne Womack, Jr.
Mr. David L. Wood

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 693

Dr. Sheila Z. Wood

Mr. William S. Woods

Mr. Wayne D. Woodson

Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley
Mrs. Mary E. Wright

Ms. Judith C. Wright

Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz
Mr. Frederick B. Wynn

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney
Mr. Gregory B. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Zimmerman
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Zorthian
APPENDIX 10. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution
in Fiscal Year 1984

Smith-
sonian National
Institu- Artsand Natural Air and Freer Museum of
tion Industries History Space Gallery American
Month Building Building Building Building of Art History Totals
October 1983 . 72,812 74,703 368,945 856,836 22,282 355,75. 1,749,329
November .... 48,251 63,548 514,495 902,669 19,199 295,648 1,843,810
December .... 32,559 54,933 383,057 620,362 15,489 257 ,924 1,364,324
January 1984 . 25,919 33,324 217,595 452,192 13,236 184,967 927,193
February” .<..'. 33,981 46,280 286,669 561,028 1S7333 221,638 1,164,929
Marehin reenter 51,306 63,194 502,305 849,413 19,092 361,932 1,847,242
April! Sigs sete 118,650 134,867 901,050 1,607,480 29,982 692,388 3,484,417
IMMER a ebig cao 91,730 117,960 789,363 1,809,361 56,771 626,149 3,491,334
Junie? cee oe 116,968 113,309 672,016 2,274,958 51,450 724,368 3,953,069
Palin korea < 164,141 141,582 741,088 2,077,238 53,405 711,342 3,888,796
BNUSVES ao oo 140,111 124,881 647,309 2,105,525 44,336 628,000 3,690,162
September .... 69,763 77 ,899 312,944 1,006,852 32,633 334,611 1,834,702
TOMAS He. 3 966,191 1,046,480 6,336,796 15,123,914 373,208 5,392,718 29,239,307
Rat 2S ai Ai Sa A abd a aA A TE CAR a DAN GRE
ao ee
American Anacostia Museum
Art and Neigh- Cooper- of
Portrait Renwick Hirshhorn borhood Hewitt African
Month Gallery Gallery Gallery Museum Museum Art Totals
October 1983 .. 26,265 12,686 79,154 1,527 13,600 3,021 136,253
INovembera...-- 32,707 12,068 66,883 1,702 13,503 2,669 129,532
December ..... 28,095 11,214 43,729 2,033 10,490 3,705 99,266
January 1984 .. 33,647 12,614 38,421 1,324 7198 3,088 96,492
February >... . 29,571 11,492 52,656 2,817 8,566 5,389 110,491
IME N od ames 31,408 9,809 69,300 322 1367. 5,188 127,394
Aprilia ccertisi< « 32,301 73S 117,637 2,811 9,033 5,145 178,660
IMERS SSeecononnr 31,504 11,566 111,038 2,449 9,300 3,722 169,579
JUNE octets cere = 31,993 9,424 107,716 2,052 13,586 5,267 170,038
July o.2Seieeas 31,397 8,825 116,782 3,396 11,703 6,012 178,115
August: Sac cia 31,938 9,418 105,702 2,248 12,472 4,381 166,159
September ..... 27,769 8,940 71,926 0 10,872 2,725 122,232
TOTALSM ease: 368,595 129,989 980,944 22,681 131,690 50,312 1,684,211
penaimiats ic sian a ent Gaenead einiinee U Pag APRN TE

Grand Total ... 30,923,518

Note: Not reflected in the above tabulation are an estimated 3,300,000 visitors to the National
Zoological Park in fiscal year 1984. The very nature of the Park, with its indoor and
outdoor exhibits and its several vehicular and pedestrian entrances, make it impos-
sible to obtain exact visitor statistics. To overcome this difficulty, the Zoo has devel-
oped a reliable sampling system, which was used to determine the FY 1984 estimates.

694
2 TL Thy y 7 ali

Oy At yl: i
+ ‘ Pn

-
i
ey

Rin Tate

Hie

hat NP a il cate sal

A *
‘4 be Uy 4
dw eta se
Re tp

xb ik
SY buen f

Me

ne c
ae. Ea *
al * .
“« J
ee ; 7 ba
| ' - a ‘
; 7 oan oy =
a 7¢ eit
a ox ¢ 7h ie
i) te ; a

an a ;
oar s a
7 : oa VEN = =
a ° i —— y < >
: = = a
_—* = =e ae
-; vay ee — ot =
¢ - or = a q :
ica ey
. EY ani ~
os Cs i =
- wt _~

\

Me
We Me

st
ee Ss Se as

=

rie

Cab he!

