OREGON
RULE

wy
aa Mire,

AA

y |
ee i
es . /, “
= . ’ *
a ~ p a | <F
: c ae we Fe « i
Gailit N "
.s

é sf (a\ f

.. 7 | =*T! oy oe sd
\ 7
os Ly an
4 P< - “ fe
| . | wm A a ay a" =-5
ma) te .
! ; £ = fate ~~ —_ oe “3
% ' ae + ~ oo
- « “a : be Me "
{ i ‘ / ee o> S aS a a5,
> Me tte A ‘
q ; Sat , Sees
“Fy * ‘ DD -
< d
’ t rue 4 ee tte
2. eee \e r
» Pie
+ 4

e
CT ibang

SMITHSONIAN YEAR ° 1982

Statement by the Secretary
"BY THE SECRETARY
SMITHSONIAN YEAR + 1982

Know Thy Neighbor as Thyself

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
S. DILLON RIPLEY

The Smithsonian Institution 1983

4
U

Poe ee

-
= -™
ay
~
Pet.

j

rae: OS

ae
ot es ad

Ms ig ~~ ae
~S
REN ee
FRONTISPIECE: With the completion of the Smithsonian’s Quadrangle project
serving our public and Associates alike, a new dimension in America’s com-
prehension of the non-Western world will be opened on the Mall. Exhibitions,
performances, seminars, and discussions will enhance America’s understand-
ing of this panorama of nations harboring two-thirds of the planet’s popula-
tion. Shown are (left to right) a Korean musician, students in a seminar, a
Kutiyattam performer from Kerala, India, young visitors being introduced to
African life and art, and Smithsonian Associates visiting the Treasury Build-
ing in Petra, Jordan.
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property
and accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in
an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the President,
the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust
in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Ronald Reagan, President of the United States
George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
George P. Shultz, Secretary of State
Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury
Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense
William French Smith, Attorney General
James G. Watt, Secretary of the Interior
John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture
Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce
Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of Labor
Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of Health and Human Services
Terrell H. Bell, Secretary of Education
Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Andrew L. Lewis, Jr., Secretary of Transportation
James B. Edwards, Secretary of Energy

[v]
Board of Regents and Secretary » September 30, 1982

REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor

INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States, ex officio
Henry M. Jackson, senator from Washington

Barry Goldwater, senator from Arizona

Edwin Jacob (Jake) Garn, senator from Utah

Silvio O. Conte, representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, representative from California
Edward P. Boland, representative from Massachusetts
David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Nancy Hanks, citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
David C. Acheson

William A. M. Burden

Carlisle H. Humelsine (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information

[vi]
Smithsonian Year + 1982

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
c

This cut-away drawing of the Quadrangle (Independence Avenue view), from
the architectural firm of Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson and Abbott, shows
some of the space to be provided in three levels for exhibitions, theater pro-
ductions, and study.

eC ee

= eTite

Know Thy Neighbor as Thyself

S. DILLON RIPLEY

THIS PARAPHRASE OF THE BIBLE saying, “Love Thy Neighbor as Thy-
self,” a true saying, and one to be emulated if in larger affairs it
had not a mocking ring, is one that I often think of in connection
with the Smithsonian. To know is to learn but also to give a little.
If one knows anything it is a scrap of learning. Every scrap should
be shared for all bear upon a central theme. The assemblage of
knowledge is like a pyramid. Its creation is the very abnegation of
self, and in the process we learn to know each other, more sanely,
I believe, than love would ever let us do, clouded with the mists of
sentiment or tears, as that may be.

Speaking at the dedication of the American Museum of Natural
History in New York in 1874, Professor Joseph Henry, first Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian, stated that James Smithson’s memorial,

“pace =

eg atc 7 a a re

[3]
the Institution, should be a work place, a “college of discoverers,”
a haven for research, “discovering new facts, new phenomena and
new principles,” and making this information known to all. Knowl-
edge should be spread abroad by museums based on this research.
This is the finest memorial of all, for “what, in comparison to this,
are local monuments, pyramids of flint, statues of brass or obelisks
of marble!”

These two generations past have been the generations of self, on
which mountains of egocentrism have been erected, eroding over
the years, as always, in the sands of anomie and the washings of
self-pity. I went to Persepolis not long ago and walked over the
desert into the blue silk and damask tents erected to celebrate two
thousand five hundred years of a dynasty that never was. Created
with cunning skill by French decorators for the nonevent, the tents
still stood, the curtains giving way at one’s entrance to the great
banquet pavillion; within, a crescent-shaped dias with a crescent
table, backed by a row of pale blue velvet tall chairs arranged on
one side only, not for conversation but for the admiration of the
courtiers and press. No sound broke the spell except for a faint
soughing of the wind, which made the gilt candelabra sway slightly
in a ghostly reverie. Oh, Ozymandias have you told us nothing?

The accumulation of knowledge must not be a selfish thing, for
knowledge and learning go hand in hand, and to learn is to teach.
James Smithson in his charge to his heirs—his administrators for
the future—said that his Institution should serve for “the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men” (i.e., mankind). One of
my colleagues, Wilcomb Washburn, has recently discovered a letter
of Smithson’s in French, addressed to Baron Georges Cuvier, the
most celebrated French savant of his day, written from Germany
in 1806, twenty years before Smithson’s death, in which he pres-
aged the language of his famous will. A translation might be, “It
seems to me, Sir, that the man of genius who through important
discoveries expands the scope of the human mind is entitled to
something beyond a mere and fruitless admiration [for this we
might read “ego trip”]. That he is entitled to expect that all con-
tribute as much as they can to facilitate research so that, if fame is
achieved, they can share in the benefits. And it would indeed be
unjust that national differences as well as resentment and war
should have any bearing in this matter. The works of scientists

[4]
being for all nations, they themselves should be looked upon as
citizens of mankind.”

It seems to me that what Smithson is writing is that as scientists
or scholars of history or art at the Smithsonian, we are obligated
to increase and diffuse knowledge, and in the process sweep away
the cobwebs of self-pity, deriving satisfaction not from self-
promotion but rather from the rewarding tasks of increasing and
diffusing knowledge. We must reach what we know and discover,
as best we can, using research as a tool for illumination.

The Smithsonian Institution is embarking on a course which, if
successful, will lead to an expansion on an international scale of
our motto. For perhaps the first time in our history, we are em-
barking in a spirit of social responsibility on a creative effort to
increase understanding and respect for our neighbors.

One of our mandates, the diffusion of knowledge among men
(among mankind) works both ways, within and without. We can,
for example, tell Americans about their history, but how can we
extend that to tell Americans about the history of the rest of the
world, especially about those parts and nations of which we are
still so woefully ignorant. Our entire awareness of others has been
concentrated until recently on the so-called Western world: Europe
—extending east to Russia, south to the Mediterranean—and parts
of Latin American, our traditional neighbors. Until World War II,
Asia was known to relatively few Americans. Few Americans pene-
trated beyond Japan and China. The vast worlds of more southern
Asia (except for the Philippines), tropical Asia, the southwest
Pacific areas (except for Australia), and Africa and the Middle East
were essentially little-known and beyond most people’s means to
visit or experience.

Now this Institution has an opportunity to combine objects, col-
lections such as those in the Freer Gallery of Art, the National
Museum of African Art, collections in our kindred departments of
Anthropology and History and Art, into our Quadrangle, a new
Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures, to be built
south of the original Smithsonian Castle. This Center will delineate
to Americans as well as to the world the necessity to “know your
neighbor,’ to respect our fellow inhabitants in this shrinking world,
and in the process generate an increased measure of self-respect in
ourselves and in our neighbors as well. Traditions and cultures

[s]
alien to the massive onslaughts of mechanistic technology are frag-
ile indeed. They are being eroded every day just as the forests of
the tropics disappear. Cultures drift away like the dust that follows
the draft of a lifting jet plane on a far-away runway. Cultures and
traditions represent the only stability, the only defense against the
mindlessness of self, and the only model for the cultivation of self-
respect.

In the world of this vast region, home to almost two-thirds of
the human population, there are now ninety-two nations, where
perhaps a dozen reigned before World War IJ. We in America,
still unused to the totality of this change, remember only dimly
some of the new names and find little occasion to think of the im-
plications involved, except perhaps to be bothered by reading of
the debates in the General Assembly of the United Nations, or to
hear of some man-made or natural catastrophe on the other side of
the globe. Our Center will help to correct this lack of understand-
ing on our side as well as theirs. We will have a chance to fore-
gather here to discourse, to exhibit their traditions and cultures in
a meaningful way, and to demonstrate the long history of inven-
tion, intellectual achievement, and civilization, of which those of us
on both sides must remind ourselves before it is too late. So we

This elevation drawing by Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson and Abbott, archi-
tects, shows the Quadrangle’s pavilions and landscaping, north side.

[6]
have embarked upon the creation of this Center in an effort to “put
out more flags,” to shine the light of understanding between us.

In this effort, approved by the Regents of the Institution, we are
pledged to raise $75 million for construction, half by the Smith-
sonian itself and its dedicated friends, and half by the federal gov-
ernment. Over the past few years many others have shared this
vision and have helped us bring it closer to fruition. To signify the
government’s commitment to the project, the United States Con-
gress in its 1983 budget has approved legislation authorizing con-
struction of the Quadrangle and has appropriated the federal share
of the financing in the amount of $36.5 million to add to almost
$1 million appropriated the year before.

The Smithsonian’s private financing has received a munificent
boost in the generosity of Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, a psychiatrist
and medical publisher who resides in New York City. He has
pledged not only 1,000 works of Asian art, valued well in excess
of $50 million, but also $4 million towards construction of the Far
Eastern gallery within the Quadrangle, which will house his collec-
tion as well as those of others and be named in his honor. In mak-
ing these gifts, Dr. Sackler reflected the synthesis as well as the
essence of the Quadrangle in saying that’. . . in the years to come,

[7]
Washington will continue to grow into a world cultural capital,
augmenting its status as a world political center.”

Support for our Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian
Cultures continues to come in from abroad as well as from other
friends of the Institution in many parts of the country. We will
celebrate and commemorate their gifts in appropriate ways within
the new structure and in the various programs that will flow from
it; especially in outreach and public education.

Throughout the past year the existing programs of the Institu-
tion, as well as the supporting functions that are crucial to their
success in reaching the broad audiences that we serve, have been
marked by a continuing high level of public interest and achieve-
ment. Steady progress has been made towards completing in 1983
the initial physical inventory of the National Collections entrusted
to our care. Not only will we then be able to refine more intelli-
gently our previous estimates of holding some 75 million items, but
we will also have more substantial information about the location
and condition of all these objects, thus enabling us to manage and
conserve them for generations yet to come.

Another significant element in the care and conservation of col-
lections is the Museum Support Center, the facility in nearby Suit-
land, Maryland, currently under construction. We expect to take
possession of the building within budget and on schedule in this
winter of 1983. To the partnership, Metcalf/KCF and to the chief
architect of the project, Coke Florance, we offer our appreciation
for so thoughtfully resolving the problems of space for collections
storage and research, along with conservation training, in a massive
edifice that, nonetheless, provides a comfortable working environ-
ment in harmony with its natural surroundings.

In the area of collections acquisition, gifts and purchases have
enabled us to extend modestly the evidence of our cultural heritage
and of the physical world inhabited by us and by those who have
gone before us. The National Museum of African Art has acquired
two early and important Benin bronzes, while the National Portrait
Gallery, in association with the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foun-
dation at Charlottesville, Virginia, has purchased Gilbert Stuart’s
“Edgehill” portrait of Thomas Jefferson painted in 1805. Following
the pattern established in the joint purchase of the Stuart portraits
of George and Martha Washington, the portrait, named for the

[8]
Smithsonian Associates search for wildlife at Corbett National Park, India.
plantation of Jefferson’s grandson where it hung for many years,
will be exhibited for alternating three-year periods at the Portrait
Gallery and at Monticello.

The lives of two other presidents were the focus of major win-
ter exhibitions and related activities. To commemorate the one-
hundredth anniversary of the birth of Franklin Roosevelt on Janu-
ary 30, 1882, a number of events took place in several Smithsonian
museums. Early January saw the opening of the exhibition Roose-
velt’s America: New Deal Art from the National Museum of Amer-
ican Art. Shortly thereafter a small exhibition, FDR: The Early
Years, chronicling his early life and entrance into the political
arena, opened at the National Portrait Gallery. Our friend, the dis-
tinguished journalist Joseph Alsop, a cousin of the late president,
presented a lecture, “FDR: The Great Change,” in conjunction
with the exhibition. At the end of January the National Museum of
American History presented Franklin Delano Roosevelt: The Inti-
mate Presidency, which included the White House desk and micro-
phones from which he delivered his famous “fireside chats,” his
1938 Ford with special hand controls, and a wide range of photo-
graphs of FDR and of the nation during his presidency, giving an
especial quality of verisimilitude to the event.

On February 22 a gala birthday party at the National Museum
of American History, followed by fireworks on the Mall, marked
the two-hundredth-fiftieth anniversary of Washington’s birth and
the opening of a major exhibition, George Washington: A Figure
Upon the Stage. The exhibit surveys the many ways in which
Americans of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries have idolized
and indeed utilized Washington and the aura of his name. Also,
perhaps this exhibition helps to humanize “G.W.”, showing sides
of his character and his ambitions, usually clouded in the atmo-
sphere of the almost imperial tradition. Smithsonian historian
Margaret Klapthor, curator of the exhibition, points out that “the
image and character of Washington have taken various forms,”
with each era favoring an appearance related to its own values. The
National Portrait Gallery mounted a related exhibition of prints
depicting George Washington and showing the variety of ways in
which the Founding Father was perceived by his contemporaries.

Irish songs and fancy footwork marked the March 17 opening
of Celebration: A World of Art and Ritual, which examines the

[10]
Gilbert Stuart’s “Edgehill” portrait of Thomas Jefferson, painted in 1805, is now
jointly owned by the National Portrait Gallery and the Thomas Jefferson Memo-
rial Foundation, Incorporated, Charlottesville, Virginia. The painting will be
exhibited for alternating three-year periods at the nrc and at Monticello.
Richard Fiske (left), NMNH director, participates in an Eskimo dance at a Contribut-
ing Membership reception following a review of the major exhibition inua: spirit world
of the bering sea eskimo. Below. Paul E. Garber, NAsmM historian emeritus, shows
seventh and eighth graders how to build a kite from scratch as part of the “D.C. Day”

festivities held at the museum.

universal phenomenon of celebration and demostrates how differ-
ent people mark the important events and cycles in their societies.
The exhibition includes approximately 600 objects—95 percent of
which have never before been exhibited—from more than 60 cul-
tures and the collections of 9 Smithsonian museums. A related
exhibition was presented later in the year at the National Museum
of African Art: Life . . . Afterlife: African Funerary Sculpture,
which examines the cycle of birth, death, rebirth, and afterlife
experienced by many African cultures. Other notable exhibitions
included two companion shows at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden—Raphael Soyer: 65 Years of Printmaking and
Soyer Since 1960—honoring the very substantial output of this
talented artist and contributor to the museum’s collections. The
Hirshhorn was also host to the De Stijl: 1917-1931, Visions of
Utopia exhibition, illuminating the art, architecture, and design of
the influential Dutch movement that was characterized by elemen-
tary, geometric forms and pure, primary colors. The exhibition was
one of several international events marking the two-hundredth
anniversary of the establishment of formal diplomatic relations
between the United States and The Netherlands, the longest peace-
ful relationship the United States has had with any foreign power.

Further reflecting significant international influences in art and
design, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum opened in September a retro-
spective view of the history of Scandinavian design during the last
100 years, which included furniture, glass, ceramics, metal work,
and textiles as part of a national celebration of “Scandinavia
Today.” |

A selection from the Meserve Collection of the original glass
plate negatives of Mathew Brady’s portrait photographs were ex-
hibited for the first time in May at the National Portrait Gallery in
a specially designed room, evocative of the mid-nineteenth century.
This unique collection of immense historical importance also in-
cludes the only print ever made from the last photograph of Presi-
dent Lincoln. Perhaps the most haunting likeness of Lincoln, it was
taken on April 10, 1865, in a studio four blocks south of the
Portrait Gallery building just four days before his assassination.

During the past year our colleagues in the physical and natural
sciences also have made lively and important contributions in
exhibitions as well as in research. Of the former, perhaps the most

[13]
extraordinary was inua: spirit world of the bering sea eskimo,
which opened in June in the Evans Gallery of the National Museum
of Natural History. Featuring for the first time nearly 500 objects
collected for the Smithsonian more than 100 years ago by the
naturalist and surveyor Edward Nelson, the exhibition recreates
the world of the Bering Sea Eskimo and traces the roots of Eskimo
cultural and artistic traditions. Many objects in the exhibition were
associated with elaborate myths and decorated with dual animal
and human images, reflecting the belief of the Eskimos that every-
thing had an inua, a human-like essence or spirit that was revealed
to people in dreams, visions, or when encountering animals. Also at
the National Museum of Natural History, the ever-popular Dino-
saur Hall was reopened after a hiatus of several years during which
it has been renovated and the paleontological exhibits enlarged and
current theories of evolution presented.

Dr. Terry Erwin, a curator in the museum’s Department of Ento-
mology, continued his studies of the tropical rain forest canopy and
of the insect life abiding there. This research reveals that the num-
ber of insect species worldwide may be substantially larger than
previously suspected, and that tropical deforestation, therefore, will
inevitably destroy far larger numbers of species than had been
anticipated or supposed.

The world’s tropical rain forests are home to half of the earth’s
plant and animal species, and thus are areas of immense priority to
numbers of Smithsonian scientists. During a symposium on the
ecology and management of the tropical rain forest, which was held
at the University of Leeds in England last spring, Dr. Ira Rubinoff,
director of our Tropical Research Institute in Panama, proposed the
establishment of a system of Tropical Moist Forest Reserves in the
temperate zones, financed by the developed nations in order to save
this crucial international resource.

Dr. David Roubik, an entomologist at the Institute and an expert
on the African honeybee let loose on an unsuspecting New World
in Brazil in 1957, has been working closely with Panamanian au-
thorities on ways of adapting to these notoriously aggressive bees,
which arrived in the Republic from the south late last winter. He is
sharing his information with Central American governments as
well, for this is a matter of concern as the species spreads north-
wards.

[14]
Another study on the effects of forest habitat destruction was
conducted by Dr. James Lynch of the Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies, whose work was an investigation of the
size and stability of bird populations in Maryland. Dr. Lynch has
begun work with other Smithsonian scientists on a similar study in
the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico, part of the winter migration
route for a fifth of our North American bird species.

_At the National Zoological Park’s Conservation and Research
Center in Front Royal, Virginia, studies on the behavioral ecology
and population dynamics of wildlife from around the world are
underway. This work is being used as a means of training scientists
from India and Europe in the use of sophisticated techniques for
studying endangered animals in their own countries and elsewhere
in the world.

The reptile and amphibian house of the Zoo’s Rock Creek loca-
tion has been renovated and reopened to the public. The refur-
bished structure proves to be much more effective than the former
house for studying these exotic animals and encouraging breeding
and survival rates in captivity. For the second consecutive year the
Zoo received the highest award from the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums for captive propagation programs.

The National Air and Space Museum commemorated twenty-five
years of space exploration with an exhibition and a conference of
that name, both of which seek to place accomplishments of the
space age in a social, cultural, and political context. The Museum’s
Garber Facility, for the restoration and preservation of aircraft,
celebrated its fifth anniversary with a week-long series of events
for the general public.

The observatory atop Mount Hopkins in Arizona was renamed
for our colleague Fred Lawrence Whipple, and dedicated in his
honor last May. Fred Whipple was the first director of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory when it moved to Cambridge,
and was a primary developer of the concept of the MMT. The
newly renovated gamma ray reflector—the largest in the world—
has resumed operation at the Whipple Observatory and will enable
astronomers to probe high energy events in the far reaches of the
universe.

In an effort to understand other aspects of universality and
fundamental processes, the Smithsonian sponsored an international

[15]
symposium on “How Humans Adapt: A Biocultural Odyssey.” A
diverse group of scholars met to debate what may be one of the
most critical questions of our time: has Homo sapiens, having come
this far in his several million years, learned anything at all that
can help him survive in the present global village and adapt to the
future? The papers from the symposium—the keynote speaker of
which was the late René Dubos—will be published by the Smith-
sonian Institution Press in the winter of 1983.

During the summer, the Festival of American Folklife returned
to its original plot on the National Mall among the Smithsonian’s
museum buildings. The larger and more accessible site accents the
strong, complementary relationships between museum collections
and the presenters of living traditions. This sixteenth annual festi-
val featured the rich and diverse folk traditions of Korea during
the anniversary of a century of diplomatic relations between our
two countries, as well as the Diamond Jubilee of the State of Okla-
homa. It reflected the traditions that Oklahomans nourish and
support, particularly those associated with two major activities—
horses and oil—and brought a functioning rig and a quarter-mile
race track to the Mall. The festival was also the setting for the
awards ceremony for the first annual National Heritage Fellow-
ships, honors given by the National Endowment for the Arts to
traditional musicians and craftsmen who have made outstanding
contributions to the cultural life of the nation.

As in previous years, we should not let this report slip by with-
out mentioning certain comings and goings of Smithsonian staff.
We were terribly saddened this year by the death of John Estes,
the experienced director of the International Exchange Service. By
the end of the fiscal year we learned that another dear friend and
companion, our Assistant Secretary for Public Service, Julian T.
Euell, who had served in that capacity for nearly a decade, would
be accepting the directorship of the Oakland Museum. Still other
departures included Noel Hinners, the director of the National Air
and Space Museum, who became director of the Goddard Space
Center; Robert Angle, director of our National Associates program,
who assumed membership responsibilities for the National Trust
for Historic Preservation; and both David Estabrook, director of
Elementary and Secondary Education, and Richard Griesel, our

[16]
e0GR RETAILS

oe? *
Y

. . ee

coutecee > eumanummad ae) wR ey APRA ae Her
“a
ee

TARY NNR AE AT
Ce ea

Se ae | ae!

Quarter horses from Oklahoma race down the National Mall at the Sixteenth Annual
Festival of American Folklife held in the summer 1982.
business manager, who have left for the vineyards of private indus-
try. We have been fortunate to be able to promote Jacqueline
Austin to the helm of the National Associates, Ann Bay to the
head of Elementary and Secondary Education, and Joe Chmelik to
business manager.

At the same time we should note two nearly simultaneous
arrivals at the old Patent Office Building. Alan Fern, formerly of
the Library of Congress, has been named director of the National
Portrait Gallery, and Charles Eldredge, the former director of the
Spencer Museum of Art in Lawrence, Kansas, has assumed the
directorship of the National Museum of American Art. I am confi-
dent these two innovative and sensitive scholars will lead their
programs in imaginative ways and in the spirit of partnership.

If the pursuit of knowledge is the aim of this Institution, then
we can look forward to an enlarging era in the programs planned
for the future of our new Center described in the opening of this
statement. Americans long to be friends with all the world. We are
frustrated by those who fail to understand that we hope that our
civilization, our history of democracy and freedom is a real one,
in spite of the ups and downs of our progress. If James Smithson
had a vision—that somewhere across the ocean from the Europe of
stratified hierarchies and iron-bound convention of the eighteenth
century, this new world could achieve such an ideal—we could
hardly deny that that vision was proleptic. It is in the fulfillment
of that ambition of our precursor that we must proceed.

There is a time in the world for the realization of these ambi-
tions. The eagle on the Great Seal may have arrows or thunder-
bolts clutched in one set of claws, but there is an olive branch in
the other. Justice and equality demand that America be strong and
competent in the role of peace-keeper, but peace itself demands
understanding, friendship, and mutual self-respect, hand in hand
with certainty. Respect above all for cultures and traditions across
the face of that great arc of the world stretching from Atlantic to
Pacific, from Africa to East Asia, should insure that we can “know
our neighbors as ourselves,” and in this knowing, learn to respect
and live with new friends for the future. For indeed there is no
other choice.

[18]
The Board of Regents

Tue Boarp oF Recents held three formal meetings during the last
year. Additional meetings of the Regents’ Executive Committee,
the Audit and Review Committee, the Personnel Committee, and
the Investment Policy Committee were held throughout the year
and reported at the Regents’ meetings.

The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Janu-
ary 25, 1982, in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Castle and
was called to order by the Chancellor. The Executive Committee
reported that it met on January 5, 1982, to discuss the Regents’
agenda and took special note of the Audit and Review Committee’s
close attention to Smithsonian business, the Secretary’s and staff’s
strengthened measures regarding museum protection, and plans to
cope with ever-tightening budget stringencies. The Audit and Re-
view Committee reported on two of its meetings, one held jointly
with the Personnel Committee on October 14, 1981, and the other
held on December 2, 1981. The committee proposed a resolution to
indemnify Smithsonian Regents, officers, and employees for liabili-
ties and expenses incurred as a result of litigation arising from
service for the Institution, and the resolution was incorporated by
reference into a new Bylaw of the Board of Regents, Section 2.09,
entitled INDEMNIFICATION. The Audit and Review Committee also
reviewed possible insurance to cover the indemnification and,
accordingly, the Regents directed the Treasurer to secure appro-
priate “Directors and Officers” insurance.

The Audit and Review Committee decided that the thorough
auditing conducted annually on the Smithsonian’s trust funds
should be extended to an annual audit of the federally appropriated
funds by the Institution’s independent auditors, Coopers and
Lybrand. In view of the fundamental importance of this matter the
Regents expressly endorsed the committee’s action. Other commit-
tee reviews included:

Coopers and Lybrand’s audit of fiscal year 1981 trust funds;
Smithsonian procedures for reporting financial interests; draft

[19]
standards of conduct; museum security; Smithsonian procedures
for construction and repair services; and computer services.

The Personnel Committee of the Regents reported that it had
reviewed the financial-interests statements of the Secretary’s top
assistants and that it found no conflict of interest whatsoever.

The Treasurer informed the Regents that a self-assessment
review has recently been conducted at the Institution to identify
lower priority programs that might be reduced or eliminated, and
alternative modes of operation that might create savings of dollars
or workyears. After extensive discussion, the Regents agreed that
in view of the existing security and financial constraints the Insti-
tution should eliminate summer evening hours on a trial basis,
subject, if necessary, to further review by the Audit and Review
Committee.

It was noted that final congressional action resulted in fiscal year
1982 federal appropriations totaling $142,534,000, some 9 percent
below the amount requested. That appropriation included $960,000
for Quadrangle planning—the first federal appropriation for this
project. The Treasurer also reported that the Office of Management
and Budget (oms) allowance for all appropriations for fiscal year
1983 was $192,610,000, reflecting increases for Museum Support
Center equipment, critical security and maintenance, and inflation
in pay, utilities, and rent. In addition, oms allowed the Institution’s
full request ($36.5 million) for Quadrangle construction, but did
not allow the Institution’s request for an additional 99 positions to
open and operate the Museum Support Center and 48 other posi-
tions to strengthen security.

The Investment Policy Committee reported that they met on
November 17, 1981, to review the performance of the Institution’s
three investment managers and to discuss strategies for the future.
It was noted that the managers continue to out-perform market
averages and that the annualized return from each of the managers
for the last three and one-half years was about 16 percent per year.

The Secretary outlined the Five-Year Prospectus, FY 1983-1987
and stressed his commitment to include projections beyond the
five-year period where appropriate. Priorities of the Institution
were the equipment for the Museum Support Center, the comple-
tion of the Quadrangle, the enhancement of collections manage-
ment activities, security, and automation. The Regents approved

[20]
the Prospectus as submitted, in anticipation that annual revisions
will similarly be presented for approval.

The Secretary briefed the Regents on the status of the Quadran-
gle project, introducing Mr. George Brakeley of Brakeley, John
Price Jones, Inc., the fund-raising consultants. The total income
from unrestricted trust funds, gifts, pledges, and interest amounted
to $14,017,600 as of November 30, 1981. The Regents discussed
the strategies for raising the balance of the $37,500,000 from
domestic and foreign foundations, corporations, individuals, and
foreign governments. During the fall the Quadrangle design was
approved by both the National Capital Planning Commission and
the Commission on Fine Arts.

The Museum Support Center was reported to be 45 percent
complete and about two months ahead of the January 1983 com-
pletion date. In a report on the status of the collections inventory,
it was noted that the target date for completion of the baseline
inventories remains June 1983, after which the inventories will be
a continuing process and priority.

The Secretary presented a report on the equal opportunity pro-
gram, noting only marginal improvement in increasing the repre-
sentation of women and minorities, particularly in the higher
grades. Recognizing that commendable efforts have already been
made and without being critical, the Regents urged the administra-
tion to redouble its efforts and explore all possible strategies.
Subsequent to the meeting the Audit and Review Committee
agreed to review the subject in the spring.

In other actions, the Board of Regents effected an amendment to
the bylaws of the National Portrait Gallery Commission, reap-
pointed Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake, Mr. David Lloyd Kreeger, and
Mrs. Margaret McKee to the National Museum of American Art
Commission, and paid tribute to the late Dr. Robert Elliot Silber-
glied, an entomologist at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, who died in a plane crash on January 13, 1982.

The Chancellor announced that Mr. Webb had resigned as chair-
man of the Executive Committee. Accepting that resignation with
great reluctance, the Chancellor assured the Regents that Mr. Webb
would remain on the Executive Committee for the duration of his
term. With the consent of the Regents, the Chancellor appointed
Mr. Humelsine as chairman, effective January 25, 1982.

[21]
The traditional Regents’ Dinner was held on Sunday evening,
January 24, 1982, in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery of the National
Museum of Natural History/Museum of Man, where the exhibi-
tion Deep Ocean Photography provided a dramatic setting. The
Secretary addressed the guests about his and Mrs. Ripley’s faun-
istic and floristic survey of the Namdapha Region in Arunachal
Pradesh, India.

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents was called to order
by the Chancellor on May 3, 1982, in the Regents’ Room. The
Executive Committee reported that it met on April 14 to consider
the proposed agenda for the Regents’ meeting. The committee
noted that the decision to restrict summer evening hours was wide-
ly announced and received little criticism. At the suggestion of the
committee, the Regents voted to confer on James E. Webb the title
of Regent Emeritus upon the expiration of his term on June 21 and
to elect David C. Acheson to membership on the committee effec-
tive June 22, 1982. After considering a large number of suggested
nominees, and the recommendation of the Executive Committee,
the Regents voted to request that the Congressional Regents intro-
duce and support legislation to appoint Nancy Hanks as a citizen
Regent of the Smithsonian, for the statutory term of six years.

It was noted that, in response to a poll conducted through the
mails in April, the Regents voted to establish the James E. Webb
Fellowships for the promotion of excellence in the management of
cultural and scientific not-for-profit institutions. The Regents ob-
served that this was a particularly appropriate honor for Mr. Webb
and that this program in public administration will be of great
benefit to the Institution.

The Audit and Review Committee reported that they met on
March 23, 1982. At that meeting the independent auditors, Coopers
and Lybrand, highlighted their December 31, 1981, Report to Man-
agement and introduced their consolidated audit plan for fiscal year
1982. Mr. Acheson reported that on March 13 the committee
visited the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York City. Mr. Hughes
had informed the Committee about a current, as yet incomplete,
internal audit of the gem collection in the National Museum of
Natural History/ Museum of Man.

The Audit and Review Committee noted that the indemnifica-
tion resolution and bylaw adopted by the Regents on January 25,

[22]
1982, had, through inadvertence, not included coverage for Regents
Emeritus and members of Regents’ committees and advisory bod-
ies. To effect this coverage—and to clarify the intent of the resolu-
tion that Smithsonian employees and officers will be indemnified
for liabilitity arising out of service on boards of other organiza-
tions when that service is part of official Smithsonian duties—the
Regents voted to amend the resolution and bylaws, Section 2.09.

The Treasurer informed the Regents that the Institution was
allowed to submit to Congress a supplemental appropriation re-
quest of $2.3 million to cover one-half of fiscal year 1982 pay-raise
costs. This amount, together with cost-reduction actions taken as a
result of the self-assessment review, will permit the Institution to
continue operations with a minimum of disruption to essential ac-
tivities. Revised projections for Unrestricted General Trust Funds
still anticipated a break-even budget, with increased net gains ex-
pected from the Smithsonian magazine being offset by lower re-
turns in other auxiliary activities and increased administrative
expenses.

The performance of the Institution’s investment managers was
reviewed by the Investment Policy Committee at its meeting on
April 28, 1982. Mr. Hohenlohe noted that total Smithsonian en-
dowments continued to outperform the standard market indices.
The Board of Regents approved the total return income payout for
fiscal year 1983 as recommended.

By invitation six members of the National Board of the Smith-
sonian Associates joined the meeting of the Board of Regents for
the discussion of the Quadrangle. The Secretary highlighted the
report circulated in advance, noting progress through the tentative
design phase. Accordingly, the architect’s drawings, specifications,
and construction estimate were submitted to the General Services
Administration. A second estimate was also obtained by the Insti-
tution. The estimates suggested that some cost savings will be re-
quired to meet the $75 million budget, but these savings will not
force any major alterations to the project. The Secretary added that
the Smithsonian will not appeal to Congress for any amount
greater than the $36.5 million requested for construction. He also
noted progress in the congressional approval of the construction
authorization.

Mr. Ripley outlined the foreign gifts and pledges to date and

[23]
noted prospects for additional foreign donations. It was noted that
all gifts and pledges ($13,910,800), added to Smithsonian unre-
stricted fund transfer ($12,357,100), total $26,267,900—more than
two-thirds of the $37.5 million goal.

The Secretary underscored the importance of the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates in the domestic fund-raising cam-
paign, noting that the extraordinary generosity and dedication of
several members has been critical to launching a sequential strategy
for soliciting leadership-level gifts, to be followed by an expanded
search for more moderate gifts. A series of special regional meet-
ings will be arranged for the Secretary in this connection. A
broader appeal to the entire membership of the National Associates
may ensue.

One of America’s leading collectors of Near and Far Eastern art,
Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, made a firm proposal for the donation of
works of oriental art valued at $50 million and also $4 million in
cash toward the construction costs of the Quadrangle, with the
condition that the new gallery of Near and Far Eastern art will be
named for him. After discussion, the Regents authorized the Secre-
tary to negotiate terms of the agreement, subject to further review
by the Board.

Mr. Ripley informed the Regents that the Museum Support Cen-
ter was 65 percent complete on April 22, 1982, and that procedures
are being developed to facilitate a complex, multi-stage move to the
center. The Secretary reported on the status of the Institution-wide
collections inventory and the progress in formulating up-to-date
collections management policies.

It was noted that the Secretary received the rank of Commander
in the Order of Orange-Nassau just prior to the visit of the Queen
of The Netherlands, in recognition of the work culminating in the
Queen’s opening of the De Stijl exhibition at the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden, as well as, more generally, the Smith-
sonian’s work over the years. The Regents offered their approval
and congratulations.

The traditional Regents’ Dinner was held in honor of Mr. Webb
the evening of May 2, in the “Commons” of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Building. The guests gathered in the Victorian Garden,
where a model of the Quadrangle was on view. The Chancellor
presented a citation to Mr. Webb dedicating the Webb Fellow-

[24]
Shown above is the Regents’ meeting of January 25, 1982, in progress. Below. Her
Majesty, Queen Beatrix of The Netherlands and Abram Lerner, director of the Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden, attended the official opening of De Stijl: 1917-
1931, Visions of Utopia, April 19, 1982, at the Hirshhorn.

ships in his honor: “. . . the Webb Fellowships will nurture man-
agement abilities of Smithsonian employees and visiting scholars
for years to come—and will therefore continue to symbolize our
profound gratitude for this sensitive and dear colleague.” The Sec-
retary offered a toast to Dr. Fred L. Whipple, in whose name the
astronomical observatory at Mt. Hopkins was to be dedicated on
May 7, 1982. There followed a showing of the film In Open Air,
procured through the generosity of the Allbritton Foundation in
connection with the exhibition of the American Impressionists’
paintings.

The Chancellor called to order the autumn meeting of the Board
of Regents on Monday, September 20, 1982, in the Regents’ Room.
The Executive Committee reported on their August 25 meeting,
where the Committee discussed contingency plans, should a pay
supplemental appropriation not be forthcoming, and called for a
staff report on the projected deficit of the Division of Performing
Arts to be distributed to the Audit and Review Committee. The
Treasurer reported that the Institution’s banking and cash-manage-
ment systems are being simplified, streamlined, and modernized.
The Committee then discussed in detail the status of the Quad-
rangle project and agreed to recommend proceedings as proposed
(see below).

The Audit and Review Committee reported on its meeting of
May 21, 1982, noting that Coopers and Lybrand had found no
weaknesses in accounting and controls in their audit of fiscal year
1981 federal appropriations. Mr. Jameson presented a report on
the status of equal opportunity and affirmative action, emphasizing
the persisting problems of underrepresentation in professional and
administrative positions. The Committee received a report on the
organization of book publishing at the Smithsonian.

The Treasurer informed the Regents that the Institution received
a federal supplemental appropriation of $2.7 million, some $400,-
000 above the Institution’s request of $2.3 million for fiscal year
1982; that Unrestricted General Trust Funds were projected to pro-
vide a small surplus of $47,000, compared to an original breakeven
budget; and that substantial gains by the magazine, the National
Associates, and the Smithsonian Institution Press largely offset
higher administrative and program expenses and a substantial
deficit in the Division of Performing Arts.

[26]
The Treasurer added that House and Senate mark-ups of the
Institution’s fiscal year 1983 appropriation request were not antici-
pated until late in September, and it would appear the Institution
would again be required to operate under a continuing resolution
for a portion of the new fiscal year. Net income from Unrestricted
General Trust Funds is expected to total $12,237,000 in fiscal year
1983, an increase of $720,000, due primarily to improved perfor-
mance in certain of the auxiliary activities and holding program
growth and administrative costs to a minimum. The Regents ap-
proved this budget, reauthorizing the Collections Acquisition,
Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs for a sec-
ond five-year period at an annual level of $2.2 million, an increase
of $200,000 above the previous funding level. This increase will
allow some expansion for research and education outreach projects
and will expand the Collections Acquisition Program to include the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. The Regents reviewed and approved for
submission to the Office of Management and Budget a request for
federal appropriations totaling $178,653,000 for fiscal year 1984.
The Secretary added that, with the approval of the Chairman of
the Executive Committee, the Institution signed a contract for the
sale of the Belmont Conference Center and 82 surrounding acres
to the American Chemical Society.

The Regents’ Investment Policy Committee reported that the
market value of the Smithsonian Endowment Funds, paralleling
substantial gains in the stock market, increased from $77.4 million
at the end of June to just under $85 million as of the beginning of
September. Over the last four years and two months, there has
been an annual compounded rate of return of 13.3 percent, some
two percentage points ahead of the major market indices and well
ahead of the annual inflation rate of approximately 10 percent.

The Secretary reported on the completion of the intermediate
working plans for the Quadrangle, noting that final plans are ex-
pected to be completed by November 15. A request for bids will be
issued in early January. To save about three months and approxi-
mately $1.5 million in escalation costs, separate design and bid
packages are being prepared for solicitation—as soon as receipt of
a construction appropriation is assured—for constructing a perim-
eter fence, removing existing landscape materials, and relocating
utility lines. On September 14 the Commission on Fine Arts gave

[27]
general approval to the building plans but asked for further study
of landscaping details. The National Capital Planning Commission
will review the project in October.

The Secretary added that, in accordance with the Regents’ earlier
approval, he signed an agreement with Dr. Sackler providing for a
pledge of $4 million toward construction of the Quadrangle; a
donation of nearly 1,000 works of Oriental art valued at well over
$50 million and selected by the director of the Freer Gallery; a
provision that the director of the Freer be also the director of the
western portion of the Quadrangle interconnecting with the Freer,
such portion to be known as the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery; and
that the director be assisted by an assistant director whose prin-
cipal duty would be day-to-day management of the gallery; a
mutual commitment to continue a program of scholarly publica-
tion based on the collection, conducted at the donor’s expense; and
an understanding that the donor’s commitments are contingent
upon the Smithsonian obtaining $36.5 million in federal funds for
construction costs by July 1983.

Mr. Ripley stated that as of July 31, 1982, a total of $27.4 mil-
lion had been raised or committed toward the fund-raising goal of
$37.5 million. The sequential fund-raising technique recommended
by Brakeley, John Price Jones, Inc., is being utilized, concentrating
first on commitments from prospects with substantial gift potential
and those with close associations with the Smithsonian. Members
of the National Board of Smithsonian Associates have given or
pledged $1.4 million, and that total is expected to reach $2 million.
Members of that board have also assumed active roles in fund-
raising among corporations, foundations, and other individuals,
and have been helping to organize regional functions at which the
Secretary will present the concepts and plans for the Quadrangle
to local leadership. A broad general appeal will be directed to
Smithsonian Associates through Smithsonian magazine in 1983.
Solicitation of foreign gifts continues in the Middle East and South-
east Asia and among businesses with interests in African nations.
Mr. Brakeley stated that the campaign is going very well and he
is confident that the required funds will be raised on schedule.

The Quadrangle authorizing legislation, signed June 24, 1982,
stipulated that no funds appropriated for construction shall be ob-
ligated or expended until the Regents have available from non-

[28]
< a
bP Li

Fred Whipple (center), former director, sAo, was honored May 7, 1982, with the
naming of the Smithsonian research facility on Mt. Hopkins, Arizona, “The Fred
Lawrence Whipple Observatory.” Assistant Secretary for Science David Challinor

(right) and George B. Field, current director of sao, presided over the unveiling of a
commemorative plaque. Below are shown the new alligator and crocodile exhibition
areas of the National Zoo’s recently renovated reptile and amphibian house.

6 Ne ee ot Al OP AP OE

federal sources a sum which, when combined with the appropriated
funds, is sufficient for the construction. Assuming approval of this
appropriation (the House included it in the continuing resolution
for fiscal year 1983), the Board of Regents needed to certify the
availability of the nonfederal sources before any construction ap-
priation could be obligated. Given the success of efforts to date,
the strength of future prospects, and the existence of trust funds in
the event insufficient funds are raised, the Regents voted to express
gratitude to the Congress and the President for the authorization
of the Quadrangle project and the anticipated implementing appro-
priation; to affirm full confidence in the ability of the Institution
to secure from nonfederal sources remaining funds to total $37.5
million towards the Quadrangle project; to pledge that unrestricted
trust funds of the Institution will be directed to the project to the
extent necessary to guarantee its commitment of $37.5 million of
nonfederal funds; and to certify therefore that, with an appropria-
tion as requested, total project funds of $75 million are available,
and construction may commence. Subsequent to the meeting, the
Regents’ resolution was communicated to the chairmen of the
Smithsonian’s authorizing and appropriations committees in the
Congress.

The Secretary highlighted a report on the construction of the
Museum Support Center, then more than 90 percent complete,
ahead of schedule, and within budget. Favorable bids were received
for supplying the storage equipment for “’wet” collections, while
specifications continue to be developed for other kinds of storage
equipment (to be bid in January 1983).

In recognition of Mr. Warren Robbins’s service to the Smith-
sonian and to the nation in founding the National Museum of
African Art and overseeing its development from a small private
venture to its present status, the Regents voted to award him the
Henry Medal. The Regents also voted to appoint to the Commis-
sion of the National Museum of African Art, effective January 1,
1983, Frank Moss, Frances Humphrey Howard, Roy Sieber, David
Driskell, and Robert Nooter for a term of three years; Walter
Washington, Richard Long, John Loughran, Susan Samuels, and
Robert Thompson for a term of two years; and Franklin Williams,
Lee Bronson, John Duncan, Michael Sonnenreich, and Sylvia Boone
for a term of one year.

[30]
It was noted that in response to the Acting Secretary’s letter of
June 15, the Regents had unanimously voted to concur in the pro-
posed agreement for the purchase of Gilbert Stuart’s ‘Edgehill’
portrait of Thomas Jefferson. The Secretary added that the acquisi-
tion has proceeded as outlined, and this unique portrait is now
shared by the National Portrait Gallery and Monticello at a cost of
$500,000 to each. Display of the portrait will alternate between
the two every three years.

The Secretary also reported that Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secre-
tary for Public Service since 1973, will be leaving to become direc-
tor of the Oakland Museum, October 1, and the Secretary added
he will be reorganizing some aspects of the Public Service func-
tions at that time.

The traditional dinner was held on Sunday evening, Septem-
ber 19, at the National Zoo in the Reptile House, following cock-
tails in the Ape House. After dinner the Secretary greeted the
Regents and guests and introduced the new Regent, Miss Hanks.
He also paid tribute to the departing Assistant Secretary for Public
Service, Julian T. Euell. He went on to honor the generous sup-
porters of the Quadrangle, particularly Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, and
spoke briefly about his aspirations for this significant addition to
the Smithsonian’s museums.

[31]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS

Fiscal Years 1970, 1975, and 1980-1982
(In $1,000,000’s)

250

|
v
~
a
—
oa
a.
°
7
Oo,
ou.
o
ro
}
vA

Auxiliary
Activities
Expenses

Trust Funds
(Gross Revenues)

FUNDS PROVIDED

200

175

150 -

Federal Grants
and Contracts

Be

2.02.2.
6202 Soe

226

Foret,

125

100

75

Appropriations

50

ain
ih
A

EAT
‘NIM

25

1982

1981

1975 1980

1970

To Plant and Endowment

Ww
co)
o
—
5
Me
Co)
Ww
Ww
cH)
5
—_
r=
s)
o
jae
so
7
Lv]
q
°
5
ts]
Me
~
ae
c
£
ae]
<x

250

FUNDS APPLIED

225

wn
5?)
a
=|
uv
jem
x*
a)
w
Vv
Ez]
>
5
12)
0
=}
o
vu
u
=)
Oo
no}
S
o
>
q
es
’®
=}
<t

200

175

150

Special Programs

Museum Programs
Public Service

a

7

125
100

History and Art

A\\

75

50

Science

a
UO

eee

Nill
NI

25

1981 1982

1975 1980

1970
Smithsonian Institution « 1982

FINANCIAL REPORT

CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER

Summary: In fiscal year 1982, the overall financial resources pro-
vided to the Smithsonian permitted maintenance of its extensive
programs in exhibits and research, in public education and out-
reach. During this time of financial uncertainty, the continued
strong support from Congress, from donors, from granting agen-
cies, and from revenue-generating auxiliary activities made possible
the progress and important accomplishments noted elsewhere in
this report. The bar chart on the facing page summarizes the funds
provided to the Smithsonian from a wide variety of sources, as well
as the application of these moneys for an equally diverse range of
programs. Evident from this chart is the growth of the operating
budget in 1982 over prior years; as in the most recent years, how-
ever, this growth related less to program expansion than to the
ever higher costs of salaries, supplies, utilities, and collection pur-
chases. While some enhancements were possible, notably for the
new Museum Support Center and for the collection inventory pro-
cess, the year was characterized by fiscal restraint, self-assessment,
and cost-reduction efforts. Due to partial hiring freezes and budget
constraints, the full-time staff of the Smithsonian was kept to a
level below that of last year.

While not unaffected by the government budget restrictions of
this fiscal year, the Institution was nevertheless allowed a federal
appropriation sufficient to sustain ongoing operations. After de-
tailed and understanding review by the Congress, total federal ap-
propriations of some $145 million were passed, including $131 mil-
lion for operations; it is this appropriation which provides the In-
stitution’s base resources for research, education, and exhibition

[33]
programs, for study and care of the national collections, and for
administrative and support services. Of signal importance to the
Institution was a planning appropriation of $1 million in support
of the Quadrangle, the center more fully described by the Secre-
tary in his Statement; this commitment of federal funds to a proj-
ect whose costs will be met from matched federal and nonfederal
funds was most welcome. (Subsequently, on October 2, 1982, the
remaining funds of $36.5 million were voted and signed by the
President for fiscal year 1983.) Also important to the Institution in
fulfilling its public duties was the annual appropriation for the nec-
essary, but less inspiring, task of repairing and maintaining the
large and diverse physical plant. Significant funding was also re-
ceived from federal agencies in the form of grants and contracts,
primarily for scientific research.

In addition to the core support provided by the federal appro-
priations, the Institution is also dependent on nonappropriated
trust funds to enrich its programs and expand their reach. Strong
public acceptance of the Institution’s services continued during the
year, with tangible financial return from the Smithsonian Asso-
ciates programs and other auxiliary activities, as well as generous
gifts and grants from individuals, foundations, and corporations.
While net revenues from nonappropriated sources, after deduction
of the operating expenses and sales costs of auxiliary activities,
were lower than in fiscal year 1981, ongoing program commitments
were met, and, as budgeted, transfers were made of $2 million to
unrestricted endowment and $1 million toward Quadrangle con-
struction reserve. Together with the transfers of prior years as
well as favorable investment return, the unrestricted endowment
of the Institution now totals some $37 million; continued addition
to this fund remains a high priority of the Institution.

Significant progress was made during the year in securing finan-
cial support for the Quadrangle. As outlined more fully below,
gifts and commitments to this project from outside sources as well
as the Institution’s own resources now total almost three-quarters
of the nonfederal funds of $37.5 million needed for construction.
Fund-raising efforts for this major project are actively underway.

[34]
TaBLe 1. Financial Summary
(In $1,000’s)

FY 1980 FY1981 FY 1982
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ........... $107,764 $122,478 $131,170
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts ................... 12,947 14,172 13,217
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
IEMICC UL POGES isn cas yw ie elenid ss cae ewes Blew ae 5,339 6,378 6,821
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross .... 75,150 88,381 97,350
eeeeeCneGlE EXDCHSOS Vf 6 2\0U's s\'s a's cna sean tes 83 (65,933) (75,924) (88,596)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ........ 9,217 12,457 8,754
Investment, Gift, and Other Income ............... 3,825 4,887 4,808
Total Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue .. 13,042 17,344 13,562
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ......... 84,314 99,646 108,979
INGE! “el svete bes: ae 18,381 23,722 20,383
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ............... 205,025 236,296 253,366
SER re roe Sule i eke ee $139,092 $160,372 $164,770
FUNDS APPLIED:
EN ak Co hie le bow Winjeime nia shea cee dove $ 57,907 $ 62,703 $ 64,837
oes ere. © verhnead Recovery ..........s0 cece enna (2,196) (2,470) (2,487)
ET eal e oe, oct Rick wit ae Rud, vai» oleadn sin ¥ Sin orp 26,224 25,614 26,762
EE he. ik ecdeclp tela ivesw cle css ate ould waiwrale eiehs 3,129 3,421 3,782
NEE MINNIE vod). foc, clo 5 aye oS Aien Kon wha « De Roe, hems 8,974 8,084 8,539
a  RCEEEES I GAs Sn 5 Wo usin a ake vac tv aes went bu OW Re 3,204 7,284 9,533
Associates and Business Management ................-. 345 312 543
Peomimtistrdtmin—rederal** 2.0... ce ec ee tcc eeaee 8,048 8,782 9,719
—Nonappropriated Trust Funds ..................... 4,937 5,740 5,733
Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery .............. (4,379) (5,014) (5,338)
a ES ge ee Se eae ae 30,630 36,501 39,327
eoeeomesanne Funds Applied ..........000.s0scnsess 136,823 150,957 160,950
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Unrestreted Funds—To Plant ......0.... 000 cc ecco: 1,342 2,550 1,064
—=——P GHENGOWMENES Joc ssuhcsee acess 2,031 2,550 2,259
Restricted Funds—To Endowments ...........-..+00- 757 108 318
Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out ...... $140,953 $156,165 $164,591***
CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED
TRUST FUND BALANCES:
Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts)... $ (225) $ 1,276 $ (45)
Unrestricted—General Purpose ..............0eeeeeeeee 36 42 5
PEER SE EDISE:).: dviaie od iste 28a wwitanmyn' sie ws (1,672) 2,704 404
RN Rt ii YT nie ls an GX ad Sa wRS vic eae ane $ (1,861) $ 4,022 $ 364
YEAR-END BALANCES—
NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
MEETS 0, SL od shee CA Os Jub ale Poe Ds $ 4,675 $ 5,951 $ 5,906
Unrestricted—General Purpose .............. cess ee eees 5,001 5,043 5,048
PERCENT BT IOGE: fy hws nine encns «ees Rtn, masa 9,895 12,599 13,003
es ios 2 kin ks svainimiemin sec” ae rae A Agri On OS $ 19,571 $ 23,593 $ 23,957
OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS
Special Foreign Currency Program ...............+506: $ 4,200 $ 3,650 $ 4,320
MEME ee ac Ck yp aie Cin ahs AMM ye Atk 4 HD hie nine oa ue 32,100 15,829 9,744
$141,957 $145,234

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) ....... $144,064

*Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: FY 1980—

$1,211,000; FY 1981—$2,696,000; FY 1982—$2,197,000.

**Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1980—$267,000; FY 1981—$64,000; FY 1982—

$124,000.

***Includes $185,000 available for FDR Centennial carried forward from FY 1981.
Operating Funds—Sources and Application

Growth in the overall operating budget of the Institution contin-
ued, but at a slightly slower pace than experienced in previous
years. Total gross operating funds, as shown in Table 1, increased
by over $17 million, or 7 percent, from $236,296,000 in fiscal year
1981 to $253,366,000 in fiscal year 1982. These funds were derived
from three major sources: 52 percent from federal appropriations,
43 percent from nonappropriated sources, and 5 percent from fed-
eral agency grants and contracts.

After deducting expenses of the nonappropriated auxiliary and
bureau activities, net operating income grew by only $4.4 million,
approximately 3 percent, and was derived 80 percent from federal
appropriations, 12 percent from nonappropriated sources, and 8
percent from federal agency grants and contracts. Application of
these funds by all Smithsonian bureaux is outlined in Table 2, with
further supporting detail in succeeding tables.

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

The federal appropriation for the core operating programs of the
Institution totaled $131,170,000 in fiscal year 1982. The increase
of $8.7 million, or 7 percent, over fiscal year 1981 was approxi-
mately equivalent to increased costs resulting from inflation in
such areas as pay, utilities, rent, and other objects of expense. The
appropriation included specific increases for these inflationary costs
as well as for such high-priority programs as the inventory of col-
lections and equipping of the Museum Support Center. These were,
however, partially offset by an across-the-board reduction to all
Smithsonian programs, part of a government-wide cutback aimed
at reducing the nation’s overall budget deficit. In order to prevent
major disruption to ongoing programs and public activities, a series
of financial actions were taken. Additional control on hiring, travel,
and all nonessential purchases and contracts was instituted. Based
on a comprehensive management review of all Smithsonian pro-
grams, certain activities were curtailed or deferred, including elim-
ination of spring and summer evening visiting hours in all mu-
seums except the National Air and Space Museum and the Na-
tional Zoological Park. Following regulations set forth by congres-
sional committees, funds were reprogrammed among bureaux to

[36]
meet priority needs. These actions enabled the Institution to com-
plete the year with a minimum of disruption.

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Grants and contracts from federal agencies totaled $13,217,000,
approximately 7 percent less than received in the previous year.
This support not only contributed substantially to research and
educational projects being conducted by Smithsonian personnel,
but also benefited the granting agencies by providing access to
specific expertise and resources maintained at the Institution. As
illustrated in Table 3, the majority of these funds, over $9 million,
_ were provided by the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion to continue work at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory in satellite tracking, maser design and construction, and stud-
ies of the upper atmosphere and stellar magnetic fields. Support
from the Defense Department, the National Science Foundation,
and other government agencies provided an additional $4 million—
primarily to science activities—for a broad spectrum of projects,
including dating Antarctic ice sheets, enhancement of a volcano
data file, a tumor registry program, coral-reef research, sorting and
study of polar marine specimens, a medical entomology project,
and the Smithsonian’s annual Festival of American Folklife.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

In fiscal year 1982, nonappropriated trust fund revenues to the
Institution from gifts and grants, endowment fund and current in-
vestments, and revenue-producing activities totaled $108,979,000,
an increase of $9,333,000, or 9 percent, over fiscal year 1981. After
deduction of expenses incurred by the bureau and auxiliary activi-
ties, however, net income declined by $3,339,000 to a total of
$20,383,000. As displayed in Table 2, these revenues provided
support for programs of virtually every bureau of the Institution.

Restricted fund income to the Institution totaled $6,821,000 for
the year, of which $3,154,000 was derived from gifts and grants;
$2,886,000 from restricted purpose endowment investment income
and interest paid on fund balances of restricted purpose funds; and
$781,000 from other sources, including primarily fund-raising ac-
tivities of the Archives of American Art and Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum and the sales desk at the Freer Gallery of Art. Available only

[37]
TaBLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds

Year Ended September 30, 1982

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Funds

FUND BALANCES 10/1/81 ..

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations .....
Investment Income .........

Gifts 0:0 cx eee Ae eee

OCHRE 20s cae) aoeee

FUNDS APPLIED
Science:

Assistant Secretary .........
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History ...
Astrophysical Observatory ...

Less Overhead Recovery ...
Tropical Research Inst. .....
Radiation Biology Lab. .....
Natl. Air & Space Museum ...
Chesapeake Bay Center .....
Natl. Zoological Park .......
Center for Study of Man ....

Total ScGence t40ei . tks

History and Art:

Assistant Secretary .........
Natl. Mus. Am. History ....
Natl. Mus. American Art ....
Natl. Portrait Gallery ......
Hirshhorn Museum ........
Freer Gallery of Art ........
Archives of American Art ...
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ....
Natl. Mus. of African Art ...

Total History and Art .

Fed-
eral

funds

$ 185* $ 23,593

131,170

131,170
$131,355

760

20,960

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants

non- iliary _ cial and
federal Gen- aactiv- pur-  Gen- _ con-
funds eral ities pose eral tracts
$ 5,043 $ — $12,599 $ 5,546 $ 405
6,526 2,921 —_ 719 2,886 —_
13,217 — —_ —_— — 13,217
5,234 18 By ysy J 305 3,154 —_
95,593 — 92,668 2,925 —_ —
1,626 83 — 762 781 —_—
122,196 3,022 94,425 4,711 6,621 . 13,219
$145,789 $ 8,065 $94,425 $17,310 $12,367 $13,622
$ 412 $ 90 $ — $ 5$ 129$ 188
3,640 59 —_ 502 1,810 1,269

13,896 2,017 — 657 171 10,5519

(2,487) (2,487) ees = = =
305 78 _ 146 81 —
199 — —_— 87 27 85
2,173 8 — 1,993 64 108
599 58 — 119 72 350
429 18 —_ 77 37 297
68 1 —_ —_ 67 _
19,234 342 — 3,586 2,458 12,848
115 96 ms 20 4 (1)
719 97 —_ 244 378 _
526 36 — 284 142 64
800 23 —_ 549 228 —_
ZLa3 12 —_ Lis 98 —_—
1,594 9 —_— 203 1,382 _—
626 3 —_ 18 605 _—
1,543 365 — 787 337 54
206 76 — 21 109 _
6,352 cis — 2,239 3,279 117

TaBLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued
Year Ended September 30, 1982

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary _ cial and
eral federal Gen- aactiv- pur-  Gen-  con-
Funds funds funds eral ities pose eral _ tracts
a Le ee ss ele
Public Service:
missistant Secretary .......... 218 1 1 — ae < nis
Reception Center ........... 45 463 459 —- 4 — —
Telecommunications ......... 62 654 278 ~= 157 219 —
mmacostia Museum ......... 671 44 24 — 17 3 --
Intl. Exchange Service ....... 215 — a= - oa _ —
Bemermeeti® ATES ...........- 449 8,359 — 8,265 75 19 —
Smithsonian Press .......... 886 6,640 en Oe a ile Sig ena
Total Public Service ... 2,546 16,161 762 14,905 253 241 —
Museum Programs:
mssistant Secretary .......... 748 171 af — 62 23 19
eee 132 —_ — _— — — —
Conserv. Analytical Lab. ..... 822 a — — — a —
pe hel 3,212 246 229 — a 16 oo
ss sg 1,407 (1) an ae (1) ae 2.
Traveling Exhib. Service ..... 279 1,565 — 1,167 48 238 112
al a a 453 42 42 a a= a= —-
National Museum Act ....... 735 — — — — —- ---
Total Museum Programs 7,788 1,973 288 1,167 110 277 131
Special Programs:
Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. .. 619 908 513 — 39 32 324
Intl. Environ. Science Pgm. ... 526 — — = — = —
Academic & Educational Pgm. 531 992 167 as 693 117 15
Collections Mgt./Inventory ... 733 — -- — — — --
Major Exhibition Program ... 718 — a — _ a —
Museum Support Center ..... 4,510 1 — _ 1 — —_
Total Special Programs. 7,637 1,901 680 — 733 149 339
Associate Programs ......... — 49,226 499 48,668 24 35 —
Business Management ....... — 21,579 — 21,579 — — —
SeeMINIGICAUION. .............% 9,595 5 Bets seals 94 91 130 —
Less Overhead Recovery ... — (5,338) (5,338) a= —- — —
Baemities Services ........... 38,053 1275) 128s — 55 2 -—-
Transfers Out/(In):
NOE Sia sinivwr's'e (ds a 0's 00 ADate a — — — _ ee
Coll. Acq., Schol. St., Outreach _ — 2,000 — (2,000) — —
Net Auxiliary Activities ..... — — (7,632) 7,632 — = —
Other Designated Purposes ... — — 947 380 (1,086) (241) =
ee — 1,064 1,000 — 64 — a=
0 te — 2,577 2,021 —_ 238 318 —_
Weel iransrers ....... 124 3,641 (1,664) 8,012 (2,784) 77 —
Total Funds Applied .. $131,355 $121,832 $ 3,017 $94,425 $ 4,307 $ 6,648 $13,435
FUND BALANCES 9/30/82 .. $ — $ 23,957 $ 5,048 $ — $13,003 $ 5,719 $ 187

*Funds available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.
**Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
TasLe 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(In $1,000’s)

Federal Agencies FY 1980 FY 1981 FY 1982
Department Of ‘Commerce \....5 sic 6 5.s)u ec iniainla a sbalge $ (89 $ 2100 Renee
Departinent OF  DIelense vin CneiG ane ws Shwe weal 1,078 703 1,001
BDepactaent or Eee, <0 .)s cea hc ed ane 340 407 448
Department of Health and Human Services ... 280 283 325
Department of Interigg os. \ci:iae eno eine Sere ae ein 197 244 268
National Aeronautics and Space
PCRRRTSUE ACOA oo deg. ou ea aie ect alee eye aie, pions ape ne 9,832 10,663 9,303
National Science Foundation** ..........2<se- 651 784 1,079
ORE oo oe oes Eee ee eas ae es ila 415 574 837
SEAN 2 oso 5 at cat a atras sapiens ial clea aie be tte $12,882 $13,868 $13,435

*Includes $554 (FY 1980), $813 (FY 1981) and $264 (FY 1982) in subcontracts from
other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA.

**Includes $112 (FY 1980), $208 (FY 1981) and $230 (FY 1982) in NSF subcontracts
from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

for specified purposes, restricted funds provided substantial sup-
port for a wide variety of research, exhibitions, publications, and
educational activities, and served as the major funding source for
the Freer Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Marine Station at
Link Port (formerly the Fort Pierce Bureau). A particularly signifi-
cant contribution was received by the Office of Museum Programs
in fiscal year 1982 in the form of a three-year grant of $1.1 million
from the Kellogg Foundation. This grant will be used to fund a
series of fellowships, colloquia, workshops, and videotapes de-
signed to strengthen the education role of America’s museums.
Revenues to Unrestricted Special Purpose funds during the year
totaled $4.7 million. Bureau activities, such as the National Air
and Space Museum Theater and the membership programs of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, generated revenues of $2,925,000, while
gifts, interest earned on the investment of bureau fund balances,
zoo parking revenues, and other miscellaneous income accounted
for an additional $1,786,000. Also included in this fund category
are allocations for the Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies,
and Educational Outreach programs, for pre- and postdoctoral fel-
lowship awards, and for revenue-sharing to bureaux housing cen-

[40]
Tae 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds*
Fiscal Years 1980-1982

(In $1,000’s)

Gifts

Misc.

in-
crease
(de-

crease)

$ (290) $4,574

Invest-
Item ment
FY 1980—Total ......... $2,349
m= 7'961—lotal ......... $2,591
FY 1982:
National Museum of
Natural History ...... $ 973
Astrophysical
mMservatory .......... 57
Tropical Research
FS 24
National Air and
Space Museum ....... 61

Chesapeake Bay Center . 3

Murner Science .......... 230
National Museum of

American History ..... 77
National Museum of

mamerican Art ........ 69
National Portrait Gallery. 30
Hirshhorn Museum ..... 67
Freer Gallery of Art .... 972
Archives of American Art 28
Cooper-Hewitt Museum . 66
Traveling Exhibition

8 OL 24
Office of Museum

PRN ce ee 19
5 186

10

Trans-
Total fers
rev- Deduc- in
enue tions (out)
$5,339 $4,856 $ (773)
$6,378 $5,295 $ (111)
$1,314 $1,810 $ (9)
118 171 8
73 81 —_—
85 64 —
3 72 —
427 260 (95)
407 378 —
127 142 —_
155 228 —_
422 98 —
1,507 1,382 —_
432. 605 —
374 337 —
259 238 —_—
350 12 —_
768 693 19

$ (505) $ 876
(45) (25)
(8) 57
21 111
(69) 13
72 610
29 487
(15) 326
(73) 160
324 604
125 935
(173) 98
37 350
21 175
338 346
94 596

*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.

[41]
Tas_e 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Years 1980-1982
(In $1,000’s)

Revenue Deductions
Gifts Bu- Net Fund
Bu- and Pro- reau in- bal-
reau other Total Trans- gram activ- crease ance
Invest- activ-  rev- rev- fersin  ex- ity ex- (de-  endof
Item ment ities enue enue (out) pense pense crease) year
EY 19860. cecaiere $430 $2,049 $ 771 $3,250 $4,252 $7,361 $1,813 $(1,672) $ 9,895
FY AGE!  cocuacs $589 $3,333 $1,105 $5,027 $4,766 $4,844 $2,245 $ 2,704 $12,599
FY 1982:
National Museum
of Natural
History: , .<-. $42 $ 4°$ 32 $ 78 $ 475 $ 501 S$ 1 (See
Astrophysical
Observatory . 6 118 73 197 523 514 143 63 597
Tropical Research
Institute ..... — — 3 3 134 141 5 (9) 81
National Air and
Space Museum 336 2,003 310-2370 (179) 633 ~=1,360 198 3,036
Chesapeake Bay
Center oo. .)5.. 2 35 11 48 80 92 ae 9 34
National Zoo-
logical Park .. 186 _ 206 392 8 77 —_ 323 1,618

Other Science .. 39 — 3 42 137 92 — 87 233
National Museum :

of American

ENGOG. ook 23 13 80 116 132 2a5 9 4 277
National Museum

of American

Pa A Speer we ty! ee 14 6 97 117 140 279 a (27) 170
National

Portrait Gallery 7 9 30 46 Bit 547 2 8 70
Hirshhorn

Museum ..... 18 —_— 44 62 39 his — (12) 13F
Cooper-Hewitt

Museum ..... — 590 78 668 5 273 514 (114) (81)
National Museum

of African Art — 13 3 16 146 1 20 141 143
Liability Reserves — — — a ~ a — — 3,330
Unallocated Coll.

Acq., Schol.

Studies, and

Outreach .... ~ — oo -— (197) — “= (197) 73
Fellowships .... — — = 822 668 a 154 627
Museum Support

Center Equip.. — - - -— — i — (1) 749
AW ORes .2 5.55 46 134 376 556 8 7A1 97 (274) 1,522
trally managed shop and concession activities. As specified by the
Bylaws of the Regents, transfers were made to endowment of
otherwise unrestricted bequests received during the year.

Unrestricted General Purpose fund revenue is derived primarily
from investment income and net revenues of the auxiliary activi-
ties. After deduction of auxiliary activity expenses, net general
unrestricted funds provided some $11 million for general Institu-
tional purposes, a decrease of approximately $3.5 million, or 24
percent, from the previous year (see Table 6).

Several factors have contributed to this reduction in income,
including lower postal subsidies to nonprofit organizations, lower
museum visitation, limiting of summer evening hours to the Na-
tional Zoological Park and the National Air and Space Museum,
and higher expenses, particularly as related to the recording pro-
gram of the Division of Performing Arts. Unanticipated costs of
promotion and record production combined with an unfortunately
high rate of bad debts and inventory adjustments resulted in a net
loss to this activity of more than $2.5 million. Of net revenues
generated by the auxiliary activities, some $8.1 million was from
the Associates programs. The Smithsonian magazine was respon-
sible for the majority of this income, continuing its success of pre-
vious years. Sizable surpluses totaling over $1.5 million were also
generated by the Museum Shops, the Mail Order Division, and the
Smithsonian Institution Press, which in fiscal year 1982 was re-
organized to include the publishing activities of the Smithsonian
Exposition Books. Income generated by concessions, parking, and
food services provided an additional $1.5 million, which was some-
what below last year’s results, due primarily to lower visitation
and the costs of converting two concessionaire-managed food fa-
cilities (at the National Air and Space Museum and the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden) to Smithsonian-run operations.

Notwithstanding the decline in unrestricted general purpose rev-
enues, continued support was provided a wide range of administra-
tive and programmatic activities, including major operating sup-
port for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Office of Telecommuni-
cations, Office of Folklife Programs, and the Visitor Information
and Reception Center. Special allotments were also made for fund-
raising efforts related to the Quadrangle construction, for the coop-
erative education and other programs initiated in fiscal year 1981

[43]
Taste 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1980-1982
(In $1,000’s)

Item FY 1980 FY 1981 FY 1982

FUNDS PROVIDED
General Income:

Inventmenis <2? vo. ceva cae cee een eee ueeor ss $ 2,470 $ 3,123 $ 2,921
Gifts “ivewk Gd AS ee ae 14 15 18
Miscellaneous —.°..20. acta ek et iince sudan 140 55 83
Total, General Income (05 su. oSiacteth oui 2,624 3,193 3,022
Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):
PRRGOICIAGES cack cdl s Greene ee ete ae 6,113 8,691 8,126
Business Management
—Muceum > Shops). 555. Ae ths 1,022 631 856
—Concessions, Parking and Food Services .. 1,938 1,978 1,513
ETL oo io us 'hi6 goa tas ahaa val wae Wig i ce ct a (191) (251) (322)
Perrerming Asta 2. 293.2. sce bee ele (75) (186) (2,544)
Smsthooniasr Press *( -/s0. ss aeons. Be eee 557 767 670
Traveling, Exhibitions ©: 3)... 22058 0 eal eae (268) (226) (298)
PGE DEEOIEES. 5s <n 5.0.ccnia soe sale ates a eee (115) (35) 11
Total Auxiliary Activifies’.....:0. 2245: 8,981 11,369 8,012
Total Funds Provided (Net) ............- 11,605 14,562 11,034
EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS
Administrative and Program Expense ......... 10,535 - 12,141 432,505
Less Administrative Recovery ................ 6,575 7,484 7,825
Net vExpense + .S e020) 7 Bee ee eet 3,960 4,657 4,680
Less Transfers:
To Special Purpose for Program Purposes ... 4,307 4,816 3,328
Toe Plant Bandsy 20 ee. Oe oe ee 1,281 2,526 1,000
To, Endowment Puads, 550.0 os <b lacs eee 2,021 2,521 2,021
NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE ...... 36 42 5
ENDING: FUND. BALANGE. fb c08Ssieo0,. oteentee $ 5,001 $ 5,043 $ 5,048

*Includes Smithsonian Exposition Books which was combined with the
Smithsonian Institution Press in FY 1982.

to strengthen affirmative-action efforts, for equipment and publica-
tion costs, as well as for events related to the Franklin Delano
Roosevelt Centennial and the bicentennial celebration of the Battle
of Yorktown.

Transfers to special purpose funds, which totaled $3,328,000,
provided support, as mentioned earlier, for a variety of acquisition,

[44]
Taste 7. Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1980-1982
(In $1,000’s)

Sales
and Less Net
other cost Gross reve-
rev- of rev- Ex- aang
Activity enue Gifts sales enue penses (loss)
0 eee $72,203 $ 898 $41,569 $31,532 $22,551 $ 8,981
SS $83,719 $1,329 $45,866 $39,182 $27,813 $11,369
FY 1982:
os 0) $55,037 $1,757 $38,293 $18,501 $10,375 $ 8,126
Business Management:
—Museum Shops* .... 18,330 — 11,449 6,881 6,025 856
—Concessions/Parking/
Food Services .... 4,933 _— 1,076 3,857 2,344 1,513
2 363 — —_— 363 685 (322)
Performing Arts ........ 5,721 — 2,618 3,103 5,647 (2,544)
Smithsonian Press*** ... 7,310 — 2,24 4,989 4,319 670
Traveling Exhibitions ... 869 — 398 471 769 (298)
Photo Services
(Administration) ..... 105 = 11 94 83 11
Total FY 1982 ... $92,668 $1,757 $56,166 $38,259 $30,247 $ 8,012

*Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order.
**Includes Business Management Office and Belmont.

***Includes Smithsonian Exposition Books, which was combined with the
Smithsonian Institution Press in FY 1982.

****Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaux of
$381,000 (FY 1980); $390,000 (FY 1981); and $380,000 (FY 1982).

education, research, and outreach projects. These allocations al-
lowed the purchase of significant works including a major collec-
tion of West African textiles, a portrait of Thomas Jefferson
painted by Gilbert Stuart, and two seventeenth-century Chinese
scroll paintings by Tao-chi. The funds permitted extension of the
Institution’s outreach through special lectures and concerts, radio
features on Smithsonian activities, and programs for the elderly
and institutionalized, and also furthered research in such diverse
areas as the ecological impact of the Africanized honeybees in Cen-
tral America, the behavioral ecology of reef sharks, and the devel-
opment of an oral history on the origins of modern astronomy and

[45]
astrophysics. An additional amount of $1 million was transferred
to plant funds for Quadrangle development, and $2,021,000 to un-
restricted endowment principal to ensure income for future needs.

Special Foreign Currency Program

Foreign currencies accumulated from sales of surplus agricultural
commodities under Public Law 83-480, determined by the Treasury
Department to be in excess of the normal needs of the United
States, are made available to the Smithsonian through the Special
Foreign Currency Program. An appropriation of excess foreign cur-
rencies equivalent to $4,320,000 was received under this program
in fiscal year 1982. Some $3.4 million was used to continue a pro-
gram of grants to United States institutions for field research
and advanced professional training in the countries of Burma,
India, and Pakistan. Fields of study focused on areas of traditional
Smithsonian competence, including archaeology and related disci-
plines, systematic and environmental biology, astrophysics and
earth sciences, and museum programs. The balance of funds ap-
propriated—$960,000—was provided for the international effort to
preserve the monumental site of Moenjodaro in Pakistan. This ap-
propriation represented the first increment of a total of $4 million
equivalent in nonconvertible Pakistani currency expected to be

TaBLe 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1982—Obligations
(In $1,000’s)

System-  Astro-

aticand physics Mu- Grant

environ- and seum admin-

Archae- mental earth pro- istra-
Country ology biology sciences grams tion Total
Baarsiaes ots angie we § 15 $ 2 $8 — & =» See
OR gid er 2,412 70 64 236 66 3,208
Pakistan —.. 24s ss ss 968 374 —- — — 1,342
pie: hl Ai aes ' $3,755 $ 446 $ 664 $ 236 $ 666 $4,567

[46]

sought by the Institution as the United States’ contribution toward
the project. Obligations during the fiscal year by research discipline
and country are provided in Table 8.

Construction

Funding provided for construction and renovation projects at the
Institution totaled $12,962,000 in fiscal year 1982, as shown in
Table 9. Of this amount, $9,744,000 was from federal appropria-
tions, and $3,218,000 was from nonappropriated trust funds.

An appropriation of $7,680,000 was provided for major repairs,
renovation, and building improvements to Smithsonian facilities,
with a further $1,104,000 designated specifically for buildings and
exhibits of the National Zoological Park. Projects supported by
these appropriations included maintenance of building exteriors,
particularly of the Arts and Industries Building and the Renwick
Gallery; renovations to protect the safety, security, and health of
the public, staff, and collections; elimination of architectural bar-
riers to assure accessibility for disabled persons; energy conserva-
tion efforts; and programmatic modifications to outlying research
and animal preservation facilities.

An additional $960,000 was provided for Quadrangle develop-
ment planning, marking the first federal appropriation for this
project for which planning has been underway since 1978 with
support from unrestricted trust funds. The Quadrangle represents
a special partnership of federal and nonfederal funding; of the
anticipated total construction cost of $75 million, one-half will be
provided from federal appropriations and one-half from nonappro-
priated sources. As of the end of the fiscal year, gifts for the
Quadrangle, transfers from unrestricted trust funds, and earned
interest totaled some $9,656,000; together with additional com-
mitments from outside sources, anticipated revenues from the sale
of real estate, and planned unrestricted trust fund transfers in the
future, over $27.6 million of the $37.5 million has been raised. In
recognition of the success of fund-raising efforts and of the Insti-
tution’s commitment to the project, a construction appropriation of
$36.5 million was passed in October 1982, and construction will
commence early in 1983.

[47]
TABLE 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1980-1982
(In $1,000’s)

Sources FY 1980 FY 1981 FY 1982

FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:

National Zoolopical Parke... 22 a.coh ee esweens $ 6,250 $ 3,290 $ 1,104
Restoration & Renovation of Buildings ...... 5,250 7,539 7,680
Museum Support Center \2 13. ssi. 6 tae Sie 20,600* 5,000 —
Qeuativanele 2 25-ddyeaqs thes Soa e ae Were eae — —- 960

Total Federal Appropriations ........... 32,100 15,829 9,744

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other

Special Exhibits, Gallery. ..<...52.<i7- 9469. 2b at = 307 1
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ...............-.-. 104 175 31
American Art & Portrait Gallery Bldg. .... — -—- 183
Quadranele. } <2... 20's. a8) ee ee aces 1,051 2,115 1,650
Smithsonian Institution Bldg. South Entrance oa 64
Bequest of Real‘ Estate’... 220.0005 . eas oa —— 225
Horticulture Greenhouse ................-. — 11 —

Taka! iscomes i044 = P22 6h ste eee eee 1,155 2,608 2,154

Transfers from Current Funds:

Chesapeake Bay Center. i: ic ie nies ops’ 2526 39 300 —
Tropical ‘Research | Institute |.2.5..% s.5425¢7- oe 26 _—
Museum: Support Center’ 2. - se ce ne ee — 750 —
National Museum of African Art .......... 22 24 24
Qradranvle = <2 ehs eon Be ae eae 1,040 1,340 1,040
Bast HG araen on a sn. sepa eet ach oe aid 241 110 —

Foetal “Pranstecs 2%}. 3.05. eee omee sce 1,342 2,550 1,064

Fotal Funds ‘Provided: . > 523.05 8 op on es one $34,597 $20,987 $12,962

*Obligation authority of $19 million deferred until FY 1981 on instructions from
Office of Management and Budget.

Other nonappropriated fund receipts included a gift for renova-
tion of the south entrance to the Smithsonian Institution Building,
a settlement for damages to the American Art and Portrait Gallery
building that were done during Metro subway construction, a
bequest of real estate which was subsequently transferred to the
endowment funds, and interest paid on unexpended fund balances.
Funds also were transferred for mortgage payments on property
occupied by the National Museum of African Art.

[48]
Taste 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1982

Book value Market value

ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
TE) $ 8,919,165 $ 8,919,165
Nc GOR 50's w Wald ake <'v'w Sad pela 13,341,192 14,451,431
CS TE CeO 9 ee 814,000 900,000
Ee acess ce sne aap ree tues pan 59,806,844 64,587,546
Mee POled FANGS 2.2.85... ee tees 82,881,201 88,858,142
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
MEMES UAENO . ho Uicids os & sw cic'e's cle Se ds wee 100,020 100,020
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity .......... 1,000,000 1,000,000
Ne he era ea ee nwt Shae oie im wm) eo 39,769 39,700
I ES ee ee, Se ee 1,999 8,100
ee an cise nw nk wane we shana san 225,000 225,000
Total Nonpooled Funds ................. 1,366,788 1,372,820

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .... $84,247,989 $90,230,962

FUND BALANCES

Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ......... $ 3,023,414 $ 3,781,557
Quasi Endowment ....... 32,742,990 33,378,487

erat Unrestricted Purpose .............. 35,766,404 37,160,044
Restricted Purpose: True Endowment .......... 36,319,845 40,129,316
Quasi Endowment ......... 12,161,740 12,941,602

Teche MeStricted PUTPOSE . . ....~s acess 48,481,585 53,070,918

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .... $84,247,989 $90,230,962

Endowment and Similar Funds

The market value of Smithsonian Endowment Funds was
$90,231,000 on September 30, 1982, as compared to $79,025,000
on September 30, 1981. The majority of these funds—$88,858,000
—is invested in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment fund under
outside investment management; $1 million is on permanent de-
posit with the United States Treasury; and the remaining $373,000
is held in miscellaneous securities and donated real estate. Approxi-
mately 59 percent of the endowments, as shown in Table 10, are

[49]
Taste 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
(In $1,000’s)

Fund 9/30/78 9/30/79 9/30/80 9/30/81 9/30/82
Unrestricted: 2 dicts. ass $18,114 $22,614 $28,384 $30,399 $35,974
Fréte (58 681 it. 16,807 18,303 20,771 20,472 22,596
Other Restricted ....... 22,109 24,639 28,175 27,101 30,288

ys ot Caine ek Sa tg $57,030 $65,556 $77,330 $77,972 $88,858

restricted, with income available only for purposes specified by the
donor. The remaining 41 percent—or $37,160,000—are unre-
stricted, with income available for general Institutional purposes;
certain of these unrestricted funds, however, such as the Lindbergh
Chair of Aerospace History, have been designated internally for
specific purposes, as noted in Table 13, which lists all Smithsonian
endowments.

Investment management of the Pooled Consolidated Endowment
fund is conducted by three professional advisory firms under the
oversight of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer,
and subject to guidelines established by the Board of Regents. As
of the end of fiscal year 1982, the firms (with their respective por-
tions of the fund) were Fiduciary Trust Company of New York
(50 percent), Batterymarch Financial Management Corp. (31 per-
cent), and Torray Clark & Company (19 percent). The total rate of
return for the fund during fiscal year 1982, as calculated by an
outside investment measurement service, was +15.7 percent (in-
cluding interest and dividend income as well as market value ap-
preciation), as compared to +12.1 percent for the Dow Jones In-
dustrial Average and +9.9 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
average (both calculated on the same basis). Table 11 displays the
market values of the major components of the fund for prior years,
and the activity during the past year is shown on Table 12.

The Smithsonian utilizes the Total Return Income policy, which
defines total investment return as yield (interest and dividends) plus
appreciation, including both realized and unrealized capital gains.
A portion of this return is made available for expenditure each

[50]
Tae 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
for Fiscal Year 1982
(In $1,000’s)

Inter-

Gifts est Market
Market and and Income value Market
value  trans- divi- paid Sub- appre- value
Fund 9/30/81 fers dends* out total ciation 9/30/82
Unrestricted ...... $30,399 $ 2,172 $ 2,083 $ 1,158 $33,496 $ 2,478 $35,974
i ee 20,472 — 1,394 907 20,959 1,637 22,596
Other Restricted .. 27,101 355 1,862 1,210 28108 2,180 30,288
ee $77,972 $ 2,527 $ 5,339 $ 3,275 $82,563 $ 6,295 $88,858

*Income earned, less managers’ fees of $367,138.

year, and the remainder is retained as principal. This total return
income payout is determined in advance each year by the Board
of Regents based on studies of anticipated interest and dividend
yields, the Institution’s programmatic needs, inflationary factors,
and the five-year running average of market values, adjusted for
capital additions or withdrawals. The income payout rate for fiscal
year 1982 to restricted purpose endowments in the Pooled Consoli-
dated Endowment fund constituted an 8 percent increase over the
prior year, while the payout to unrestricted endowments was re-
duced from the earlier level, permitting a proportionately greater
reinvestment for unrestricted endowments. After the income payout
of $3,275,000 during the year, a total of $2,064,000 of excess inter-
est and dividend yield was reinvested into endowment principal.

A full listing of all endowment funds is shown on Table 13. De-
tail of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment
fund as of September 30, 1982, may be obtained upon request
from the Treasurer of the Institution.

[51]
Taste 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1982

Principal
Book Market
Funds value value

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Avery) FUnGs mucmcs usivemeaivecines dams vis ecerie et $ 97,414 $ 125,194
Higbee, Hatry,’ Memorials soos c is sccn tes wens 27,592 35,435
Hodgicins Fred 16s. ci nee ale ais cna ein oracle ceere nies 194,654 87,394
Morrow, , DWwishtayin ss. cancses socmdaeon ences 163,348 333,971
Mussinan » Aired) (a -as ss aa ncaies'am scien alcieteiteton 53,367 63,744
QImsted, Helen WA a.cesnedeccsees se eh Pee 1,736 2,224
Poore, Lucy i. jand ‘George Wek <i. wc co sss 371,458 491,324
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ................ 604,525 804,886
Sanford, “GEOrre bee. asics Jolene selec 2,980 3,599
Smithson. sAMieSe seen cs cts wecics viene ce tamale siete 541,380 541,380
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,

Research’ (Desipnated)}*: ocijcccewccaesaseane cas 964,960 1,292,406

Gubtotale awa le ehkopeae ae cieis aerate 3,023,414 3,781,557

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Forrest; Robert Lee: Soe scccins contre cee saisieomee's 2,685,284 2,425,593
General EndOwWment® s2cioc eiccic cine oe < peice «cece 27,264,305 28,172,242
Goddard; Robert) He 22.4) 2cs we en ve see ace mane 21,246 19,210
Fiahel; Dri Sere sone dace anieae oie cieeoriemieuraate 500 500
Hart, Gustavus ti: *octe acne ciscise tasicsece rss sures 1,274 1,437
Henry, ‘Garoline © sais, emgietswcivis cin sie e'a ielaeie Sires 3,159 3,545
Henry, Joseph ‘and’ Harriet vA‘ oo... 2ace hie «ci «3 127,408 141,805
Heys, Maude C2. 8 és esiapefstewwieoictnicre a atoysiaainlela aieiere ays 256,292 236,023
Hinton; Carrie Susan) 23.8 dc.cd cites ea oh cleats acer 66,298 68,960
Lambert; ¢Pamlan@ faster sions teleaclcaiosiea eases 118,616 126,670
Medinus, :“GraceEt 4:.tiwct oboe Jee te ewe ee eee 2,533 2,348
Rhees;) Williamajones*).-...2 o-oo eeanee ek 1,822 1,964
Safford, ‘Glara’ Lowise © 22scc ccs. cae ccaceacteece ea 116,070 110,245
Smithsonian: ‘Bequest FuUnd® 2. ok /ccectesisaiaiate cae 2s 514,021 521,367
Maggart, (GANSONS Sei. fe sos a tie as ive cisiee eeieseore 1,030 1,343
Abbott, William L. (Designated) .............. 307,133 341,253
Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) ............. 2,573 2,852
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History

(Designated)  cic.scjiciecioes< wax edie wccs ca cama tales 1,234,468 1,181,912
Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) ........... 8,249 9,049
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) .......... 10,709 10,169

Subtotal’ «ecw vate s ssa se esiewiere cia eaters stare 32,742,990 33,378,487

Total Unrestricted Purpose <25.2 scc.<0. 600. ss $35,766,404 $37,160,044
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Arthurs, Vanies, \o as carne cnc cys aetinieoieelels cia neentee $ 83,720 $ 111,774
Baird, Spencer Fullerton fo svntoenisieies soe cease 76,335 99,914
Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial .................. 60,030 80,098
Batchelor, Emmia {Ef ‘sence sce es ceeeeeee ot 83,150 82,853
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial .............. 100,892 111,930
Brown, Roland Wie spk iees . cack esse e ate apetete nisate ate 67,465 76,818
Canfield, Erederick vA4 «ieee macs cee ars oe eee 82,706 123,150
Casey, Thomas, Lincoln Jikio. <cib Socceicte ss-¢ «cists s 32,305 35,885
Chamberlain, Frances. Léa 2.35502 fe as cakes 58,940 78,646
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology ................. 34,482 35,485
Division of Mammals Curators Fund .......... 4,520 4,813
Drake Foundation = 22s\s.'c.ac sia niaee ose sre omteeie 416,067 429,245
Dykes; Charles) Bequest 5. 2/u:- dc seek nln piercer 110,937 123,186
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ..............2:: 22,748 30,345
Freer, ‘Charles Tes: she cei ate aa enieaosee eee. 20,408,648 22,596,477
Grimm, ‘SergengINn, 05 oacjeswn care seis mlenlen ioveleteeins 78,053 70,620
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ............. 299,577 288,405
Hamilton; James*) si. seranwscoeaesee ee eee toe 3,357 3,710
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ........ 819 994
Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund ............... 17,728 18,132
Hewitt, Sarat Coopers... .\« asc pick ace eie nes vio nae 104,884 107,029
Hillyer.) Varga vices vic.xicclacasaseracddines smere acta 16,939 18,818
Fitchecock, Albert: S$: créaca5s cece waeeine cee vee 3,314 4,478

Income

Unex-

Net pended

income balance
$ 4,583 $ —o—
1,192 —0—
9,900 —-0—
7,334 —0—
2,145 —0—
75 —o—
17,234 —0—
27,081 —0—
150 —0—
32,483 —0—
51,899 79,394
154,076 79,394
81,611 —0—
885,490 —0—
647 —O0—
30 —0—
49 —0—
119 —0—
4,771 —o0—
7,941 —0—
2,320 —0—
4,262 —o—
79 —o0—
82 —t—
3,709 —o—
7,914 — oS
45 —0—
13,693 —O—
114 3,760
47,423 55,574
988 5,727
408 Lae
1,C61,695 66,384
$ 1,215,771 $ 145,778
$ 4,485 $ 3,793
4,009 13,626
3,214 21,620
3,324 42,573
4,491 25,312
3,082 14,868
4,941 —o0—
1,440 2,478
3,156 14,399
1,321 2,103
192 3,536
17,120 58,375
4,943 30,213
1,218 14,622
906,749 666,002
2,834 3,803
11,572 27,777
199 666
40 311
728 —ot—
4,294 —0—
755 7,626
180 561
Tase 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1982—continued

Principal Income

Unex-

Book Market Net pended

Funds value value income balance
NT de enn anna beiedivn race raet.e 100,000 100,000 6,000 21,371
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie ..... pra Se pee See es 122,202 139,154 5,583 12,674
ee eee de odo ng ashi gisis Aegan tmp 40,072 53,520 2,147 21,986
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography 8,427,739 9,398,209 377,095 97,103
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ................. 62,125 57,964 2,326 6,813
EMERG! falco id a-siwilu'wn dev nde gavew wn cswesen 6,861 7,316 294 1,991
CETL D, Pia cia ccs maida du ciiids on wos aa ea 11,502 11,545 804 5,311
SEMEN ATO Eos co. clals ce wctlscse sessed esis 41,062 54,834 2,200 14,763
Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ............... 523 533 21 —o—
PRPPEALVENIGOWINENT oy cccccccclestcccsscccuscess 237,330 246,269 9,881 (175)
MERTEN UTAURTANTS, ALS okie oia:0) 65.515 0,0 wlnie s ois, oles ne sient 32,287 33,689 1,352 2,013
Natural History and Conservation ............. 48,754 49,969 1,874 —o—
PSR Ward VVILIAM: oi.55scncc ces cecieseieses 49,105 62,097 2,492 —o—
Pemocelli, joseph, Memorial ...........sececcse 15,531 20,800 835 18,737
ae ee EEC PIS 0a cis uo cls wie cela wie witieias 6 6.6 56,831 61,890 2,702 —0--
NN ois ois sais ws bos swap actnss ane 252,498 335,443 13,459 (549)
olims, Wiiam and William ......c202c0cseses 480,772 570,868 22,634 25,224
Shryock Endowment for Docents ..............- 1,637 1,605 64 158
EIU Mice ieee cia 'aoin'e ce we/sveluin oltre’ wain'siaie'e 35,513 34,914 197 288
Sprague BP Roo) aia coi ow iw fic whies lelete silvia env 3,299,159 3,413,619 135,344 (2,329)
EE MEREOMEC ns Pde cule nc'cre saul ctawncvevdwenses 37,806 50,056 2,008 29,502
Srormnuriarold «b., Memorial . 2.00. 2sjcc0csecce sls 345,307 359,038 14,361 22,365
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library ....... 12,403 13,676 549 952
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research.. 309,242 357,074 14,127 24,023
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications. . 120,197 155,794 6,251 14,024
Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research .. 3,787 4,003 80 597
merpee Prances Brinckle .......ccccccccsccvcces 1,984 2,632 106 3,477
Subtotal ..... Sieteteiis eictancvate wiaratuta eles is wie/ aves ele! e 36,319,845 40,129,316 1,609,073 1,274,583

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Pa GEORO ON ECWIN JAMES ..\..c.cceesacecccs ens 7,306 7,438 279 15
PRB AMICS PICUTL jc ceucessicivece 3A AE Seon 51,126 46,317 1,858 —o—
Bacen, Witpinia Purdy .5...0.0cccscccscees ere 229,001 232,468 9,328 28,791
Ny leas iis walnnk nin visa wines ae 394,028 402,359 16,144 (3,289)
[dete 2200! SA ec ieaen aaa 25,714 28,717 1,125 0
Tivvig Dio. ti SS eRe eee oe 3,061 3,272 131 1,580
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline ........... 10,526 12,230 491 557
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. ....... 22,908 25,437 1,021 6,059
FIMMECTOOM PEAGOWIMENE 0.05 ccc ese ccccccccnseces 7,499,981 8,187,287 332,990 220,018
International Council for Bird Preservation .... 211,131 209,528 6,666 7,062
MPRMSEREO Eiken PENITHOLS 2). ccs cciecenccwscnuces 19,938 18,834 756 10,989
PRINS rs SiS SU lav fetta wre ya'< d'e'd me scls'wale/v,vass 6 225,533 252,278 10,122 19,169
pone, pmsmere E. and Edith C. ..........0sec0ss 1,144 1,558 63 153
Pager we@atherme Walden .....cleccscavccseccs 52,065 57,819 2,320 8,123
OL SES. (0123 ee eee 2,529 2,914 117 1,625
PMC EEE SIPC) ISOS cis cieicc dries cele siwisatiew.e re eet 24,073 21,825 876 1,915
MO CENEIIA SEAVITICSLON |. v.0.cic.cvieciciasccvie cee case 19,145 21,345 856 820
Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* ... 738,020 711,790 29,168 10,522
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ....:.....60.ccees 27,456 30,583 1,227 20,753
Rn HE SCCSCATCR 5.52005 c cee we se castece 62,652 65,755 2,638 9,382
JO6nE. Pic OS a er 77,744 73,395 2,945 11,988
SEESMEEAEEA rc) vie tse aw adc dcscescssaneses 19,979 22,123 888 12,242
SL bola ES or Se ee See ee ee 1,564,818 1,589,646 63,783 204,516
Smithsonian Agency Account ..............000: 513,685 519,192 19,928 —o0—
SCD gs) CE ae 25,806 28,739 1,153 3,089
Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial ........... 332,371 368,753 14,796 —o—
=| ee Gis sewed ys ie ume eiereb 12,161,740 12,941,602 521,669 576,079
meet seestticted Purpose .....ccscccsevercese $ 2,130,742 $ 1,850,662

eek ENDOWMENT FUNDS ..........s000s-

$48,481,585

$84,247,989

$53,070,918

$90,230,962

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
**Total Return Income payout; does not include $238,436 of interest income for investment of unex-

pended income balances.

$ 3,346,513** $ 1,996,440
Related Organizations

The Science Information Exchange, Inc., which has served as a
national source for information on research in progress since its
founding in 1949, ceased operation on October 31, 1981; a certifi-
cate of dissolution was granted in June 1982. Under a contract with
the Department of Commerce, the Institution has continued dur-
ing the past year to provide the Exchange with administrative and
fiscal services necessary to closing out the operation, transferring
the assets to the Department of Commerce, and paying the out-
standing net liabilities. All operations are expected to be closed
out by June 1983.

Reading is Fundamental, Inc., associated with the Institution
since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedi-
cated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary
support is derived from private contributions and a federal con-
tract with the Department of Education to operate the federal
Inexpensive Book Distribution Program.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the
National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts were established by Congress within the Institu-
tion but are administered by separate boards of trustees. Inde-
pendent financial reports are prepared by each of these organiza-
tions. Office space and fiscal and other administrative and support
activities are provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars on a reimbursement basis.

The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) is an independent, non-
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological
Park. It operates, under contract, a number of beneficial conces-
sions for the National Zoo; Fonz provided concession and rental
fees to the Zoo amounting to approximately $268,000 during cal-
endar year 1981 (Fonz’s fiscal year). In addition, Fonz contributed
other important financial and volunteer support to Zoo programs.
Financial affairs of this organization are described separately else-
where in Smithsonian Year 1982.

[54]
Accounting and Auditing

The nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution are audited an-
nually by an independent public accounting firm. In order to pro-
vide a comprehensive audit of all Smithsonian funds, this inde-
pendent verification has been extended in fiscal year 1982 to cover
appropriated funds as well, and the report of Coopers & Lybrand
is contained in the following pages. Additional reviews are con-
ducted annually on a number of Smithsonian activities by the in-
ternal audit staff. Additionally, the Defense Contract Audit Agency
conducts an annual audit of grants and contracts received from
federal agencies, as well as their allocated administrative costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents met during the
year pursuant to their responsibility, under the bylaws of the Insti-
tution, for reviewing the Smithsonian’s accounting systems and
internal financial controls; for facilitating communication between
the Board of Regents and auditors from the internal audit staff,
the independent accounting firm, and the General Accounting
Office; and for reviewing operations of the Institution for compli-
ance with approved programs and policies.

[55]
COOPERS & LYBRAND

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the statement of financial condition of the
Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1982 and the related
statement of financial activity for the year then ended. Our exam-
ination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards and with generally accepted governmental auditing stan-
dards and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting rec-
ords and such other auditing procedures as we considered neces-
sary in the circumstances. We previously examined and separately
reported upon the statements of the trust funds and the statements
of the federal appropriations of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year ended September 30, 1981, combined totals of which are in-
cluded in the accompanying financial statements for comparative
purposes only.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1982, referred to above, present fairly the financial
position of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1982,
and the results of operations and changes in fund balances for the
year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding
year.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

1800 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036
December 14, 1982

[56]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statement of Financial Condition

September 30, 1982

with comparative totals for September 30, 1981

(thousands of dollars)

ASSETS:

Cash on hand and in banks (Note 3)
Fund balance with U.S. Treasury (Note 4)
Investments (Notes 5 and 6)
Receivables (Note 7)
Advance payments (Note 8)
Merchandise inventory (Note 1)
Materials and supplies inventory (Note 1)
Amount to be provided for accrued

annual leave
Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) ..
Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 9) .

Se. 2 6.8 6 B06 ss oo
ee Ces © Sa 8 She eo £10 eo Bw &
ae oe ce aoe ae ee

wee See Ou me

Cie Res Ole Oa ee we ae ee, ee ee

LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses,
including interfund payable of $9,427

ee ers eSB sa eee
Deposits held in custody for other

Gepamieauans (Note 2) ...............
Accrued annual leave (Note 1)
Deferred revenue (Note 1)

ee

SeeeaVERED ORDERS ..........00....

FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Current:
Unrestricted general purpose
Special purpose
RR ad fer eta a bak acy aewin «4 =
Endowment and similar funds (Note 6) ..
Plant funds (Note 9)

Pe Oe SS ie wee) a Se ae wee ae

Awe eC ee er me ew) ee ae

Total trust fund balances

70) 6. 0 eit > Om fo

Operating funds
Construction funds
Capital funds

Total federal fund balances

Total all fund balances

Ss ww eee se. ae es

Total liabilities, undelivered
orders and fund balances

Trust
funds

$ 2,632
407
109,551
21,751

9,902
1,518

8,771
18,430

$173,593

$ 17,944

2,265
831
20,061

41,101

5,048
13,003
5,906
84,248
24,287

132,492

132,492

Federal
funds

$ 46 $ 2,678 $

38,080

51
6,441

1,135

6,163

179,617
$231,533

Cy dy fol

202
5,657
180,752

186,611
186,611

Totals,
all
funds

38,487
109,551
21,802
7,072
9,902
2,653

6,163
8,771
198,047

Totals,
1981

900
32,473
103,234
20,321
22,460
7 A462
2,224

5,847
6,329
177,633

$405,126 $378,883

$ 25,739

2,300
6,994
20,061

55,094
30,929

5,048
13,003
5,906
84,248
24,287

132,492

202
5,657
180,752

186,611
319,103

$173,593 $231,533 $405,126

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

$ 21,137

1,993
6,627
16,713
46,470

39,458

5,043
12,599
5,951
75,458
21,312

120,363

379
9,007
163,206

172,592
292,955

$378,883
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statement of Financial Activity

Year ended September 30, 1982

with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1981
(thousands of dollars)

TRUST FUNDS

Endow-
Total ment and
trust Current — similar Plant

funds funds funds funds

Revenue and other additions:

Appropriations soot ee, $ — $ — $ — $ —
Auxiliary activities revenue ................. 95,593 95,593 _ =
Federal grants and contracts. .............<:. 13,217 13,217 ba —
Investment income (net of $367,000 for
management and custodian fees) .......... 9,635 8,586 — 1,049
Net gain on sale of securities ............... 3,884 4 3,880 —
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants ....... 6,205 5,234 44 927
Additions to plant (Note 9) ................. 1,871 os — 1,871
Rentals, fees, commissions and other ........ 2,372 2,194 —— 178
Total revenue and other additions ....... _ 132,777 124,828 3,924 4,025
Expenditures and other deductions:
Research and educational expenditures ....... 23,521 2a:52% — —
Administrative expenditures ................-. 8,810 8,810 — —
Facilities services expenditures .............. 1,275 1,275 — —
Auxiliary activities expenditures ............. 85,153 85,153 — —
Expenditures for acquisition of plant
(Matern 28-v ic rR ari oe a el 1,865 mel —! eae
Property use and retirements (Note 9) ....... — — — a
Retirement of indebtedness ................. 6 — — 6
Interest (on iIndebletness .); 6.5 oe a 18 — — 18
Endowment reimbursement (Note 6) ......... — — — —=
Total expenditures and other deductions . 120,648 118,759 — 1,889

Excess of revenue and other additions
over (under) expenditures
and other deductions (Note 11) ........ 12,129 6,069 3,924 2,136

Transfers to government agencies ............. == —= — =

Transfers among funds—additions (deductions):

Mandatory principal and interest on notes .... aa (24) se 24
Nonmandatory for designated purposes, net

(Note 32). 2 S285 AURaes. eo eee cas — (5,681) 4,866 815

Total transfers among funds ............ — (5,705) 4,866 839

Net increase (decrease) for the year ..... 12,129 364 8,790 2,975

Returned: fo. U.S; eens ici idlo wim aha annie — — —_ a

Fund balances at beginning of year ........... 120,363 23,593 75,458 21,312

Fund balances at end of year ..60csesceccesans $132,492 $ 23,957 $84,248 $24,287

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
FEDERAL FUNDS

Total Operat- Construc-
federal ing tion Capital Totals, Totals,
funds funds funds funds _ all funds 1981

$145,234 $135,490 $9,744 §$ — $145,234 $141,957
_— — — _— 95,593 87,052
_— — — —_ 13,217 14,172

— — _— _ 9,635 8,156

_ — — _ 3,884 8,053

— _ _— _— 6,205 6,477
31,025 _— _— 31,025 32,896 24,921
122 122 — —_ 2,494 2,649

87,940 87,940 — — 111,461 104,449
9,661 9,661 — — 18,471 17,116
38,063 38,063 — — 39,338 36,510

— _ — —_ 85,153 72,709

13,094 oe 43,004 — 14,959 8,513
13,479 = — 13,479 13,479 15,097
— = 4s — 6 6
— — ies eee 18 18
= _ -_ eis _— 976

eee

14,144 (52) (3,350) 17,546 26,273 38,043
= sate ns ae — (5,355)
14,144 (52) (3,350) 17,546 26,273 32,688
(125) (125) = —_ (125) (64)
172,592 379 9,007 163,206 292,955 260,331

eee Cee

er Oe eee eee eee

eee eee eee eee eee
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of significant accounting policies

Basis of Presentation. These financial statements do not include the accounts
of the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Perform-
ing Arts or the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, which
were established by Congress within the Smithsonian Institution (Institution)
but are administered under separate boards of trustees. (See Note 2.)

The accounts of the federal funds have been prepared on the obligation basis
of accounting, which basis is in accordance with accounting principles pre-
scribed by the Comptroller General of the United States as set forth in the
Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies. The obliga-
tion basis of accounting differs in some respects from generally accepted
accounting principles. Under this basis of accounting, commitments, such as
purchase orders and contracts, are recognized as expenditures, and the related
obligations are reported on the balance sheet even though goods and services
have not been received. Such commitments aggregate $30,929,000 at Sep-
tember 30, 1982.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
private sources, from federal grants and contracts and from certain business
activities related to the operations of the Institution. The federal funds reflect
the receipt and expenditures of funds obtained from Congressional appro-
priations.

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the
Institution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund account-
ing. This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classi-
fied for funds control, accounting and reporting purposes into funds estab-
lished according to their appropriation, nature and purposes. Separate ac-
counts are maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying finan-
cial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have been combined
into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded
and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are reported in
self-balancing fund groups as follows:

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted resources, represent the
portion of expendable funds that is available for support of Institution
operations. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific purposes are
segregated from other current funds.

[60]
Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to
restrictions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the princi-
pal be invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endow-
ment and similar funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of princi-
pal but only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment
funds. Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion
of such funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds rep-
resent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the
governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the
income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisi-
tions and funds expended for plant.

Federal operating funds represent the portion of expendable funds that is
available for support of Institution operations. Separate subfund groups
are maintained for each appropriation—Salaries and Expenses appropria-
tions, Special Foreign Currency appropriations, and Barro Colorado
Island Trust Fund.

The balance of this fund represents amounts available for support of
specific Institution operations including the Special Foreign Currency
Program, Franklin Delano Roosevelt Appropriations, and Barro Colorado
Island Trust Fund.

Federal construction funds represent the portion of expendable funds
that is available for building and facility construction, restoration, reno-
vation and repair. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each ap-
propriation—Construction and Improvements, National Zoological Park,
Restoration and Renovation of Buildings and Museum Support Center.

Federal capital funds represent the amount of the investment of the
United States Government in the net assets of the Institution acquired
with federal funds and nonexpendable property transfers from Govern-
ment agencies.

Investments. All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other
disposition of investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related
assets are recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar
manner, except for income derived from investments of endowment and simi-
lar funds, which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if
unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds.

Merchandise inventory. Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or retail cost
method (for those inventories held for resale).

Materials and supplies inventory. Inventories of materials and supplies are
carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method.

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription,

[61]
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine are charged against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens. The Institution acquires its collec-
tions, which include works of art, library books, photographic archives, ob-
jects and specimens, through purchase or by donation of the items them-
selves. In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, no value
is assigned to the collections on the statement of financial condition. Pur-
chases for the collections are expensed currently.

Property and equipment. Capital improvements and equipment purchased
with trust funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized at
cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives of three to ten years. All other capital improvements and equipment
purchased with trust funds are expensed currently.

Real estate (land and buildings) purchased with trust funds is recorded at
cost, to the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended there-
for, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in
the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at
nominal values. Depreciation on buildings purchased with trust funds is
not recorded.

Buildings and other structures, additions to buildings and fixed equipment
purchased with federal funds are recorded at cost and depreciated on a
straight-line basis over a period of 30 years.

Certain lands occupied by the Smithsonian Institution’s buildings were ap-
propriated and reserved by the Congress for that purpose and are not re-
flected in the accompanying financial statements. Property and nonexpendable
equipment acquired through transfer from Government agencies are capi-
talized at the transfer price or at estimated amounts taking into consideration
their usefulness, condition and market value. Nonexpendable equipment pur-
chased with federal funds is recorded at cost depreciated on a straight-line
basis over a period of 10 years.

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the
Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received in the
trust funds.

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state-
ments since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.

Annual leave unfunded. The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual
leave in accordance with federal law and regulations. However, only the
cost of leave taken as salaries is funded and recorded as an expense. The
cost of unused annual leave at year-end is reflected in the accompanying
financial statements as an asset and accrued liability in the federal funds.

[62]
2. Related activities

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several sepa-
rately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution
serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these
organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institu-
tion facilities occupied, etc. totaled approximately $323,000 for the year
ended September 30, 1982. The following summarizes the approximate ex-
penditures of these organizations for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1982 as reflected in their individual financial statements and which are not
included in the accompanying financial statements of the Institution:

($000s)

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ..............2-0e000- $1,900

MMU AINETICAL UIC, wisn aic'v msi ie e's wee veer daeee vielen ecas $7,500

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars—trust funds ... $3,000
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars—

 MEMEMISEENCAONNS «1550550. 5 ch coak «x Wie igua'n dbs eyo af x3 eA. 08 Su ayn .a, ow wo bs $1,897

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ceased operations as of
October 31, 1981. The U.S. Department of Commerce provided a grant to
close down operations and to perfect an orderly liquidation, which is con-
tinuing with final close-out projected in fiscal year 1983.

3. Cash on hand—federal funds

This represents deposits in transit and the amount of imprest fund cash
advanced by the U.S. Treasury to imprest fund cashiers for small purchasing
purposes.

4. Fund balance with U.S. Treasury

The account represents fund balances on the books of the U.S. Treasury
available for disbursement.

5. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair market value at date

of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1982, investments are
composed of the following:

Carrying Market

value value

($000s)  ($000s)

Current funds:

DEMS GEICDOSIE (onc. ic encase ewe ve sme ene $ 11,977 $ 11,977
MTP FIN 8.5.5 5. shas's ais nisayod peat Sh prt tniewin x, ons © hes 1,974 1,974
U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations .. 12,330 12,515
ee ee 145 138
I Nea hehe aw pian Mew Wine e sid wm 56 48

26,482 26,652

[63]
Endowment and similar funds:

Money markel GCCOUNES oo 3 55ciniian ccna ee aa ate 8,066 8,066
boar i0 (ioe. LYCAGOrY . .. caccaa gs cock Cea ma Osa 1,000 1,000
U.S. Government and quasi-Government obligations .. 10,711 11,641
Corporate” BOtitie! fee. soy ae et at eer tae ea ee ea eee 3,484 3,750
Connon stocks 3.5 sia As Se oe es ee bee eee 59,256 64,130

Preferred stock. 3235 33 ee a Ae ee Rees 552 465
83,069 89,052
$109,551 $115,704

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at
market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $148.04,
290,802 units were owned by endowment, and 309,427 units were owned by
quasi-endowment at September 30, 1982.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments:

Market
($000s) value
Net per
Market Cost change unit
Eggeat Yeah 0, aude wut eee eee $88,858 $82,881 $5,977 $148.04
Besmmine Of Year Sorc souv ese e cee $77,972 $74,411 3,561 134.12
Increase in unrealized net gain
FOr fhe YEAR isda xd .ajeino dae. # asides '< atanie Sear a 2,416
Realized net gain for the year) 23.5.0 4. vine cles omg 3,880

Total realized and unrealized
net gain. for the year. scan: als teed soe eee $6,296 $ 13.92

6. Endowment and similar funds

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1982 are summarized as
follows:

($000s)
Endowment funds, income available for:
Restricted PULPOSeS. oe vi <j0c dacs ace osm nie 2 = wlan an eel $36,320
Unrestricted. purpOses. «<4 sis. njcr 0:2 Sead 226 > es > ol 3,023
39,343
Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for:
Restricted” purposes fo. a.vesscnccresases snes new te ta 12,162
Unrestricted purposes <1. ...2 05.255 -50052 > eb ee sees a 32,743
44,905

Total-endowment and similar funds |. .2...... 21.0) eee $84,248

[64]
The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach,
the total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized
gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to
the difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and the
amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from
the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such
factors as, but not limited to: (1) 41/2°/o of the five-year average of the mar-
ket value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period),
(2) current dividends and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and
scientists and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price
Index; however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment
fund is less than 110°/o of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of
donation), the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends
received. The total return factor for 1982 was $5.94 per unit to the Restricted
and Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $5.00 per unit to the Unre-
stricted General Purpose Endowment Funds; new units were purchased for
the Unrestricted Endowment Funds with the $.94, the difference in the total
return factor. The total return applied for 1982 was $2,230,000 to the Re-
stricted and Designated Purpose Endowment Funds and $1,046,000 to the
Unrestricted General Purpose Endowment Funds.

Endowment reimbursement represents payment of income, which had accu-
mulated in principal of the endowment funds, in accordance with a settle-
ment related to a lawsuit.

7. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1982 included the following:

Trust funds ($000s)
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of allowance
for coup) accounts of $962,000 in 1982 ...........cscccceces $ 9,148
Interfund receivables due from current funds:
SEE AMG SUMUAT LUNGS occ eos a dnc hace ewcncsarecncenens 812
oS Ae gs dda as Phd 8s OK cub RNa em WS gow Sok 8,615
enOeE At GAWIGENGS TECEIVADIE 2.0.05. ceca ccccccvecaseadsnaues 2,181
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts ............... 892
a oe aie w Grd uke hana We dros Sais Ga aca. a.ed ® Mie wd ame 103
“L793
Federal funds
AE a. orn. wo ssie ape dptikie Ain i ase wis nh ene nn ae ne Ae Bn 51
SE MMU ARCIR RIOD. Cahiers ah. Sy Wk SUR ad: Sete lels, id «luverion oe WS aretha d $21,802

8. Advance payments

Advance payments represent advances made to Government agencies, educa-
tional institutions, firms and individuals for services to be rendered or prop-
erty or materials to be furnished.

[65]
As of September 30, 1982, the Institution has advances outstanding to the
U.S. Government of approximately $4,084,000, principally for construction
services to be received in the future. The Institution at that date also had
advances outstanding to educational institutions amounting to approximately
$2,150,000, principally under the Special Foreign Currency Program.

9. Property and equipment

At September 30, 1982, property and equipment which has been capitalized
(see Note 1) is comprised of the following:

Current funds (¢$000s)
Ganital improvements: <. c.scie> 626 = bigs crenciins eee | $ 1,949
BGQHDMehhs ian } weds une aay SA ae = epiomeTe 2,146
Leasehold: improvements) > oc. Sai. aaiteas fo eecas, aon ee 247
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization ...... 2,026
2,316
Endowment and similar funds
Land: ‘anw’ buildings Q.7 1.5) Sn oes Seer ace 225
Plant funds
Larid! “and ‘bunldings asc «, . cisteee saule ae cota Fie opines nea 15,889
Total steust funds eceual. beecwik eeRe $ 18,430
Capital funds
PROPOR ie) ia siti ti toad Sy acta oe eae et cae a 236,621
EGQRePOG RE a ioc is sc ietenn udtous mace ousdatan ieee sya iece heen = aah ote 26,991
Eess: accumulated: depreciation) <:s..0 <6 .00s so se eee 83,995
179,617
$198,047

Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the cur-
rent funds for 1982 was $495,000. Depreciation expense reflected in expendi-
tures of the capital funds of 1982 was $9,619,000.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1982 includes $8,568,000 of
unexpended plant funds.

10. Pension plan

The Institution has separate retirement plans for trust and federal employees.
Under the trust fund’s plan, both the Institution and employees contribute
stipulated percentages of salary which are used to purchase individual annui-
ties, the rights to which are immediately vested with the employees. The cost
of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1982 was $2,771,000. It is the
policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued currently. There are no
unfunded prior service costs under the plan.

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by the Civil Service
Retirement Program. Under this program, the Institution withholds from the
gross pay of each federal employee and remits to the Civil Service Retire-
ment and Disability Fund (Fund) the amounts specified by such program.

[66]
The Institution contributes 7°/o of basic annual salary to the Fund. The cost

of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1982 was approximately
$5,200,000.

11. Excess of expenditures and other deductions

The net excess of expenditures and other deductions over revenue and other
additions disclosed for federal operating and construction funds in the State-
ment of Activity for the year ended September 30, 1982 arise because certain
multiyear appropriations, having been recorded as income in prior years and
carried forward as fund balance, were expended during the year.

12. Nonmandatory transfers for designated purposes

The following transfers among trust funds were made for the year ended
September 30, 1982 in thousands of dollars:

Endow-
Current funds ment and

Unre- Re- similar Plant
stricted stricted funds funds

Portion of investment yield

appropriated (Note 5) ............. $ (925) $(1,139) $2,064 $ —
Purchase of property and equipment
er (83) — — 83
Future plant acquisitions ............ (917) — — 917
Income added to endowment principal — (118) 118 -=
Appropriated as quasi-endowment ... (2,259) (200) 2,684 (225)
Other designated purposes .......... (281) 241 — 40
a $(4,465) $(1,216) $4,866 $ 815

13. Income taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal
Revenue Service has issued a Technical Advice Memorandum to the Institu-
tion indicating that income derived from sales of certain items in the Museum
Shops may constitute unrelated business taxable income. The application of
this memorandum is under discussion with the Internal Revenue Service.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such dual status but
intends to do so in the near future.

Management believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement
of these matters would not have a material effect upon the financial position
of the Institution.

[67]
imal 4 dates ha * io!

TAL nell # { Ladd, bet ees ees Lett ral
| 7 : Pa att

. AG
K's ee
| j . ae”

P| <o alt

h, ‘aaue | Hee Ry yt,

‘ 4 A rie
(igsek
) St inet, hess |
' eivi 4 i) ee ‘ i ; | " wn
A Me Rag hich

“5 “Ada! oh. yon ce ee, wet Bg

Ca dpehe Waa

5 We ant * Bi Ll dian a i?
TOY pay Pgh, Gad Gaetan €

*
ey
a
a

| | . . } G os a if.
4 a 7 7 ° 7 —s
ey TAL a Ny) e , ay .
a Tia? | VW? aa

a a |

-

