SMITHSONIAN YEAR * 1981

Statement by the Secretary

‘EMENT BY THE SECRETARY

™~
i.2)
ony
PS on |
S
ee
=
<=
5
2
a

he ad

5

;

:

7

oe 1

SMITHSONIAN YEAR : 1981

Conservation
in Nature and in Culture

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
3. DILLON RIPLEY

The Smithsonian Institution * 1982
FRONTISPIECE

If a sheathed sword is a symbol of peace, so too will be our Quadrangle, a center
for illumination, and for hope. . . . This conceptual model shows the Quadrangle
project, with the Smithsonian Castle historically defining the northern boundary
of the Quadrangle, and Independence Avenue edging it to the south. In this view,
the Freer Gallery of Art is to the far left, and the Arts and Industries Building
stands to the far right.
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property
and accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in
an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the President,
the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust
in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Ronald Reagan, President of the United States
George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Secretary of State
Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury
Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense
William French Smith, Attorney General
James G. Watt, Secretary of the Interior
John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture
Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce
Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of Labor
Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of Health and Human Services
Terrel H. Bell, Secretary of Education
Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Andrew L. Lewis, Jr., Secretary of Transportation
James B. Edwards, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and Secretary * September 30, 1981

REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor

INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

George H. W. Bush, Vice-President of the United States, ex officio
Henry M. Jackson, senator from Washington

Barry Goldwater, senator from Arizona

Edwin Jacob (Jake) Garn, senator from Utah

Silvio O. Conte, representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, representative from California
Edward P. Boland, representative from Massachusetts
David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
William A. M. Burden
Carlisle H. Humelsine

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information

vi]
Smithsonian Year * 1981

DIAL EMENT BY’ THE SECRETARY
<<

<<

RD, WAAR
OR, LY
WD, KKK
CN, AY
BRR KR)

KXKXKAAAN? 4
YEA REXY x)
AX) @
OX X) ONO)
ehatanetes OX
OX PERAK KK KK N

x
WY
CX)
tate SOK) RY)
KKK RK KKK KKK KKK)
Mirren Nrorernnnrnnns
Orrin nirrrnnnnne
QU aetararararaaadentiren ea
ROR RRANARRAY ARRAN
RI SAR AAX EX)
whew y Oy Fay
()

PLN

oS

Ne

S2

,

XXX
i

Lash
XXX)
RD
OSA oreer
REXXAR)
RY
Oe YX
Q
WX
PR NEN
XY

Ax XXX)
: SK \,
ALAS
XXX
YY
poo Rs
«",
OXY
MYKKKKK

O/

SOY)
VOY)

xX iVv\ XX KY

XXX
KX

0%

\)

XX

<.
~
=i

ion,

So
0 0
ALEC
on
Ww

.
ao
( yat
By
Ye¢
E¢
aS
i ea
= oo
“ S
ae

a8
oS a,
ane
G .«
te
ae
G ~
ae!
= &
hes
LY
v
2A
5 =
Lin
vn Vv
2
Sel cee
aH
cs
Ueg
~ 9°
gy
es
ne
- Oo
vo &
® eey
S¢
=3
g ©
&
om
Conservation in Nature and in Culture

S. DILUON RIPLEY

“The future is something which everyone reaches
at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he
does, whoever he is.” Cc. Ss. LEWIS

IN THIS MOMENTOUS YEAR just past, the Smithsonian has seen the
fulfillment of an epoch of planning. Shifting uncomfortably like a
hen sitting on too many eggs, making a little tuck here and a ruffle
of feathers there, trying to encompass an ever-larger nest, the Insti-
tution has been stretched and pushed into an imminent state of
disarray. For years, like all museums, loathe to give up what may
be the remainders of the past, we have had to make do with
cramped corridors, ever-shrinking attic spaces, the imminent loss
of knowing what it is we have or where we started. Our collections
have threatened to lose their utility, sinking under the very weight
of accretion. Last year saw the final breakthrough with a generous
Congress agreeing to expressed needs of the past many years. The
Institution got off to a running start in January 1981; we now are
proceeding at a record pace, ahead of schedule, and—dare we admit
it—narrowly under budget to create the best, biggest, and most
sophisticated and efficient atmospherically controlled storage and
retrieval center in the Union.

Can we achieve this monumental task? I believe we can, and the
portents so far are with us. The Museum Support Center as it is
titled, all 308,566 square feet of it, will be opened in 1983. Say what
one may, this “trip” has been necessary. If anywhere, if anyone,
the Smithsonian must realize its destiny to build a storage and
retrieval center second to none, to preserve the materials, the
evidence of all that has made this Nation, rich, proud, careless and

[3]
vainglorious, the extraordinary creation that it is. Somewhere with-
in this heap, this litter, lies the truth. For that we must keep this
material with care, conserve it as if life would depend on it—for
our future and for life itself.

Curiously enough almost no one these days understands what
the word “conservative” means. The so-called media, TV, press,
radio, the varieties of slogan-peddling called “communications,” all
readily define ““conservative” in political terms: conservative versus
liberal. This fashionable interpretation is of course meaningless,
conjuring up stereotype visions, Grant Wood’s famous portrait of
the middle western farm couple outside their American Gothic
farmhouse, opposed to a shaggy, curly-haired professor with horn-
rims, smoking almost anything.

Conservatives—both men and women—are supposed to wear
business clothes, lips pursed tightly in expressions of determination
and discipline, and virtually march when they walk or jog to the
beat of a predetermined drum. Nonconservatives, dressed loosely,
always informally, in mussy clothes smile in a relaxed friendly
manner, thinking always of others, moving by impulse perhaps,
“making it’ to a distant threnody of wood notes wild.

In museum circles, as in research circles, ““conservative’” means
something entirely different, symbolizing a profession, a whole
career. Museum people do not really pursue their careers mostly in
attics, although the popular slogan for the Smithsonian, “the
Nation’s Attic,” serves up endless images of dusty, dark crannies
stuffed with old-fashioned trunks, old clothes, abandoned radio
sets and broken toys. ‘‘Conservative” in museum terms means con-
servation, the care of thousands of objects, testaments to man’s
creativity, or evidences of creation, the hand of nature or of God,
which lie about us always.

In America, museum people and many research people lead lives
of quiet desperation, buoyed up only by the inner conviction of the
importance of their task. Conservation of at least part of mankind’s
creation before it all vanishes on the dust heaps of history becomes
a sacred task, the dictates of which marry totally disparate com-
ponents. On the one hand things must be preserved with exquisite
care; on the other, time is of the essence, before what is to be cared
for floats away in the inexorable process of decay. In this work
the curator always loses something, a little piece here and there, a

[pan]
fragment of the evidence. But to keep something is better. To con-
serve even bits and pieces of history is a measure of the curator’s
success. Speed connotes haste, and haste connotes waste. But with-
out some measure of speed too much is lost, for America is a con-
tinuing example at every level of wastefulness. Humans are con-
sumers more than creators. We all live unconsciously on mounds or
heaps of the debris of past lives. All our history or what is left of it
can be found in dry privies or charnel heaps. There is an old New
England maxim at the very heart of American prudence and thrift
which assumes some degree of carelessness:

“Use it up, wear it out
make it do, or do without.”

The last two words are the most important if you think about it.
They convey our mood. “Conservative,” then, means to conserve.
But what an anomaly that is in popular terms. People in business
or government tend not to be able to conserve. Business means
forward momentum. Dollars imply development. Government
moves forward erratically, a juggernaut, propelled by legislation
often read through a glass darkly, mirroring forgotten crises. Busi-
ness and government both proceed on the understanding that
growth is the only truth. In such a context “conservative” is a
recessive word.

Today the mood of America is “conservative.” I hope it augurs
well for what the word really means: “to take care, to mind the
lessons of history, to keep the testament of the past.” Perhaps
America has turned an invisible corner. We who live with museum
principles in mind should take heart that at last Americans and
nationals of other nations who throng our halls, seem to have a
new respect for what we can demonstrate through the conservation
of objects, retrieved with speed but with care, before it is too late.

The other side of the term should be of equal or greater value,
conservation of nature. Here again museum workers and our
associated colleagues in biological research bring home the con-
trast between endless growth and the preservation of what is left.
These past twenty years have demonstrated, even to poll-takers, the
existence of a solid block of public concern in favor of conservation
of our environment. In political terms what an anomaly this is!
Here for once the terms contravene each other. Conservatives, i.e.,
“business,” in favor of endless growth, are following a spendthrift
trail. Liberals, i.e., “fiddlers,” living on organic food, careless of
the future or of economics, are becoming ecofreaks—crazy for
conservation. But how silly this is. It cannot be the sign of a liberal
to be a conservator of the environment, any more than it need be
a sign of a conservative to be a disciple of conspicuous waste. Let
conservatives and liberals (in the political sense—if indeed the
labels are valid any more?) take heart from the fact that conserva-
tion is here to stay, a way of life on which our future will be
judged. What greater obligation do we have than to be conservators
of the things of mankind or of nature? Without the one we become
rootless, adrift, undisciplined even, lost amid shifting sands. With-
out the other we have with certainty lost our future.

One of the advantages of the new Museum Support Center is
that we shall for the first time be able to “decompress,” to spread
out most everything, to see what we have altogether and in what
condition. Whether going to the new center or staying in one of the
museums, we will have room to examine everything. Already the
Institution is in the throes of a giant inventory, supported now for
three years with a special appropriation. In some collections, the
inventory is completed, one hundred percent; in others, only par-
tially so. Over all, we are a little more than half-way through. As a
result, the numbers of objects are beginning to appear in fact, in
contrast to the educated guesswork of the past.

Only now can we begin to form a comprehensive listing of
objects or lots of objects in certain collections to be conserved, to
be studied for loans or possibly to be disposed of as duplicates, and
to make all the future curatorial decisions that will have to be
made in the next quarter century. In the end, we will not only know
what we have for the first time in every department, but we will
have a rational idea of what to do with it. I believe that we will
save money in the long run by being able to make valid and wholly
merited decisions on what to keep once we are totally sure of what
we have. This of course excludes the obviously priceless or unique
objects. These we know already, and most of them are well cared
for and well documented. But on the fringes of all collections there
are hard decisions to be made about objects that surface, come to a
curator’s attention, because they had just been put away a while
back for a decision later on.

|
This next generation, in time, will be a voyage of discovery for
our own curators, rediscovering things so put aside. It will be an
enormous job and a very heavy responsibility for working curators
to dig in and excavate in the collections themselves. We welcome it
as a test of the staff and their aptitude in the work.

If the future catches up with us all too speedily, we can certainly
realize that life admits of no delays. These are parlous days for
building anything. We in the Smithsonian have been lucky in that
we have created buildings with minimal overruns, sometimes in-
deed under budget. But inflation is all around us. It is a cancer that
has been creeping up on us “on little cat feet’’ since the 1890s,
according to an elderly cousin of mine. But it is here, and we can
only hope that these years will finally see a realization of what
Hemingway called “the first panacea for a mismanaged country.”
That relentless liberal said, “The first panacea for a mismanaged
nation is inflation of the currency; the second is war. Both bring a
temporary prosperity; both bring a permanent ruin.” He should
have lived on to see the complex of conflicting pressures we live
under today.

These are hard years in which to summon the resolve to build
anything. And yet the Smithsonian has an extraordinary oppor-
tunity to perform a signal service for the nation and it is our hope
that we can do so, with imagination and understanding for the
future. Another realm of space, another project to build may seem
uncalled for in these uncertain days, but we have ample reasons to
do so. On the one hand our government is committed to strengthen-
ing the peace through marshaling the power and military strength
to maintain it. On the other hand we conceive a need to strengthen
understanding with the vast arc of nations stretching from the
Atlantic shores of Africa across Eurasia, as the geographers term
it, “the eastern Mediterranean,” and on to the shores of the Pacific.
Here live two-thirds of the world’s population, too few nations
among which are really understood by Americans. In the city of
Washington there are more than eighty embassies whose occupants
represent the majority of peoples of the world. Yet they have
no real means for representing their cultural history and _ tradi-
tions to Americans. We lack a theater, a window from which to
demonstrate their long and fundamental role in our own history.
Whether because of the roots of intellectual development for the

ol
NI
—
PORPETS (OZANGID FAT ETLIS
f f ¢
r id f

reese ereee wie seaee
: ns on
ale : Cais a a
£3 pe ae

The Quadrangle project, pictured here in a plan showing Independence Ave-
nue (at bottom, foreground) and the Smithsonian Castle (at top, background),
addresses the need to strengthen our nation’s understanding of the vast arc
of nations stretching from Africa across Eurasia and on to the shores of the
Pacific. The Quadrangle space, the old South Yard of the Smithsonian, has
had a multitude of uses over the years. In the 1880s, bison (facing page, at top)
and other live animals were kept (for study by Smithsonian taxidermists) in
pens on the south side of the Castle—here the beginnings of our National
Zoo! In the center (facing page) is a view from Independence Avenue in late
1975, just before the area was cleared, showing various buildings behind the
Castle: the Victorian carriage house to the left, the first Smithsonian observa-
tory buildings dating from the 1890s towards the right, and the World War I
“quonset” hut originally erected by the U.S. Army Air Service for development
of World War I aircraft and later used by the National Air Museum (now
NASM) to display historic aircraft. At bottom (facing page) is a contemporary
view of the Castle showing the Freer Gallery of Art to the left, the Arts and
Industries Building to the right, and the Castle itself at center—with the
existing parking lot and adjacent Victorian Garden (first developed in 1976).
Western world in mathematics, medicine and astronomy in the
Arab tradition, whether in religion, law and philosophy in Judaism
and the roots of Christianity, whether in philosophy and invention
and technology in Asia and Africa, Americans are still unaccus-
tomed to understanding the close cultural links between themselves
and the worlds of Africa and Asia. Only with such understanding
can peace come through mutual respect coupled with the urgency of
the need for environmental survival, the new conservatism of which
I have written.

The speed at which we live, the triumphs of invention have done
nothing to assuage our need for mutual understanding on which
peace must depend. Speed of communication seems to exacerbate
tension. Instant television replays of events abroad, usually colorful
events such as riots or warfare, excite us into an eventual state of
satiety. We spend most of our lives today receiving short-range
signals of despair, starvation, disease, war—apocalyptic visions
circulate through the air, in the name of keeping up with the news.
More often than not, these are the only signals emanating from
Africa or Asia which reach the public mind.

Nor does transportation and its miracles assist us in the search
for understanding. Jet-assisted tour groups take the place of time
for contemplation or for reading history or biography. “I’ve done
southern Asia” or “I’ve been to Africa” is the answer as one comes
back exhausted from a ten-day all-packaged tour, bulging shopping
bags and kaleidoscopic impressions replacing reflection or apprecia-
tion. This manic approach to travel seems to replace contemplation.
It is no recipe for understanding.

Our hope is to create a Quadrangle space adjacent to the Smith-
sonian buildings in our south garden area. Here in an atmosphere
of quiet mini-parks we hope to create two adjoining museums,
interlocking below the surface, lighted by skylights, with cere-
monial entrance pavilions symbolizing the worlds of Africa and
Asia, and their riches, their fundamental meaning for us all. Is it
not vastly important that the annual visitors to the Mall, represent-
ing nearly ten percent of our population, should have an oppor-
tunity to assimilate some of the significance of this luminous
majority, a majority who are too little understood or valued for
their vital interconnections with us at every level? James Smithson
spoke of his hope for the increase and diffusion of knowledge

[ 10 ]
among all mankind. This Institution was to benefit all, not merely
Americans, but how better could we thus benefit Americans?

Our Quadrangle plan calls for the centering here of educational
programs to spread out across the country, of exhibitions to travel
to far places, of meetings, discussions, seminars, occasions at which
representatives of all these nations could foregather and communi-
cate. The strength of our nation comes from understanding, not
merely from weapons. We need reminders of the origins of civiliza-
tion in two-thirds of the world, of its diffusion spreading out
through the moral suasion of religion as it evolved across the
Middle East and Asia and the unequivocal force it remains today.
If a sheathed sword is a symbol of peace, so too will be our garden,
our Quadrangle, a center for illumination, and for hope.

This Institution must reaffirm what is our conviction, that all
mankind is our concern. Our folk festival has demonstrated our
concern for interpreting the minority interests and cultures here.
The Woodrow Wilson Center next door in the Castle has demon-
strated the wisdom of discourse, of debate freed from politics. In
the same way, cultural history and tradition must be defused,
stayed from politicization, if any degree of understanding is to be
achieved. The certain death of our Quadrangle plan would be to
have it seem to be used, to assume political meaning. These are
dangerous days, and passions and suspicions lie close to the surface
of man’s thinking, exacerbated by technology, fed by fears of
ultimate destruction. To survive we must revive respect for his-
torical and religious traditions of all kinds, and for self-discipline.
It should be the goal of every government. We persist, rightly
I think, in believing that it is our own goal, the conviction of
Americans.

Several of our exhibitions this year past gave a foretaste of those
to be seen in the Quadrangle’s galleries: Renaissance of Islam: The
Art of the Mamluks, which opened at the Smithsonian and is now
circulating under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, is an unprecedented exhibition of
diverse arts produced in the most creative age in medieval Islam.
The Arts of Ancient Egypt: Treasures on Another Scale, a collec-
tion of pharaonic treasures, was part of the “Egypt Today” sym-
posium sponsored in the Washington area in part by the Resident

[ 11 ]
Associates Program. And 5000 Years of Korean Art, the inaugural
exhibition in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery, illustrated with some
345 objects the richness and diversity of Korean artistic traditions.

Other exhibitions, not so directly tied to efforts at developing
an understanding of other cultures, but an understanding of our
own, were unveiled in measured pace, freshening our face and
adding rich new experiences to the cumulative identity of the
Smithsonian. Each is a testament to the fulfillment of our man-
date to conserve that part of mankind’s creation entrusted to us.

At the National Museum of American History (formerly the
National Museum of History and Technology) Jefferson and Science
highlighted the scientific pursuits of Thomas Jefferson; Perfect in
Her Place traced the struggles and successes of women at work in
industrial America; and Images of Labor commemorated the one-
hundredth anniversary of the founding of the American Federation
of Labor. At the Hirshhorn Museum, The Avant-Garde in Russia,
1910-1930: New Perspectives, presented art from the tumultuous
pre-Revolutionary period. The National Portrait Gallery opened
Champions of American Sport, an eye-catching tribute to one hun-
dred athletes from the 1830s to the present, including such person-
alities as Babe Ruth, Willie Shoemaker, Ben Hogan, Sonja Henie,
Muhammed Ali, Billie Jean King, Jesse Owens, Johnny Weismuller,
and Jack Nicklaus. Afer leaving the gallery, the exhibition began
its travels to Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York. Jet Aviation,
summarizing the first forty years of jet aviation (1930-70) by
tracing the evolution of commercial and military jet aircraft and
highlighting the careers and contribution of jet-age engineers and
designers, opened at the National Air and Space Museum. Anna J.
Cooper: A Voice from the South, an exhibition bringing this
remarkable woman to life in the broad context of her time—the
several decades before and after the turn of the century—opened
to much critical acclaim at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.

Conservation does not mean “sealed away or removed from
experience.” Some objects must even be brought to life so that we
may experience their meaning more completely. So it was with our
celebration of the birthday of the 150-year-old locomotive, John
Bull, which operated under its own steam before the public along
the Chessie System tracks near Georgetown. Bellowing smoke,
steam, and cinders, the train chugged out of the past, recreating an
experience of the earliest days of rail travel.

[ 12 ]
Dr. Esin Atil (back to camera), exhibition curator for the show titled Renaissance of
Islam: Art of the Mamluks, points out a detail to Mr. and Mrs. Harry Grey of United
Technologies, Ambassador of the Arab League Clovis Maksoud, and Mrs. Alfred
Atherton, wife of the U.S. ambassador to Egypt.

As part of the opening festivities of the exhibition 5000 Years of Korean Art in the
Thomas M. Evans Gallery at NMNH and dedication of the gallery, Korean musicians
performed there and in the museum’s rotunda. Below. Professor Milo Cleveland Beach
of Williams College—a scholar chosen in 1980 as fourth Smithsonian Regents
Fellow—prepares works for the Freer’s exhibition on The Imperial Image: Paintings for
the Mughal Court. Focus of this exhibition is the great body of work produced in
northern India in the 100-year period from 1560 on.

While our exhibition program conserves for all that part of
mankind’s creation entrusted to us, our colleagues in biological
research provide the foundation for conservation of what remains.

The Radiation Biology Laboratory’s continued study of photo-
synthetic utilization efficiency in plants growing under artificial
lights shows that lamps developed commercially for horticultural
applications yield no higher photosynthetic utilization efficiencies
than some of the most common lamps developed for lighting
applications.

Our curator of invertebrate zoology, Meredith Jones, during
innovative research on giant sea worms off the Galapagos, dis-
covered that bacteria in the worms’ guts produced an enzyme that
could transform sulfur and use the resulting energy to make atp—
a chemical crucial to the formation of carbohydrates.

The National Zoological Park opened its new Ape House, cre-
ating an environment that will promote social interaction among
our apes and help insure their survival in captivity. The Zoo re-
ceived the Edward H. Bean award from The American Association
of Zoological Parks and Aquariums for notable breeding accom-
plishment with captive Chinese alligators, and John Eisenberg was
presented the Merriam Award by the American Mammal Society.

Taking notice of years of this endeavor to conserve our past and
future, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory celebrated the
twenty-fifth anniversary of its move to Cambridge, and the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum the fifth anniversary of its opening.

International research and collaboration by Smithsonian scholars,
an embodiment of Joseph Henry’s concept of global correspondents,
reaches into almost every country on the earth. Although the ex-
change of letters, objects, and scientists has greatly expanded with
the advent of modern transportation and technology, the scholar-
to-scholar basis envisioned by Henry is, in general, maintained.
The pursuit of knowledge blurs all distinctions and ideologies that
may exist among scholars. During the course of the year, the Office
of International Activities arranged 82 programs for visiting foreign
dignitaries, numbering 276 persons, including 16 groups totaling
117 from the People’s Republic of China alone. Thirty-eight pro-
grams of other institutions at home and abroad were assisted in
developing contacts with the Institution. In December 1980, follow-
ing a proposal to Vice Premier Fang Yi, an agreement to foster

Pia
joint research with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, People’s
Republic of China, was signed. Collaborative research was started
in July 1981 when Chinese scholars joined the Smithsonian’s
Pleistocene archeological excavation in Colorado. In the fall, Smith-
sonian scientists from the National Museum of Natural History/
Museum of Man and Tropical Research Institute conducted re-
search in marine invertebrate biology and paleobiology in China.

During the course of the year, we were pleased to welcome
special guests to the Smithsonian. The Prime Minister of Korea
was here to present the Smithsonian with a check for $1 million
as an earnest of Korean support for our Quadrangle project, and
the Prime Minister of Japan and Mrs. Suzuki planted a beautiful
flowering cherry, Prunus incisa, to symbolize our partnership in its
development. Mrs. Jihan El-Sadat opened our exhibitions cele-
brating “Egypt Today.” Their Imperial Highnesses Prince and
Princess Hitachi, His Royal Highness Prince Charles, and His High-
ness the Aga Khan and Princess Sarilla were here to learn of us
and added luster by their presence.

Recognizing that not everyone can travel to us for our exhibi-
tions, performances, and activities centered here, we endeavored,
through many means, to reach our national and international con-
stituency. Our book and record publishing activities are part of
this effort to make our many faces available throughout the land.
This year saw the release of Classic Country, an eight-record an-
thology of this important American musical idiom. Smithsonian
Exposition Books’ Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun,
with contributions by many of our staff, traced man’s under-
standing of the sun from his. early worship through today’s
developments in solar technology.

Performing arts events at the Smithsonian brought lecture
demonstrations and performances by troupes—from all over the
world—like the Kathakali Music Drama from India, the Philippine
Dance Company, and Japanese Kabuki dancers, which added
explanations of their origins for contrast with our own. Music of
earlier ages was played on authentic instruments as the composers
intended. Instruments like the Servais violoncello created by
Stradivari in 1701, donated this year to the Division of Musical
Instruments by Charlotte V. Bergen, were brought to life again.

The Festival of American Folklife continued to appeal to a vast

[15 ]
Quadrangle development
brought many important
visitors and a bustle of
activities providing a glimpse
of our dream for the site.
Prime Minister of Japan and
Mrs. Suzuki saw the model
and planted a flowering cherry
tree (top). Prime Minister
Begin of Israel visited with
Vice-President and Mrs. Bush
(center). Prince and Princess
Hitachi of Japan (bottom)
restated their country’s
partnership with ours in
working toward the goals
affirmed in the Quadrangle.
Secretary Ripley and Qian
Sangiang, Vice-President of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences,
People’s Republic of China,
sign an agreement to foster
joint research and exchanges
(top). Mrs. Sadat (center) is
shown with Director Lawton

at the Freer Gallery during
“Egypt Today” symposium
activities. Below. His Excellency
Lee Kwang-Pyo, Minister of
Culture and Information of

the Republic of Korea, and
Secretary Ripley open

the major exhibition

5000 Years of Korean Art.

‘
aw

fYYHHYI“_

s
Ss,

om

His Royal Highness Prince Charles (Great Britain) is shown inspecting the historic
Albatros D.Va during his May Ist visit to the National Air and Space Museum. He is ac-
companied by Secretary Ripley and Nasm Assistant Director Walter Boyne. Below. Presi-
dent Reagan visited the exhibition George Catlin: The Artist and the American Indian
with Catlin expert William Truettner, Curator of 18th and 19th Century Painting and
Sculpture at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American Art.

audience, and in addition to the usual demonstrations and exhibi-
tion of crafts, ethnic food, and musical performances, this year we
had a special exhibition on Folklore for the Deaf. Visitors learned
something about what it is like to grow up deaf through dramas
by deaf actors and instruction in American sign language as well
as displays of flashing-light alarm clocks and other ingenious sig-
naling devices.

Few have been as persistent in the furtherance of culture in
America as Joseph Hirshhorn, with whose sudden death on
August 31 we have suffered an irreparable loss. History will recall
this great man for his magnificent contribution to the Smithsonian,
and through the Institution to people the world over. In the annals
of the Smithsonian he has earned, and he shall always have, a
special place of his own. But Joe has been an irresistible presence
in all our lives, and it is almost impossible to imagine Washington,
the Smithsonian, and his museum without him. He was—as he was
apt to say of anyone from a guard at the museum to the president
of the United States—truly a darling man.

It seems that never a year passes at the Smithsonian without a
number of changes in our senior staff, and this year has been no
exception. We were sorry to receive the resignation of Marvin
Sadik, the vivacious, scholarly, and articulate director of the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery since 1969, who left to labor in other cultural
vineyards—but only after we could present him with the Secre-
tary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional Service. Nearly simultaneously,
we were all extremely shocked and saddened by the untimely
death of Joshua Taylor, the Director of the National Museum of
American Art (formerly the National Collection of Fine Arts).
Josh’s contributions to Smithsonian life will be surfacing for years
to come. Professor and scholar, Josh’s greatest legacy has been the
interdependent roles of public education and scholarship in the
museum setting.

Another sad departure this year resulted from the death of
Raymond Mondor, a former personnel expert who became our first
ombudsman in 1977. Ray pioneered in this important office, and his
compassionate demeanor and thorough knowledge combined to
establish the ombudsman as an effective tool in employee relations.
We were pleased to appoint John Lang, formerly of the General
Counsel’s Office, to take up where Ray had left off.

[19 ]
During the last year, we were fortunate to attract two out-
standing officials from the International Communication Agency.
Dr. John Reinhardt, the former director of 1ca, has agreed to serve
as acting director of the National Museum of African Art during
Warren Robbins’s absence on sabbatical. (It should be noted, too,
that Jean Salan of the museum has been serving as the acting
deputy director.) And Dr. Alice Ilchman, formerly associate director
for educational and cultural affairs at the 1ca, served as a consultant
to the Institution on the subject of overseas research institutions.
She has gone on, now, to become the president of Sarah Lawrence
College. We had to give up the invaluable services of another senior
woman, Miss Jean Smith, who retired this year as deputy director
for the Smithsonian Libraries. For more than twelve years a steady
force in the development of our library system, Miss Smith has
earned the time she will now devote to her own intellectual pur-
suits as a research associate in the library.

The Smithsonian lost a very special friend this year in the death
of Margaret McNamara, the founder, key proponent, and chairman
of Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. This year’s and previous annual
reports delineate the remarkable achievements of this organization,
now only fifteen years old. We shall all miss Margaret’s presence in
RIF affairs, but shall be going on, from strength to strength, with
our new chairman, Anne Richardson, in the spirit of Margaret and
with her vision for literacy in America.

[ 20 ]
Board of Regents

THE BOARD oF REGENTS held three formal meetings during the last
year. Additional meetings of the Regents’ Executive Committee, the
Audit and Review Committee, the Personnel Committee, and the
Investment Policy Committee were held throughout the year and
reported at the Regents’ meetings.

The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Janu-
ary 26, 1981, in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Castle and
was called to order by the Chancellor. The Personnel Committee re-
ported finding no evidence of conflict of interest in the financial
statements of the senior staff of the Institution. In recognition of
his work on behalf of the Audit and Review Committee, in addi-
tion to his continuing role on that committee and on the National
Portrait Gallery Commission, the Regents conferred upon former
Regent Senator Robert B. Morgan the title of Regent Emeritus, with
all the rights and responsibilities thereof.

The Treasurer reviewed financial developments since the last
Regents’ meeting in September 1980, and summarized the fiscal year
1980 results, which are presented in Smithsonian Year 1980. It was
noted that federal funds totaling $137,144,000 were appropriated
to the Institution for fiscal year 1981, including an unanticipated
$5 million provided for the Museum Support Center to permit its
construction as originally planned. The Regents were briefed on
the Office of Management and Budget allowance for fiscal year
1982 and the Institution’s consolidated budget as submitted to the
Congress. The Investment Policy Committee reported on its meet-
ing of December 8, 1980, and analyzed the performances of the
three investment managers. With the Board’s approval the Chancel-
lor appointed Regent Emeritus Thomas J. Watson, Jr., to the Invest-
ment Policy Committee.

The Regents discussed and approved the Five-Year Prospectus
for fiscal years 1982-1986. It was noted that the projected increases

[ 21 ]
in the Institution’s budget during that time are primarily due to
inflation. The Regents agreed with the Secretary’s suggestion that
in the future the Prospectus would include projections beyond a
five-year period for certain activities.

Noting the historical significance of the “Smithsonian Park” and
its suitability for underground development, the Secretary dis-
cussed a revised model of the Quadrangle and the need to accom-
modate therein a Center for Eastern Art, the National Museum of
African Art, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, the Resident and National Associate programs, and
kindred activities. He reported that rising construction costs are
necessitating reconfigurations of the proposed structure, and that
efforts are being made to stay within original estimates. The Secre-
tary also reported that domestic and foreign committees had been
formed to raise funds from corporations and foundations. Of para-
mount importance was the approval of the Quadrangle concept by
the National Capital Planning Commission.

With the Board and the Congress appropriating the additional
funds needed to meet escalated costs, the Smithsonian was able to
sign a contract for construction of the Museum Support Center as
planned. The Secretary outlined the steps which resulted in full
funding and assured the Regents that complete progress reports
would be available.

The Regents approved revised bylaws of the Commission of the
National Museum of American Art, recommended by the com-
mission at its meeting on December 4, 1980, to reflect the Regents’
delegation of authority to the Secretary for approving accessions
and dispositions, and other policies and procedures adopted by the
Regents in 1970. The Regents also approved the bylaws recom-
mended by the National Portrait Gallery Commission on January 15,
1981, similarly recognizing the Regents’ delegation to the Secretary
of authority for approving accessions and dispositions in accord
with the policies and procedures laid down by the Board. The latter
bylaws also increased the membership from eleven to fifteen and
provided for standing committees.

In other actions, the Regents appointed Senator Goldwater to
the National Portrait Gallery Commission and to its chairmanship
and appointed Dr. Milton Ratner to the National Museum of
African Art Commission.

[ 22 ]
In recognition of his timely donation, which enabled the Insti-
tution to develop a special exhibitions gallery in the National
Museum of Natural History/Museum of Man, the Regents named
the new facility the Thomas M. Evans Gallery.

The Secretary presented a series of status reports on the Museum
of Man, the Equal Opportunity Program, major construction
projects, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, litigation,
legislation, publishing, and television.

A dinner for the Regents was held in the Renwick Gallery on
Sunday evening, January 25. The Chancellor welcomed new
Regents, Vice President Bush and Congressman Boland, and intro-
duced the Secretary, who presented the Smithsonian Associates’
Corporate Founders’ Medal to Mr. David Rockefeller and the Chase
Manhattan Bank in recognition of their donation to the Smith-
sonian of the magnificent ““Chase Manhattan Bank Money Collec-
tion.” The Secretary also presented to the Honorable Lucien N.
Nedzi, retiring from the U.S. House of Representatives, a piece of
smithsonite and a citation of gratitude for his fine service as chair-
man of the House Subcommittee on Libraries and Memorials
(1971-1981).

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents, May 4, 1981, was
preceded that morning by the dedication of the Langley Theater
in the National Air and Space Museum. Senator Goldwater spoke
of the significant aeronautical work of Samuel P. Langley, third
Secretary of the Smithsonian, and of Messrs. Burden’s and Webb’s
great achievements in promoting what is now considered the
world’s most popular museum. Dr. Hinners, director of the
museum, awarded certificates of appreciation to Messrs. James
Greenwell and Wolfgang Gadson, National Air and Space Museum
staff, who heroically rescued a woman from the Metro tracks.

Following the dedication, the Regents’ meeting was called to
order by the Chancellor, who welcomed the new Senator Regent
E. J. “Jake” Garn. The Executive Committee reported on its meet-
ing of April 6, 1981, where, in addition to considering the entire
array of agenda items, the committee noted with pleasure that in
a poll the Regents had unanimously voted to award the Henry
Medal to Mr. Burden in recognition of his manifold services to the
Smithsonian as a friend and Regent since 1962. The medal was
presented at the May 3 Regents’ Dinner (see below).

[ 23 ]
The Audit and Review Committee reported on its meeting of
April 28, 1981, where it reviewed with Coopers and Lybrand the
Smithsonian’s trust fund financial statements for fiscal year 1980
and the recommendations to management for “fine tuning” ac-
counting procedures and automatic data processing operations.
Briefed by the Treasurer and Assistant Secretary for Administra-
tion on the scope of operations and controls in auxiliary activities,
the committee suggested that these activities are integral to success-
ful educational outreach and, properly managed, are stimuli to the
market for educational products.

The Treasurer reported that, as part of the government-wide
budget reductions, the Office of Management and Budget reduced
the Institution’s pay supplemental request by $732,000 to a total
of $4,613,000, and reduced the federal full-time permanent employ-
ment ceiling by 113 positions, from 3,340 to 3,227. It was noted
that a hiring freeze would be continued indefinitely to meet the
reduced ceiling and that savings from that freeze and other oms
restrictions would be used to cover the unfinanced portion of the
supplemental requirement. The Board approved the Secretary’s
recommendation that $500,000 of unrestricted trust funds be set
aside as a reserve for possible television production costs. With
respect to fiscal year 1982, the Treasurer noted that omp deferred
until fiscal year 1983 the Quadrangle construction money, but
allowed the Institution to request from the Congress an amount of
$1 million for Quadrangle planning. In further action by omp, the
full-time permanent employment ceiling previously allowed for
fiscal year 1982 was reduced by ninety-six and an associated re-
duction of $1.8 million was also applied, reducing the salaries and
expenses request from $136,886,000 to $135,086,000. The Secre-
tary commented on the friendly and constructive congressional
appropriations hearings.

Referring to the growth of budget figures in the Five-Year Pro-
spectus, the Secretary introduced a study which discounted those
budget estimates into constant 1981 dollars and thus gave a
measure of the real growth of the Institution. Real growth of gross
operating funds from 1970 to 1981 was at a compound annual rate
of 6.5 percent; for the next five years, with gross revenues from
auxiliary activities increasing at a more modest rate, real growth is
expected to decline to a rate of 4 percent. Net operating funds,

[ 24 ]
exclusive of trust fund auxiliary activity expenses, are expected to
continue at approximately the same 4 percent growth rate as from
1970 to 1981.

The Investment Policy Committee reported that, as of March 31,
1981, the total value of the Institution’s endowment under outside
management was $86,761,000. It was noted that the total Smith-
sonian endowment funds have been out-performing standard
market indices for the first time since December 1979.

The Secretary reviewed the status of the Quadrangle project,
lamenting the fact that the deferral of construction from fiscal year
1982 to 1983 would lead to increased costs due to inflation. He
noted that all requirements under the National Historic Preserva-
tion Act have been completed and that progress has been made in
raising funds from American corporations, individuals, and founda-
tions. The Secretary also outlined strategies for eliciting support in
the Far East, Middle East, and Africa.

The Secretary reported that the Council of the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum, established in 1978 to advise the Secretary on the
museum’s activities, had drafted its bylaws, and the Secretary
recommended a list of members of the council. To formalize the
role of the council, the Regents approved the bylaws and appointed
the following individuals to the council: Rosemary Corroon, Joanne
du Pont, Harmon Goldstone, August Heckscher, Karen Johnson
Keland, Russell Lynes, Gilbert C. Maurer, Kenneth Miller, Amanda
Ross, Arthur Ross, Robert Sarnoff, and Marietta Tree. In a separate
action, the Regents appointed Professor Barbara Novak to the Com-
mission of the National Portrait Gallery.

The Secretary gave a detailed report on the construction of the
Museum Support Center and progress in the Institution-wide in-
ventory. Dr. Gell-Mann pointed out that the Museum Support
Center affords the Smithsonian a great opportunity to develop a
first-rate program in archeometry, which the Regents affirmed in
passing Dr. Gell-Mann’s resolution.

The Regents noted the death of Joshua C. Taylor on April 26,
and voted to record their profound regret: “Scholar, educator, and
connoisseur, his manifold contributions to the National Museum of
American Art will be of lasting significance both in the Smithsonian
and in the world of learning.”

The Secretary reported that Ambassador John Reinhardt will

[ 25 ]
serve as Acting Director of the National Museum of African Art,
while Warren Robbins takes a sabbatical for purposes of studying,
collecting, and writing. He also reported that Tom Wolf, formerly
Director of Cultural Affairs at ABC-TV News, will come to the
Institution for six months to study possible Smithsonian television
programming from marketing and production points of view.

Other reports from the Secretary included the International Year
of Disabled Persons, the Security of the National Collections, the
Equal Opportunity Program, the Museum of Man, legislation,
litigation, and construction projects. It was noted that the Secre-
tary had received Belgium’s highest civilian honor, the Order of
Leopold, on April 22, and the Medal of Honor from the National
Society for the Daughters of the American Revolution on April 30;
the Regents offered their unanimous consent and congratulations
to Mr. Ripley.

The Regents’ Dinner was held on Sunday evening, May 3, at the
Paul E. Garber Facility of the National Air and Space Museum in
Suitland, Maryland. The Chancellor presented the Henry Medal to
William Armistead Moale Burden: “”. . . In grateful salute to this
perceptive man, the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution are
proud to present to him the Henry Medal for his outstanding
service.” As approved by the Regents at their January meeting,
the Secretary then presented Langley medals for aerodromics
to Drs. Robert T. Jones and Charles Stark Draper.

On behalf of the Chancellor, Mr. Webb, Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee, called the Regents’ autumn meeting to order in the
Regents’ Room at 9:30 a.m., September 14, 1981. The meeting
began with a memorial tribute to the late Joseph H. Hirshhorn,
“a friend, a colleague, and an incomparable patron who shared
with us all his passion for art.’”” The Regents noted his extraordi-
nary gift of contemporary art to the nation and sent their best
wishes to Mrs. Hirshhorn and the family.

Reporting on the Executive Committee meeting of August 17,
1981, Mr. Webb said that the committee reviewed all the business
before the Institution and commended to the Regents’ attention
the agenda papers for the autumn meeting. The Executive Com-
mittee lamented the recent death of Harold F. Linder, a founding
member of the Regents’ Investment Policy Committee whose
counsel and interest would be sorely missed.

[ 26 ]
The late Joseph H. Hirshhorn is shown at a reception in
his museum with Director and Mrs. Abram Lerner in
June 1981. Below. Joshua C. Taylor, Director of the
National Museum of American Art from 1970 until his
death on April 26, 1981, was scholar, university pro-
fessor, educator, mentor, beloved presence at the Smith-
sonian. A scholarship fund is established in his name
to support research in American art at NMAA.

The Regents noted with interest that the Audit and Review Com-
mittee and the Personnel Committee planned a joint meeting in
October 1981 to review the Smithsonian’s procedures for personal
financial disclosure and related standards of professional conduct.
Other items on the committees’ agenda will include a mid-audit
conference with Coopers and Lybrand, consideration of recom-
mendations on an indemnity bylaw and insurance against personal
liability of individual Regents, and a review of computer services
at the Institution. The committees also looked forward to discussing
procedures for guaranteed construction and repair services.

The Treasurer noted that the Institution is receiving the full
amount of the fiscal year 1981 supplemental federal budget request,
and is also receiving an unsolicited $200,000 for the celebration of
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s one hundredth birthday.
He also reported that the fiscal year 1981 trust funds would con-
clude the year at the break-even level with certain stated variances
from earlier projections. The Treasurer summarized the varying
House and Senate actions in the budget request for fiscal year 1982,
which actions were being appealed to the conference committee.
With projections that net income will be lower than in the previous
year, the general fund budget expenditures would also be lower,
and a break-even budget is in sight; the Regents approved a fiscal
year 1982 trust fund budget and authorized the Secretary to expend
funds provided in the fiscal year 1982 federal budget.

The Regents also approved the fiscal year 1983 consolidated
budget forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget. The
federal budget recognizes stringent budget restraints throughout
the government and proposes no new programmatic starts, but
rather emphasizes the security and maintenance of the Smith-
sonian buildings and the national collections, the requirements of
the Museum Support Center, and the computerization and modern-
ization of equipment.

The Investment Policy Committee though reporting a slight
decline in the total value of the Smithsonian endowment funds for
the quarter ended June 30, 1981, was pleased to note the favorable
performance of all three investment management firms in the
last three years.

The Regents discussed the fact that the Act of August 10, 1846
(20 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), which established the Smithsonian, provided

[ 28 ]
for the payment of 6 percent per year on funds deriving from the
bequest of James Smithson that are on permanent loan to the
United States Treasury. It was noted that inflation and rising inter-
est rates have rendered the statutory rate uncompetitive, and the
Regents therefore voted to seek legislation to adjust that rate to
the current average yield of the outstanding marketable securities
of the United States Government, less 25 basis points (with a
minimum of 6 percent).

The staff presented the Regents with a draft and summary tables
of the Five-Year Prospectus for fiscal years 1983-1987. The text
highlighted progress over the past year in Smithsonian’s programs
and delineated expectations for fiscal year 1982 and for the plan-
ning and budget period of fiscal years 1983-87. At the Secretary’s
suggestion, a new chapter forecast program and facility aspirations
through 1995. The Regents looked forward to commenting on the
draft and to approving a revised draft in January 1982.

The Secretary noted progress in the prospective authorization
and appropriation of $1 million for Quadrangle planning in House
and Senate actions to date. He reported that additional technical
and design studies, recent unexpectedly high levels of construction
industry cost escalations, and a year’s delay in the proposed start-
ing date indicate that the earlier estimate for the Quadrangle,
despite certain reductions in the scope of the project, will increase
by about 50 percent to a new total of $75 million. Reporting on
fund-raising, the Secretary acknowledged recent donations and
pledges which amounted to over $7 miilion, including unrestricted
trust fund transfers and interest. Additional pledges appeared
imminent from the Middle East and other sources. Since the Insti-
tuition will be seeking through the oms and the Congress the
federal share of Quadrangle construction funds, $36 million, in its
fiscal year 1983 budget request, the Regents requested their con-
gressional members to introduce and support legislation author-
izing the Board to construct the Quadrangle.

In recognition of his great scientific achievements and outstand-
ing leadership of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, the
Regents voted to name the Mount Hopkins, Arizona, Observatory
“The Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory.” The Regents also ap-
pointed Mrs. Joan Kaplan Davidson to a three-year term on the
Council of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and asked their con-

[ 29 ]
tree

vi
:

*

\ 4

\y \ ? ail
7 ’

John Bull, oldest operable locomotive in the world, steams along tracks near the C&O
Canal in Washington as part of the engine’s 150th anniversary celebration.

gressional members to seek legislation reauthorizing the National
Museum Act at $1 million annually for fiscal years 1983-1985.

The Secretary outlined a series of status reports on the Museum
Support Center, the inventory, and collections management; legis-
lation; other major construction projects; the Smithsonian Science
Information Exchange; museum security; litigation; television; and
personnel matters.

Following the meeting, the Regents were driven to Georgetown
where they boarded the National Museum of American History’s
1836 railroad passenger car for a ride behind that museum’s
150-year-old John Bull locomotive to Fletcher’s Landing, where
they enjoyed an alfresco luncheon with a period menu.

The traditional Regents’ dinner was held the preceding evening,
Sunday, September 13, 1981, in the Balcony Gallery of the Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Of special interest was the
dedication of the renovated sculpture garden, which now features
improved aesthetics and full accessibility to the handicapped.

[ 31 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS
Fiscal Years 1970, 1975, and 1979-1981
(In $1,000,000’s)

fTirttrity
225 |
FUNDS PROVIDED | Auxiliary
Peer e o, and
200 : — | Bureau
\\| Activities
evens Expenses Nonappropriated
| ot Trust Funds
175 +r, 7 i (Gross Revenues)
| |
ee ass
150 : : rR | Unrestricted
Pirin] = =pbbued Restricted
Federal Grants
fd ho? =! — = $ and Contracts
— wetettetets!
100 =
fcr sees
75 arecateces — ==
a Federal
— ———_—=- Ss Appropriations
50 - — ———
3 —- ——
25 ————ES
0
1970 1975 1979 1980 1981
| To Plant and Endowment
225
FUNDS APPLIED |
200 WAI
|||||\\|||| Administration and Facilities Services
175 HHH
150 wore
125 i | Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses
100 oonones Special Programs
SE
NSS Museum Programs
Haase «Public Service
ZZ
75 - Y History and Art
Li,
50 =
—— =
_—— = Science
25 —— ——
4 Ss
— —
= ————
18)

1979 1980 1981
Smithsonian Institution « 1981

FINANCIAL REPORT

CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER

Summary: During this past fiscal year, the Smithsonian continued
its wide range of activities in exhibits, research, publication, and
public education. The diversity of the Institution’s programs is re-
flected in the diversity of funding sources which support these en-
deavors. While the majority of the operating budget is provided
annually from federal appropriations, indispensable support is also
obtained from gifts and grants, from investment income, and from
earned revenues of auxiliary activities. This combination of support
from Congress, foundations, federal agencies, individuals, and the
general public, has enabled the Institution to perform significant ac-
complishments during the year, as reported elsewhere in this
volume.

The bar chart on the facing page outlines the overall source and
application of the Institution’s operating budget for fiscal year 1981
and prior periods. While the growth pattern of past years is evident
again in fiscal year 1981, these increased revenues were more a
function of inflation than expansion of programs and were there-
fore devoted in large measure to offsetting the higher costs of per-
sonnel, supplies, utilities, maintenance, and acquisitions. Due to a
hiring freeze during most of the year on civil service personnel as
well as self-imposed limitations on other hires, the full-time staff of
the Institution grew only one percent, primarily in the areas of fa-
cilities protection and maintenance and the auxiliary activities.

In the current climate of budgetary restraint, the Institution was
treated by Congress with supportive understanding. The total fed-
eral appropriation of $142 million, of which $122 million was for

[ 33 ]
operating purposes, provided base resources for research and educa-
tion, for conservation and study of the national collections, for ren-
ovation and maintenance of Smithsonian facilities, and for adminis-
trative and support services, as well as assisting the Institution in
meeting unavoidable cost increases due to inflation. The appropria-
tion also provided further significant funding for constructing and
equipping the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland,
which will provide essential storage and conservation facilities for
the national collections, and program funding for selected exhibition
and collection management projects.

While federal appropriations provide the core support for the
Institution’s programs, and are expected to do so in the future, non-
appropriated trust funds from various sources are also vital to the
research and outreach efforts. In recognition of this need as well as
of the value of services provided, strong public financial support
continued last year through the Smithsonian Associates programs,
other educational auxiliary activities, gifts from individuals, and
grants from foundations and corporations. Net revenues from these
nonappropriated sources, after deduction of operating expenses and
the sales cost of auxiliary activities, were higher than the prior
year. Thus in addition to meeting ongoing program commitments—
such as the Regents’ Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, and
Educational Outreach programs, pre- and post-doctoral fellowships,
and operating allotments to certain bureaux—the Institution fol-
lowed the practice of prior years in transferring some $2.5 million
of unrestricted trust funds into endowment. Funds were also made
available for the Museum Support Center to augment the federal
contribution to this endeavor.

There was further progress during the year in raising nonappro-
priated funds for the Quadrangle, the future site of two museums of
the cultures of Asia and Africa. With a $1 million gift from the
Government of Korea during the year, as well as gifts from individ-
uals, foundations, and corporations and unrestricted moneys desig-
nated to the project, total nonappropriated funds received for the
project in fiscal year 1981 were $3,455,000. The partnership of fed-
eral appropriations with direct public support, evident in other
Smithsonian programs, will be an essential part of the financial plan
for this venture.

[ 34 ]
Taste 1. Financial Summary
(In $1,000’s)

FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:

Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ............ $ 98,202
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts ...........-+--s00e- 11,412
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
BMEEIIICLC PULPOSES: os 65 oss sala es bec wne cers eans 4,577
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross ..... 67,360
PMCIAte EXPENSES fii das iiss ssc se esees esses (57,557)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ......... 9,803
Investment, Gift, and Other Income ..............-. 3,394
Total Net Unrest. & Special Purpose Revenue ....... 13,197
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ........... 75,331
SSSINGE Go ty Meleiahele oles 17,774
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ..............-+. 184,945
SIN Ob eye) omit fous, Src nsvaueacus ace a $127,388
FUNDS APPLIED:
he es Us wns enle eels o ule one's $ 53,002
mene ene) Clverhead Recovery ...5...- 60605 cee ecs cs as (1,850)
MI ee isin oes 6 oes yale ee bee cece tieeswcess 20,245
I is ie b a i a te cig Uulelule Wisie'S om, era 2,927
NEE re Secs inte v a,'6.5 ohio s do $id beh 8 eee 8 es 8,003
EES Ta 5G vic 'ejwis wee ens eeu pase mata eeece nee 2,692
Associates and Business Management ................+- 304
MIIIICENIENON—-FCGeral™* 2.2... ccc cece tect e ene 7,071
—Nonappropriated Trust Funds ...................05- 4,134
Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery ............... (4,038)
ETRE Oe RS FT, eae cx ee gin lak wo. sie o's 27,790
Sea tineraume bunds Applied ..............0.ccn000e 120,280
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
eeerereren Fianas— Lo Plant ..........c0cccc bee eecee 1,857
SPO ENGGWHENIES (oii cc5 5 es vals es 2,671
Restricted Funds—To Endowments ..................- 413
Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out ....... $125,221

CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED
TRUST FUND BALANCES:

Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts) ... $ 171
Eenrestrictea— General Purpose ........... 02 -eeeceeeeeee 33

MEAL UEDOSE 2/5, 5. o's. a sie:t mn ote ois ne ols we 1,963
te FE Pe alc Fa 8c 0 sifu aye fais! oh asd ¥: 2 o: Wleyss laye icie wed wislisyeiakers $. 2,167

YEAR-END BALANCES—
NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:

ISS oF a, Wonca 5. sic cs bivb gk o n¥ dle we Gale we kw $ 4,900
inrestrictea—General Purpose ...........0ccceeeececes 4,965
RESUME MEPOSE civ. c.acs so any oes ote sce as 11,567

I ois foie adipicias owe aws cc seeaeavorgues $ 21,432

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange .............. $ 2,063
Special Foreign Currency Program ..............0--e.e00. 3,700
72 SSSI, a en re eS eee ae Pee 6,575

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) ........ $110,540

$107,764
12,947

5,339

75,150
(65,933)

9,217
3,825

13,042

84,314
18,381

205,025
$139,092

$ 57,907
(2,196)
26,224

3,129
8,974
3,204
345
8,048
4,937
(4,379)
30,630

136,823

1,342
2,031
757

$140,953

S » (225)
36
(1,672)

$ (1,861)

$ 4,675
5,001
9,895

$ 19,571

$ oe
4,200
32,100

$144,064

$122,478
14,172

6,378

88,381
(75,924)

12,457
4,887

17,344

99,646
23,722

236,296
$160,372

$ 62,703
(2,470)
25,614

3,421
8,084
7,284
312
8,782
5,740
(5,014)
36,501

150,957

2,550
2,550
108

$156,165***

$ 1,276
42
2,704 .

$ 4,022

$ 5,951
5,043
12,599

$ 23,593

$ —
3,650
15,829

$141,957

*Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: FY 1979—

$96,000; FY 1980—$1,211,000; FY 1981—$2,696,000.

**Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1979—$47,000; FY 1980—$267,000; FY 1981—

$64,000.
***Excludes $185,000 available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.
Operating Funds—Sources and Application

Once again, the overall operating budget of the Institution has
shown substantial growth over the past year, as displayed in Table
1 as well as the bar chart. Total gross operating funds grew from
$205,025,000 in fiscal year 1980 to $236,296,000 in fiscal year 1981,
an increase of $31,271,000 or 15 percent. Of the total available op-
erating funds, 52 percent were derived from federal appropriations,
6 percent from federal agency grants and contracts, and 42 percent
from nonappropriated sources, approximately the same ratios as in
recent years.

The growth in net operating funds, after deduction of the ex-
penses of the nonappropriated auxiliary and bureau activities, was
also 15 percent, or $21,280,000 over the prior year. Those net oper-
ating funds, which support a wide range of Smithsonian programs,
were obtained 76 percent from federal appropriations, 9 percent
from federal agency grants and contracts, and 15 percent from non-
appropriated sources. Application of these funds by all Smithsonian
bureaux is outlined in Table 2, with further supporting detail in
other tables. f

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

The Institution received a federal appropriation for operating pur-
poses in fiscal year 1981 of $122,478,000, an increase of $14.7 mil-
lion, or 14 percent, over fiscal year 1980. The apparent growth rep-
resented by this increase was in large part attributable to inflation
in the areas of pay, utilities, rent, and other objects of expense,
which, following the pattern of recent years, continued to absorb
the major portion, over $9.6 million, of increased funding. Beyond
these inflationary increases, however, $5.1 million was allowed for
a number of program needs throughout the Institution. While al-
most half of the programmatic increase was for the purchase of
equipment for the Museum Support Center, to be phased over a
period of several years, significant support also was received for the
development of major new exhibitions in the History and Art muse-
ums; for expenses of the Tropical Research Institute resulting from
implementation of the Panama Canal Treaty; for protection, admin-
istrative, and maintenance requirements; and for a variety of other

[ 36 ]
needs primarily related to the conservation and management of the
collections.

In order to meet:a reduced federal personnel ceiling imposed by
the Office of Management and Budget, the Institution maintained a
hiring freeze throughout most of the year. Dollar savings of $1.4
million resulted from this employment freeze as well as other spend-
ing limitations imposed by the Office of Management and Budget.

_ FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Support from federal agencies, in the form of grants and contracts,
primarily for the Institution’s research programs, totaled $14.2 mil-
lion for fiscal year 1981, an increase of 9 percent over fiscal year
1980. As may be seen in Table 3, the major source of grant and con-
tract support was the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, primarily for research programs of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory (sao). Significant programs at sAO were
experiments in high energy astrophysics, hydrogen maser construc-
tion, and satellite tracking. Other important research programs re-
ceiving support were the medical entomology project at the National
Museum of Natural History, supported by the Department of the
Army; research into conservation of wild primates conducted by the
National Zoological Park with funds from the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service; and the National Science Foundation support
to the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (via the
Chesapeake Research Consortium) for ecological studies on a major
tributary of the Chesapeake Bay.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

The Institution’s nonappropriated trust fund revenues totaled
$99,646,000 in fiscal year 1981, while net revenues available for
support of Institutional programs, after exclusion of expenses neces-
sary to generate auxiliary and bureau activity revenues, totaled
$23,722,000. Displayed in Tables 2, 4, and 5 are the bureaux of the
Institution utilizing these funds.

Restricted fund revenues, which may only be used for specific
purposes, were $6,378,000 for the year, made up of $2,978,000 from
gifts and grants, $2,591,000 from investment income, and $809,000
from other sources, primarily fund-raising activities at the Archives
of American Art and sales desk activities at the Freer Gallery of

[ 37 ]
TaBLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds
Year Ended September 30, 1981

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary cial and
eral federal Gen- aactiv- pur-  Gen- con-
Funds funds funds eral ities pose eral tracts
FUND BALANCES 10/1/80 ... $ — $ 19,571 $ 5,001 $ — $ 9,895 $ 4,574 $ 101
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations ........ 122,478 —— a — — — —
Investment Income ........... — 6,303 3,123 — 589 = _- 2,591 —
Grants and Contracts ......... — 14,172 — — — — 14,172
Carts Aan Chae oe da ee eee en — 4,421 £5 329 99 2,978 —
Sales and Revemrte “242.46: — 87,052 — 83,719 3,333 — —
Cher os ss dete Bc ees — 1,870 55 --= 1,006 809 —
Total Provided... 2%... 122,478 113,818 3,193 85,048 53027 6,378 14,172
Tetal Available «oo 3.0 <jcccs $122,478 $133,389 $ 8,194 $85,048 $14,922 $10,952 $14,273
FUNDS APPLIED
Science:
Assistant Secretary ........... $ 328 $ 366 $ 28 $ — $ 11 $ 140$ 187
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History .... 15,677 2,539 206 — 680 531 eae
Astrophysical Observatory .... 5,370 14,416 2,479 — 432 101 11,404
Less Overhead Recovery ..... — (2,470) (2,470) — — — —
Tropical Research Inst. ........ 2,773 339 59 — 202 78 —
Radiation Biology Lab. ........ 1,999 169 — — 98 13 58
Natl. Air & Space Museum .... 6,152 2,001 14 — 1,765 109 113
Chesapeake Bay Center ....... 869 522 83 _— 141 34 264
Natl. Zoological. Park. 2.242. 3): 9,221 416 21 — 118 28 249
Center for Study of Man ...... 603 18 — — os 18 —
Fort Pierce Bureau. > 2.5:4. 245+ -— 389 — — — 389 —
Total Serence. 25 a. 2225 42,992 18,705 420 — _3A47 1,441 13,397
History and Art:
Assistant Secretary ........... 351 1g 86 os 17 1 13
Natl. Mus. Am. History ....... 8,072 974 96 — 647 231 —
Natl. Mus. American Art ...... 3,557 422 207 — 149 34 32
Natl. Portrait (Gallery. ci. xo 2,613 378 36 _ 44 297 1
Hirshhorn Museum ........... 2,431 1,197 26 — 677 494 —
Freer ‘Gallery of Agt 5.2.56) aco 727 1,296 10 = 45 i241 _—
Archives of American Art ..... 542 451 1 — 3 447 —
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ....... 702 1,464 364 — 788 287 25
Natl. Mus. of African Art. .... 621 420 163 — 170 83 4
Total History and Art .. 19,616 6,719 989 — 2,540 3,115 7s
Public Service:
Assistant Secretary ........... 184 1 1 a — — —
Reception Center '. 2 ig.cs1e ee = 20 395 395 —- — _— —
Telecommunications .......... BS 305 237 a 68 —
Anacostia Museum ........... 529 48 26 — 20 2 —
Intl. Exchange Service ......... 346 -- — —_ — — —
Performing: Asis... soe secret 387 4,813 — 4,561 114 130 8
Sauthscontan Press 44 oan os sa 2 847 2,146 — 2,091 — 55 —
Exposilion BOOKS ~ <<< -isis ss~95s — 4,725 — 4,725 — — —
Total Public Service . 2,368 12,433 659" TE S77 202 187 8

Nonfederal Funds

TABLE 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued
Year Ended September 30, 1981

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary _ cial and
eral federal Gen- activ- pur-  Gen- con-
Funds funds funds eral ities pose eral tracts
Museum Programs:
wissistant Secretary ........... 747 149 45 — 25 18 61
EM Sea ewes oe oie eo are 126 am — — = ae =
Conserv. Analytical Lab. ...... 788 2 == a. 2 pas =—s
eee 2,976 217 207 = a 10 ae
a 1,312 14 — = 14 ia sane
Traveling Exhib. Service ...... 192 1,491 — 1,166 55 244 26
ee 430 44 43 — 1 — —
National Museum Act ........ 795 — — = _ - as
Total Museum Programs. 7,366 1,917 295 ~=1,166 97 272 87
Special Programs:
Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. .. 534 793 540 — 51 17 185
Intl. Environmental Pgm. ...... 468 -- — = a ae =
Academic & Educational Pgm. . 562 856 129 — 691 36 —
Collections Mgt./Inventory .... 587 — — — — — —
Major Exhibition Program ..... 739 — — — — — —
Museum Support Center ...... 2,767 ca -- —- — — —
Total Special Programs .. 5,657 1,649 669 — 742 53 185
So ee a Se ee ee ee
Associate Programs .......... — 44,533 260 44,219 13 ai 30
Business Management ........ — 16,769 — 16,769 — — —
SNIIIStRGUOM ........-..-.-- 8,718 5,888 5,365 148 96 193 86
Less Overhead Recovery .... — (5,014) (5,014) — — — —
MumanteS SEEVICES ............ 35,512 989 1,014 a (48) 23 —
Transfers Out/(In): .
EEE ee 64* —- — —_ — — —
Coll. Acq., Schol. St., Outrch. .. — — 2,000 — (2,000) — —
Liability Reserves ............ — — 230 — (230) — —
Net Auxiliary Activities ....... — — (10,979) 10,979 — — —
Other Designated Purposes .... — — 2,196 390 (2,589) 3 —
ee 2,550 2,526 — 24 — —
I atalevioiu so oe 5s -- 2,658 2,521 -- 29 108 —
gtal ixansters ........ 64 5,208 (1,506) 11,369 (4,766) 111 —
Total Funds Applied .... $122,293 $109,796 $ 3,151 $85,048 $ 2,323 $ 5,406 $13,868

FUND BALANCES 9/30/81 .

cosine Ease §, 23,599 §:5,043-$

_—[——— eee

— $12,599 $ 5,546 $ 405

*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
**Funds available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.
TaBLe 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(In $1,000’s)

Federal Agencies FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981
Departmentof Defense. 0.28 SN aes tes $ 1,079 $ 1,078 $ © 70S
Departinrentiek Emer ey oc. ca ca bald olan aes 304 340 407
Department of Health and Human Services 288 280 283
Department GF imtertor .3i08 le ess ais 65 197 244
National Aeronautics and Space

AchinniniGt rata 2 cits sate ola eo ec aiatn 8,919 9,832 10,663

National Endowments for the Arts and
PIU ANGEES Ss fsce Ad, Seshca a evagnra eines oe x sta 105 118 57
National Science Foundation** .......... 385 651 784
CORRE: a tanatared Gy eee eee ee era es 345 386 727
WOtal piece lee Pee se eee eae $11,490 $12,882 $13,868

*Includes $583 (FY 1979), $554 (FY 1980), and $813 (FY 1981) in subcontracts from
other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA.

**Includes $112 (FY 1980), and $208 (FY 1981) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesa-
peake Research Consortium.

Art. Endowment income, as detailed more fully below, provides
funding to the Fort Pierce Bureau for research in oceanography,
major operating support to the Freer Gallery of Art, as well as a
number of other specific research projects at the Institution. Signifi-
cant gifts were received during the year for exhibitions of the Na-
tional Museum of American History, the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, the National Portrait Gallery, the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Major collection acquisition support was received by the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden and the National Museum of Amer-
ican Art, which also obtained a large grant for collections conserva-
tion.

Unrestricted Special Purpose funds are comprised of bureau ac-
tivity revenues, such as the membership and educational programs at
the National Museum of African Art and the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum, sales shops at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the National
Air and Space Museum (NasM), and the theaters at NASM; invest-
ment income earned on bureau fund balances; shared revenues for
those bureaux housing centrally run concession and museum shop
activities; and continuing allocations of funds for fellowship awards
($948,000), the Regents’ Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies,

[ 40 ]
Tas.e 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds*

Fiscal Years 1979-1981
(In $1,000’s)

Net Fund
Trans-_ in- bal-
Total fers crease ance
Invest- rev- Deduc- in (de- end of
Item ment Gifts Misc. enue tions (out) crease) year
mer 1979—Total ........... $2,075 $1,775 $ 727 $4,577 $3,983 $ (345) $ 249 $4,864
FY 1980—Total ........... $2,349 $2,257 $ 733 $5,339 $4,856 $ (773) $ (290) $4,574
FY 1981:
National Museum of
Matural History ......... $ 189 $ 440 $ (4) & 625 § 531. § 13 $ 107 §$ 576
Astrophysical
MIpGervalory ............ 13 130 (30) 113 101 (3) 9 20
Tropical Research
MIPRUE es es 5 tle sss 20 67 10 87 78 -— 9 65
National Air and
m= opace Museum ......... 60 4 oa 64 109 (12) (57) 90
Chesapeake Bay Center .... 11 — _—- if 34 -- (23) 82
Sort Pierce Bureau ........ 761 — — 761 389 —- 372 813
Se 220 149 84 453 199 (79) 175 530
_ National Museum of
me American History ....... 59 294 4 357 231 — 126 458
_ National Museum of
Meevicah ATE .......... 63 254 3 320 34 — 286 341
National Portrait Gallery .. 42 82 (3) iba 297 — (176) 233
Hirshhorn Museum ....... 39 235 _ 274 494 — (220) 280
Freer Gallery of Art ....... 910 32 ATG. LAI) Ww 1, 2AL _ 177 810
Archives of
mmerican Art .......... 28 210 212 450 447 — 3 271
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ... 36 253 BS 344 287 — 57 S12
National Museum of
OE Zz if 1 14 83 — (69) 4
Traveling Exhibition
St ce 25 224 _- 249 244 -— 5 154
a Bs 603 a SAF 496 (30) 191 506
Torrey 1961 ...... $2,591 $2,978 $ 809 $6,378 $5,295 $ (111) $ 972 $5,546

*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.

[ 41]
TaBLe 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds

Fiscal Year 1981—Obligations
(In $1,000’s)

Revenue

Gifts
and
other
rev-

Total

Trans-
fers
in
(out)

$3,707

Pro-
gram
ex-
pense

$3,262

Deductions

Bu-
reau
activ-
ity ex-
pense

$1,436

Net Fund
in- bal-
crease ance
(de- end of
crease) year

tare FW

$1,963 $11,567

FY 1981:

National Museum
of Natural
History

Astrophysical
Observatory .. 6

Tropical Research
Institute

National Air and
Space Museum

Chesapeake Bay
Center

National Zoo-
logical Park ..

Other Science ..

National Museum
of American
History

National Museum
of American
Art

National
Portrait Gallery 4

Hirshhorn
Museum

Freer Gallery
of Art

Cooper-Hewitt
Museum

National Museum
of African Art

Liability Reserves

Unallocated Coll.
Acq., Schol. St.
and Outreach .

Fellowships

Museum Support
Center Equip. .

Other

Oyo Va wi th ve

24

see eee

2) Syn) ® eee elas

= ws pian

oa ae et

Shy ed ie ae a) ie,

32

230

25

81

153

394

679

596

S1

$ 68 $ 334
204 534
22 90
398 =. 2,838
11 25
296 ~=—-:11,295
51 148
(172) 273
86 197
33 62
26 149
4 32

9 33
(48) 2
230 3,330
(232) 270
66 473
750 750
902 1,764

[ 42 ]
and Educational Outreach programs ($2 million per year), as well
as funds provided for other designated purposes.

Unrestricted General Purpose funds revenue, which is available
for general Institutional purposes, is derived primarily from invest-
ment income and auxiliary activity net revenues. As displayed in
Table 6, net general unrestricted funds, after deduction of auxiliary
activity expenses, totaled $14,562,000 in fiscal year 1981, a some-
what better result than the prior year. This improved performance
was due to the higher interest rates during the year, which bene-
fited the short-term investments of the Institution, and to the aux-
iliary activities. These activities are listed in Table 7, and as may be
seen therein, the Smithsonian Associates programs, including the
Smithsonian magazine, generate the majority of the revenues on
both a gross and net basis. The magazine continued to enjoy wide-
spread acceptance, increasing once again the number of subscribing
National Associates; the Contributing Associates program, provid-
ing unrestricted gift support to the Institution, also showed modest
growth.

Important educational products and public services are provided
as well by the other auxiliary activities, such as the Smithsonian
Institution Press, Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice, and the Smithsonian Exposition Books. On an overall basis,
these other activities provided a financial return to the Institution
at approximately the same rate as in fiscal year 1980.

The growth in unrestricted funds allowed continued support for
a number of administrative and programmatic activities as well as
some contributions towards new endeavors and facilities develop-
ment. Activities receiving major operating support include the Visi-
tor Information and Associates’ Reception Center, the Folklife Pro-
gram, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and the Office of Telecommuni-
cations, while smaller amounts for specific programs were allotted
to numerous other units. Special emphasis was placed on affirma-
tive action efforts with funding allotted for the establishment of a
cooperative education program. In addition to the operating support
provided the Office of Telecommunications, an amount of $500,000
was set aside in fiscal year 1981 for future exploration of potential
television production by the Institution. Special funding was also
provided for the major exhibition, 5,000 Years of Korean Art, in

[ 43 ]
Tas_e 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities

Fiscal Years 1979-1981
(In $1,000’s)

Item FY.1979 FY 1980. Fy gees

FUNDS PROVIDED

General Income:

Investments, i) w.. oehlnes sik ee a $ 2,276 $ 2,470 $ 3,123
OSEPEG corse b ask dds olen a, Be eh Gale lee es eee 163 14 15
Miscellaneaus: joa ecco ee eee = oe 40 140 55
Total General Income. >... ...<..:. 2,479 2,624 3,193
Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):
Assoriaresei ty ic. scan «eee ee 6,429 6,113 8,691
Business Management
= MIUSCONE RODS? i eh tionnaire nies 287 1,022 631
—Concessions and Parking ......... 1,641 1,938 1,978
Shane yc. Ace eee ek eben eS (245) (191) (251)
Performing Apis: | 2...) Aies ce ae eee ae oat 177 (75) (186)
Soutiisonian Press: °.s 3 Hee ee 292 252 231
Exnositiony, Books” as s4 5 546 ss kee 1,036 305 536
Weaveling: JeXMiDW1ONS® .:) jis.icis 2 Shan 2 (142) (268) (226)
Photo Sermiees srt or ce cee ke nee ee (275) (115) (35)
Total Auxiliary Activities ......... 9,200 8,981 11,369
Total Funds Provided (Net) ....... 11,679 11,605 14,562
EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS
Administrative and Program Expense ..... 9,231 10,535 12,141
Less Administrative Recovery ............ 5,888 6,575 7 ,A84
Wet EXpense-): once alt ea: cae, ed 3,343 3,960 4,657

Less Transfers:
To Special Purpose

for Program Purposes ico eak. sok? 3,879 4,307 4,816

Bo Plage, Funds \05c2.: 5 sek ic see ee te 1,853 1,281 2,526
To Endowment E0nds 42.66. osc keene 2,571 2,021 2,521
NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE .. 33 36 42
ENDING EUND: BALANCE. 2. een. 22 $ 4,965 $ 5,001 $ 5,043

ees
Tae 7. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1979-1981
: (In $1,000’s)

Sales
and Less Net
other cost Gross rev-
reve- of rev- Ex- enue***
Activity nue Gifts sales enue penses (loss)
yr $64,846 $ 475 $31,884 $33,437 $24,237 $ 9,200
SEE rales es 0. 0 $72,203 $ 898 $41,569 $31,532 $22,551 $ 8,981
FY 1981:
EE icc ale = a 0s $51,581 $1,329 $34,551 $18,359 $ 9,668 $ 8,691
Business Management:
—Museum Shops* ..... 16,074 — 8335 7,739 7,108 631
—Concessions/Parking ‘ 2,682 — 35 2,647 669 1,978
a) 9 Se 371 a a 371 622 (251)
Performing Arts ......... 4,375 — 1,113 3,262 3,448 (186)
Sugamsonian Press ....... 2,322 — 688 1,634 1,403 231
Exposition LS ee 5Z6L — 1,101 4,160 3,624 536
Traveling Exhibitions .... 940 — 940 1,166 (226)
Photo Services
(Administration) ...... 113 — 43 70 105 (35)
wet EY 1981 ...... $83,719 $1,329 $45,866 $39,182 $27,813 $11,369

ee
_—————SS— eee eee eee eee

*Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order.
**Includes Business Management Office and Belmont.
***Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaux of $397,000
(FY 1979); $381,000 (FY 1980); and $390,000 (FY 1981).

the new Thomas Mellon Evans Special Exhibits Gallery in the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History. Transfers to special purpose
funds included continuing allotments for the Collections Acquisi-
tion, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs ($2 mil-
lion), the Fluid Research program of small grants to Smithsonian
scientists ($200,000), and the Smithsonian Fellowship program,
which provides stipend support to pre- and post-doctoral fellows
($948,000), as well as a one-time transfer of $750,000 for conserva-
tion equipment at the Museum Support Center.

Some $2.5 million was added to the Institution’s unrestricted en-
dowment funds to ensure a stable source of current revenues for
future years. As described below, transfers were also made to plant

[ 45 ]
funds to support facilities development, notably $750,000 towards
construction of the Museum Support Center and $1.3 million
towards Quadrangle development.

Special Foreign Currency Program

A separate appropriation was received for the Special Foreign Cur-
rency Program of $3,650,000 equivalent in excess foreign currencies.
These currencies, accumulated from sales of surplus agricultural
commodities under Public Law 83-480, have been determined by
the Treasury Department to be in excess of the normal needs of the
United States. Some $2.9 million of this appropriation was used to
provide grants to United States institutions for field research and
advanced professional training in the countries of Burma, Egypt,
India, and Pakistan, in fields of traditional Smithsonian interest and
competence. The remaining $750,000 was added to a reserve of
Indian rupees, established in fiscal year 1980 to support future pro-
grams of the American Institute of Indian Studies after the supply
of excess rupees is depleted. Obligation of these funds by research
discipline and country is provided in Table 8.

Construction

Funds appropriated for construction and renovation projects at the
Institution totaled $15,829,000 in fiscal year 1981, as shown in
Table 9. With the support and encouragement of the Congress, the
Institution continued to accelerate its efforts to meet the essential
renovation needs of a large and complex physical plant. An appro-
priation of $7,539,000 under the Restoration and Renovation of
Buildings account represented a 44 percent increase over the previ-
ous year. The funding permitted progress in facade, roof, and ter-
race repairs; systems and structural modifications to further energy
efficiency; renovations to comply with legislative requirements on
occupational health and safety as well as the needs of disabled per-
sons; and modification and improvement of existing facilities for

[ 46 ]
Tae 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1981—Obligations
(In $1,000’s)

System- _—_ Astro-

atic and physics Mu- Grant

environ- and seum admin-
Archae- mental earth pro- istra-

Country ology biology sciences grams tion Total
fritid ....+..+. $ 20 $ — $ — $ — $ 1 erik
OS ae 286 50 150 41 242 769
a 2,15" 268 24 175 44 2,829
Paeistam f...... ae 84 -— — “= 84

Metals... $2,624 $ 402 $ 174 $ 216 $ 287 $3,703

*Includes the obligation of $750,000 for a forward-funded reserve for the American
Institute of Indian Studies.

Tas te 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1979-1981
(In $1,000’s)

Sources FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:
Pama Zoological Park .:.......5..5.. $ 3,900 $ 6,250 $ 3,290
Reese, support (Center. ...............- 575 20,600* 5,000
Restoration & Renovation of Buildings .. 2,100 __5,250° 7,539
Total Federal Appropriations ....... 6,575 32,100 15,829
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Cooper-Hewitt Museum .............. — 104 175
Horticulture Greenhouse ............. — —_ 11
meemauixchibits Gallery ..............% — —— 307
MENACE 87 Pio oh wl ea ’k bles eas ote 5 1,051 2,115
MEAL PPRCOIMNCG ci cce eds ee ee le ds 1,155 2,608
Transfers from Current Funds:
Chesapeake Bay Center .........2..... 411 39 300
National Museum of African Art ..... 4 22 24
Beuscum support Center ............- a -~ 750
SMM INMEIES 65 ois a ar fac 0b 6 jy) onl wa dove. 10 241 110
EMS oe Se en! i 1,385 1,040 1,340
Tropical Research Institute ........... 47 — 26
Menno MEANSEOCES & b daikiis Gri ub se ee 1,857 1,342 2,550
ean Puts Provided |. 5.60.06) ele ee $ 8437 $34,597 $20,987

*Obligation authority of $19 million deferred until FY 1981 on instructions from Office

of Management and Budget.

ay
program or safety needs. An amount of $3,290,000 was received for
renovation and construction of Zoo facilities, including construction
of the Monkey Island Exhibit, which is the final project in the de-
velopment of the Central Area of Rock Creek Park; construction of
a small mammal breeding facility and design of hardy bird yards at
the Front Royal Conservation and Research Center; and the neces-
sary restoration and renovation work at both Rock Creek and Front
Royal. And finally, an additional $5 million was provided for con-
struction of the Museum Support Center. Construction bids re-
ceived by the Institution for this project exceeded the Institution’s
original estimate by some $7 million. This appropriation, together
with the $20.6 million appropriated in fiscal year 1980 and $2.5 mil-
lion committed from the Institution’s nonappropriated trust funds,
provides sufficient funding to complete the project as planned.

During the year, nonappropriated trust funds totaling $2,550,000
were transferred from operating accounts to construction and land
acquisition, and a further $2,608,000 was received from gifts and
investment income. The majority of these funds—$3,455,000—was
for Quadrangle development, and a further $775,000 of pledges was
received toward the project. Major gifts were also received for con-
struction of the Special Exhibits Gallery in the National Museum of
Natural History as well as for renovation work at the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum. An amount of $750,000 was allocated to Museum
Support Center construction for which, as noted above, the Institu-
tion has committed an amount of $2.5 million in nonappropriated
trust funds. Transfers also were made for major land acquisition at
the Chesapeake Bay Center, mortgage payments on property occu-
pied by the National Museum of African Art, construction of a
greenhouse at the Tropical Research Institute in Panama, and addi-
tional costs associated with development of the garden area to the
east of the Arts and Industries Building.

Endowment and Similar Funds

As of September 30, 1981, the market value of the Smithsonian En-
dowment Funds was $79,025,000, as compared to $78,390,000 on
September 30, 1980. Of this total, $77,972,000 is invested in the

[ 48 ]
TABLE 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1981

Book value Market value

ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
PAM ERY AICTIES joy gos noe mwieig sins eee $ 715,006 $ 715,006
ERC tres Lee bred Oe eee ON eg 16,029,705 14,849,789
DEIEIMIMICS TISOUEIS os eh ec sos ek eda ot we 461,550 560,000
re te Eocene Ue bon diene e ue am 57,204,501 61,847 ,366
Mem tomled Piantds fo. 6... be a 74,410,762 77,972,161
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
SE) 6) a 35,794 35,794
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity ........ 1,000,000 1,000,000
PM Eas peach ewshai'p chots\'e 4P3/e Sse Wieel@e 9,769 8,600
Se 1,999 8,100
Mera Nonpooled Funds ............... 1,047,562 1,052,494
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $75,458,324 $79,024,655
FUND BALANCES
Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ...... $ 2,808,369 $ 3,480,402
Quasi Endowment ..... 28,054,405 27,813,668
Total Unrestricted Purpose ............ 30,862,774 31,294,070
Restricted Purpose: True Endowment ...... 33,513,631 36,216,512
Quasi Endowment ..... 11,081,919 11,514,073
merah mestricted Purpose!........... 0.5: 44,595,550 47,730,585
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $75,458,324 $79,024,655

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund under outside investment
management; $1 million is on permanent deposit with the United
States Treasury; and the remaining $53,000 is held in miscellaneous
securities. As shown in Table 10, restricted endowment funds, the
income of which may be used only for purposes specified by the
donor, comprise 60 percent of the total, or $47,731,000. The remain-
ing 40 percent, or $31,294,000, are unrestricted endowment funds
with the income available for general Institutional purposes. Certain
of these unrestricted funds, such as the Lindbergh Chair of Aero-
space History Endowment at the National Air and Space Museum,
have been designated internally for specific purposes, as noted in
Table 13, which lists all endowments of the Institution.

[ 49 ]
Tae 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
(In $1,000’s)

Fund 9/30/77 9/30/78 9/30/79 9/30/80 9/30/81
Unrestricted ....... $12,525 $18,114 $22,614 $28,384 $30,399
Fecer’s 225 soos 15,410 16,807 18,303 20,771 20,472
Other Restricted ... 18,944 22,109 24,639 28,175 27,101

otal cee $46,879 $57,030 $65,556 $77,330 $77,972

The investment of the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is
managed by three outside professional investment advisory firms
under the oversight of the Investment Policy Committee and the
Treasurer and subject to policy guidelines established by the Board
of Regents. At the conclusion of fiscal year 1981, the firms (with
their respective portion of the Fund) were Fiduciary Trust Company
of New York (50 percent), Batterymarch Financial Management
Corp. (31 percent), and Torray Clark & Company (19 percent).
During fiscal year 1981, the total rate of return for these funds, as
calculated by an independent investment measurement service, was
+2.8 percent (including interest and dividend yield as well as mar-
ket value depreciation), as compared to —3.4 percent for the Dow
Jones Industrial Average and —2.7 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Average (both calculated on the same basis). Market
values of the major components of this fund for prior years are
shown in Table 11, and activity during the past year, in Table 12.

The Smithsonian utilizes the Total Return Income policy which
defines total investment return as yield (interest and dividends) plus
appreciation, including both realized and unrealized capital gains. A
portion of this return is made available for expenditure each year,
and the remainder is retained as principal. This total return income
payout is determined in advance each year by the Board of Regents
based on studies of anticipated interest and dividend yields, the In-
TaBLeE 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds

for Fiscal Year 1981
(In $1,000’s)

Market
Inter- value
Gifts est in-

Market and and Income crease Market
value trans- divi- paid Sub- (de- value
Fund 9/30/80 fers dends* out total crease) 9/30/81
Pinrestricted ....... $28,384 $ 2,529 $1,611 $1,157 $31,367 $ (968) $30,399
PS Unk. es. a se PAU APG — 1,164 839 21,096 (624) 20,472
Other Restricted ... 28,175 (760) 1,568 1,132 \\ 27,851 (750) 27,101
3s) $77,330 $ 1,769 $ 4,343 $ 3,128 $80,314 $ (2,342) $77,972

*Income earned less managers’ fees of $363,000.

stitution’s programmatic needs, inflationary factors, and the five-
year running average of market values adjusted for capital additions
or withdrawals. The income payout rate for fiscal year 1981 to en-
dowments in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund constituted
a 10 percent increase over the previous year, and a further increase
of 8 percent for restricted endowments has been approved for fiscal
year 1982. Even after the income payout of $3,128,000 in fiscal year
1981, $1,215,000 of excess interest and dividend yield was available
for reinvestment into endowment principal.

Included in Table 12 as additions to the endowment funds were
approximately $2.5 million transferred from unrestricted funds, as
mentioned above, and gifts of $116,000. These additions were par-
tially offset by a withdrawal of $976,000 from the Johnson Fund,
which, together with the Hunterdon Fund, was formerly described
as Endowment Number 3. This withdrawal, representing prior year
income that had accumulated in principal, was made to reimburse
the Harbor Branch Foundation for support of the Johnson Sea-Link
submersible program, and similar funding from the Johnson Fund
will be provided in the future.

A full listing of all endowment funds is shown on Table 13. De-
tail of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment
Fund as of September 30, 1981, may be obtained upon request from
the Treasurer of the Institution.

[ 51 ]
TaBLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981

Fund

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

BGOry BURA Co ead ss eis ca aud as cm eee
Higbee, Harry, Memorial®)\.. «5. indenn <>
Hadekins-Pand?) Gn. sccisstas ces oe pee es
Morrow, Dwight: We oies os scour enisweeede
Missin: “Alfred vor. : . Soca aiice «sp ates 4 ee
Olmsted, (Helen. “Aces tae ees ss eee ie ea
Poore, Lucy T. and George W.* ..........
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ...........
Sanford, George Fi. 3% os. bees days Sap oabs >
Smithson;James?* 4. </Saas canoe a sae wae

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,

Research; (Designated) * 20. def-a..2<0-= ein
Subtotal vacncs cece Hse eee

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Forrest RODerEILECW <icie eaete oo cic sticle eller laiels
General Endowmientt tas. seek pees eee ee
Goddard vRoberbible rca eas ceelete
Habel DewSitn ceioeeiniacae cee ineiag
Flart:: Gustanwus Es. oo. coats aot oie arson oie
Henry, Caroline ys ith haha teas Bee
Henry, Joseph: and Harriet As -. 2.5. -
Heys; MaudeGer Pavas da ates tance eee
Hinton Carrie:Sdsan cis. e tosis ees aes ee
Lambert;/Paulal @) oot. ok obs ba ee be oe noe
Medinius* Gracewli arr ik coos aia ee eee
Rhees> (Willramijoness 52 cass oe eee
Safford! (Glara¥ house tasccren ee eee
Smithsonian Bequest Fund ...............
Tapeart) Ganson 205.52 feed startet Sores
Abbott, William L. (Designated) ..........
Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) ........

Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History

(Destenated) ence oon nea ne eco
Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) .......

Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated)

Subtotals eee one ee

Total Unrestricted Purpose ...............

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

Arthur: Jameson) ook, sont seractias oaere merstarene
Baird, Spencer, Fullerton «5 i530: sic s 01s
Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial ............
Batchelor) pemimiaweea cites er ei
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial .........
Brown; ‘Roland Winn, Bie ae eee oe
GanheldEredenck VAG) face seeeekieaas
Casey, Thomas: Lincoln! is:.°. leit store ete soe
Ghamberlain; Erancesi lea 4.224720 - 9 3c ee
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology ............
Division of Mammals Curators Fund ......
Drake Fourtdationm. sa: cts ea oes
Dykes, Charles, Beiiest i.) tein ves ee cite
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ............
Freer: Charles: T:, oaths oe tat eee ee
Grimm, Sergei INs, ij c1sh phic sioiowe craieiectelo cis
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ........
Hamilton: Jamies ® ses sie oe 5 coats horse aioe
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund
Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund ..........
Hewitt, Sarah @0oper an iec-nie ss ee eree
hichcocks “Alberts. 2005 cd eictceee aisle erates
Hodekins ita (ic ios catomtnet ae ani ate eaters

$30,862,774

76,298
69,700
54,711
77,648
93,459
62,364
74,528
29,922
93,717
27,688
4,103
383,447
102,757
20,733
18,908,174
73,364
280,426
3,277
753
16,524
OT 74s
3,017
100,000

Principal
Book Market
value value

89,352 $ 113,989
25,024 31,864
72,318 78,587
263,547 312,004
48,746 57,320
1574. 2,001
337,774 444,498
546,178 T2S 470
2,798 3,348
541,380 541,380
879,678 1,171,640
2,808,369 3,480,402
2,509,445 2,181,148
23,379,368 23,553,292
19,853 17,273
500 500
1,170 1,292
2,902 3,188
117,129 127,514
239,183 212,238
61,299 62,010
109,434 113,905
2,362 2,111
22. 1,826
108,079 99,134
40,501 37,096
933 1,208
284,473 309,165
2,384 2,584
1,155,986 1,070,774
7,648 8,198
10,034 9,212
28,054,405 27,813,668

$31,294,070

$ 101,264
90,519
72,566
75,062

101,405
69,595
111,570
32,510
71,251
27,662
4,267
384,778
111,603
27,492
20,471,689
63,979
261,285
3,596
900
16,427
96,965
4,057
100,000

Income
Unex-

Net pended

income balance
$ 4,940 $ —o—
1,423 —0—
10,183 —O0—
8,037 —0—
2,350 —O0—
82 —0—
18,734 —o—
29,680 —o—
158 —O0—
32,483 —0—
48,023 48,979
156,093 48,979
89,442 —O0—
880,174 —Oo—
708 —o—
30 —0—
53 —0—
132 —0—
5,229 —0—
8,703 —O0—
2,543 —o0—
4,671 —O—
87 —0—
86 —o—
4,065 —0—
601 —O—
49 —0—
12,678 1,424
106 3,285
43,909 51,538
961 4,115
378 776
1,054,604 61,138
$ 1,210,697 $ 110,117
$ 4,153 $ 8,854
3,712 8,166
2,976 17,413
3,078 34,158
4,158 18,082
2,854 16,477
4,575 214
1,333 1,847
2,922 11,954
1,101 959
175 3A7L
15,686 45,832
4,576 21,819
1,127 11,661
839,484 572,009
656 669
10,714 11,460
195 399
37 261
674 726
3,976 4,253
166 851
6,000 13,073
Tasie 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981—continued

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
Fund value value income balance
Sieanieka, Ales and Marie .............2..s- 112,961 126,069 5,170 7,492
ee eee 36,518 48,487 1,988 17,237
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for
SR ia a 7,803,670 8,514,478 375,889 619,376
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ............. 58,276 52,513 2,141 6,459
EAM hE alas ily siwiee as we sie'pla's ees 6,375 6,628 272 1,471
EMRE is iainln wy vied kind see vn 11,380 10,272 799 4,209
on ES 37,421 49,679 2,037 10,982
Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ............ 488 483 20 20
PPE TAMENGOWIMENE ... 6 0c i vee cece ees cee 220,977 225,11 9,149 124
RM ace A). 5 nn diac niche vavnsvavas 30,050 30,521 1,252 2,705
Natural History and Conservation .......... 39,872 39,722 1,539 —0—
Nelson, Edward William ................05. 44,982 56,258 2,307 2,477
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ................ 14,150 18,844 773 15,628
SS re 53,452 57,105 2,551 12,182
ns ie ie wissen sine 0s 230,223 303,901 12,462 266
Rollins, Miriam and William ............... 431,978 506,336 20,520 21,191
Shryock Endowment for Docents ........... 1,516 1,440 59 94
Ee ca nice ne Se oases tees 5,186 4,452 91 91
oe , FE DE ee 3,007,384 3,027,731 122,707 2,317
eee 34,482 45,349 1,860 25,423
Stern, Harold P., Memorial ................. 317,303 321,329 13,170 19,038
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library .. 11,495 12,390 508 320
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,
a) ee 277,444 315,443 12,762 15,615
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical
oye SBP 2 A eee 109,852 141,144 5,788 7,657
BPEHCe, EtAMElS (BIINCKIC . cus cecicc sce eb se eie 1,809 2,385 98 2,945
SP PES a8 SRN a OR ee 33,513,631 36,216,512 1,510,240 1,599,627
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Memstrong, Edwin James ...............2.4. 6,260 6,159 253 253
oof 225yG0\ Elon Ge re 48,050 41,962 py eH | 1,831
Bacon, Virginia Purdy BPH Malt Serete cielaatele wells exe 213,564 210,609 8,636 31,556
PETG Soy ned mee eins cee ee ewe 367,310 364,524 14,948 —0—
Cap setils, iayetlol Bisetd Ga  eeaee eae eee aee 22,120 24,938 999 —0—
MS ee ee 2,844 2,964 121 1,608
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline ........ 9,714 11,080 454 950
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. ..... 21,219 23,045 945 4,338
SEs a5 es iad ne vn in eines ste s'e 15,690 17,049 699 5,972
EieirerdonoEndGWiment .......c.ceeeeceeess 6,956,321 7,417,421 308,383 191,781
SPRAIN UE, ECRIMIOLE . od oo cats ae tic es wes 18,687 17,063 700 9,219
OEE pAUREL Shon 9's eA gS 208,781 228,556 9,372 19,717
Beng, Annette E. and Edith C. .............. 1,040 1,412 58 328
memer Acamnerme Walden .............0-00- 48,226 52,382 2,148 4,932
SE ATTEN OEY. ra. G viele arse t © ciste.sieledin ws vale 2,336 2,640 108 1,314
ME MRTIOC IES og ose e edn e esis ne awanes 22,623 19,773 811 853
Bem, Cotmeld Livingston ..........6ecescecs 17,728 19,338 793 625
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* . 693,040 648,079 26,762 5,145
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ............... 25,425 27,707 1,136 17,724
meeplunge Solar Research ..........00.c0005. 58,285 59,572 2,443 5,740
EN ed oS ails ca, cies wp as mn ave aor 72,870 66,494 2,727 7,733
LS (e) = 18,510 20,043 821 9,172
Ee ee eae 1,459,261 1,440,168 59,057 160,147
Smithsonian Agency Account ............... 439,627 430,981 17,059 —0—
Poy). FCN Se en 23,898 26,036 1,068 1,623
Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial ........ 307,885 334,078 13,700 6,666
Sis lsiall ae al es eT ae Ae ee ee 11,081,919 11,514,073 475,922 489,227
Total Restricted PMCPOSE pe. divids tnt wade $44,595,550 $47,730,585 $ 1,986,162 $ 2,088,854
TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS ............ $75,458,324 $79,024,655 $ 3,196,859 $ 2,198,971

**Total Return Income payout; does not include $218,000 of interest income for investment of unexpended in-

come balances.
Related Organizations

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. (ss1e) has
served as a national source for information on research in progress
since its founding in 1949. Incorporated by the Smithsonian in 1971
as a nonprofit entity, sstE received funding through an annual con-
tract from the Smithsonian, equal to the appropriation provided the
Smithsonian for this purpose. Since fiscal year 1980, appropriations
for the exchange have been made to the Department of Commerce
in anticipation of the integration of the functions of ssiE into the
National Technical Information Service. During this period, the
Smithsonian has continued to provide the exchange with adminis-
trative and fiscal services on a contract basis. As a result of federal
hiring freezes and budgetary reductions, plans for integration have
been indefinitely postponed. In view of the substantial financial un-
certainty faced by ssi and its effect on the future ability of the ex-
change to operate in an effective manner, the ssie Board of Directors
resolved that ss1e would cease operations no later than October 30,
1981. The database and other physical assets of the exchange are
scheduled to be transferred to the Commerce Department, and plans
are proceeding to dissolve the corporation.

Reading is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F), associated with the Institution
since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedi-
cated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary
support is derived from private contributions and a federal contract
with the Department of Education to operate the federal Inexpen-
sive Book Distribution Program. Administrative services are pro-
vided by the Institution on a contract basis.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts were established by Congress within the Institution
but are administered by separate boards of trustees. Independent
financial reports are prepared by each of these organizations. Office
space and fiscal and other administrative and support services are
provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars on
a reimbursement basis.

The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) is an independent, non-
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological
Park. It operates, under contract, a number of beneficial concessions

[ 54 ]
for the National Zoo; Fonz provided concession and rental fees to
the Zoo amounting to approximately $202,000 during calendar year
1980 (FoNz’s fiscal year). In addition, Fonz contributed other impor-
tant financial and volunteer support to Zoo programs. Financial
affairs of this organization are disclosed separately elsewhere in
Smithsonian Year 1981.

Accounting and Auditing

The nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution are audited an-
nually by an independent public accounting firm; the report of
Coopers & Lybrand is contained in the following pages. Additional
reviews are conducted annually on a number of Smithsonian activi-
ties by the internal audit staff. Additionally, the Defense Contract
Audit Agency conducts an annual audit of grants and contracts re-
ceived from federal agencies, as well as their allocated administra-
tive costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents met during the
year pursuant to their responsibility, under the bylaws of the Insti-
tution, for reviewing the Smithsonian’s accounting systems and in-
ternal financial controls; for facilitating communication between the
Board of Regents and auditors from the internal audit staff, the in-
dependent accounting firm, and the General Accounting Office; and
for reviewing operations of the Institution for compliance with ap-
proved programs and policies.

[ 55 ]
Souithsonian \
|
losutuuion Loni!

Park Service

 Seareaaae, \,

Traditional music, dance, crafts, and demonstrations are presented at the Festival of
American Folklife, an annual celebration of the cultural traditions of this country.
Supported by a combination of outside gifts and grants, the Institution’s non-
appropriated trust funds, and federal appropriations, the Festival reflects the
diversity of funding sources for the Institution’s programs. Sampled here, from the
1981 Festival, are dancers whose performances were designed to introduce hearing
audiences to concepts of deaf communication (top), and Ojibwa Indians from the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan who demonstrated canoe making on the National Mall.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the balance sheet of the Trust Funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1981 and the related state-
ment of financial activity for the year then ended. Our examination
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We previously examined and reported upon the
statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution for the
year ended September 30, 1980, totals of which are included in the
accompanying financial statements for comparative purposes only.

The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution
do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of Art, the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts or other depart-
ments, bureaus and programs administered by the Smithsonian In-
stitution under federal appropriations as detailed in Note 2 to the
financial statements.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended
September 30, 1981, referred to above, present fairly the financial
position of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution as of
September 30, 1981, and the results of operations and changes in
fund balances for the year then ended, in conformity with gen-
erally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent
with that of the preceding year.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

1800 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036
December 2, 1981

[ 57 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Balance Sheet

September 30, 1981
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1980)

ASSETS:

CASE ogy ss yw pceg Wis Vier ergigenni eee ete a emia cue ei ee eee eae
Investments. (Notes. 3 and: 5)": Suchen ea econ oan eee
Receivables “(INGte: 4). a Nae eee a ee
Interfund receivables ......... Phe cn cle Sha ene adm laine autre ee
Merchandise inventory (Noted) vo ions teeta 6 a a eee
Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) ...............0..
Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 6) .................

LIABILITIES:

Accounts payable and accrued expenses .................
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) .
Interfund, payables:| ..05 vas dana aes sii ere eie ee ee
Deferred revenue (Notes 1) i. 225 caso es ees ae cel ee

Total. abilities: 23.00 uc swe co en eee ee

FUND BALANCES (Note 1):

Current:
Unrestricted: general purpose | i5o 2 oe join 5 ae ee
Special: PURPOSE... vs ns iareeyaiane somes ame etre eke aie eee
Restricted) 00. ath WO ade gicin es Sts ate aes ae ere ene eee a
Endowment.and. similar, finds (Note 5) sii. :...cissencek ane
Plamé Grids, (NOt. G) oo. cos aie a chai fone bon

Total’ fund’ balanées: 46244).0e. beat) oe ee

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

[ 58 ]

Current

funds

$ 1,092,016
28,526,435
12,618,660

7,464,010
7,934,919
1,420,486

$58,656,526

$ 8,121,769
1,958,329
8,270,529

16,712,953

35,063,580

5,042,459
12,599,061
5,951,426

23,592,946
$58,656,526
Endowment

and similar

funds Plant funds Total, all funds Totals, 1980

s 36,625 $ — $ 1,128,641 $ BL 22
74,707,523 oe 103,233,958 85,693,264
35,794 — 12,654,454 11,089,622
678,382 7,992,147 8,270,529 4,272,661

— -—— 7,464,010 6,244,380

— ae 7,534,919 7,294,999

— 14,024,283 15,444,769 14,012,745
$75,458,324 $21,616,430 $155,731,280 $128,688,793
$ — $ 304,763 $ 8,426,532 $ 5,968,872
— = 1,958,329 1,218,910

— — 8,270,529 4,272,661

— — 16,712,953 17,063,378

— 304,763 35,368,343 28,523,821

— — 5,042,459 5,000,736

— — 12,599,061 9,895,106

— — 5,951,426 4,675,330
75,458,324 — 75,458,324 64,422,312
— 2A L667 21311667 16,171,488
75,458,324 21,311,667 120,362,937 100,164,972
$75,458,324 $21,616,430 $155,731,280 $128,688,793

[ 59 ]

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Statement of Financial Activity

Year ended September 30, 1981

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1980)

REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Auxiliary activities revenue
Federal grants and confracts 29.3... 228022 Re ee ok
Investment income (net of $362,585 for management

and ‘custadian feespy is) 24s 3555. SOE ee eee
Net gain on sale" ef ‘secirities ) 7259. 2.2 R 3228s
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants
Additions to plant fund
Rentals, fees, commissions and other

ee ate wm ©) me eiwyenele ee siete a. els

oe! =e) 6) 5 hehe he) te
ae) abe. 6° eS) © 6. « [eo 8) an) © Welle @ eee se -2

o) wie ee) » 22) 8) Uae

Total revenue and other additions

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:
Research and educational expenditures
Administrative expenditures ....................
Auxiliary activities expenditures ................
Expenditures for acquisition of plant
Retirement of indebtedness
Interest on “indebtedness .2/550.% 5 of eue a. nae ie
Endowment reimbursement (Note 5)

pipe) es iel =, wa fe

Se) 0) 0 (0) s)(¥i ee e.e, (@16 (Bo a a) 0), 8) eats

Total expenditures and other deductions

Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—

ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):
Mandatory principal and interest on notes .......
Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) .
Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund.
Future plant acquisitions
Income added to endowment principal
Appropriated as quasi endowment
For designated purposes
Net increase in auxiliary activities

wie) wm elhete' se! eis ta\le)Ml ve! e/a si ere) whe he «Xe
e(@ ele’. o).6 0h a) wie
Sie Vehel sw ee ee! wie) ee
o/-a a mia le) #0, ee ele) 6a) as) «(ene «fe. 6

Ye SoC eC ea ee eae

Total transfers among funds

Net increase for the year
Fund balances at beginning of year

ae Ae. ee 6) OSS ef Se 16) Swe) CI

Fund balances at end of year

Total
current

funds

$ 87,052,047

14,171,827

7 17,027

4,420,917

2,540,536
115,702,354

23,912,377
9,095,394
72,650,533

105,258,304

10,444,050

(23,970)
(1,214,397)
(242,598)
(2,243,524)
(107,988)
(2,549,799)
(40,000)

(6,422,276)

4,021,774

19 S7LAT2Z
$ 23,592,946 $17,641,520 $ 5,042,459

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

[ 60 |

Total
unrestricted

funds

$87,052,047

4,165,614

1,442,526

1,731,527

94,391,714

7,712,912
5,731,672
72,650,533

86,095,117

8,296,597

(23,970)
(454,289)
(242,598)

(2,243,524)
(2,549,799)
(36,739)

(5,550,919)

2,745 678

14,895,842

Current funds

Unrestricted

General
purpose

3,536,117

15,148

725,081

4,276,346

3,046,286
2,281,093

5,327,379

(1,051,033)

(413,664)
(242,598)
(2,243,524)
(2,521,053)
(4,465,160)

10,978,755
1,092,756

41,723

5,000,736
Endowment

Auxiliary Special and similar Totals, Totals,

activities purpose’ Restricted funds Plant funds all funds 1980
$83,719,087 $ 3,332,960 $ — $ — §$ — $ 87,052,047 $ 74,251,010
— — 14,171,827 oo — 14,171,827 12,946,943
a 629,497 3,351,413 — 638,992 8,156,019 6,407,402
a — — 8,052,520 a 8,052,520 1,999,209
1,328,593 98,785 2,978,391 87,497 1,969,038 6,477,452 4,379,096
— — — — 1,486,583 1,486,583 665,896
— 1,006,446 809,009 —_ —- 2,540,536 2,225,672
85,047,680 5,067,688 21,310,640 8,140,017 4,094,613 127,936,984 102,875,228
— 4,666,626 15,799,465 — — DS SAZ OE 24,472,580
2,966,312 484,267 3,363,722 — — 9,095,394 8,077,438
70,712,531 1,938,002 — — — 72,650,533 63,079,852
— — — — 1,480,557 1,480,557 623,691
— — — — 6,026 6,026 42,205
— — — — 17,943 17,943 19,166
—_ — — 976,189 —- 976,189 —
73,678,843 7,088,895 19,163,187 976,189 1,504,526 107,739,019 96,314,932
11,368,837 (2,021,207) 2,147,453 7,163,828 2,590,087 20,197,965 6,560,296
a (23,970) = mE 23,970 = =
a (40,625) (760,108) 1,214,397 — Be —
— — — — 242,598 — —
— — — —— 2,243,524 — —_—
— — (107,988) 107,988 — — —
a (28,746) — 2,549,799 _ a: =
(390,082) 4,818,503 (3,261) ie 40,000 was en
(10,978,755) <2 phe Ee =. ait a
(11,368,837) 4,725,162 (871,357) 3,872,184 2,550,092 —~ —
—_— 2,703,955 1,276,096 11,036,012 5,140,179 20,197,965 6,560,296
— 9,895,106 4,675,330 64,422,312 16,171,488 100,164,972 93,604,676
$ — $12,599,061 $ 5,951,426 $75,458,324 $21,311,667 $120,362,937 $100,164,972

eee ee—-—“‘ ee -  O-- S F ——————"
a eee Oe” eee eee

[ 61 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS

Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of significant accounting policies

Basis of presentation. The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution—
Trust Funds (Institution) have been prepared on the accrual basis.

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the Insti-
tution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting.
This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classified
for accounting and reporting purposes into funds established according to
their nature and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund;
however, in the accompanying financial statements, funds that have similar
characteristics have been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all finan-
cial transactions have been recorded and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are reported in self-
balancing fund groups as follows:

Current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, repre-
sent the portion of expendable funds that is available for support of
Institution operations. Separate subfund groups of current unrestricted
funds have been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activi-
ties (representing primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smith-
sonian Associates Program, including the Smithsonian Magazine, and
museum shop sales) and for special purposes (representing internally
segregated funds for certain designated purposes). Amounts restricted by
the donor for specific purposes are also segregated from other current
funds.

Endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restric-
tions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be
invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment and
similar funds are gifts which will allow the expenditure of principal but
only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds.
Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board for
the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such
funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent
gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the prin-
cipal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the govern-
ing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the income
for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisitions
and funds expended for plant.

[ 62 ]
All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other disposition of
investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar manner,
except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar funds,
which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, i£ unrestricted,
as revenue in unrestricted current funds.

Inventories. Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost, computed on
a first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value.

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription,
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine are charged against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens. In accordance with the practice gen-
erally followed by museums, works of art and living or other specimens are
not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Property and equipment. Capital improvements and equipment purchased with
Trust Funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized in the
current unrestricted fund at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives of three to ten years. All other capital
improvements and equipment purchased with Trust Funds are expensed
currently.

Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to
the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or
appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in the
Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at
nominal values. In accordance with the practice of many museums, depre-
ciation on buildings is not recorded.

Land, buildings, fixtures and equipment which were acquired with federal
funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the
Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received.

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state-
ments since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.

2. Related activities

The Trust Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
private sources, from federal grants and contracts and from certain business
activities related to the operations of the Institution.

Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements, provide major support for the operations and administration of
the educational and research programs of the Institution’s many museums, art

[ 63 ]
galleries and other bureaus, as well as for the maintenance and construction
of related buildings and facilities. In addition, land, buildings and other assets
acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements.

The following federal appropriations were received by the Institution for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 1981:

Operating fimids: 260) Vigan tee saree Soe ba Glee Se fo ae eee $122,478,000
Special foreign. CUrrency PYOETAIME Sos. nc c/a.the sascotnis oes eevee 3,650,000
Construction: funds: ..: ced ccc ao als is ein kinincs te ategn ie) ocean 15,829,000

$141,957,000

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several separately
incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution serve
on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these orga-
nizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institution
facilities occupied, etc., totaled approximately $408,000 for the year ended
September 30, 1981. The following summarizes the approximate expenditures
of these organizations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1981 as reflected
in their individual financial statements and which are not included in the
accompanying financial statements of the Institution:

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ................+4- $3,400,000
Reading ‘Is Fundamental, Inc. 32¢. 5). oc. essen. te) eee $8,900,000
Woodrow Wilson International Center

for Scholars—Trust. Funds. (2... 6.3 Sb ae eee $3,200,000

The Institution is continuing to work with the U.S. Department of Commerce
to effect a transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange (Ex-
change) operations to the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Exchange has
ceased operations as of October 31, 1981 and is awaiting final approval of
fiscal year 1982 appropriations to sustain them in perfecting an orderly
liquidation.

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair market value at date of
acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1981, investments are com-
posed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
Current funds:
Certificates Of GepOstb .\..65s © ane ot we $ 12,307,814 $ 12,307,814
Commercial paper ii... vase ose Ae es 2,931,913 2,900,000
Overnight money market account ....... 1,785,000 1,785,000
U.S. government and quasi-government

oblratione vines aoe ee see nie 11,276,081 10,679,338
Commos. Stocks 5/35 sia 256 cee eee tenn 169,280 117,835
Proterrerm sic: sins (est nese as cee ae al es 56,347 41,034

28,526,435 27,831,021

[ 64 ]
Endowment and similar funds:

Berar Ble RECASOLY Fo ek be ee 1,000,000 1,000,000

U.S. government and quasi-government
RINE ose 6s tari ou xu 0 boxes 8,487,773 7,984,259
0 8 7,959,718 7,434,129
EEE mia niwiia oko snack vw dw a's 55,986,140 60,745,716
es ee ne 1,273,892 1,109,750
74,707,523 78,273,854

$103,233,958 $106,104,875

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at
market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $134.12, 289,797
units were owned by endowment and 291,564 units were owned by quasi-
endowment at September 30, 1981.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments:

Market
value
per
Market Cost Net change unit
2 $77,972,161 $74,410,762 $ 3,561,399 $134.12
Beginning Me wear: 6.2... $77,329,906 $63,371,084 13,958,822 136.08
Decrease in unrealized
CE MPEMEMEIOC AE Foo oo Ss cin sie ek scare eee ews (10,397,423) —
memumce Mer eas fOryear ........ 2... eee eee tee 8,052,520 —
Mnenmereanee fOLYEAr .. ... 8. an ee een nee $ (2,344,903) $ (1.96)
4. Receivables
Receivables at September 30, 1981 included the following:
Current funds
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of allowance
for doubtful accounts of $539,769 in 1981 ................ $ 9,624,382
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts .......... 626,972
eateeest ind dividends receivable ...............0200c00eees 1,707,940
ne 2 oe ow Sx cece 6 Sense est oem a) Sv ele Sg ein wine 659,366
12,618,660
Endowment and similar funds
MCE ee sada ie cuen tics scceb nets wen e ee 35,794

ED ERTL as, Gb jah'n aes. ne Send ME lenst Ww ni ne ee $12,654,454
5. Endowment and similar funds

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1981 are summarized as
follows:

[ 65 ]
Endowment funds, income available for:

Restricted. purpegediie ic ..c 55 90 ads ep ae 6 a OE eee $33,513,631
Unrestricted parposes™ |. oo. 4 asics ston Sinisa eee ee 2,808,369
36,322,000

Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for:
Restricted .. purposes. a os. 4i0.x¢eiags na wishin sale ae ae 11,081,919
Unrestricted DirpO5e0S a ss:ac:< sistanes oop nists vo ae ake ea eee 28,054,405
39,136,324

Total endowment and similar funds ................. $75,458,324

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment management
of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach, the
total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized gains
and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to the
difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and the
amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from the
current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such
factors, as, but not limited to: (1) 442% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2)
current dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien-
tists and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index;
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less
than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation),
the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received. The
total return factor for 1981 was $5.50 per unit of fund participation. The total
return applied for 1981 was $3,128,478.

Endowment reimbursement represents payment of income, which had accu-
mulated in principal of the endowment funds, in accordance with a settlement
related to a lawsuit.

6. Property and equipment

At September 30, 1981, property and equipment which has been capitalized
(see Note 1) is comprised of the following:

Current funds

Capital improvements: 6. 60s oe ie oda 2 ee ee $ 1,712,318
EGQuigiment i oe Are See ee eae eae Senge od ee 1,059,153
Leasehold improvements 2.644005. ¢ Jewkes 2 ate ee ae 179,962
Less accumulated depreciation

ATIC: ARIOTTIZALON. Sj eiccc kiace « oixk.d winks «3c 1,530,947
1,420,486

Plant funds
Land and binldings i:.j.0y sik a ses acy va oS ce Se ee oe 14,024,283
‘Bettal,, all furids: 45.5454%44 Fe sh ti eek he ae $15,444,769

[ 66 ]
Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the cur-
rent funds for 1981 was $397,399.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1981 includes $7,463,658 of
unexpended plant funds.

7. Pension plan

_ The Institution has a retirement plan in which substantially all employees
of the Trust Funds are eligible to participate. Under the plan, both the Insti-
tution and employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary which are
used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately
vested with the employees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September
30, 1981 was $2,436,155. It is the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs
accrued currently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plan.

8. Income taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal
Revenue Service is presently considering a request for technical advice per-
taining to whether income derived from several of the Institution’s activities
is subject to tax as unrelated business income. If the Institution’s position is
upheld, no tax would be imposed on this income.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. The Institution has not yet sought such dual status.

Management believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement
of these matters would not have a material effect upon the financial position
of the Institution.

[ 67 ]
>

«
é
»:
_

—-
“er »
:

iy

0844

