<aue

Se ae
= A

Fe uiuitduntast

+ 7
en

SMITHSONIAN YEAR - 1979

Statement by the

S ecretary
ithsonian Year . 1979

A ees

\TEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

-
-—
—
_—
—
|
—
~.

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM
XHIBITS EXHIBITS

SMITHSONIAN YEAR - 1979

In the Nation's Service

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
S. DILLON RIPLEY

The Smithsonian Institution - 1980
FRONTISPIECE: The programs and facilities of the Smithsonian Institution are located
in many different parts of this country and the world. Shown here are Smithsonian
buildings situated on or near the Mall in Washington, D.C. From the top: the
Smithsonian Institution “Castle” Building; the National Air and Space Museum;
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; the National Museum of Natural
History; the National Museum of History and Technology; the Arts and Industries
Building; the Freer Gallery of Art; the Renwick Gallery; the Fine Arts and Portrait
Gallery Building; the Museum of African Art; and the Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum.
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and ac-
cepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an “‘es-
tablishment,” whose statutory members are the President, the Vice
President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive depart-
ments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust in the
Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Jimmy Carter, President of the United States
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State
G. William Miller, Secretary of the Treasury
Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense
Benjamin R. Civiletti, Attorney General
Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior
Bob S. Bergland, Secretary of Agriculture
Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Commerce
F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Labor
Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Moon Landrieu, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Neil Goldschmidt, Secretary of Transportation
Charles W. Duncan, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and Secretary - September 30, 1979

REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor

INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Senate

Barry Goldwater, Member of the Senate

Robert B. Morgan, Member of the Senate

Norman Y. Mineta, Member of the House of Representatives
Silvio O. Conte, Member of the House of Representatives
Frank Thompson, Jr., Member of the House of Representatives
Anne Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
William A. M. Burden

Caryl P. Haskins

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Dorothy Rosenberg, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Michael Collins, Under Secretary

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

James McK. Symington, Director, Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator, Public Information

Vi
Smithsonian Year . 1979

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

~

“Ei ae ae
<

Flying plastic discs of all sizes and colors filled the sky at the third annual
Smithsonian Frisbee Disc Festival. The September 2 festival, which was sponsored by
the National Air and Space Museum, attracted over 11,000 spectators. Below.
Students from the James Ryder Randall Elementary School’s summer program
toured the Silver Hill Museum in July 1979. To the left is the Curtiss P-40 E War-
hawk, one of the best-known fighters of World War II.

In the Nation's Service

S. DILLON RIPLEY

BEING HISTORY-MINDED, I tend to believe that time is the only true
touchstone of merit. What merit lay in the enigmatic bequest of
money by James Smithson to the nation in 1826? No one could be
sure. The resulting hubbub in the Congress over whether to accept
the “tainted” British money has long since become part of the
dust of yesteryear. But my own feeling is that the creation of the
Smithsonian started a chain reaction which has since touched every
American.

It would be better to characterize the “diffusion of knowledge
among men,” to quote Smithson’s words describing the purpose of
his bequest, as being in the service of the people rather than in the
nation’s service. “In the nation’s service” bespeaks the many na-
tional service organizations of our government—the Postal Service,
the Health Service, the services for veterans, for unemployment
compensation, Social Security, the Internal Revenue Service, the
Forest Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service. “In the service of the
nation” calls to mind the tremendous body of men and women in
the federal government employed to perform services for us all.
These servants of the people, often maligned by the public and
politicians alike, are devoted, zealous, and conscious of a calling, a
calling of service.

‘Most of them find a career reward of a genuine and compelling
nature in working for the benefit of us all. We rub elbows with them
every day at the Smithsonian. They are our best audience, for they
live for the most part near Washington. Thousands of them are
Associates of the Institution, and many thousands are our friends,
for they find a host of rewards in the experiences that we have to
offer. We can speak with conviction of those who dedicate their

[3]
careers to the civil, military, and kindred services, such as our
great Foreign Service, for these are people, devoted to the cause
of national service, of whom we can all feel proud.

Yet few people realize what the Smithsonian is all about. A
collection of large buildings on or about the Mall in Washington—
it is easy to assume that we are “government” in some way. Our
buildings seem for the most part large, impressive monuments to
the expenditure of taxpayers’ money. (The majority of people may
not realize the amount of nontaxpayer money that has gone into a
number of these buildings and will continue to do so in the future.
The names Smithson, Freer, Mellon, and Hirshhorn all spell dona-
tions for construction, just as more grants in the future will help
defray the costs of new galleries to be built.) Our museums, some
large, some small, consort in procession with the majestic, mono-
lithic array of huge government bureaux on the opposite sides of
Constitution and Independence Avenues. These government build-
ings brood over the scene in the sunlight, like a pride of lions
stretched out, panting in the heat, while their single lordly leader
rears his heavily maned head on Capitol Hill. It is a setting of
sedate splendor, awe-inspiring to some, crushing with monotonous
repetition to others. But within there is a continuing sense of
vitality.

No, we of the Smithsonian are not “feds.’”” We never “regulate”
anybody. We don’t publish mysterious orders in the Federal
Register. To be sure, we receive appropriated funds each year, but
even though they may represent two-thirds of our annual budget,
the sums keep our buildings and our technical and service staffs in
operation so that we can perform our services for all.

Nor are we an island. People in the government often fancy
themselves isolated, being in Washington. “Oh, it’s so valuable to
get out, to get out into the country,” they say, as if life in Wash-
ington were unreal, perhaps almost un-American. (People in New
York are sometimes thought of as foreigners in a strange way, “not
real Americans,” at any rate.) So people in Washington, in govern-
ment anyway, are always paying lip service to the concept that life
in Washington is different. It is not real America. This is especially
true, perhaps, among politicians, who after all have to pretend at
least not to be dismayed to be “home” with their constituents. From
there the mood is catching. Government servants often complain

[4]
about being immured in Washington and not getting to sense the
needs of the people.

In fact, Washington is an immensely popular place to visit, per-
haps ahead of New York these days. Those who live here in service
of one kind or another should take comfort from this. It cannot be
so strange, so un-American, such an island. It is the hub, packed
with bits and pieces and stuff of everyman’s America.

In the Annual Report of the Institution for 1852, six years after
the commencement of operations in 1846, Joseph Henry, the first
Secretary, summed it up:

The prominent idea embraced in the Smithsonian organization,
is that of cooperation and concerted action with all institutions
and individuals engaged in the promotion of knowledge. Its
design is not to monopolize any part of the wide fields of
nature or of art, but to invite all to partake in the pleasure and
honor of their cultivation. It seeks not to encroach upon
ground occupied by other institutions, but to expend the funds
[i.e., the Smithsonian endowment income] in doing that which
cannot be as well done by other means. It gives to the words
of Smithson their most liberal interpretation, and “increases
and diffuses knowledge among men” by promoting the dis-
covery of new truths, and by disseminating these in every part
of the civilized world.

Thus Joseph Henry enunciated the concept of service toward
all people in “every part of the civilized world,” in words which
he constantly strove to impress on the minds of the Congress and
Executive alike: the Smithsonian had a task, a task of original
study and research to promote the dissemination of knowledge for
all mankind. Thinking back over the years, we have seen the
Institution grow to include numerous museums with museum col-
lections, a growth which to many minds tends to obscure the mean-
ing of Henry’s words.

How can one “discover new truths” as the proprietor of a dozen
or more museums? Fortunately, these times have seen a new realiza-
tion of what museums are all about, powerhouses of the mind, not
old dustbins into which is cast the detritus of history. Museums
serve today as educational centers, headquarters from which are
sent out messages, communications of all kinds. As Lewis Thomas

[5]
says in his Lives of a Cell (1974), present genetic theory assumes
that

human beings are all born with a genetic endowment for
recognizing and formulating language. ... As human behavior
derives from the central mechanism of language, the same sets
of genes are, at least indirectly, responsible for governing such
astonishing behavior as in the concert hall, where hundreds of
people crowd together, silent, head-tilted, meditating, listening
to music as though receiving instructions, or in a gallery, mov-
ing along slowly, peering, never looking at each other, con-
centrating as though reading directions. . . . If language is at
the core of our social existence, holding us together, housing
us in meaning, it may also be safe to say that art and music
are functions of the same universal, genetically determined
mechanism.

Beyond these everyday experiences, so concisely delineated by
Thomas, there are all the other outward-flowing connections. Day
by day we communicate without the awareness of it. Often the
question is asked ‘““Why doesn’t the Smithsonian move out into the
country at large? Why is everything all confined here in Washing-
ton?” Almost every year some one of our congressional committees
asks the question during a hearing. This is usually coupled with
two other questions: “Why don’t we get our products out into the
country at large, show our riches to the world?” and “Why do we
have all these museums?” Is there no way to stop this inexorable,
octopus-like growth?

It is frustrating to realize how general this impression is, how
it persists in spite of all our efforts. We do spread our message
across the country. We do get our message out. Our “riches” tend
to be more in ideas than in things. But we show both to the world.
What are our riches? We have only one of George Washington’s
uniforms, only one desk on which the Declaration of Independence
was drafted, only one flag that flew over Fort McHenry. We do
not have a single Philadelphia Chippendale camelback sofa, or a
Newport Townsend-Goddard lowboy with cabriole legs and relief
scrollwork carving. We do not have ten Remington sculptures or
even Gilbert Stuart portraits of the Founding Fathers! So what are
the riches? They exist in the mind, not in dozens of examples of

[6 ]
Richard Fiske (NMNH) explains concepts of plate tectonics to Associates at the
Denver Museum of Natural History during the Regional Events series in Denver,
March 1979. The geology exhibition was produced by the Regional Events Program
to complement Dr. Fiske’s lectures on geological processes.
.
‘7
a

.
.

ab e+ he Le 4

4 CENTENARY EXHIBITION

As always, larger than life, Albert Einstein welcomes a group of visitors to his
exhibit at the National Museum of History and Technology. Below. A young visitor
enjoying the “Play and Inventiveness” celebration, sponsored by the Office of
Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars. The celebration, which explored the links
between play and creativity, was the Institution’s major contribution to the ob-
servance of the International Year of the Child in 1979.

PE ETE Ps
decorative arts or sculptural objects, except for a few symbolic
collections that have been given us, because our charter calls us,
among other things, the national museum of the United States.

I spend hours explaining to those interested enough to have any
attention span that our seventy-five or eighty million objects have,
to a large extent, intangible value. In this money-oriented culture
of ours, it is harder to understand that a collection of insects, or
fossils, or potsherds, or even portraits of famous people, may be of
great intangible value to us, the keepers of the nation’s collections,
and should be preserved rather than be thrown away or allowed
to deteriorate. But most of these invaluable (without a dollar sign
attached to them) collections of ours could not justify being
“tiches” to be shown across the world. As exhibits “to furnish
dozens of museums” (another stock phrase) they would lay an egg.

No, our service is of a different kind. If we put on an exhibit, we
may draw from the collections, but the very process is an idio-
syncratic one, illustrating some theme, some historical sequence of
events, or some set of ideas which must be thought through sub-
jectively, with an aim to broad public education.

In such service there is fulfillment, just as in the profession of
teaching. There is little money in it, and the objects involved may
have no monetary value in the marketplace, but they become price-
less when placed in juxtaposition because they convey ideas. Emer-
son said in his Lectures: ‘This time, like all other times, is a very
good one, if we but know what to do with it.’ So an exhibit
represents time used in putting thoughts together, thoughts de-
lineated by objects, which in sum convey a message. Such time is
of great value, for we are programmed to receive messages in this
form, and messages may finally teach.

How then do we serve the country? It is relevant to say, first of
all, that enormous numbers of our citizens come to Washington
each year, aside from local residents, and that the combined
museums and exhibits of the Institution attract perhaps a tenth of
our population each year, over twenty-five million annually at last
approximation. Beyond that we do have attractions in other states:
a museum in New York; laboratories in Massachusetts, Florida,
and Arizona; and an environmental study center and a colloquium
center in Maryland. We have laboratories abroad in several
countries, among which the most famous is the biological station
in Panama. But there are others besides, and the respect engendered
by the Smithsonian tradition of service in the search for knowledge
is worldwide, crossing without stress into the Second and Third
Worlds.

We are also mobile. Years ago, in 1951, we started the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (siTEs), with a ven-
ture capital outlay of $100,000. Partially self-liquidating through
the imposition of small transport and rental fees, sires now has
some 175 exhibitions on the road or being planned or refurbished,
reaching a public of another four to five million viewers a year in
an average of 366 cities in 48 states. A few shows travel abroad
and some come here from overseas, but this part of our outreach,
which should be more actively developed, is much more expensive,
although we could and should coordinate with many more of the
nation’s major art galleries. We do help on occasion, willingly when
asked to do so by a foreign nation, especially when the exhibit
involves a clarification of history rather than a trumpery of
Barnumism. (There is a tendency today to finance “blockbuster”
exhibitions, often from abroad, requiring large expenditures of
money which attract huge crowds, provide immense temporary
occupancy of the museum involved, and which often produce huge
coffee-table catalogues, later advertising the prescience of the owner
in having visited the show, which, in the end, may serve as a status
symbol rather than a lasting residuum in the mind. Often such
exhibitions may be of mixed quality, may be almost impossible to
view, and thus may fail to perform the ultimate transmission of
meaning.)

Fortunately our Traveling Exhibition Service has simpler goals
and a mission of reaching smaller, less “show-biz” institutions.
Low-cost exhibits reaching historical associations, libraries, cultural
centers, high schools, and local galleries and museums, are in the
nation’s service. This is a goal never to be underestimated. In
addition, we have our Associates program, started in 1965, ex-
panded in 1970, now reaching a reading and radio audience of
millions through leaflets, scripts, our Smithsonian magazine, books,
a science service to the news media, and through our folk and per-
forming-arts festivals.

Few people, perhaps, realize the seminal influence of the Smith-
sonian’s Folklife Festival series, begun on the Mall in 1967, now dif-

[ 10 ]
As part of the Festival of American Folklife, Maxwell Tyler, a waterman from the
Chesapeake Bay area, tells visitors in front of the National Museum of Natural
History how he catches soft-shell crabs.

Training time for sea lions: a keeper rewards one of her young charges with a piece
of fish. Such training helps develop a rapport between keeper and animal and pro-

vides stimulating activity for the sea lion or seal. Below. As part of the Smithsonian
Resident Associate Program, Associates of all ages enjoy a guided tour of the new
Beaver Valley installation at the National Zoo with the Zoo’s Kayce Cover, Leader-

Keeper of Aquatic Animals.

fusing an enthusiasm for festivals all over the states and even
abroad. Few realize the enormous influence of our phonographic
recordings of American folk and popular music, documenting a
purely American art form, recordings which are available through
subscription or at our museum shops. This diffusion has been im-
mensely popular, so much so that if it did not exist it would long
since have had to be invented. But who could have invented the
Smithsonian and its services for people?

We live in what appears to be an uncertain age. Many people
foresee the gradual decay of our civilization, forced on us by will-
ful, wasteful ways, and the impression that we are imbued with
sloth in this country. It is a sense of malaise which has become
almost a way of thought among our economists and planners. So-
called liberal thought abounds with it. Conservative thought is
possessed with it. Philosophers are afflicted with a sense of
fatalism. Buddhism prepares us for acceptance of this sort, but it is
a far cry from the exuberance of hope which lies at the heart of
much of Judaeo-Christian inspiration. It is almost as if we were
resigning ourselves to a premature sense of death or encroaching
senility. Can a culture become senile? I am inclined to think not.
The malaise is more apparent than real. Part of the difficulty is that
we have lost touch with history, with our time scale, of which I
have written before. In the pseudo-joyousness of “now” and of
“me,” we are even affronting the precepts of those other, less-
familiar religions, made temporarily popular.

If time is the only true touchstone of merit, then time requires a
communication of history. To achieve this should be our service
to the people. Such understanding involves work. In the Bhagavad
Gita, Krishna explains that work is its own reward. It should thus
be of virtue. As I have quoted before, ‘From food are all creatures;
from rain is the production of food; rain is produced from sacrifice;
and sacrifice is the outcome of work.” Here then lies salvation, and
any reward, if reward is needed, for service.

In this past year it is certainly fair to say that our “diffusion”
has reached a new peak, through visits, the Associates, traveling
exhibitions, the regional events program to a number of cities,
foreign and domestic tours, guidelines and programs for school
teachers, radio and tv services, books of all sorts published by our-
selves or in conjunction with major publishing houses, reprints of

[13 ]
classic texts, the Bicentennial project The Handbook of North
American Indians (of which the first two volumes have received
widespread acclaim), phonograph albums—all these offerings
serve to touch the lives of untold millions of people both now and
in the future. Our art museums alone lent more than a thousand
works to museums and galleries throughout the country for special
exhibitions.

A curious example of the present effects of Smithsonian diffusion
was the inclusion of the Smithsonian magazine in a survey of in-
fluential commercial media by The Wall Street Journal. For some
reason, unknown to us, the Journal included our Associates’ official
publication along with a number of prominent newspapers (includ-
ing the Journal, of course), news magazines, and similar widely
read, over-the-counter publications. The Smithsonian was the only
publication included which is available to a membership, in con-
trast to commercial methods of distribution. So startling were the
results of the survey that we understand they had to be repeated by
the researchers. In every area where credibility was a factor (except
where we hardly qualify, in politics or economics), Smithsonian
led the “thunderers” of the world of the news media. Thus, our
kind of diffusion is an intangible, a kind of word-of-mouth dis-
persal, and is accepted as an unspoken certification of authenticity.

When we speak of the effect of the diffusion of information by
the Smithsonian to millions in the future, we can think of two
highly significant events of this past year: the completion and
operation of two new astronomical instruments, the Multiple
Mirror Telescope and the HEAo-2 (Einstein) satellite. Both open
windows on new realms of knowledge of the universe, stages in
Smithsonian research in astronomy and astrophysics which began
over one hundred years ago with the personal research of one of
my predecessors, Samuel P. Langley, and which has been sponsored
by the Institution ever since.

The Multiple Mirror Telescope, first of its kind, developed in
conjunction with the University of Arizona, is the prototype for
optical telescopes of multiple-mirror construction perhaps as large
as 1,000 inches in diameter. The Einstein, developed with nasa, led
by the Center for Astrophysics in conjunction with the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology, Columbia University, and the God-
dard Space Flight Center, is the first true focusing telescope for

[14 ]

The Multiple Mirror Telescope, a joint facility of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory and the University of Arizona, located on the summit of Mt. Hopkins,
Arizona, was Officially dedicated on May 9, 1979. Below. One of the stops on the
twice-weekly guided tours of sao’s Mt. Hopkins Observatory is the ten-meter

gamma-ray reflector. The bus tours are provided free to the public by the
observatory.

i

ha

age
x-rays to be flown as a satellite. While already increasing sensitivity
by a factor of ten over the best earlier detectors, this satellite sug-
gests that an instrument even ten times more sensitive is feasible.
The successful completion of both instruments this year marks the
culmination of many years of design, testing, and planning by
teams of Smithsonian scientists working in cooperation with other
scientists around the world. Thus it can be said that new eras have
begun in both optical and x-ray astronomy as a result of these new
inventions. In this way, more millions of people in the future will
receive information diffused through Institution efforts.

Another method of expressing the inexpressible, making the con-
nections and the harmony out of what we do, is indeed solving the
problem of what we collect. As some of our scientists invent
strategies for sensing the phenomena of the universe, others develop
plans for documenting and cataloguing the immense data banks
represented by our collections in the natural sciences. For many
years, I have been at pains to talk and write about the importance
of this service of ours to Americans and to all people. To preserve
fragments at least of the stuff of our world, the materia mundi as
we can know and identify it, is of inestimable importance to our
future and to the future of mankind. At last, after more than ten
years of planning for this need, the Smithsonian has been granted
the right and the funds by the Congress to construct a Museum
Support Center in nearby Maryland, fifteen minutes away from
the Mall. This building, to cost between $20 and $21 million, will
be of the most modern design, incorporating energy-saving and
solar-heating devices appropriate to the Institution’s pioneering
efforts in such matters. (Dr. C. G. Abbot, my predecessor, did not
preoccupy himself with solar-energy research in the 1940s to no
purpose.) We hope it will provide a safe haven for millions of our
objects now stored in increasingly crowded and hence inefficient
spaces on the Mall, free up ample new exhibit space in the National
Museums of Natural History and of Man, and provide a center
for conservation, study, and research that should be exemplary,
a model for our peers. Here, too, is a paradigm of service to
people.

The dimensions of what people are finally able to do to trans-
form our natural environment from one state—a state of nature—
to another—a state of man’s creation—are incalculable. As best we

[ 16 ]
can, while we chart this untraveled course, we should preserve frag-
ments of testimony of what the state of nature was like, so that
we can measure our path into change. As mankind moves along
this path of manipulation of the environment, it is better, as if
descending into the darkness of an abandoned mineshaft, to leave
a silken cord behind, with markers at intervals. Just as we keep
specimens of fossils to tell us of the world of aeons past, we should
keep the evidence of what tropical forests were like, what birds
were like, and reptiles, and sea creatures.

Perhaps we could even develop an early-warning system, as if
carrying a caged canary with us into the abandoned mineshaft, to
warn us of the unknown presence of carbon-monoxide gas. We
might develop a system in our markers. When half the bird species
of the tropical habitats have become extinct, should we pause to
look backward or should we measure the consequences of forging
ahead? Perhaps in such a way some measure of rational, disciplined
thought about where we are going might intervene. “Jiminy-
crickets,” we might say to ourselves, “look out, there’s a sheer
drop ahead. I see the crack in the wall of the House of Usher. I
see the stone legs of Ozymandias protruding from the sand.”

And what of the anthropological collections of our National Mu-
seum of Man? I know that in the future, people everywhere will be
grateful that we have preserved the evidence of how different we all
are, for in this recaptured sense of diversity there is pride and iden-
tity. These two words also speak eloquently to the collections of the
Museum of African Art, which in August became a member of the
Smithsonian family by an Act of Congress, inspired by our former
Regent Hubert H. Humphrey. The art objects in this newest of
the Smithsonian’s museums capture with striking force and beauty
the symbolic richness and cohesiveness of the societies which
created them, and form today a substantial part of the cultural
heritage of millions of our citizens. Whether through objects or
films, documents or symbols, we will always hunger to know who
we are and were so that we may take comfort in being ourselves
and not anyone else.

All these things and many more embody our perceptions of
service to people. They are diffused outwards in a continual stream,
helping to evoke our past, preserve our present, and lend convic-
tion to our future.

[et7))
There have been a number of changes in senior staff positions at
the Institution this year. Our accomplished treasurer for a decade,
T. Ames Wheeler, retired June 30, though he will continue to serve
as a member of the Regents’ Investment Policy Committee. Mr.
Wheeler has been succeeded as treasurer by Christian C. Hohen-
lohe, the former assistant treasurer and former executive assistant
to the Secretary. Mr. Richard Ault, our energetic director of Support
Activities, retired to Arizona in July to pursue his lifelong interest
in aviation. His former responsibilities have been assumed in large
measure by the very able Tom L. Peyton, our director of the Office
of Facilities Services, who came to the Institution this year from the
General Services Administration. The very resourceful Porter Kier
resigned in June as director of the National Museum of Natural
History to resume his research activities and has been succeeded
temporarily by James F. Mello as acting director, while the search
for a permanent director continues. Off for other vineyards went
Dennis Gould of our Traveling Exhibition Service, Carl Larsen, our
director of Public Affairs (succeeded by Alvin Rosenfeld), and
Edward Kohn, the assistant director of the National Zoo. The skill-
ful and diplomatic Dean Francis B. Sayre retired this year from the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and his col-
league George Packard, the center’s assistant director, has left to
become the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced Inter-
national Studies. As always, we are sorry to have lost these and
other industrious co-workers at the Institution, but we rejoice in
having them as colleagues in the vital cultural pursuits of America.

We have been fortunate in welcoming some fine new senior staff
to the Smithsonian this year. Two new museum directors, Noel
Hinners from nasa and Roger Kennedy from the Ford Foundation,
have been selected and promise to give fresh new leadership to their
very popular museums, the National Air and Space Museum and
the National Museum of History and Technology, respectively. Dr.
Robert Maloy has come to head the Smithsonian Libraries unit,
and Glen Ruh has joined us in the new position of Coordinator of
Publications. With the help of these exceptional personalities, the
Smithsonian will move positively and smoothly into the future.

On December 7th, the Institution suffered an immeasurable loss
in the death of its sixth Secretary (1945-52) and long-time asso-
ciate, Alexander Wetmore. I will always remember Alex as a friend

[ 18 ]
and inspiration in ornithology and as an able, practical administra-
tor as Secretary. Having assumed the Secretaryship amidst the
trying times of the war, he went on to lay the groundwork for two
additional Smithsonian museums, the National Museum of History
and Technology and the National Air and Space Museum. During
his tenure, the Institution also assumed control of the biological
research station in Panama (now part of the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute), celebrated its own centennial in 1946, and
undertook significant construction of the National Zoo.

Dr. Wetmore’s career at the Smithsonian began in 1924, when he
joined the Institution as superintendent of the National Zoo, and
then, less than a year later, he became assistant secretary for
science and director of the National Museum of Natural History.
A museum man, he was also a man of the world of birds, and he
served both with remarkable devotion. He was a scholar of inspired
intensity and a proud man with a gift of humility and understand-
ing. He enriched this Institution and the lives of those who knew
him; his pursuit of his life’s work somehow never interfered with
his capacity for compassion and friendship.

The Smithsonian is one of those rare places in the world that still
clings to its memories of the wonderful people who helped to build
and shape it—none more so than Alex Wetmore, who shared his
genius with the past and the future, and who will always be re-
spected for his scientific contributions and loved for himself. In
Coventry Patmore’s phrase, he lived in the “traditions of civility.”
He shall not be forgotten.

[19 ]
Board of Regents

The Board of Regents held three formal meetings during the last
year, as well as a number of additional executive committee meet-
ings. The JANUARY 22, 1979, meeting of the Board of Regents was
designated The Alexander Wetmore Memorial Meeting in honor
and in memory of the late sixth Secretary of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, who died on December 7, 1978. The Regents noted that
“This gentle and affectionate man, loved by all who knew him,
made invaluable contributions to the Smithsonian and to biological
science.”

The Regents recognized both the distinguished services of Repre-
sentative Elford A. Cederberg as a Regent of the Institution and
his profound effect on our nation through his twenty-six years in
the Congress of the United States. This recognition was bestowed
at the conclusion of Representative Cederberg’s term in Congress.

The board memorialized the untimely death of Representative
Leo J. Ryan, who, although a Regent for only a short period, had
expressed an intense interest in the affairs of the Institution.

The Board of Regents welcomed newly appointed Regents from
the House of Representatives, Messrs. Silvio O. Conte of Massa-
chusetts, Norman Y. Mineta of California, and Frank Thompson,
Jr., of New Jersey.

The financial report was reviewed in detail and a special oral
presentation was made concerning past, present, and future projec-
tions of all Institution funds. The board approved the revised
statement of investment objectives recommended by the Invest-
ment Policy Committee for the guidance of the investment man-
agers.

The Regents approved the Five-Year Perspective (later known as
the Five-Year Prospectus) covering fiscal years 1980-84. The
planning process continues in tandem with the annual budget
cycles, and the five-year plan will be updated annually.

The Regents approved continued study of the proposed develop-
ment of the quadrangle in the south garden area and authorized

[ 20 ]
the use of $100,000 of nonappropriated funds for continuing the
development of preliminary plans and program details leading to
the presentation of an appropriate legislative proposal.

The Regents considered proposed bylaws that they plan to adopt
in the near future.

The Secretary was authorized to continue negotiations with the
Boston Athenaeum for acquisition of the Gilbert Stuart portraits of
George and Martha Washington.

The Regents approved a Program of Regents’ Fellowships. These
fellows, perhaps two or three scholars of great distinction, would
enrich the intellectual atmosphere of the Institution and would
explore areas of scholarship not already intensively studied here.
The program would be evaluated periodically.

The board expressed its support of legislation to raise the statu-
tory budget ceiling for programs at Barro Colorado Island, part of
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama.

The Regents approved reports concerning the membership and
acquisitions of the National Collection of Fine Arts Commission
and the National Portrait Gallery Commission. The Regents also
received the report of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden.

The chairman of the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory
Board (NAFMAB) recommended a change in the status of the board
to reflect its current advisory role with the Eisenhower Institute for
Historical Research in the National Museum of History and
Technology. The matter was to be considered by NAFMAB.

The Institution’s continuing attention to the recommendations of
the General Accounting Office report, the report of the Regents’
Audit and Review Committee, and the report of the Surveys and
Investigations Staff of the House of Representatives, has resulted
in implementation of virtually all of the recommendations.

Progress reports on continuing projects of the Institution included
the Museum Support Center status of planning; Smithsonian
Exposition Books plans; Mall Parking Study, Phase II; a description
of approved projects under the special program for collections
acquisitions and scholarly and educational outreach projects; trans-
fer of the Trade (Tariff) Commission Building; Equal Opportunity
Program describing Affirmative Action Plans; the status of major
renovation and repair projects of various Smithsonian buildings; the

[ 21 ]
status of the collections inventory project; participation by the
Institution in the celebration of the Einstein Centennial and the
International Year of the Child; Smithsonian Television Programs;
and the National Associates Program.

The Board of Regents voted to confer the title of Regent Emeritus
upon George H. Mahon for his long and faithful service to the
Institution. Mr. Mahon retired from the Congress of the United
States and had been a Regent since 1964.

MAY 7, 1979, MEETING: The spring meeting of the Board of Regents
was held in the Regents Room and was called to order by the
chancellor, and notice of the Executive Committee meeting held on
April 18, 1979, was taken.

The board considered a draft of bylaws which will be acted on
at the next meeting. It was noted that the enabling statute for the
Smithsonian Institution, codified as subchapter 1 of Chapter 3,
Title 20, U.S. Code, defines with considerable specificity many of
the procedures and policies usually set forth in an organization’s
bylaws, and the bylaws of the Board of Regents will convey the
methods and rules by which the board intends to conduct its super-
visory and fiduciary activities.

The financial reports indicated that preliminary hearings on the
federal budget for fiscal year 1980 were favorable. The nonappro-
priated trust-funds budget, when initially presented, proved to be
somewhat conservative, and projections for the future showed a
higher return on investment income, as well as results of auxiliary
activities. As a result of an earlier recommendation to select a new
certified public-accounting firm to conduct the annual audit of the
nonappropriated trust funds, the selection of Coopers and Lybrand,
made by the Executive Committee, was ratified by the Board of
Regents to begin with fiscal year 1979. It was pointed out that the
change in the auditing firm, a common practice in financial busi-
ness, was not in any way a criticism of the present auditors, but
rather a desire to have a new look at the accounting and financial
operations of the Institution.

The Secretary submitted a written report on progress to date
concerning the South Quadrangle development, detailing par-
ticularly the recent pledge of $1 million from the Japanese govern-
ment toward the cost of the project. The revised architectural con-

[ 22 ]

cept was described and the new model was shown, and the review
of legislative action to authorize and fund further action revealed
that favorable action by the Congress was anticipated. The Secre-
tary advised the Regents of the creation of an ad hoc committee to
assist in raising funds for the project.

With the Regents’ consent, the Smithsonian and the Boston
Athenaeum decided to postpone a final agreement concerning
acquisition of the Gilbert Stuart portraits of George and Martha
Washington, pending the result of a Boston-based fundraising
campaign.

The Board of Regents approved publication of the Smithsonian
Exposition books entitled Animals Alive and The American Land,
contingent on confirmation by the Executive Committee that
satisfactory test-mailing results have been received. Three other
projects, selected for preliminary development based on reader
surveys, include a book on the sun and a series of children’s books.

The research at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies is presently being conducted on land holdings sufficient to
enable the Institution to control and monitor the Rhode River
estuary and enable the center to pursue its research in upland
ecology, watershed studies, and estuarine ecology. It was reported
that scientific integrity of the area could be protected by acquisition
of additional land, and the Secretary was authorized to pursue the
matter.

The board approved the acquisition and operation of aircraft for
research purposes in connection with a coral-reef project, to be
conducted by the National Museum of Natural History in the
Pacific and Indian oceans.

The board expressed its approval of the introduction of legisla-
tion to extend the existing appropriations authority of the National
Museum Act. Also, the Regents are supporting pending legislation
to raise the ceiling on appropriations for Barro Colorado Island at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

The Regents approved the award of the Henry Medal to Dr.
Porter M. Kier in recognition of his important contributions to the
Smithsonian Institution and his successful stewardship of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

The Secretary reported to the Regents on various programs.
The Museum Support Center project is progressing and an appro-

[ 23 ]
priations request for construction funds is pending in the 1980
federal budget; the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory
Board generally agreed that the board should continue in its present
form and meet at more frequent periodic intervals to offer advice
and assistance to Smithsonian programs concerned with armed-
forces history; the transfer to the Smithsonian of the Museum of
African Art was proceeding and the necessary transfer arrange-
ments were being worked out. Status reports were presented on
major plant-improvement projects: the National Museum of the
Building Arts, the Trade (Tariff) Commission Building, the Mall
Parking Study, television programs, the Smithsonian Science In-
formation Exchange, and the National Associates Program.

On the evening preceding the Regents meeting, at the Regents
dinner, the Secretary, on behalf of the Board of Regents, presented
to T. Ames Wheeler, retiring treasurer, the Secretary’s Gold Medal
for Exceptional Service. The Regents wished to record their special
appreciation to Mr. Wheeler in recognition of the substantial con-
tributions he made to strengthening the Institution’s financial-
management systems and controls, in guiding and directing its
increasingly significant auxiliary activities, and in providing con-
stant wise counsel to the Secretary and the board on financial and
administrative matters. The Regents approved the appointment of
Mr. Christian C. Hohenlohe to succeed Mr. Wheeler as treasurer
of the Institution.

SEPTEMBER 17, 1979, MEETING: The autumn meeting of the Board of
Regents took place in the Regents Room and was called to order
by the chancellor. It was noted that the Executive Committee met
on August 20, 1979.

The board had previously considered a draft of bylaws by which
the Regents would administer the Institution. The board adopted
the bylaws and authorized their printing and distribution. Appoint-
ments to the Regents’ Audit and Review Committee, established in
the bylaws, and to the Regents’ Personnel Committee, were
affirmed.

A detailed report on the financial affairs of the Institution dis-
closed the status of the fiscal year 1980 and 1981 federal appropria-
tion requests, the supplemental request for 1979, and the non-
appropriated funds budget. The proposed federal budget for fiscal

[ 24 ]
i

et

., ye
oe

i

This row of nine Capitol Hill townhouses, including the one-time residence of
Frederick Douglass, comprises the Museum of African Art. Below. A young visitor
to the museum admires a sculpture of the Luba people of Zaire. (Photo credit for
both pictures: Eliot Elisofon Photo Archives, Museum of African Art.)

year 1981 was reviewed and approved for submission to the Office
of Management and Budget, together with a preliminary budget of
the nonappropriated funds for fiscal year 1981. The board voted
to confirm the authority of the Secretary to establish on behalf of
the Institution and any of its bureaus such commercial bank ac-
counts as are necessary for the conduct of its business.

A draft update of the Five-Year Prospectus of the Institution for
fiscal years 1981-85 was circulated for review and consideration
by the Regents, and a report by the Investment Policy Committee
was received.

P.L. 96-36 was signed by the President on July 20, 1979, author-
izing planning and up to $500,000 to be appropriated for the South
Quadrangle Project. The Secretary reviewed the status of the In-
stitution’s budget request for the planning in the current appropria-
tion bill and reviewed plans for fundraising in the private sector.
The Institution expects to seek authorization to complete planning
and to construct the project in the Second Session of the Ninety-
sixth Congress.

The Museum of African Art officially became a bureau of the
Smithsonian on August 13, 1979. In accordance with P.L. 95-414,
the Regents appointed ten members to the Commission for the
Museum from its former board, and the Regents will appoint five
remaining commission members at the January meeting.

Publication of The Smithsonian Book of the American Land was
approved.

A draft of an updated survey of Smithsonian property was
presented for the Regents’ review. For each Smithsonian facility,
the survey provides identification and purpose; location; size; date,
type, and cost of acquisition; and details of major repairs, renova-
tions, or improvements. Revised and updated as required, the survey
will supplement the Five-Year Prospectus and the Programs and
Activities book and will provide a useful cross-reference to the
Institution’s annual budget request.

The Regents voted to approve the naming of the Silver Hill
facility of the National Air and Space Museum “The Paul E.
Garber Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Facility” in honor of
Mr. Garber’s sixty years of service at the Smithsonian.

The Secretary reported on the status of:

—the Museum Support Center, on which construction may soon
begin;

[ 26 ]
—transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange to the
Department of Commerce;

—special programs for collections acquisition, scholarly studies,
and educational outreach.

The board approved presentation of the James Smithson Medal
to Pope John Paul II on his visit to the United States in October
1979.

The Regents noted the award of the Secretary’s Medal for Ex-
ceptional Service to Dorothy Rosenberg and approved their own
resolution recognizing her effective work for over two decades.

[ 27 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS

Fiscal Years 1970 and 1975-1979

(In $1,000,000’s)

200

FUNDS PROVIDED

175

Auxiliary
and

a:
v
~
S
u
Qo.
°
M
a.
ou.
oO
S
cS}

Zz

Bureau

Trust Funds

(Gross Revenues)

Activities

150

Expenses

125

Federal Grants
and Contracts

Appropriations

Federal

“hmm

: ‘i
. AN

Od

B55
SSE

OX

25

oO
“aren
<x

seen

BAAS

on
sees |
ee
050-0 |
0,0,0.8
settee
Sete
oe
oretete®

100

75
50
25

0

1976 1977 1978 1979

1975

1970

200

FUNDS APPLIED

To Plant and Endowment

Administration and Facilities Services

175

150

125

Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

100

History and Art

_ Special Programs
~Public Service

Rell Z —Museum Programs

fw
\

IN

TL

ys,
50

-
Ll
iN

Science

= \

wy
N

i

\

> —

1976 1977 1978 1979

1975

1970
Smithsonian Institution - 1979
FINANCIAL REPORT

CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER

Summary: Fiscal year 1979 was a generally favorable year for the
Smithsonian, with substantial financial support from all sources and
better-than-balanced budgets. As demonstrated by the chart on the
facing page, there was again overall growth in the Institution’s
funds, sufficient primarily to continue existing programs but also,
in a few cases, to pursue new initiatives. A welcome newcomer to
the Smithsonian family during the year was the Museum of African
Art. A federal appropriation to the Institution for the museum’s
operating support permitted the acquisition to take place on August
13, 1979, and the financial activities of the museum since that date
are incorporated in this report.

Generous congressional support of the Institution continued in
fiscal year 1979, with overall appropriations totaling over $110.5
million, an increase of more than $6 million over the previous year.
These federal appropriations provide core support for the Institu-
tion’s basic research, exhibition, and education programs; for ac-
quisition, care, documentation, and study of the national collections;
and for construction, maintenance, restoration, and protection of all
Smithsonian facilities. While much of the increase over the prior
year was necessary to cover the inflationary costs felt throughout
Smithsonian operations, additional funds were provided for high-
priority needs, such as collection inventories and the multiple-
mirror telescope. Appropriations also permitted substantial progress
on the National Zoo Master Plan construction and on planning for
the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland. Congressional
understanding and backing of the Institution’s research and educa-
tion programs are deeply appreciated.

In recent years, as these financial reports have indicated, the
enthusiastic public acceptance of the Smithsonian Associates Pro-

[ 29 ]
gram and other educational auxiliary activities, as well as gifts and
grants from individuals and foundations, have enabled the Institu-
tion to support a significant portion of its programs from nonappro-
priated funds. Net revenues from these sources declined in fiscal
year 1979 but were sufficient to continue the $2-million-per-year
program established last year for major collections acquisition,
scholarly studies, and educational outreach, as well as numerous
operating allotments to Smithsonian bureaus and programs, and
reserves for construction and land acquisition. But for the success
of auxiliary activities, appropriations would have been sought for
many of these projects. Because of favorable projections for unre-
stricted fund activities and as a measure to reduce directly the
Smithsonian’s costs to taxpayers, the Board of Regents approved
the application this year of $1 million of nonappropriated funds to
support expenses for the Smithsonian fellowship program and costs
of certain leased space that previously had been covered by appro-
priated funds. In recognition, however, that current financial suc-
cesses are not guaranteed in the future, a transfer of the unrestricted
fund surplus of over $2.5 million to endowment was also author-
ized, in order to ensure the Institution’s continued ability to provide
nonappropriated funds for research and educational programs.

This combination of congressional and private financial support,
of grant funds and earned revenues, has been a source of strength
to the Institution in meeting its goals and seizing new opportunities.
A major new priority of the Institution, the South Quadrangle, will
seek to draw further on this dual public/private partnership. The
anticipated financial plan for this project, which will include con-
struction of an Oriental Gallery and a new building for the Museum
of African Art in the area south of the Smithsonian “Castle,” will
rely on contributions, self-generated funds from auxiliary activities,
and appropriated funds. As an initial commitment to the project,
the Board of Regents authorized a transfer of $1,385,000 to plant
funds from unrestricted nonappropriated trust funds for ongoing
and future planning and design effort. The government of Japan
informed the Institution during the year that it will provide $1
million towards construction of the Oriental Gallery.

In an ongoing effort to provide full financial information on
Smithsonian activities in this report, minor changes have again been
made in Table 1 and the supporting tables that follow.

[ 30 ]
TABLE 1. Financial Summary

(In $1,000’s)

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS

FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses .....
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts ..............
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
BEINACICC FUTPOSES .........600sessececes
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross
—Less Related Expenses ..................4..

Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ..
Investment, Gift, and Other Income .........

Total Net Unrest. & Special Purpose Revenue. .
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ...

—Net.....
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross .........
Oe ai eed oe ey els

FUNDS APPLIED
SR a ae cle wee a wis selene ee

—Less SAO Overhead Recovery ...............
SS a ee
MEE Se ic a eds wc nwa ek eens oes
IPE ae ress bP elec S's oy eine sb Wa es
Ey 2 oe. geen winin a 4; diel wei epee
Associates and Business Management ............
Administration—Federal**

—Nonappropriated Trust Funds

—Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery .....
Facilities Services

eee ep oe aye (eh) oe eee ee eo ee

ae ele Mie 6 8 & Pit V8. ele 10s Vi eas wie ex © w le

Total Operating Funds Applied .................
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)

Unrestricted Funds—To Plant .................

—To Endowments ..........

Restricted Funds—To Endowments ............

Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out

CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST

FUND BALANCES
Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Grants &
Contracts)
Unrestricted—General Purpose ..................
poeOCIAL PMTQOSE .... <2 cece sneer nes

iit Mtns eee aS CS edi She eeaese eee ease evasuaee

YEAR-END BALANCES—

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS
ES
Unrestricted—General Purpose

PCR IE ETEIOSE «co olsen do xin wwe

es ek ee

ie ween ans a Se e's @ = Sas 6 6 6 0.6 €@ © bis 6.0 6 & 6 Hie exe S

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange
EC STCMICY PYOCTAM 6005 es oe ev in sense ees
Construction

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above)..

Seka ae © OS SOCKS O16 Be Sse 8 Oe Y ©

$100,219

FY 1977

$ 85,236
10,515

4,407

41,884

(32,485)

9,399

1,676

11,075
47,967
15,482

143,718

$111,233

103,293

909
9,921
17k

$109,544

FY 1978

$ 93,393
Do?

6,538

55,189
(43,070)

12,119

2,241

14,360
63,968
20,898

168,518
$125,448

$ 50,396
(1,841)
19,105

2,799
7,454
1,981
244
6,346
3,795
(3,359)
25,985

112,905
869

3,271
1,261

$118,306

$ 980
850
5,312

$ 7,142

$ 4,540
4,932
9,604

$ 19,076

$ 1,857
4,000
5,250

$104,500

FY 1979

$ 98,202
11,412

4,577

67,360
(57,557)

9,803
3,394

13,197
75,331
17,774

184,945
$127,388

$ 53,002
(1,850)
20,245

2,927
8,003
2,692
304
7,071
4,134
(4,038)
27,790

120,280
1,857

2,671
413

$125,221

$ 171
33
1,963

$ 2,167

$ 4,900***

4,965
11,567

$ 21,432

$ 2,063
3,700
6,575

$110,540

* Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds:
FY 1977 - $239,000; FY 1978 - $185,000; FY 1979 - $96,000.

** Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1977 - $150,000; FY 1978 - $112,000;

FY 1979 - $47,000.

*** Includes addition to fund balance to reflect acquisition of Museum of African Art restricted

purpose fund balance of $189,000.
Operating Funds—Sources and Application

As indicated in Table 1, as well as the chart on page 28, there has
been substantial and sustained growth in gross operating revenues
to the Institution in recent years. Total gross operating funds in-
creased over $16,000,000, or 10 percent, from $168,518,000 in fiscal
year 1978 to $184,945,000 in fiscal year 1979. Federal appropria-
tions constitute 53 percent of total gross operating funds provided,
federal agency grants and contracts 6 percent, and nonappropriated
funds 41 percent.

The growth in net operating funds, after deducting the necessary
expenses of the nonappropriated fund auxiliary activities, was a
more moderate 2 percent. These funds, available to support the
wide range of Smithsonian programs, are 77 percent from federal
appropriations, 9 percent from federal agency grants and contracts,
and 14 percent from nonappropriated sources. Application of these
monies by all Smithsonian bureaus is displayed in Table 2, with
further supporting detail contained in other tables.

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

Federal appropriations provided $98,202,000 toward the Institu-
tion’s operating needs in fiscal year 1979, an increase of $4.8 million
over the previous fiscal year. As in the past, much of this increase
($3,300,000) was required to fund legislated salary increases; sev-
eral program areas, however, received significant new funding,
including an Institution-wide collections inventory program, the
newly acquired Museum of African Art, the multiple-mirror tele-
scope project of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, and
the Research Awards Program. In addition, some $160,000 was
appropriated directly to the Smithsonian for programs previously
supported through grants awarded by the National Endowments
for the Arts and Humanities. As referred to above, $1,000,000 of
nonappropriated funds was applied in fiscal year 1979 to reduce the
cost to the federal appropriation of leased space ($400,000) and the
Institution’s fellowship program ($600,000).

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Grants and contracts from federal agencies totaled $11,412,000 for
fiscal year 1979, a slight increase over the previous year. These

[ 32 ]
funds, representing 9 percent of net operating revenue, continue
to constitute a very important source of support for the Institution’s
research. As in previous years (see Table 3: Grants and Contracts—
Expenditures), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
provided the majority of the awards (about 73 percent of the total),
primarily for research and experimentation at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. Some examples of the projects supported
by federal agency grants are: studies of biological systems in the
Antarctic, research in medical entomology and establishment of a
lower mammal tumor registry directed by the National Museum of
Natural History, analysis of lunar geological features by the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, experiments in high-energy astron-
omy by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, and investiga-
tions of the chemical components of marsh water at the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

Nonappropriated trust funds continue to be the second-largest
source of operating support for the Smithsonian. During fiscal year
1979, gross trust funds provided rose by 18 percent over fiscal year
1978; however, net funds provided, after deduction of costs incurred
by central auxiliary and bureau activities, decreased 15 percent to a
level of $17,774,000, compared to $20,898,000 in fiscal year 1978.
This decrease was due to reduced gifts and grants for restricted pur-
poses, as well as a decreased net revenue from auxiliary activities.
The net revenue, for both restricted and unrestricted purposes, con-
stitutes 14 percent of total net operating funds provided to the
Institution.

Revenue for Restricted purposes totaled $4,577,000 this past
year (see Table 4) and was derived from gifts ($1,775,000), invest-
ment income ($2,075,000), and other sources ($727,000), including
fundraising activities of the Archives of American Art and the
museum shop of the Freer Gallery of Art. Endowment investment
income, as discussed below, provides major support for the Freer
Gallery of Art and oceanographic research at the Fort Pierce
Bureau, as well as funding a large number of specific research and
educational projects annually. Major gift support was received dur-
ing the year for important collection acquisitions at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, National Collection of Fine Arts,

[ 33 ]
TaBLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds
Year Ended September 30, 1979

(Excludes ss1e, Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)

Funds

FUND BALANCES—
1 October 1978

FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations
Investment Income
Grants and Contracts
Gifts
Sales and Revenue
Other

ee ee
SP ce OO

a» @ = «a Ss
» p66 Sie © eee cele) a ences) ae
er Om, (ate ee ele

o's we ee ee BR 8 8 eee) Ss Se elce
= os ape @ ©

FUNDS APPLIED
Science:
Assistant Secretary
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History ..
Astrophysical Observatory .
Less Overhead Recovery ..
Tropical Research Inst. ......
Radiation Biology Lab.
Natl. Air & Space Museum ..
Chesapeake Bay Center
Natl. Zoological Park
Center for Study of Man .
Fort Pierce Bureau

ow alin

Total Science

History and Art:

Assistant Secretary
Natl. Mus. of Hist. & Tech. .
Natl. Collect. of Fine Arts ..
Natl. Portrait Gallery
Hirshhorn Museum
Freer Gallery of Art
Archives of American Art ..
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Museum of African Art

Total History and Art

a a C.e e « ete a

eee ewe
a6 (eo) we le) Se,

Ss oie ale a. wlio

Public Service:
Assistant Secretary
Reception Center’ ys... 23.
Anacostia Museum .........
Intl. Exchange Service
Performing Arts<./:...0.¢ J0544
Smithsonian Press
Exposition Books

he ef eto) an et

ee ee

Total Public Service ..

Fed-

eral

funds

98,202

294
13,248
4,803
2,025
1,714
5,363
672
7,854
550

36,523

290
6,421
3,069
2,265
2,080
554
459
467
100

15,705

(In $1,000’s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants

non- iliary cial and
federal Gen- activ- pur-  Gen-  con-
funds eral ities pose eral tracts
$ 19,076 $ 4,932 $ -O- $ 9,604 $ 4,428 $ 112
4,605 2,276 — 254 2,075 —
11,412 —_— —_— —_— — 11,412
2,457 163 475 44 L775 _—
66,885 — 64,846 2,039 —_ —
1,384 40 — 617 FeV 5 —
86,743 BATS. (65,324 2,954 4577 Fiat
$105,809 $ 7,411 $65,321 $12,558 $ 9,005 $11,524
$ 237 $ 46 $ — $ 4 $ 21 5 166
2,319 116 —_— 703 519 981
11,663 1,883 — 180 65 9,535
(1,850) (1,850) nm ae = =
215 55 — ieis 26 1
158 — — 36 18 104
1,481 40 — 1,192 167 82
529 259 — 114 4 fod
297 48 —_— 92. 54 103
89 1 — — 62 26
504 —_ — — 504 —_—
15,642 598 — 2,454 1,440 11,150
79 61 —_ 1 — jr
585 26 — aS 251 (5)
611 49 —_— 290 PAT —
292 122 — 18 147 5
459 62 —_— 387 10 _
1,072 L7. — — 1,055 —_
341 —_ — 40 301 —_
1,434 302 — 690 346 96
20) — — 12, LS —_
4,898 639 —_— L75i 2,395 113
313 284 — 27 2 —
238 238 — — _ _—
28 21 —_— 6 1 —
37139 140 2,903 24 —_ 72
1,690 — 1,690 —_ _— _—
2,841 — 2,841 — —_ _
8,249 683 7 A34 oF = 72
TasLe 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued
Year Ended September 30, 1979

(Excludes ss1e, Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary _ cial and
eral federal Gen- activ- pur-  Gen-  con-
Funds funds funds _ eral ities pose eral __ tracts
Museum Programs:
Assistant Secretary ......... 2,095 127 22 — 85 20 —
EI clniniieys «= <= + so ais-0 6m 107 — — — — — aa
Conserv. Analytical Lab. .... 627 — — — — — —
hyip ae 2,397 i52, 152 — — — —
eee 1,167 26 — _ 19 7 —
Traveling Exhib. Service .... 145 881 1 820 24 4 32
rr 324 30 29 — 1 — —
National Museum Act ...... 792 — — — — — —
Total Museum
oo 7,654 1,216 204 820 129 roi § 32
Special Programs:
Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. 346 358 212 — 67 13 66
Intl. Environmental Pgm. ... 382 — — — — — —
Academic & Educational Pgm. 451 294 92 — 176 26 a
Mesearcn AWards ........... 386 a“ — — — — —
Collection Mgt./Inventory ... 482 — — — — — —
Total Special Programs 2,047 652 304 == 243 39 66
Associates Program ......... — 34,554 245 34,249 1 4 55
Business Management ...... — 13,199 — 13,199 — — —
SMGMMRISEEAtION ............- 7,024. 4,569 4,007 419 70 71 2
Less Overhead Recovery .. — (4,038) (4,038) — — — —
Facilities Services .......... 27,090 694 701 — (7) — —
Transfers Out/(In):
oS 47* — a — — — a
Coll. Acq., Schol. St., Outrch. — — 2,000 — (2,000) — —
Liability Reserves .......... — — 500 — (500) — —
Net Auxiliary Activities .... — — (8,803) 8,803 — — —
Other Designated Purposes .. — — 982 397 (1,311) (68) —
a re — 1,857 1,853 —_— 4 ae —
BGOWMENE ..........0.000- — 3,084 2,571 — 100 = 413 ——
otal Transfers ...... 47 4,941 (897) 9,200 (3,707) 345 —

Total Funds Applied .. $98,202 $ 84,576 $ 2,446 $65,321 $ 991 $4,328 $11,490

Adjustment to Opening Bal.**$ —$ 189$ — $ —$ — $ 187 $ 2

FUND BALANCES 9/30/79.. $ -O- $ 21,432 $ 4,965 $ — $11,567 $4,864 $ 36

* Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
** Addition to fund balance to reflect acquisition of Museum of African Art fund balance of
$189,000.
TaBLe 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(In $1,000’s)

Federal Agencies FY 1977 FY 1978 FY 1979
Department Of DGRense ay o5.05 im en inn es $ 998 $ 968 $ 1,079
Departmentof Enerey: 1. wisccis erred cc dea 157 266 304
Department of Health, Education,
and Veiare. oo: siceunce < shlemete «bh Seas 282 311 288
Department: of Interior...) <4 opisae nse 155 4 65
Bepartment. Of, State ho... scuslagks sss sae 282 15 --
Environmental Protection Agency ......... 452 422 31
National Aeronautics and Space
FGininistratiOn 2 oct in nigh and Be Ge ee 6,346 7,324 8,336
National Endowments for the Arts and
PIMA NeS. es Se ne ete re ne mes aes 356 226 105
National Science Foundation .............. 315 400 385
8 oo ee ond ee PRONE NIE Sam RP Rae 1,228 1,151 897
i fc) | cP neee rare ben $10,571 $11,087 $11,490

and the National Museum of Natural History; for documentation
of the Catalogue of American Portraits at the National Portrait
Gallery; for exhibits at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology; and for a range of
research and other projects supporting virtually every aspect of
Smithsonian interests.

The Special Purpose fund category of Unrestricted Nonappro-
priated Funds includes moneys generated by various bureau activ-
ities, and allotments to bureaus as shares of income from shops and
concession activities. Table 5 details the source and application of
these funds by bureaus. The major sources of revenues are the
National Air and Space Museum, with a new film, Living Planet,
drawing large attendance at its theater, and the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum in New York, which enjoys continued success with its
membership and educational programs, fundraising auction, and
museum shop sales. Also accounted for as transfers to special pur-
pose funds are the allocations authorized for Collections Acquisi-
tion, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach ($2,000,000); the
fellowship program, previously funded from federal appropriations
($600,000); a reserve for potential magazine liabilities; and support

[ 36 ]
TaBLe 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds* Fiscal Years 1977-1979

Item
te 77—lotal ........
mene 7e— Total ........

FY 1979:

Museum of

Natural History .....
Astrophysical

SesetvatOry ........
National Air and

Space Museum ......
Fort Pierce Bureau ....
miner Science .........
Museum of History

and Technology .....
National Collection

oe tame Arts ........
National Portrait Gallery
Hirshhorn Museum ....
Freer Gallery of Art ....
Archives of

mamerican Art .......
Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Museum of African Art.
a

Total FY 1979 ...

(In $1,000’s)

Revenue Net Fund

Trans- in- bal-

Total fers crease ance
Invest- rev- Deduc- in (de- endof

ment Gifts Misc. enue’ tions (out) crease) year

$1,690 $1,724 $ 993 $4,407 $4,901 $ 354 $ (140) $3,518

2 16 1 19 65 150 104 36
101 10 = 111 167 (10) (66) 946
610 == a 610 504 (340) (234) 142
243 109 1 353 185. (350)  (is2y 295
35 217 (tO). 4242 251 7 (2) 365
37 227 (11) 253 272 54 35 179
23 99 2 124 147 14 (9) 332
32 237 = 269 10 ae 259 512
756 57 334 1,147 1,055 a 92 352
14 96 356 466 301 = 165 340
41 290 10 341 346 me (5): 322
= = an! a 13 = (13) 174
15 102 37 154 148 (10) (4) <* 322

* Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.

** Includes addition to fund balance to reflect acquisition of Museum of African Art
fund balance of $187,000.

for a number of other Institutional endeavors. Due to the success of
its bureau activities, the National Air and Space Museum was able
during the year to make a further transfer of $100,000 to the
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History Endowment Fund, for a
total amount transferred of $350,000 to date toward a goal of

$900,000.

[ 37 ]
TaBLe 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Years 1977-1979
(In $1,000’s)

Deductions

Net Fund

in- bal-
crease ance

(de- end of

crease) year

$1,875 $4,292

951

$ (95) $ 345

148 321
14 90
14 me Be
195 813
24 145
8 456
(95) 108
20 141
=a 3
1 1
(11) 36
500 2,400
345 1,386
— , 2008
658 1,141

Revenue
Gifts
Bu- and Pro-
reau other Total Trans- gram
Invest- activ- reve- reve- fers ex-
Item ment ities nue nue in/(out) pense
EY 2077 eters: S 3 $1,721 $387 $2,111 $ 828 $ 447
FY 1978 .c.AGiver: $175 $1,327 $506 $2,008 $5,450 $1,284
FY 1979:
Museum of
Natural History... $11 $ 2 $53 $ 66 $ 542 $ 696
Astrophysical
Observatory ..... 1 = 29 30 298 180
Tropical Research
Institute 6... — 40 — 40 107 87
National Air and
Space Museum .. 130 1,284 13° “LD Aay 16 241
National Zoological
Pale he tte 44 — 139 183 104 92
Other Science ..... 1 7 20 28 150 145
Museum of History
and Technology .. 24 4 61 89 232 299
National Collection
of Fine Arts ..... be 2 79 92 103 290
Hirshhorn Museum. 7 a 6 13 394 387
Cooper-Hewitt
Museum . «2/222. Pa 542 145 689 1 355
Museum of
African Art ..... — i a 17 (4) _—
Exhibits Central ... 2 1 5 8 — 34
Liability Reserves .. — — — os 500 _
Unallocated Acqui-
sition, Schol. St.,
and Outreach .... — — — — 345 —
Collections Acq.
ESEIVE oe ons = os os — — —
Support Activities
and Other... 2% 4 Zit. 140 eit 272 919 456
FY 1979 Total $254 $2,039 $661 $2,954 $3,707 $3,262

[ 38 ]
General Unrestricted Purpose funds include all unrestricted
moneys provided ‘for general Institutional purposes, including
auxiliary activity revenues (Tables 6 and 7). Net General Unre-
stricted Purpose funds provided were lower in fiscal year 1979 than
the prior year by approximately $1,500,000 (see Table 6). While
investment income was substantially higher, due both to rising
short-term interest rates as well as to prior-year additions to unre-
stricted endowment, the net gains from auxiliary activities declined
by almost $2,500,000. Contributing to this decrease were the appli-
cation, for the first time, of rental charges to auxiliary activities
occupying space in Smithsonian buildings, higher central admin-
istrative overhead fees, and severe inflationary cost pressures. As
shown in Table 7, the majority of auxiliary activity revenue comes
from the Associates Program, primarily through the Smithsonian
magazine, which continues to enjoy a widespread and enthusiastic
reception. Also important in generating net revenue for other In-
stitutional needs are Smithsonian Exposition Books, which bene-
fitted this past year from the newly published Smithsonian Book
of Invention as well as continued sales of earlier publications, and
the Division of Performing Arts, which released nine recordings
for sale to the public. The decline in net revenue from the Museum
Shops, due to continued start-up costs of the Mail Order Divi-
sion, was offset by the gain of the Smithsonian Institution Press,
primarily from its mail sales of the new book The National Air and
Space Museum. Significant financial support was also received from
public concessions in various Smithsonian buildings.

Notwithstanding this decline in unrestricted funds provided, the
Institution was able to continue the support of numerous programs
and central administrative units with these funds. Major operating
support was provided to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Office of
American and Folklife Studies, the Office of Fellowships and
Grants, the Visitor Information and Associates Reception Center,
and the Office of Telecommunications, in addition to a large num-
ber of small allocations to other bureaus of the Institution. Awards
for program support, including collections acquisitions, were made
to the Freer Gallery of Art, the National Air and Space Museum,
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the Reception Center,
the National Museum of History and Technology, and the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery from funds raised by the Smithson Society

[ 39 ]
TaBLe 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and
Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1977-1979
(In $1,000’s)

Item FY 1977 FY 1978 FY 1979

FUNDS PROVIDED

General Income:

Pnventinente  eocos tytn siete tiers encore $1,154 $ 1,400 $ 2,276
CSIES os oan a we PehgtOeee Mein EAT Shere ote cee 48 Tre 163
Miscellaneotisins sscccaw pats. weet gated 84 48 40
Total ‘General Income?<:.4 4% sk4n%k% 1,286 1,560 2,479
Auxiliary Activities (net):
PASSORIBERG iis Ug tidy al ate ten ene ens iia 6,580 7,656 6,429
Business Management
Museum: Shops 2.22.2 entire ee 828 738 287
ASO OMCESSIONG! Fo. 50 opine sober da tens orn eo 1,651 1,567 1,641
aa 62 REND ree PR rN AMON ae Fo (112) (169) (245)
FPertornune Arts” 0207 2285 ees ee oe eats (343) 253 177
Smithsonian IP EESS: sayh's sours «SOY Aer (108) (199) 292
EXDIOSIEIN p BOOKS: asic sve aca ees = hoe ae (131) 2,105 1,036
Traveling Exhibitions. {7.22.2 ence ee (79) (112) (142)
Photo iServiees f'n os seer ene 9 (185) (275)
Total Auxiliary Activities .......... 8,295 11,654 9,200
Total Funds Provided (Net) ........ 9,581 13,214 11,679

EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS

Administrative and Program Expense ..... 6,735 7,974 9,231
Less Administrative Recovery ............ 4,592 5,200 5,888
Net Expense’ >. a. dacs eee oe 2,143 2,774 3,343

Less Transfers:
To Special Purpose and Restricted Funds

for Program Purposes... 2)... 266 04% 1,350 5,700 3,879
TortPlant Fands’. 2o6 2.0 ces. + eee 559 869 1,853
Fo! Endowment: Funds: \)).6 % .(getiek Geet one 5524 3,021 2,571

NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE ... 8 850 33
ENDING EUND: BALANGE! >. 236:: sates $4,082 $ 4,932 $ 4,965

[ 40 ]

Tas.eE 7. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1977-1979
(In $1,000’s)

Sales Less
and cost
other of Gross Ex-
Activity revenue Gifts sales revenue _penses
ic a xe cee eens $39,786 $377 $18,129 $22,034 $13,739
PR re) 5 dicivin tes c aiels'e ee eoa $53,420 $442 $23,536 $30,326 $18,672
FY 1979:
Ie ge a wwe $40,203 $475 $22,395 $18,283 $11,854
Business Management:
—Museum Shops* Sasol s tie daw 12,879 — 6,477 6,402 6,115
E=QPCESSIONS ............. 1,748 — — 1,748 107
0 ES 255 — — 255 500
Performing SoS eee oe 3,080 — 875 2,205 2,028
Smithsonian Press ........... 1,982 — 751 1,231 939
eposition BOOKS ............. 3,877 — 1,364 2,513 1,477
Traveling Exhibitions ........ 678 = — 678 820
Photo Services (Administration) 144 — yy) 122 397
MeuaeyY 1979 ......... $64,846 $475 $31,884 $33,437 $24,237

* Includes Museum Shops, Product Development, Mail Order.
** Includes Business Management Office, Belmont.

*** Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of
$438,000 (FY 1977); $390,000 (FY 1978); and $397,000 (FY 1979).

of the Associates. Other allotments this year provided for the full
equipping of the new Laboratory Wing at the Chesapeake Bay
Center for Environmental Studies and the renovation of the Dis-
covery Theatre in the Arts and Industries Building, at which puppet
shows are held, primarily for younger visitors. As referred to above,
the Regents authorized continuation of the $2,000,000 annual pro-
gram for major collections acquisitions ($1,000,000), scholarly
studies ($500,000), and educational outreach ($500,000). These
moneys are reserved in the Special Purpose Funds until expended
by the recipient Smithsonian bureaus.

Other major applications of unrestricted funds were transfers of
over $1,800,000 to Plant Funds (discussed below) and the addition
of over $2,500,000 to unrestricted endowment funds.

[ 41 ]

Net
reve-
nue***

(loss)

$ 8,295

$11,654

$ 6,429

287
1,641
(245)
177
292
1,036
(142)
(275)

$ 9,200
Other Operating Programs

Separate federal appropriations are also received for the Smithsonian
Special Foreign Currency Program, which provides grants to United
States institutions for field research in other countries in which
“excess” foreign currencies are available, and the Smithsonian
Science Information Exchange, which serves as a national source
for the exchange of information on research in progress. The fiscal
year 1979 appropriation for the Special Foreign Currency Program
totaled $3,700,000, or $300,000 less than provided in fiscal year
1978. This amount reflected an increase of $700,000 for grant
awards and a reduction of $1,000,000 for the United States’ con-
tribution to the campaign to save the Egyptian monuments at
Nubia, the fourth and final payment of which was made in fiscal
year 1978. The general areas of research and geographical activities
of this program are contained in Table 8.

The Smithsonian received an appropriation for the Smithsonian
Science Information Exchange of $2,063,000 in fiscal year 1979, an
increase of some $200,000 over the previous fiscal year. This in-
crease covered essentially the cost of inflation experienced over the
past few years.

Construction

The Institution received a federal planning and construction appro-
priation of $6,575,000 in fiscal year 1979, somewhat higher than
that provided in the previous year. As shown in Table 9, the
greater part of this appropriation was for the National Zoological
Park, $3,000,000 for construction of the Great Ape House, an im-
portant part of the National Zoo’s continuing Master Plan, and
$900,000 for restoration and renovation of existing structures at
Rock Creek Park and Front Royal. A further $2,100,000 was appro-
priated for ongoing repair to all other Smithsonian facilities, includ-
ing phased projects to improve access for handicapped visitors, to
correct existing hazardous conditions, to continue facade and roof
repairs, and to improve fire-detection and -suppression systems.
Finally, $575,000 was appropriated for use in association with fiscal

[ 42 ]
TaBLe 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1979—Obligations

System-

atic and
environ-

Archae- mental

Country ology biology
Sh $ — $ 4,157
0 1,173,568 28,490
Sy 1,536,674 134,536
Sf oS ee 4,406 237,617
NIA ee a —_ =
5 $2,714,648 $404,800

Astro-
physics Grant
and Museum admin-
earth pro- istra-
sciences grams tion
$ — $¢ — $¢ —
130,588 15,517 50,000
50,167 80,803 16,702
— 1,145 266
— 1,104 —
$180,755 $98,369 $66,968

Total

$ 4,157
1,397,963
1,818,882

243,434
1,104

$3,465,540*

* An additional amount of $182,000 was obligated by the National Science Foundation,
Science Information Program, for translations and printing of scientific publications

requested by the Smithsonian Institution.

TABLE 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1977-1979
(In $1,000’s)

Sources

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations
National Zoological Park
Museum Support Center ..............
Restoration & Renovation of Buildings. .

ey) .6 mt 6 we

Total Federal Appropriations

Nonappropriated Trust Funds
Income—Gift and Other
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Chesapeake Bay Center
South Quadrangle

Total Income

see & 6.6 & ss a ne
Se Be 6 we Bee ee ee

Transfers from Current Funds:
EN ee ae eee
Chesapeake Bay Center
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Museum of African Art ............
NMNH—West Court & Shops
National Zoological Park ...........
Renwick Gates (Victorian Garden) ...
Sensory and East Gardens
0 ES SO
Tropical Research Institute

va ee Sb eC ote Beh

iy re a Sw Tee eh ae eh

ee os ee

Total Transfers

Total Funds Provided

Ciete. ee 6 O46 ee ee ee 2 ee

559
$10,094

FY 1978

$2,500
325
2,425

5,250

FY 1977

FY 1979

a

year 1978 funds for architectural and engineering planning for
the Museum Support Center. Construction of this facility, which
will provide 302,000 gross square feet of storage, office, laboratory,
and conservation space, is scheduled to begin in fiscal year 1980.
The Institution is being assisted by the General Services Admin-
istration in the management of the design and construction of this
project.

A total of $1,857,000 was allocated to construction and land
purchase from nonappropriated trust funds during the year, the
majority of which ($1,385,000) was for development of the South
Quadrangle, described more fully above. A total of $135,000 was
transferred to this project for development of a conceptual study
and preliminary engineering surveys, and the remaining $1,250,000
will fund architectural plans in fiscal year 1981. The South Quad-
rangle will be a major funding priority, for both appropriated and
nonappropriated funds, in the future.

Additional support ($411,000) was provided for continued land
acquisition at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies, and minor transfers to plant funds were also made for
other construction projects.

Endowment and Similar Funds

The total market value of the Smithsonian Endowment Funds was
$66,619,000 on September 30, 1979, as compared to $58,097,000 on
September 30, 1978. These funds include $65,556,000 invested in
the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund, $1,000,000 on per-
manent deposit in the United States Treasury, and $63,000 of mis-
cellaneous securities. Of this total, $44,097,000 (66 percent) are
Restricted Endowment Funds, with income to be used only for the
purposes specified by the donor, and $22,522,000 (34 percent) are
Unrestricted Funds for the general support of the Institution (see
Table 10). Table 13 is a listing of the Institution’s Endowment
Funds, the largest of which are the Freer Fund, supporting the
operations of the Freer Gallery of Art, and Endowment Fund No. 3,

[ 44 ]

Taste 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1979

Book value Market value

ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
eran nt Echiivalents. if.) 026. ee es nese $ 504,075 $ 504,075
ge RA I a 18,142,328 17,609,648
MNES CPMSINEES ay a civin eire ee voc ese wees 1,579,425 2,057,125
GES es ea ee 37,200,331 45,384,900
iene Pooled Funds ..6..0..66. 000.005. 57,426,159 65,555,748
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
DSI) 40,308 40,308
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity ........ 1,000,000 1,000,000
EEE, ce Lice Seu cwcwa wns tvcbece 9,769 9,100
S| ne 3,572 14,307
Metal Wonpooled Funds ....:.......... 1,053,649 1,063,715
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $58,479,808 $66,619,463
FUND BALANCES
Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ....... $ 953,185 $ 1,417,063
Quasi Endowment ...... 19,579,590 21,105,273
Gene Unrestricted Parpose ............ 20,532,775 22,522,336
Restricted Purpose: True Endowment ......... 34,349,831 40,277,533
Quasi Endowment ....... 3,597,202 3,819,594
Waar mestricted Purpose .............% 37,947,033 44,097,127

Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $58,479,808 $66,619,463

used for oceanographic research. The remainder of the Restricted
and Unrestricted Funds support a wide variety of Institutional
research and museum projects.

The Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is invested under the
management of four professional advisory firms under the close
supervision of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer,
subject to policy guidelines set by the Smithsonian’s Board of
Regents. These firms (with the portion of the Fund under their
management) are BEA, Incorporated (23 percent), Batterymarch
Financial Management Corp. (25 percent), Fiduciary Trust Co. of
New York (43 percent), and Torray Clark & Company, Inc. (9 per-
cent). During fiscal year 1979, the total rate of return of these

[ 45 ]
funds, as calculated by an independent investment measurement
service, was +14.3 percent (including interest and dividend yield
as well as market value appreciation), compared to +12.5 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 average and +7.8 percent for the
Dow Jones Industrial Average.

As outlined in prior reports, the Institution follows the Total
Return policy, under which the total investment return of the
Endowments is defined as yield (interest and dividends) plus
appreciation (realized and unrealized gains). A prudent portion of
this return is paid to each Endowment as income for current ex-
penditures. Since 1973, this income payout has been at the rate of
41/2 percent of the running five-year average of endowment market
values, adjusted for additions or withdrawals of capital. During
fiscal year 1979, the Board of Regents amended this policy to pro-
vide that the annual total return income payout set each year would
be based not solely on the five-year market average but would also
take into account anticipated dividend and interest yields, support
needs of the Institution’s bureaus, and inflationary factors. In ac-
cordance with these principles, and due largely to the increased
yield of both debt and equity investments, the total return income
payout approved by the Board of Regents for fiscal year 1979 was
equivalent to 4.7 percent of the five-year market average. Even at
this level, the payout was $989,000 less than interest and dividends,
and this difference was therefore reinvested into Endowment prin-
cipal, in contrast to prior years, in which appropriation of capital
gains was required to meet the required total return payout.

Included on Table 12 as additions to the Endowments were re-
stricted gifts of $91,000, primarily for the Harold P. Stern Memorial
Fund, a transfer to Unrestricted Endowment Funds of $2,650,000
approved by the Board of Regents, and additional transfers repre-
senting reinvestment of Endowment income pursuant to the terms
of individual Endowments.

A listing of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endow-
ment Fund as of September 30, 1979, may be obtained upon re-
guest from the Treasurer of the Institution.

[ 46 ]

TaBie 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds

(In $1,000’s)

Fund 6/30/75
Rimrestricted ......5.... $ 5,654
0 rr 15,744
Endowment No. 3 ...... 12,321
ES 7,148

ED ei oa a ms $40,867

TABLE 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds

9/30/76

$ 7,477
16,035
12,701

7,420

$43,633

9/30/77 9/30/78
$11,695 $17,206
15,410 16,807
12,343 13,462
7,431 9,555
$46,879 $57,030

for Fiscal Year 1979

Market

value
Fund 9/30/78
Unrestricted ...... $17,206
eS ci bien bs 16,807
Endowment No. 3.. 13,462
Mestrrtead ....:... 9,555

os) $57,030

* Income earned less managers’ fees.

(In $1,000’s)

Gifts
and
trans-
fers

$2,650

340
188

$3,178

Inter-
est
and
divi-
dends*

[ 47 ]

Income
paid
out

Sub-
total

$20,171
17,090
14,031
9,905

$61,197

In-
crease
in
market
value

$1,454
1,213
991
701

$4,359

9/30/79

$21,625
18,303
15,022
10,606

$65,556

Market
value
9/30/79

$21,625
18,303
15,022
10,606

$65,556
Tae 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1979

Funds

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE

Avery, Robert S. and Lydia*
Habel, Dr. S.*
Hamilton, James*
Higbee, Harry*

Morrow, Dwight W.
Mussinan, Alfred
Olmsted) Fieteni A. 6:6. oc es ele eas
Poore, George W. and Lucy T.*
Porter, Henry Kirke
Sanford, George H.*

Subtotal

5 9: 9)\5 ee aS 2 ee 26 S wee eRe
Seis Bee Cae @ Oe Re ee ee
ee ee ee ee

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI

Abbot. Williaa Be Ssi525 7 aac th a
Forrest, Robert Lee
General Endowment*
Goddard, Robert H.
Hackenberg, George P. and Caroline
Part (stoi: Bea ees <n dno
Henry, Caroline
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. ......
G6 Ee Re ti pela at a ase
Hinton, Carrie Susan
Hodgkins, Thomas G.*
Benberts Fata Ge oe ne es ee
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace

History (Dedicated)
Medinits Grace jhe cd ers
Rhees, William Jones*
Sattord, cores Ee. aoa 2 css Was ses
Taggert, Gansen
Witherspoon, Thomas A. ...........

Subtotal

Sete nae Bh ease Cmte at

Sinko. 640 Bie, Stk Sa 6s Om ane e

Mites MY es Br Ney et le: ee wie. iw

a ee! the) m pe oelann) e

Total Unrestricted Purpose

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE

Arthur, James
Baird, Spencer Fullerton
Basniey, IGE PIRE vie ca adces eli enet
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial

Pete Chae ie Secon betes
Brows: Botan Wed... 3's eee
Canfield: Frederick A. sis )< o's sno bee
Chamberlain, Frances Lea ..........
Cooper, G. Arthur, Curator’s Fund ..
Div. of Mammals Curator Fund
Div. of Reptiles Curator Fund
Drake, Carl J.*
Eickenmeyer, Florence Brevoort
Endowment No. 3
BXCOT 8 Ponies ckt ROG So Seog ee he eee
Guggenheim, David and Florence ...
Henderson, Edward P.,

Meteirite Pando bwackeccdi eee
FAP GHEE Ect tere eniadn on oa eee
PIPWNE: SAO ho 3 croatia ey cneton ee eee
Ptrhcace; Assert So Sooty. seca e ee
Hodekins, Thomas GF 5.645 see tec
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie
Hughes, Bruce
Kramar, Nada

PR IS wie Sie ww «oe SS a eke ew Ke

Aim (ew! Lea eh aw ek

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
value value income balance
$ 73,006 $ 103,395 $ 4,370 $ -0O-
500 500 30 —0-
3,098 3,480 189 —0-
20,696 30,995 1,184 —0-
TiS 505 L755 2oe 6,920 —0-
39,375 51,246 2,024 —0-
1,247 1,789 Fi —0-
269,469 400,227 16,351 —0-
427,858 647,085 25,052, —0-
2,431 3,109 145 —0-
953,185 1,417,063 56,836 —0-
29,331 35,143 1,388 —0-
2,152,881 1,950,046 77,004 —0-
16,045,105 17,679,494 656,849 —0-
17,029 15,443 610 —0-
7,903 9,906 391 —0-
959 55 46 —0-
2,381 2,850 113 —0-
96,283 114,003 4,502 —O-
204,487 189,750 7 ,A93 —O-
51,162 55,440 1,642 —0-
75 APL 186,260 9,734 —0-
90,813 101,837 4,021 —0-
356,370 371,971 10,740 —0-
2,017 1,887 74 —0-
1,520 1,695 79 —0-
91,872 88,632 3,500 —O-
735 1,080 43 —0-
25S BAY 298,681 11,794 —0-
19,579,590 ZA LODZ SS 790,023 —0-
$20,532,775 $22,522,336 $ 846,850 $ —0-
$§ 59,743 $ 90/534 $ 3575) eee
54,903 80,928 3,196 170
42,848 64,878 2,562 9,201
76,883 90,661 3,580 10,439
50,988 62,221 2,457 10,605
56,289 99,748 3,939 3,131
42,070 63,701 2,515 8,266
13,918 S57 530 4
3,405 3,815 151 2,820
2,359 2,650 102 286
oL3675 336,679 Be 5 by gc 28,704
16,239 24,579 971 7,895
13,010,009 15,022,092 588,334 142,257
15,561,540 18,302,629 722,825 295,569
ZO1.7 ko 233,601 P2225 —0-
606 805 ae 180
13,838 14,687 580 —0-
81,925 86,691 3,423 —O-
2,354 3,627 143 631
100,000 100,000 6,000 aia PAL
92,352 IE TAZ. 4,451 6,651
28,592 43,350 5 Dig 13,410
5,292 5,925 234 805
TaseE 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1979—Continued

Funds

BEE, JESSIE AL od ecu ee sein ns
Long, Annette E. and Edith C. .......

Maxwell, Mary E.
Milliken, Oothout H.
Mineral Endowment

Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial

Rollins, Miriam and William

Subtotal

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI
Abbott, William L.

Au Panier Fleuri

Barstow, Frederic D.

Casey, Thomas Lincoln

Mees Pa EL. ee ek ce ee
2s.) 0

Hanson, Martin Gustav and

Meme RMNICE 6.6). ee oe ws
oe rs
Jonnson, E. R. Fenimore ............
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ......
Pemered, Charles A, .............+
MERI Te A lei b ehicle av wicls bleu 2

Lyons, Marcus Ward

Myer, Catherine Walden ...........
SS
MME AIUNG oi ois is nic ne eee ae cess

Pell, Cornelia Livingston
Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs. Dewitt

Clinton*
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial
Reid, Addison T.*
Roebling Solar Research

Te ine clic bw ashomce b dipLvl ei
Pee, EONATA FP. ... scene ec veues

Seidell, Atherton

Smithsonian Agency Account .......
MCMTMMREEE OPT. eho) ois viace nw Male wa 4 we oe

Subtotal
Total Restricted Purpose

TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS ....

2006 mee eR aie ee € S
oC tse Pe aie eas et

Damen, William A. ............0s
Natural History and Conservation ...
Nelson, Edward William ............
Meeeunce Collection ......:/..+-.+..
Sprague, Joseph White .............
SS i
Stern, Harold P., Memorial .........
Pee ACT A. 2. ans ve his aves od
Meme onarics DD, 2... esc c esse
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux. .
Walcott Botanical Publications* .....
eres, Francis Brinckle ............

Armstrong, Edwin James ...........
Barve Viremua Purdy ./............
ereneler, Etimia E.................
Beeterdeeoree Fo oi. ede eee ess

Siew e (a) .6. oy enie: (a

na (ee, Wiha ot Wee

eae nam oe C. me Kia ele 6 6 @ ee ee
0 Cie eo O10 wy ie) Se) a) 88 Om

* Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

Principal Income

Unex-

Book Market Net pended
value value income balance
11,107 10,595 789 2,619
810 1,262 50 205
29,299 44,416 1,754 9,100
409 432 L7 —-0-
184,504 199,472 7,877 3,796
25,061 27,288 1,078 1,179
22,406 24,959 826 2
35,785 50,297 1,986 —O-
11,069 16,847 665 11,352
180,543 271,701 10,729 12,420
331,009 434,241 16,962 9,045
2,404,176 2,597,198 101,454 21,284
27,068 40,544 1,601 22,220
218,100 240,672 8,151 11,018
9,469 11,077 437 529
213,816 269,867 10,540 2,822
689,467 1,046,258 41,388 12,093
86,779 126,190 4,983 7,890
1,413 PAM SPA 84 2,220
34,349,831 40,277,534 1,585,081 677,187
204,601 241,264 9,527 —0-
5,033 5,266 203 —0-
41,191 37,516 1,481 —0-
179,135 188,293 7,435 ZO Ae
1,961 2,310 91 2,552
65,377 67,109 2,650 22,417
307,719 325,901 12,869 57,809
24,607 29,066 1,148 2,305
16,898 20,524 793 4
84,513 99,778 3,940 17,099
17,452 20,603 814 2,472
12,903 a Aa 602 3,920
15,898 gs Ptote: 602 8,841
48,179 45,529 1,798 6,162
6,308 7,330 640 1,870
171,417 204,340 8,069 5,248
8,528 8,236 325 —0-
39,663 46,832 1,849 3,179
1,904 2,360 93 1,929
19,391 17,678 698 —O-
14,566 17,289 683 1,879
568,463 558,902 22,683 10,474
20,896 24,772 979 13,159
45,915 52,220 2,288 8,871
48,546 53,260 2,103 405
62,000 59,448 2,348 1,912
15,234 17,920 1,070 9,379
1,223,827 1,287,577 51,985 57,478
305,436 324,495 12,505 9,486
19,641 23,278 919 1,039
3,597,202 3,819,593 153,190 275,416
$37,947,033 $44,097,127 $1,738,271 $952,603
$58,479,808 $66,619,463 $952,603

$2,585,130**

** Total Return Income Payout; does not include $84,000 of interest income for investment of

unexpended income balances.
Related Organizations

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc., was incor-
porated by the Smithsonian in 1971 as a separate nonprofit entity.
Its purpose is to facilitate the planning, management, and coordina-
tion of the nation’s research efforts through the collection, process-
ing, and dissemination of information about ongoing research. In
addition to an annual contract from the Smithsonian, equal to the
appropriation provided the Smithsonian for this purpose, the ex-
change also receives substantial revenues from users of its services.
In fiscal year 1979, these user revenues totaled $1,133,000 and
accounted for 35 percent of the operating costs of the exchange. As
a step toward the transfer of the exchange’s operations to the
Department of Commerce, the appropriation for support of the
exchange will be made to this department in fiscal year 1980,
rather than to the Smithsonian. To assist in the transition, the
Institution will continue to provide administrative and fiscal
services.

Reading is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F), associated with the Institution
since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedi-
cated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary
support is derived from private contributions and a federal contract
with the United States Office of Education to operate the Federal
Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. Administrative services
are provided by the Institution on a contract basis.

During the year, action was taken to close out the books of the
Smithsonian Research Foundation, and this corporation will be
legally dissolved in the near future.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the
National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, were established by Congress within the Institu-
tion but are administered by separate Boards of Trustees. Inde-
pendent financial reports are presented by each of these organiza-
tions. Office space and fiscal and other administrative and support
services are provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars on a reimbursement basis.

The Friends of the National Zoo (FoNz) is an independent, non-
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological
Park. It operates under contract a number of beneficial concessions

[ 50 ]
for the National Zoo. Fonz provided concession and rental fees to
the zoo amounting to more than $164,000 during calendar year
1978 (FONz’s fiscal year). In addition, Fonz contributed other impor-
tant financial and volunteer support for zoo programs. Financial
affairs of this organization are disclosed separately elsewhere in
Smithsonian Year 1979.

Accounting and Auditing

An audit of the nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution is
conducted annually by independent public accountants, and their
fiscal year 1979 report is contained in the following pages. For over
thirty years, this work had been performed in a competent and pro-
fessional manner by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. In January
1979, the Board of Regents authorized its Executive Committee to
invite audit proposals from other major accounting firms as well.
After extensive proposal review and interviews with the nation’s
eight largest firms, Coopers & Lybrand was selected to perform the
Institution’s audit for 1979 and the succeeding four years. During
the year, the internal audit staff continued their reviews of various
operations of the Institution. Additionally, grants and contracts re-
ceived from federal agencies, as well as their allocated overhead
costs, were audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents, under the By-
laws of the Institution, has the responsibility for reviewing the
Smithsonian’s accounting systems and internal financial controls;
of facilitating communication between the Board and internal audi-
tors, independent auditors, and auditors of the General Accounting
Office; and of reviewing operations of the Institution for compliance
with approved programs and policies.

[ 51 ]
This collection of eighteenth-century Italian fiddles was a major acquisition of the
National Museum of History and Technology’s Division of Musical Instruments.
These rare instruments were acquired for the division through the Major Collections
Acquisition Program. Below. The instruments are here being played by the Smith-
sonian Chamber Players. From left to right: Marilyn McDonald, Mary Price,
Melissa Graybeal, and Kenneth Slowik.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

A MEMBER FIRM OF
COOPERS & LYBRAND (INTERNATIONAL)

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the balance sheet of the Trust Funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1979 and the related state-
ment of financial activity for the year then ended. Our examination
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian
Institution for the year ended September 30, 1978, totals of which
are included in the accompanying financial statements for compara-
tive purposes, were examined by other auditors whose report dated
December 15, 1978 expressed an unqualified opinion on those state-
ments.

The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution do
not include the accounts of the National Gallery of Art, the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts or other departments,
bureaus and programs administered by the Smithsonian Institution
under federal appropriations as detailed in Note 2 to the financial
statements.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1979, referred to above, present fairly the financial posi-
tion of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution as of September
30, 1979, and the results of operations and changes in fund balances
for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted ac-
counting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the

preceding year.
COOPERS & LYBRAND

1800 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
November 27, 1979

[ 53 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Balance Sheet
September 30, 1979
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1978)

ASSETS:
CAGH 5 os ob wii da as Skid su Lal's SE ee ee

Invesiments (Notes 3.arid 5) 2. .; SY f0.55 3-cs ooee. tas See
Recetvables (Note -4) 0. 5.4.3 Sanee eke re eeas Seema
Initertund xecetvables « .:...: .-\.% «Ar ..\canmarrey ae wen eee
Merchandise inventory’ (Note 1)’. 20.2) saa 0s + eo
Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) ...............-..
Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 6) ................

Current

funds

$ 1,067,242
21,192,559
9,833,100
1,863,862
4,505,523
6,414,963
1,283,732

$46,160,981

LIABILITIES:

Accounts payable and accrued expenses ...............4-:
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) ..
Interfund’ payables: : 0.54430 4~5< 00cm ae sn eee ae eee
Deferred revenue (Nete: 1) 665.056 3... See 266 hee See

‘Total: Habilities’ ’. 52.2 US ae oo eee eee

FUND BALANCES (Note 1):

Current:
Unrestricted general ‘purpose 2.3/5. ss fed 2. oe eee
Spécial purpose ico iews kaw ht ind owas» Lwoltica see
RESPRICECED, ooo cg on oe fe Oe er tang be Se ee ye
Endowment and similar funds (Note 5) ..................
Plant’ funds: (Note 26) 20.5 doo eawaak sos sea ee

Lotal fund balances J. 2 cc. os nk be eee

$ 5,427,060
1,745,609
4,308,574

13,247,924
24,729,167

4,964,511
11,567,125
4,900,178

21,431,814

$46,160,981

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

[ 54 ]
Endowment
and similar

funds

$ 62,160
57,935,425
40,308
441,915

$58,479,808

58,479,808

58,479,808
$58,479,808

Plant funds

$ —s
2,002,797

11,920,035

$13,922,832

$ 229,778

229,778

13,693,054
13,693,054
$13,922,832

[55 ]

Total, all funds

$ 1,129,402
79,127,984
9,873,408
4,308,574
4,505,523
6,414,963
13,203,767

$118,563,621

$ 5,656,838
1,745,609
4,308,574

13,247,924

24,958,945

4,964,511
11,567,125
4,900,178
58,479,808
13,693,054

93,604,676
$118,563,621

Totals, 1978

$ 2,850,678
70,986,935
8,602,476
2,353,786
3,950,770
5,264,020
11,977,248

$105,985,913

$ 3,970,730
1,183,626
2,353,786

14,439,120
21,947,262

4,932,516
9,603,694
4,539,911
53,803,473

11,159,057

84,038,651

$105,985,913
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS

Statement of Financial Activity
Year ended September 30, 1979
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1978)

REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:

Auxiliary activities revenue
Federal: grants ‘andl comiracts 0005 Seas co oes ees
Investment income (net of $278,655 for management

and custodsan fees) oi 6 54.654 PS es
Gain (loss) on sale of securities
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants
AgddiGons: to: plank. cg: Ge ies «Sac scnlace denote
Rentals, fees, commissions and other

ae Re © See le) 6 ie ole te) ole erie ia alle

a 6 le) et eve) (seis ie we

Total revenue and other additions

8| 9, © ‘ee, a id) a) ©

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:

Research and educational expenditures
Administrative. expenditures: 2.2... \ 425.826 ces sean ©
Auxiliary activities expenditures .................
Expenditures for acquisition of plant
Retirement of indebtedness
Interest on indebtedness

eee Wear yyy er yak ye

a are ©. ee) (ae @.e)e @ 6
€ » @ ee: ee ‘a a © ee & ee we 6 «(ee 0

a (alle? @) mg. 6) 6) he) wl ues)" @) (ee @ ie) oe fe) een ee

Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):

Mandatory principal and interest on notes .......
Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) ..
Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund
Future plant ‘dequisiftions so. ves. eee bee ee
Income added to endowment principal
Appropriated as quasi endowment
Endowmrent released oo dics cvaccass 4a: panto uanelicceanane tines
For designated putpases: 2.) <i: bs oe 8 nste de le is eR hae
Net increase in auxiliary activities

6 id a 8 6 9g ee 8 6 0 \e)\e:'s:'9

Total transfers among funds

Pd eee feo pn te) a Yer ar fC)

Wet increase for the: years 2: i552 sis vie iss tls
Acquisition of Museum of African Art
Fund balances at beginning of year

Pye ae en, he an a ey nt Je yal Ves na ey Yay

Fund balances at end of year

Total
current

funds

$66,884,616
11,411,790

5,598,435
(5,765)
2,457,801

1,983,617
88,330,494

18,375,482
6,842,542
55,015,797

80,233,821

8,096,673

(56,070)
(988,573)
(348,921)

(1,451,617)

(423,331)
(2,671,217)
10,000

(5,929,729)

2,166,944
188,749

19,076,121
$21,431,814

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

[ 56 ]

Total

unrestricted

funds

$66,884,616

2,849,787
(5,765)
682,979

1,255,508
71,667,125

5,534,719
4,210,583
55,015,797

64,761,099

6,906,026

(56,070)
(314,694)
(348,921)

(1,451,617)
(2,671,217)
(68,081)

(4,910,600)

1,995,426

14,536,210
$16,531,636

Current fund

Unrestricted

General
purpose

2,591,658
(5,765)
163,394

638,264

3,387,551

2,389,110
1,552,968

3,942,078

(554,527)

(52,535)
(310,496)
(348,921)

(1,451,617)
(2,571,217)

(3,481,809)

8,803,117
586,522

31,995

4,932,516

$ 4,964,511
Auxiliary
activities

$64,846,017

475,178

65,321,195

Special
purpose

$ 2,038,599

258,129

44,407

617,244

Restricted

s poe

11,411,790

2,748,648

1,774,822

728,109

Endowment
and similar

funds

511,866
91,348

Plant
funds

5,000
395,971

Total,
all funds

$66,884,616
11,411,790

5,598,435
506,101
2,554,149
395,971
1,983,617

Totals,
1978

$54,759,388
11,157,066

3,429,901
1,334,983
4,231,405

404,605
2,155,641

2,369,500
53,751,742

56,121,242

3,145,609
288,115
1,264,055

12,840,763
2,631,959

348,921

18,375,482
6,842,542
55,015,797
348,921
47,049

15,759,210
5,675,636
41,737,456
365,992

(4,020)

8,695,867

(396,836)
(8,803,117)

(3,535)
(4,198)

(100,000)

3,810,564

(673,879)

(423,331)
10,000
68,081

988,573

423,331
2,671,217
(10,000)

56,070

348,921
1,451,617

eee eee eee eee

3,702,831
1,963,431

9,603,694

(1,019,129)

171,518
188,749
4,539,911

4,073,121

4,676,335

53,803,473

1,856,608

1,852,588
681,409
11,159,057

8,695,867

870,158
84,038,651

13,879,854

70,158,797

I |

—<———— ———— SS —————— a Sa ————— ——$—$—$——$——

[ 57 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of presentation. The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution—
Trust Funds (Institution) have been prepared on the accrual basis.

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the Insti-
tution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting.
This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classified
for accounting and reporting purposes into funds established according to
their nature and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund;
however, in the accompanying financial statements, funds that have similar
characteristics have been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial
transactions have been recorded and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are reported in
self-balancing fund groups as follows:

Current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, rep-
resent the portion of expendable funds that is available for support of
Institution operations. Separate sub-fund groups of current unrestricted
funds have been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activi-
ties (representing primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smith-
sonian Associates Program, including the Smithsonian magazine, and
museum shop sales) and for special purposes (representing internally
segregated funds for certain designated purposes). Amounts restricted by
the donor for specific purposes are also segregated from other current
funds.

Endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restric-
tions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be
invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment and
similar funds are gifts which will allow the expenditure of principal but
only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds.
Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board
for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such
funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent
gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the prin-
cipal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the gov-
erning board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the
income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisitions
and funds expended for plant.

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other disposition of
investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are

[ 58 ]
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar manner,
except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar funds,
which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted, or, if unrestricted,
as revenue in unrestricted current funds.

Inventories. Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost, computed on
a first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value.

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian
magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription,
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian
magazine are charged to income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens. In accordance with the practice gen-
erally followed by museums, works of art and living or other specimens are
not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Property and equipment. Capitalized improvements and equipment purchased
with Trust Funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized
in the current unrestricted fund at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives of five to ten years.

Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to the
extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or ap-
praised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in Chesapeake
Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal values.
In accordance with the practice of many museums, depreciation on buildings
is not recorded.

All other land, buildings, fixtures, and equipment which were principally ac-
quired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements.

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the
Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received.

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state-
ments, since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.

2. Related Activities

The Trust Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
private sources, from federal grants and contracts, and from certain business
activities related to the operations of the Institution.

Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements, provide major support for the operations and administration of
the educational and research programs of the Institution’s many museums, art
galleries, and other bureaus, as well as for the maintenance and construction
of related buildings and facilities. In addition, land, buildings, and other
assets acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements.

[ 59 ]
The following federal appropriations were received by the Institution for the
fiscal years ended September 30, 1979 and 1978:

1979 1978
Operating fends). bccn vas he oes eee ee $100,265,000 $ 95,250,000
Special foreign currency program ............ 3,700,000 4,000,000
Construction funds «i... .. eee a Re 6,575,000 5,250,000

$110,540,000  $104,500,000

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several sepa-
rately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution
serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these
organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Insti-
tution facilities occupied, etc., totaled approximately $422,000 for the year
ended September 30, 1979. The following summarizes the approximate ex-
penditures of these organizations for the fiscal years ended September 30,
1979 and 1978, respectively, as reflected in their individual financial statements
and which are not included in the accompanying financial statements of the
Institution:

1979 1978
Smithsonian Research Foundation ............... 5 — $ 120,000
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ...... $3,293,000 $2,355,000
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 1... <2 6. anh onas ceca $4,042,000 $2,260,000
Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars— Trust Prods 2 2 i.) oi wut o om ac cine = $2,306,000 $2,079,000

For the years ended September 30, 1979 and 1978, the Smithsonian Research
Foundation did not receive federal grants, and the corporate structure will be
dissolved in fiscal year 1980. The Institution is working with the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce to effect a transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information
Exchange operations to the U.S. Department of Commerce on October 1,
1980; until that date the Institution will continue to provide fiscal and admin-
istrative services.

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair market value at date
of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1979, investments are
composed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
Current funds:
Certificates of Deposit: 6.25002. 002.0. See $ 4,000,000 $ 4,000,000
Ce DICECIAL PARE a nia a ats xo ushien «a seer 1,974,858 2,000,000
Overnight money market account ........... 1,200,000 1,200,000
U.S. Government and

quasi-government obligations ............. 13,789,494 13,932,400
Carmine shock Ss re ako e es tees o awe 171,860 92,317
Preterren ste 6s ee ee ee 56,347 45,797

21,192,559 21,270,514

[ 60 ]
Endowment and similar funds:

eR ER, PREANED o's oe tcl aurticuewsiecsiaes $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000
EN leas iyi wins Weis cain mw vo on 2 4,063,235 4,075,000
U.S. Government and

quasi-government obligations ............. 5,469,632 5,364,809
CS eee 10,202,227 10,226,965
asin 3 p'n'v oe ek wdllon'w s 36,491,266 44,685,401
Ey has kak saa pil nim Wim mle mW 6 0.0 709,065 699,500

57,935,425 66,051,675
$79,127,984 $87,322,189

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at
market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $119.91, 346,315
units were owned by endowment and 200,396 units by quasi-endowment at
September 30, 1979.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments:

Market

value

per

Market Cost Net gains unit
Se $65,555,748 $57,426,159 $8,129,589 $119.91
Beemmne Of year ......... $56,831,475 $52,548,845 4,282,630 110.22
Semeaased met pains for year .........c ccc cc cee eees 3,846,959 —
URI AES FOL YEAT .. 2... ce cc en ee neanes 511,866 —
CS | $4,358,825 $ 9.69

4. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1979 and 1978, included the following:

Current funds 1979 1978

Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of
allowance for doubtful accounts of $258,000

eae Art $262,000 in 1978 .....20crccsvcvere $7,881,683 $6,031,875
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts. . 658,318 1,316,166
Interest and dividends receivable ................ 949,571 716,048
EN ene. ha clas dan eb edeh ade wea wees 343,528 496,017

9,833,100 8,560,106
Endowment and similar funds

EE korn da ak Khe k oblate wwe web 40,308 42,370
a SE aa ey ec $9,873,408 $8,602,476

[ 61 ]
5. Endowment and Similar Funds

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1979 are summarized as
follows:

Endowment funds, income available for:

Restricted werposee Ske satan s Sass cd aed Sen cee eee $34,349,830
Unresttirted Parises os chin Sas oo oa ee ea eee eee ee 953,185

35,303,015

Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for:

ReGiricte:  PULDOSES lias ck ss kbc cgue ae wsity ae Censee een 3,597,203
Unirestricten’ parposee ore a eer oe a en ee eee ae 19,579,590

23,176,793

Total endowment and similar funds ..................

$58,479,808

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach,
the total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized
gains and losses, in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to
the difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and
the amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from
the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such
factors as, but not limited to: (1) 442% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2)
current dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien-
tists, and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index;
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less
than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation),
the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received. The
total return factor for 1979 was $4.74 per unit of fund participation. The total
return applied for 1979 was $2,516,098.

6. Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is comprised of the following:
September 30,

Current funds 1979 1978

Capital improvements... .1.. i. RAAT $ 1,342,277. $ 1,317,036

EQGipitetie oie ne Si ed ws bacemoeah ee bh hat Ree 602,777 446,086
Leasehold improvements ...............000005 145,229 98,126
Less accumulated depreciation

PEER NOE) FS eld Ecol ee eh oA ROO 806,551 585,349
1,283,732 1,275,899

Plant funds
Baer Bitch DOES. i as be eka me we ee oes 11,920,035 10,701,349

Ob aU OE Se 2. ccs ehins wae nnd dowee

[ 62 ]

$13,203,767

$11,977,248
Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the current
funds for 1979 and 1978 was $221,202, and $181,942, respectively.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1979 includes $1,997,525 of
unexpended plant funds.

7. Pension Plan

The Institution has a retirement plan in which substantially all Trust Funds’
employees are eligible to participate. Under the plan, both the Institution and
employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary which are used to pur-
chase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with
the employees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1979
was $1,746,293. It is the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued
currently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plan.

8. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal
Revenue Service is presently considering a Request for Ruling filed by the
Institution pertaining to the proper interpretation of the current regulations
concerning the method of calculating certain unrelated business income. If
the Institution’s interpretation is approved, no tax would be imposed on this
income. It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation
as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of
the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. It is the intent of the Institution to seek such dual status. Manage-
ment believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement of these
maters would not have a material effect upon the financial position of the
Institution.

[ 63 ]
eh} sn ,
¢ «| ote, * he

