t ‘
FRAN é
co
4
i

| Faye nS ae ee
: \ : . ar ee te des
7. © yo -
1 a _
it. > “Ae rr.
x SS ~f & > at
2 ee = Sep. hey —* il §
s 4 ~ “% ux’.
v77%,",") . x, kage ~ : ws
‘\ RON! Bee ST Sea
Tr A oe NS 7 * Z s
: eer « . art “i ‘ine
| (A ef oe as qu F. . -} es
! ! 3 5 | Via! Pr ote i ‘) eh
. x 3S; S74 2 a Ric
e 2 te .
: ~
= > ir
2 0
‘ we oe ” «
> ah Lo
P4 < a
ax P om, i
! 975
* t x ve
TR Pe
oe

cnmmmenmdl }

aS
Ss S|
eg 5) leer)

SMITHSONIAN YEAR * 1978

Statement by the Secretary
s 4°) if

Smithsonian Year - 1978
‘ATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

-~

o nian Year 1978, Programs and Activities, a detailed report,
able from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
SMITHSONIAN YEAR * 1978

To knit the ravelled sleeve. . .

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

S. DILLON RIPLEY

The Smithsonian Institution * 1979
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 77-649523

FRONTISPIECE: This wood and bronze figurine of an ibis, the Egyptian symbol
of Thoth, god of science and patron of scribes, was a gift to President Dwight
D. Eisenhower from the Egyptian government. It is included in the permanent
exhibit hall, “Western Civilization: Origins and Traditions,” at the Smith-
sonian’s National Museum of Natural History. Photo: Kim Nielsen.

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C., 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047—000-00355-5
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and ac-
cepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an “es-
tablishment,” whose statutory members are the President, the Vice
President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive depart-
ments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust in the
Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Jimmy Carter, President of the United States
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State
W. Michael Blumenthal, Secretary of the Treasury
Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense
Griffin B. Bell, Attorney General
Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior
Bob S. Bergland, Secretary of Agriculture
Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Commerce
F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Labor
Joseph A. Califano, Jr., Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare
Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Brock Adams, Secretary of Transportation
James R. Schlesinger, Secretary of Energy

[v]
Board of Regents and Secretary + September 30, 1978

REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Senate

Barry Goldwater, Member of the Senate

Robert B. Morgan, Member of the Senate

George H. Mahon, Member of the House of Representatives
Elford A. Cederberg, Member of the House of Representatives
Leo J. Ryan, Member of the House of Representatives

Anne Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor (Board of Regents)
William A. M. Burden

Caryl P. Haskins

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Dorothy Rosenberg, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Michael Collins, Under Secretary

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

T. Ames Wheeler, Treasurer

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Richard L. Ault, Director, Support Activities

James McK. Symington, Director, Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator, Public Information

[vi ]
2
=

: onian Year - 1978
T BY THE SECRETARY

An aerial photograph shows the twenty-one new Crane-breeding yards at the Na-
tional Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center near Front Royal, Virginia. Designed
to encourage breeding among Cranes, which are notoriously difficult to breed in
captivity, each yard is provided with a flowing stream, a small marsh and a source
of water to maintain its vegetation, a freeze-proof waterer for cold weather, and a
heated shelter. The yards are being stocked with Crane pairs. Photo: Larry Collins.

To knit the ravelled sleeve...

S. DILLON RIPLEY

IN A YEAR OF UNCERTAINTY two important facts have come home to
us at the Smithsonian. We have a moral responsibility to speak
out for conservation, and time is not quantifiable, at least to most
Americans. Of course we can speak of time, of our yesterdays and
tomorrows, and of the quality of today, and whether or not tomor-
row will be like it. But time, at least in Washington, tends to be
measured in very short spans, two years for example, the space
between Congressional elections. At the longest such a time may be
measured in a term of four years. Who dares dream of eight is
greatly daring and can only dream.

If time then is measured in such short terms, how can we speak
of conservation? This past year we have been advocating the crea-
tion of a support facility, so-called, for our museums, most espe-
cially the National Museum of Natural History on the Mall. The
building, finished in World War I time, 67 years ago, is chock-a-
block, with cases of specimens stacked out in the hallways, and
with some 200,000 square feet of public exhibition space now
crammed with more and ever more storage. It is the typical fate of
a museum, especially a working museum with a large and produc-
tive staff, deeply committed to tabulating the secrets of the uni-
verse. Anthropologists are there and all their trappings of present
or past cultures, or, what is worse, vanishing cultures, tribes par-
ticularly who are physically disappearing before our eyes, blowing
away like tumbleweed across the prairie before we have even
measured the quality or the uniqueness of their lives and their
adaptations to a harsher style of living. Harsher—well perhaps not,
but a distinctive tribal style of life while beautiful and lived close
to nature seems at least physically harsher than an urban slum.

[3]
Others are there, the study of whose collections may unlock
secrets for us in the future. Invertebrates, corals, insects by the
million, geological specimens, larger animals of all kinds. The mu-
seum has long ago outgrown its appropriate storage ability. For
ten years now we have been planning a secure and appropriate
back-up, a support facility we call it, fifteen minutes away in Suit-
land, Maryland. The space is ours already, and the plans have now
been so refined that we feel sure they are the best for the money.
This new support facility will house our overflow, provide area
space for research as well, and, what is perhaps most important,
provide additional space for work in conservation.

The problem of speaking about conservation in almost any ra-
tional terms is that the subject is one that people always want to
put off—next year, the year after. Museums have traditionally
tended to neglect conservation, so busily have their curators been
acquiring things. It is far more exciting to collect than it is to con-
serve what we already have. Most museums of an older day have
a farcical amount of space devoted to conservation care or labora-
tories. Conservation seems unglamorous, like housekeeping. The
need for it only comes home to us slowly. It creeps up on one, over
the years. It cannot be measured easily in terms of time.

Year by year, textiles fragment, paper crumbles, glass decom-
poses chemically, bronze becomes “sick” with its own strange dis-
ease, metals rust, and wood crumbles into dust. It all happens
gradually, but not number by number in an arithmetic sense. Ma-
terials decline by the power, in an exponential sense, doubling
instead of merely adding. And yet the time involved stretches
ahead in an unfathomable way, a limitless horizon of trying to
make up, to put things right. These objects we possess are all we
have of history, the history of ourselves, the history of the planet.
When they are gone we will have lost the evidence. In our own case
the poor fragments of history, like the bundle of a man’s posses-
sions gathered up after his death, a suitcase full, are the merest
remnants of all the power and the creations of mankind. And yet
every fragment is precious to us as a testament to creativity, to the
impress of culture and civilization on our history, and its example
for ourselves.

And so we have planned for ten years, and for a number of these
have pressed our case with the Congress. At last it appears that our

Led
urgency has been repaid, for in the current session, we have had
hearings, planning money has been awarded, and the Budget offi-
cers have approved. The eventual creation of this resource should
not only provide greatly expanded exhibition space in the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, but also give us an invaluable
extension of work in conservation, both for Smithsonian collec-
tions as well as training for conservators in the museum field.
There are only some four or five places in the United States where
such training is effectively given at present. There are less than a
thousand conservators in this country, and less than a third of these
engaged full time in the more complex research or practical activi-
ties of this highly demanding profession. New conservators, com-
ing into the field, are barely replacing those who, for one reason or
the other, retire from it. In the face of this vast mountain of slow
deterioration, the labors of Hercules pale by comparison. And so
hurrah for our supporters in the government, and for those who
have been able to take, for once, a longer view.

If long-distance time is so difficult to care about, how much more
so is environmental conservation. Just as the Smithsonian is con-
cerned with the preservation of artifacts, objects made by the hand
of man, so we must be concerned with natural objects and the evi-
dence that they represent. Ecology is the study of the environment.
For years ecologists have rather placidly been tabulating natural
phenomena in order to develop principles for understanding the
gradual changes in that environment under whatever conditions of
climate, of terrestrial or aquatic setting in which this may occur. A
whole dramatic field has developed in which the interplay between
the living organisms, animals and plants, and the chemical and
physical setting in which they play out their roles can be measured.
History is involved, and evolution, as well as adaptations caused by
external pressures leading to rapid expansion, or to extinction.

Today the measurements taken by ecologists seem to have been
so speeded up by the changes wrought by mankind, the prolifera-
tion of chemical compounds, the release of oil, nuclear activities,
the destruction of forests, especially in the tropical zones of the
world, that time, which is essential in ecology, is being abandoned.
Ecologists thus seem to be driven to measuring changes brought
about by people, rather than by nature. This is not the way the
science began, nor is it the healthiest way of proceeding. Unfor-

[5]
tunately we are witnessing today the aftereffects at short range of
our own ability to change the environment in a monumental sense.
For the first time people have the technological means to create
mega-changes in the environment. Ecologists have been nearly
caught short in this race against time, before their science has
fully matured, and before public understanding and appreciation of
the time involved in ecological research has had a chance to evolve.

Environmental impact studies are largely fruitless unless per-
formed over a period of years. But we are too impatient for results
to be able to afford the extra time. Such studies cannot be rigorous
in an ecological sense for the most part.

Where then to turn? There is no such thing as a quick fix in an
environmental impact study except in the very simplest or more
direct form such as a known single chemical measured already over
years for its effect in a limited environment. But even here the
ramifications and side effects may be unmeasured, the mosaic of
interactions uninterpreted. How then can we possibly develop
answers, for the long haul, to reactions in nature which will satisfy
American impatience and lack of a real sense of time? It is part
and parcel of our instinct in regard to government policy to put
out the brush fires which were developing last year rather than
attempt to plan for where the next ones may break out three or
four years from now.

In such an atmosphere government activity occurs by inertia.
Only a shock of some sort will produce a response, often a twitch
as if the body were asleep. Collectively perhaps this is a wise
maneuver, for over-reaction sometimes exacerbates the cause of the
trouble in the first place. Meanwhile, however, conservation of itself
is overlooked. The influences which affect conservation adversely
continue to grow and develop. Human population pressure in-
creases relentlessly, and at the same time human expectations con-
tinue to rise as education and the spread of communications
develop.

In this climate there is perhaps one final moral responsibility left
for us collectively as human beings. Aside from any personal ethical
responsibilities which we may have as individuals, kindness to
others, a faith, self-discipline as we occupy smaller and smaller
niches of space, is there a single aspiration to which we should sub-
scribe? For while we delve and span,the planet spins, time passes,

[6]

|
:
4

i i i a =
- we

Z é ' ,
Ay
i
oot ott pees, ok ha de
Ne wee F 0 at iy 6's . : , | er ;
* An bs ee, r me ' = yes « ls ie

The R.V. Benjamin, a gift from a donor in New Orleans, is shown off Swan Island
en route to Panama where it is being overhauled for research use. It will augment
the work of marine scientists at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
each day there is change, and in all there is the pressure of life
itself, the heartbeat of self in us all.

I believe there is one ethic, one principle left out of our con-
sciousness. It is conservation. It is perhaps the last larger responsi-
bility, bigger than us all. Museum people are singularly reminded
of mortality, like priests and doctors, by the deterioration of objects
created by the hand of man. Is it possible to transfer this reminder
to the rest of our known space, the earth itself? Conservation of
that in which we ourselves had no part in creating is an even greater
moral charge. It is a harder task for it is all the more impersonal.
We can care for our own possessions, our house, our cave, and we
can fight for our allotment, our quarter acre, but can we bring our-
selves to feel responsible for all of nature in the context of time?
It is an impersonal, larger responsibility, but it is incumbent on us
all, now that we know for the first time we have tipped the scales,
changing it all inexorably in a time frame which is not apparent to
our generation.

The planet may spin but we are not aware of it. In the slow turn-
ing of the earth the ineffably minute changes that collectively make
a difference become meaningless to us. So what if we read that
fifty acres of tropical forest are being destroyed each minute, or
each hour or each day. What does that have to do with us? Some-
one else will notice it eventually. It seems as inconceivable that
such a statistic could ever affect us as that some day we would be
issued the last gallon of gas that we would use—ever.

A museum keeps a roster and a tally of extinction. The Smith-
sonian maintains the National Herbarium. Five years ago we were
charged with developing and maintaining a list of the endangered
plants of the United States. We can also tell how many plants
have gone extinct in the last hundred years, and of those how many
have disappeared in the last twenty-five compared to the preceding
seventy-five. We can do the same for a number of animals as well.
Abroad we can support some evidence of the numbers of species
that are probably going extinct before we have even discovered
that they exist. The rate of extinction is a matter of the deepest
concern. It means that our environment is becoming impoverished,
even as there are more of us humans with our expectations to co-
exist with it. But the diversity of species is a measure of the toler-
ableness of the environment. Impoverishment means a harsher and

[8]
Secretary Ripley holds a Bald Eagle chick hatched in an incubator at the Zoo. The
species is endangered in several parts of the United States. Below. Pere David’s Deer
at the Conservation and Research Center is an example of a species which survives
only through captive breeding. Long extinct in the wild, the last herd was found in

the Royal Hunting Park near Peking in 1865, and became extinct in China by the
end of the century. Fortunately a few of the deer had gone into European collections,
surviving from successful captive breeding by the Duke of Bedford in England. The
herd is thriving in its favorable habitat of thirty-two acres at the Center. Under the
changing dominance of the strongest male, it grew by eight surviving births in 1978.

harsher atmosphere and space in which to live. And so at the same
moment that humans are doubling and trebling, the world is being
robbed of some of those very expectations on which our future may
depend. Cannot conservation then be described as the ultimate
responsibility for us all? Museums have it in their power to act as
long-range environmental impact advisors, monitoring the rates
at which species may be expected to tell us of the survival value
of our allotted space on earth.

If in this past year we have been preoccupied with the concept
of conservation, how have we been facing the immediacy of life
in Washington, our business of being? On the one hand, we have
been preparing plans for a new Museum Support Facility in nearby
Maryland, as I have mentioned. On the other hand, we have been
assessing our management, making sure that our household was
in order. In the last two years this management has come under
question—in the processes of our annual appropriations requests to
the Congress, with appropriate echoes in the press. The Smith-
sonian is popular, vastly so throughout the country. Its activities
have increased along with its popularity. New buildings have been
added, and new activities, especially in the form of so-called “out-
reach,” have multiplied in response to this very popularity. For in
fact we are knitting together a countrywide community of people
who want a sense of owning this Institution, this place which
should be part and parcel of every American. It is a way to validate
our life, our aspirations for our country and our common heritage.
We are proud of the diversity of that heritage, of our ethnic roots,
of the multifold and various ways that we have come here, but let
no one be mistaken in thinking that that very diversity is not part
of our common strength as Americans.

[ 10 ]
The Smithsonian provides a variety of impressions for young visitors, among them a
climb on the dinosaur Triceratops. The fiberglass replica on the Mall is popularly
known as “Uncle Beasley” after a character in the children’s book The Enormous Egg.
Below. Children benefit from books provided by Reading is Fundamental, Inc., a nation-
wide program affiliated with the Smithsonian.

;
‘
j
i

mat .
_

Typical of the Smithsonian’s countrywide community of diverse interests is
the Renwick Gallery, which brings to its exhibitions and activities a mixture
of our cultural heritage. Facing page. Austrian Ambassador and Mrs. Schober
arrive at the Renwick Gallery to attend the “Viennese Waltz,” held in the
Gallery’s Grand Salon to honor Donor members of the Contributing Mem-
bership of the Smithsonian National Associates. This special occasion was
sponsored by the National Associate Program with the assistance of the
Smithsonian Women’s Committee and the Austrian Embassy. Above. Mrs.
Walter F. Mondale, wife of the Vice President of the United States, greets
Maria Montoya Martinez at the Renwick Gallery. “Maria the Potter,” a Tewa
Indian from the San Ildefonso Pueblo near Santa Fe, New Mexico, is inter-
nationally recognized as the foremost Native American potter. Now 96 years
of age, her craft tradition is carried on by her family. Pottery made by five
generations of the Martinez family was exhibited at the Renwick in 1978.
IN MY STATEMENT for Smithsonian Year 1977 (pages 19-21) I sum-
marized the results of reviews of the Institution’s operations
conducted by the General Accounting Office (Gao) and by the
Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents. Recom-
mendations resulting from those reviews dealt largely with actions
to improve the accountability of the Smithsonian to the Congress
and to strengthen its internal management. In response to these
studies, a number of actions have been taken by the Board of Re-
gents and the staff of the Institution over the past year. We have,
for example, developed alternative administrative procedures for
the research and education programs previously administered by
the Smithsonian Research Foundation. The Foundation itself is in
abeyance. The matter of the future status of the Smithsonian
Science Information Exchange, including its organizational place-
ment, was referred to the Office of Management and Budget (oms)
where it has been taken up by the President’s Reorganization Proj-
ect. For our part we have felt that we could not take unilateral ac-
tion to dissolve the Exchange from its present corporate status,
given its history and purpose. By year end, it appeared that the omB
and the Congress had agreed to transfer the Exchange to the De-
partment of Commerce as a more appropriate affiliation, given that
Department’s other responsibilities for the management of tech-
nical data.

Concerning other matters raised by the cao, the Institution has
strengthened its procedures for providing full information to the
Office of Management and Budget and to the Congress on the
sources and expenditures of grant, contract, and trust funds at the
time that federal budgets are submitted. We have developed policy
statements on the use of federal and trust funds. Meanwhile the
Congressional appropriations committees have developed and
issued revised procedures for all agencies to allow a systematic ap-
proach to making necessary adjustments during the year to con-
gressionally approved amounts of funds for individual organization
units or projects.

Actions are well along on all the recommendations in the Re-
gents’ Audit and Review Committee report, which was accepted
by the full Board of Regents at its September 27, 1977, meeting.
A policy of seeking specific authorization for all significant new
programs and projects potentially involving the use of federal funds

[ 14 ]
is in effect. Thanks to the participation and cooperation of our
staff, a five-year perspective on the Institution’s operations, cover-
ing the period 1980-1984, has been prepared and approved by the
Board of Regents at its September 25, 1978, meeting for review by
the oms, Congress, and others. This plan will be updated annually
and should be useful for communications and management pur-
poses. A procedure has been placed in effect for the review by the
Regents, or their Executive Committee, of any research awards
which might be perceived by the Congress or the public as in-
appropriate.

Another recommendation stemming from the Regents’ review
has resulted in a comprehensive inventory and description of pro-
grams and activities, with organization charts that will provide
useful background information in connection with the five-year-
perspective. Additionally, we have appointed Michael Collins to
the permanent position of Under Secretary and we have added staff
to strengthen the internal audit function.

Subsequent to the Gao review and while the Audit and Review
Committee study was in progress, the Appropriations Committee
of the United States House of Representatives decided that a
further examination of the Institution’s statutory authority, ac-
countability to Congress, and policies and practices in administer-
ing and funding programs would provide useful information to the
Committee and to the Congress. This examination, conducted by
the Committee’s Surveys and Investigations Staff, was documented
in a report dated December 20, 1977. Several recommendations
emerged from the review. The Institution prepared a detailed re-
sponse to these and other matters contained in the Surveys and
Investigations Staff’s report.

The report recommended that the Committee consider legislation
or specific appropriations language defining the status of the Smith-
sonian Institution as a federal instrumentality with accountability,
as a federal agency, for all funds, both federal and private, and
defining the status of private-role employees with respect to cover-
age by federal employee benefit programs. In our reply, we stressed
that we have affirmed our full accountability as a federal establish-
ment to the Congress for all funds. Implementation of the recom-
mendations in the Gao and Audit and Review Committee reports,
including the development of a five-year program perspective and

[15 ]
the provision of full budget information on the sources and applica-
tions of funds (with special emphasis on those cases where pro-
posed uses of trust funds could result in the need for appropria-
tions) would appear to help establish the Institution’s status and to
assure full and timely information and accountability to the Con-
gress. Furthermore, we explained that we foresaw problems in
actions that would change the status of our trust-fund employees
given the well-defined personnel management system under which
these employees now work, the low number of conversions (criti-
cized in the report) between the trust and federal systems which
are reviewed carefully, the fact that many of the trust-fund em-
ployees are assigned to the auxiliary activities, and our complete
willingness to make all financial and personnel information avail-
able for review. We feel most strongly that efforts possibly re-
sulting in a change to the Institution’s character would have serious
consequences with regard to the public’s perception of the Institu-
tion and their continued generosity in supporting it with important
objects for the national collections, with gifts and bequests of funds
for special and unrestricted purposes, and with support through
the Associates’ program.

It was further recommended that the Smithsonian Institution
submit future federal appropriation requests with comparative
private fund availability projections on a side-by-side basis for the
Committee’s consideration in determining federal funding levels.
We replied that for several years, the Institution has provided, as
an appendix to the federal budget justification to the Congress,
bureau-by-bureau information on comparative appropriations, fed-
eral grants and contracts, and trust fund expenditures for the pre-
ceding fiscal year. Recognizing, however, that these historical data
were of limited help for a review of the proposed federal budget,
we had already provided trust fund projections to the Congress
prior to receiving this recommendation. This information will be
updated each year and, with the five-year outlook, should afford
the basis for a full review of the Institution’s programs and re-
source requirements. We will provide whatever additional informa-
tion is required by oms and the Congress to enable those bodies to
exercise their oversight responsibilities.

The investigative staff made two recommendations that they felt
would strengthen internal management and congressional over-

[ 16 ]
sight. They recommended that the Board of Regents publish a set
of bylaws that would contain specific thresholds for management
discretion in Smithsonian Institution program and project initia-
tion, reprogramming of private funds from activities specified in
the budget, establishment of a definitive program funding source
policy, and a mechanism for Regents’ approval of organizational
change. The bylaws should also specify the authorities vested in
the Executive Committee as well as the full Board of Regents.
This study recommended that the appointment of members of the
Board of Regents be limited to twelve years or two consecutive
terms, to increase Regent participation, and to provide additional
periodic policy and program stimulation. At its meeting on Septem-
ber 25, 1978, the Board of Regents gave preliminary consideration
to the matter of bylaws and also discussed possible dates for meet-
ings in the ensuing year. The Board also requested the Regents to
consider whether they wished to prescribe a limitation on terms
of service of the nine citizen regents to two consecutive six-year
terms or twelve years.

As a final recommendation, the Investigation Staff suggested that
the Committee consider authorizing the Smithsonian Institution
to continue to compete as a “private’’ educational activity for
grants and contracts from federal, state, local, and private organiza-
tions, and authorizing a research grant award program with speci-
fied internal and external peer review to encourage and stimulate
the continued research endeavors of the Institution. In our re-
sponse, we note that, except for limitations recently established by
the Appropriations Committees (i.e., seeking grants from the Na-
tional Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities), the Institu-
tion has authority to compete for many grants and contracts. The
Smithsonian strongly concurred with the recommendation for a
competitive research awards program, based on our continuing sys-
tem of objective, external peer review.

As I noted a year ago, this period of reviews of the Institution’s
policies and operations has been most helpful. It has afforded us
opportunities to examine and strengthen some of our procedures.
The explanations that we have provided the Congress have helped
to clarify the nature of the Smithsonian. Our efforts will continue
to keep the oms and the Congress fully informed of our activities
and plans. In this time of searching scrutiny of almost everything

[ 17 ]
in Washington, we are proud of the manner in which the Con-
gressional committees, their staffs and our staffs have shared in
looking at this great Institution, and in suggesting, positively and
affirmatively, ways in which our services to the public can be main-
tained and continued. It is a measure of our popularity that these
reviews have been so searching. It is a measure of our success that
the spirit of these reviews, while thorough, has been so ungrudg-
ingly cordial. We can do no less than be aware of the special re-
sponsibility which all in the Smithsonian bear to live up to this
charge. We can do no less as keepers of America’s testament.

During the past year there have been many changes in the or-
ganization of the Institution. An important appointment to the
central staff has been that of Michael Collins, formerly director
of the National Air and Space Museum, as Under Secretary of the
Institution. Additionally, Thomas Lawton has been appointed Di-
rector of the Freer Gallery to succeed our late beloved friend,
Harold P. Stern, whose untimely death resounded through the field
of oriental art.

With regrets we accepted the resignation of Brooke Hindle as
Director of the National Museum of History and Technology. He
had helped most effectively in piloting that institution through the
rigors of the Bicentennial. Silvio Bedini, Deputy Director of that
Museum, has resigned in order to assume the position of Keeper
of Rare Books of the Institution. The Chairman of the Department
of History of Science, Otto Mayr, has effectively assumed the post
of Acting Director of the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology, while the innovative Deputy Director of the National Air
and Space Museum, Melvin Zisfein, has assumed the Acting Direc-
torship of that bustling Museum.

Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth has been appointed Director of the
Office of Fellowships and Grants, a link of primary importance
with our academic colleagues across the country. In a cognate ac-
tivity, we greatly welcome the appointment of the Reverend Francis
B. Sayre, Jr., former Dean of the Washington Cathedral, as As-
sociate Director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars. We have lost a co-worker and gained a Washington col-
league in the appointment of Peter Marzio, formerly Curator of
Graphic Arts at the National Museum of History and Technology,
as Director of this city’s Corcoran Gallery of Art, an important post

[ 18 ]
Michael Collins, Director of the National Air and Space Museum for seven years,
was appointed Under Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution on April 24, 1978.

Below. The first annual “Robert A. Brooks Award for Excellence in Administration”
is presented to Mary Grace Potter (center), shown here with Mrs. Robert A. Brooks
and Secretary Ripley. Mrs. Potter is Director of the Visitor Information and Asso-
ciates’ Reception Center.

for which he is highly qualified. Similarly John Dobkin, our effec-
tive administrative officer of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New
York, has left us for the significant post of Director of the National
Academy of Design, and John Whitelaw, the equally effective ad-
ministrative officer of the National Air and Space Museum, has left
to become the Deputy Chairman for Management at the National
Endowment for the Humanities.

Two of the important galleries of the Institution either celebrated
or will celebrate Tenth Anniversaries this year, both in the same
building, formerly the Patent Office in Washington. Their open-
ing date was from 1968, although the National Collection of Fine
Arts is an old bureau, dating back to the commencement of this
century. The National Portrait Gallery, only chartered in 1962,
has had similarly ten years of visibility in this splendid, redeco-
rated building. Both museums, the one a stimulating panorama of
American art, the other one of the most important historical docu-
mentation centers in the nation, share with the Archives of Ameri-
can Art what has now become a very crowded building indeed.

We have beseeched the General Services Administration, the
cultural advisors of the President, and our Congressional friends,
for assistance in recognizing this problem for which a perfect solu-
tion lies at hand: the adjacent period building across F Street,
presently the home of the International Trade Commission. Con-
nected by underground tunnels, the building could serve as an ideal
museum and curation area, and we earnestly hope that, in a solemn
and stately manner, an appropriate game of musical chairs can be
played to find a new home for our friends of the International
Trade Commission, so that a leavening of space can reward our
own two splendid museums.

Elsewhere in this annual report and indeed in the newspapers,
magazines, and accounts across the land, this year has been cele-
brated by the opening of the most splendid museum edifice created
in a generation, the new East Building of the National Gallery of
Art. Opened to critical acclaim, this trapezoidal structure sets a cap-
stone to the gallery space on the Mall. It will be a fascinating,
popular attraction for many years to come. The East Building rep-
resents a special tribute to the persistence and courage of Andrew
Mellon’s children, the late Mrs. Ailsa Mellon Bruce, and the Presi-
dent of the Board of the Gallery, Paul Mellon. Few men in this gen-

[ 20 ]
A view from the southeast of the National Gallery of Art’s East Building,
which opened June 1, 1978. In addition to art galleries, the building will pro-
vide space for a Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts, to open at a
later date. The Study Center will house approximately two million photo-
graphs and 300,000 books as well as curatorial and administrative offices
for Gallery staff and study facilities for visiting scholars.

eration have done as much for the preservation of cultural values
in the nation as Mr. Mellon.

In all the museums this has been a year of vibrant activity in
exhibitions, from the Renwick Gallery with its innovative craft
exhibits to the Museum of Natural History/Museum of Man with
its thrilling exhibition of Mexican archeological art and artifacts
dating from early prehistory to recent colonial times. This latter
brilliant display was made possible through the generosity of the
Mexican Government and the munificence of our friend, Dr.
Armand Hammer. The Cooper-Hewitt has had three major exhibi-
tions and at the same time received numerous awards for the reno-
vation of the splendid Carnegie house as a museum. The Hirsh-

[ 21 ]
horn had two major exhibitions of great quality, while the National
Museum of History and Technology opened its new Maritime Hall,
and the National Museum of Natural History completed its hall of
the history of early human endeavors at aggregations and civiliza-
tion. In the latter connection it could be said that this is a continu-
ing process for mankind.

Important acquisitions by gift and purchase rained in upon us
this year, not least of which was the gift of a major part of the first
balloon which managed to cross the Atlantic with three intrepid
passengers. Appropriately, it reached our National Air and Space
Museum, which celebrates the history of ballooning so effectively
as part of our history of human flight.

In April 1784, General George Washington wrote to one of his
war-time colleagues, the French engineer M. Duportail, regarding
balloon aeronautics (for the French were the leaders in this field
at the time): “. . . I have only newspaper accounts of the Air Bal-
loons, to which I do not know what credence to give as the tales
related of them are more marvellous and lead us to expect that our
friends at Paris in a little while, will come flying through the air,
instead of ploughing the ocean to get to America, .. .” A fore-
sighted thought, for our General was merely 194 years ahead of
his time.

Much of our research, and a detailed list of publications as well
as collections acquisitions will be found in the cognate volume of
the Annual Report under the sections on science, history and art,
public service, and museum programs, but one project should be
singled out as a major step in reinforcing our understanding of the
decline of human environments on the planet. This is the work of
Farouk El-Baz, research director in our National Air and Space
Museum, in the interpretation of space photographs for mapping
the advance of deserts as against the possibility of reclaiming land
in overpopulated countries of the desert belts of the world. So im-
portant is this work that the Egyptian President, Mr. Sadat, has
requested that Dr. El-Baz serve in an adjunct capacity as Science
Advisor to that government, a position we are delighted to endorse.

It is a paradox that as the Smithsonian has engaged in research
in Egypt in the past dozen years involving hundreds of research
projects, supported with counterpart dollar funds deposited in
Egyptian pounds, as we have undertaken the United States support

[ 22 ]
of the international campaign for the salvage of Nubian monu-
ments, especially Philae, as we are so recognized internationally
that our research workers travel freely during times of tension
such as the Six-Day War, so now there is a drying up of funds
available in Egypt for our work. At the same time the governments
of Israel and Egypt, even now negotiating a fragile peace, a priority
of the highest kind, think of searching for an impartial organiza-
tion of their common basic science interests in the vast expanse
of desert that lies between their borders. The Smithsonian can play
its part in the international reassurance that such science serves to
play, and has in the past in other places. We should be recognized
as such a force for civilized life and activity at all times.

Years ago Mark Twain, in his Innocents Abroad, characterized
us as the recipient “’. . . of seeds and uncommon yams and extraor-
dinary cabbages and peculiar bullfrogs for that poor, useless, in-
nocent, mildewed old fossil the Smithsonian Institute (sic), .. .”
Come then in 1978 to our Victorian Garden on the south facade of
the original “castle” building, where now on the parterre are orna-
mental purple and green cabbages surrounding the new statue of
Spencer Fullerton Baird, second Secretary of the Institution, and
see how old, useless, mildewed, and naive we are. I daresay there
is not a better example of persistent style in all Washington than
this fossil-studying Institution, Mr. Clemens!

[ 23 ]
Leonard Baskin’s bronze statue of Spencer Fullerton Baird, second Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution and one of America’s greatest nineteenth-century sci-
entists and scientific administrators, was unveiled in the Smithsonian’s Victorian
Garden, south of the “Castle,” on May 4, 1978. To accommodate the statue, the
Office of Horticulture relandscaped the Garden, designing a perennial border along
the west side of the embroidery parterre, installing four cast-iron urns, and using
plants typical of the nineteenth century.
wm Sie sae ie: aie ily ila” aaa Sale — nn et iti “Saene3 |
, c

lh « —

Board of Regents

During the past year, three formal meetings of the Board have been
held. The first occurred on JANUARY 16, 1978. That winter meeting
of the Board of Regents convened in the Regents Room of the
Smithsonian Institution Building. The Regents and the staff of the
Smithsonian Institution joined the family and friends of Hubert H.
Humphrey and the nation in mourning his death. The Regents re-
solved that their tribute to Hubert H. Humphrey be spread upon
the records of the Institution:

Hubert H. Humphrey — 1911-1978 — leader, humanitarian,
legislator, advocate of justice and civil rights, supporter of
education and international understanding, man of character
and vision, dedicated to his family, his nation and his fellow
human beings. In his final public appearance at the Smith-
sonian Institution on June 14, 1977, Hubert Humphrey told us:

“When I speak of morality I am talking about every kind of
human behavior, toward ourselves, toward our fellow human
beings, other living creatures and even the earth itself. En-
vironmental protection is morality. Conservation of our re-
sources is morality. Abuse and waste of our resources is im-
moral. And the abuse and waste of ourselves is the worst of
the immoralities.”

And he told us:

“If we do not live by some standards of truth and justice,
of kindness and respect for the integrity and the rights of
others, we will perish, we will lose our humanity.”

And he told us:

“T have heard it said that we have lost our way. Maybe so,
but possibly what we ought to be saying is that we are looking
for a better way.”

This is his legacy to us. We shall remember.

A search committee had been appointed to consider candidates
to succeed Regent Robert F. Goheen, who resigned to become Am-

[ 26 ]
bassador to India. A unanimous recommendation was made to pro-
pose Mrs. Anne Legendre Armstrong as citizen Regent, subject
to action by the Congress.

The financial report was summarized and included details of the
pending budget submission to the Office of Management and
Budget for fiscal year 1979 and a complete review of the nonappro-
priated funds of the Institution. A revised draft statement of the
policies and procedures governing the use of Smithsonian funds
was approved by the Board, subject to reconsideration and revision
upon further discussion with concerned members of our Congres-
sional committees. A general survey was recommended by the In-
vestment Policy Committee to determine the adequacy of our in-
vestment managers.

The Regents approved the establishment of a pooled income fund
which permits a donor to contribute to the fund while at the same
time retaining a lifetime interest income for the donor or a named
beneficiary. The Regents also approved the selection of the United
Virginia Bank as Trustee for this pooled income fund, with the
Smithsonian retaining the right to replace the Trustee.

The Board of Regents recognized the opportunity to support a
number of important unmet needs of the Institution and approved
the expenditure of an amount up to $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1978
for acquisition of collections, the increase of knowledge through
scholarly programs, and the diffusion of knowledge through educa-
tional programs. Future years’ allocations for these purposes will
be considered annually by the Regents, with the expectation that
the acquisitions program will continue at the same level for five
years, subject to the availability of funds.

Favorable progress was reported in implementing the recom-
mendations of the Hughes Report concerning recruitment for an |
Under Secretary, a five-year planning process, an inventory of pro-
grams and activities, procedures for administering programs for-
merly in the Smithsonian Research Foundation, and action on the
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange. The Secretary discussed
the continuing review of Smithsonian operations by the Surveys and
Investigations staff of the House Appropriations Committee.

The Board expressed its support of legislation to authorize the
Smithsonian Institution to acquire the Museum of African Art. The
Secretary was authorized to conclude an agreement with the

[ 27 ]
Trustees of the Museum on terms consistent with the recommenda-
tions of the ad hoc Committee of the Regents and to accept the
instrument of donation as contained in the legislation.

Stemming from a 1961 bequest to the Institution, an apartment
building was authorized to be sold and the net proceeds placed in
the Atherton Seidell Endowment fund, the income of which is to
be used to make “the published results of scientific research more
widely available to those able to use them for the advancement of
science,” as stipulated by the donor.

Legislative measures introduced in the Ninty-sixth Congress in-
cluded a bill to authorize construction of the Museum Support
Center; a bill transferring to the Library of Congress responsibility
for the distribution of United States Government publications to
foreign governments and institutions; and a bill to increase the
amount of appropriations authorized for Barro Colorado Island.

The Institution accepted an invitation from the Institute for Ad-
vanced Study to join with the American Council of Learned Socie-
ties, the American Institute of Physics, the National Academy of
Sciences, Princeton University, and others, as an honorary sponsor
of the Einstein Symposium at Princeton in March of 1979. The
Smithsonian will also schedule kindred activities in Washington at
the same time.

The Regents received reports concerning acquisitions of the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts Commission, the National Portrait
Gallery Commission, and the Board of Trustees of the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden.

The Secretary reported that the Regents had ratified action taken
to develop a general interest book entitled The Smithsonian Experi-
ence, which was published and sold very well. Two other books,
tentatively titled A Flash of Genius: The Smithsonian Book of
Invention and Innovation and The Magnificent Foragers, were
scheduled for feasibility studies.

The Secretary and the Regents discussed possible acquisition of
the Tariff (Trade) Commission Building, when the current occu-
pants no longer require use of the building, to provide for the
future needs of the National Collection of Fine Arts, the National
Portrait Gallery, and the Archives of American Art.

Further study of the development of Mall underground garages
indicated various methods of financing the project, and the Regents
agreed that the study should be continued.

[ 28 ]
Programs created and produced by or for the Smithsonian for
external educational, informational, and associated purposes include
such projects as Smithsonian World, a series of one-hour television
programs with a magazine concept being developed; a Place of
Dreams, a documentary dealing with the history of flight; a 30-
minute film about the conception, design, construction, and even-
tual operation of the Multiple Mirror Telescope at Mount Hopkins,
Arizona; and Radio Smithsonian, a weekly half-hour series broad-
cast nationwide, touching upon diverse happenings throughout
the Institution.

An intensive review of the Institution’s equal employment op-
portunity policies and programs was begun by Mr. Will Douglas,
Jr., the new staff director of the Office of Equal Opportunity. He
was also assigned responsibility for coordinating the Institution’s
programs for the handicapped.

A report to the Regents from the National Armed Forces Mu-
seum Advisory Board listed the variety of activities taking place
in the National Museum of History and Technology relating to
armed forces history, including postdoctoral studies, scholarly con-
ferences, and work toward an expanded Hall of the Armed Forces.

Among the most noteworthy additions to the National Numis-
matic Collections in 1977 was the 1913 Liberty Head Nickel, a
significant piece virtually completing the Smithsonian’s collection
of United States coins of the twentieth century.

Following the meeting the Regents attended a signing ceremony
where an agreement between the Smithsonian Institution and the
Chase Manhattan Bank was executed accepting the Chase Man-
hattan Bank historic money collection for the Institution.

MAY 5, 1978, MEETING: The Spring meeting of the Board of Re-
gents was held in the Regents Room and was called to order by the
Chancellor who welcomed the newly appointed Regent, Senator
Robert B. Morgan, who replaced Senator Claiborne Pell, resigned.
The Chancellor also introduced the new Under Secretary, Michael
Collins, unanimously selected by the Secretary and the Regents.
The financial reports indicated that preliminary allowances on
the federal budget were favorable. The nonappropriated trust funds
budget reflected increases in projected interest income from short-
term investments, shops and mail order catalogue, the book The
Smithsonian Experience, and music record albums. The Secretary,

[ 29 ]
acting for the Permanent Committee of the Regents, was author-
ized to accept for the Institution gifts of securities and to sell such
securities in the best interests of the Institution to make funds
available for the purposes intended by the donor.

Guidelines were presented for the administration of the special
allocation of $2 million of trust funds previously approved by the
Regents for collections acquisitions and for scholarly and educa-
tional programs.

The Investment Policy Committee reported that in keeping with
its policy of monitoring the performance of the three investment
counselors over time, the decision was made that a change was
desirable. The Board of Regents accepted the recommendation of
the Investment Policy Committee and authorized the Secretary to
make the recommended changes.

The Board of Regents approved publication of the Smithsonian
book of inventions and a book about Smithsonian explorations in
the natural sciences, contingent on confirmation by the Executive
Committee that satisfactory test mailing results had been received.
To aid in future planning a market survey was conducted to seek
interests of readers in a variety of topics for future publications
such as flight, transportation, the American land and people, time,
the National Zoo, anthropology, dinosaurs, and diamonds.

The Regents considered steps taken to date regarding the possi-
bility of underground Mall parking. The staff had held discussions
with all potentially interested organizations in the city, and their
expressions of interest were solicited. While previous feasibility
and visitation studies provided a sound basis for discussion and
consideration, next steps would sharpen the focus on specific
significant issues, including methods of financing the project, sup-
port for the project from interested agencies, and seeking appropri-
ate legislation from the Congress to authorize the use of the Mall
for the development of underground parking facilities. The Re-
gents approved an amount of $70,000 of nonappropriated funds to
pursue the project.

The Secretary reported that hearings were held by the Senate
Committee on Rules and Administration on legislation to author-
ize a construction appropriation for the Museum Support Center,
and a favorable report was received. Action on the legislation could
be expected this session in the House of Representatives.

[ 30 ]
The Secretary described the legislation introduced in the House
and Senate to authorize the Smithsonian to acquire the Museum of
African Art. Hearings held by the Senate Committee on Rules and

Administration included such witnesses as Senator Muriel Hum-

phrey, Senator Hayakawa, and former Senator Moss, as well as the
Secretary of the Smithsonian and the Director of the Museum of
African Art. The legislation was reported favorably and action by
the House is expected soon.

In the early 1970s planning had begun to enclose the quadrangle
formed by the Arts and Industries Building on the west, the

- Smithsonian Building on the north, and the Freer Gallery of Art
_ on the east. A general preliminary building program and site evalu-

ation study had been prepared in 1975 and revised in 1978 in an-
ticipation of various funding possibilities. The Regents approved a
contract for the preparation of a design for a building or buildings,
including a study model, to express the general design concept. In
a related action, the Regents also approved installation of the James
Renwick gates along the south axis of the Smithsonian Building.

The Secretary reviewed the Collections Management Study relat-
ing to the analysis of conservation needs of the museums as well
as inventory controls. Methods being developed in the study will
provide a model which in future years will allow for more easily
maintained controls.

The Secretary reported to the Regents on various programs,
including projects under way in the Smithsonian’s continuing com-
mitment to reach out to the American people beyond Washington;
plans for the observance of the centennial of the birth of Albert
Einstein in 1979; the International Year of the Child and the Smith-
sonian’s seventh symposium in 1981 (tentatively titled ‘Biology
and Culture in Human Adaptation”); reorganization and establish-
ment of a fellowship and grant office; the status of building restora-
tion and renovation projects; activities of the National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates; establishment of a new Council at the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum to help with promotion and support of
museum activities; the Laserium show at the National Air and
Space Museum; and the conversion in 1978 of the Institution’s
measurement procedures to the metric system.

The Executive Committee, having held a number of meetings,
thoroughly considered the recommendations contained in the Re-

[ 31 ]
port of the Surveys and Investigations Staff of the House Appro-
priations Committee and the Institution’s response. Discussions
centered on ways and means of clarifying the responsibilities of the
Regents and their relationships with the Secretary, and prelimi-
nary work was begun on codifying the operating procedures for the
Board of Regents and the Secretary.

The Regents reviewed specific actions undertaken by the staff in
response to recommendations and criticisms contained in the man-
agement studies. The first of the recommendations resulted in a
draft document titled ‘Smithsonian Institution Programs and Ac-
tivities,” which was considered by the Regents to be an excellent
inventory of Smithsonian activities. The development of a five-year

7

perspective of Smithsonian future plans was also undertaken and
was expected to be completed soon.

The Regents agreed to employ a consultant to the Executive
Committee, Mr. Hermann P. Bretsch, on an as-needed basis to
analyze various procedures used by the Board of Regents in per-
forming its oversight functions. A Regents’ Liaison Group was
organized to discuss various Smithsonian matters and to keep the
Regents apprised of Smithsonian programs and activities. Meeting
monthly, their activities were considered to be most worthwhile.

Following the meeting the Regents participated in the dedication
of the statue of Spencer Fullerton Baird, which took place in the
Victorian Garden where the statue stands facing the south side of
the Smithsonian Institution Building.

SEPTEMBER 25, 1978 MEETING: The fall meeting of the Board of Re-
gents had a record attendance of Regents who had advance review
of agenda material. Primary subjects on the agenda related to
financial reports and policy issues resulting in a decision to pre-
pare a consolidated budget of all resources of the Institution. The
Regents reviewed federal appropriations enactment and designa-
tion of the Secretary’s authority to expend those funds. The Board
also reviewed the budgeted allocations from nonappropriated funds,
promulgated guidelines for reprogramming of those funds, and
considered the level of the Institution’s endowment funds.

It was reported that in compliance with previous recommenda-
tions the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange will be trans-
ferred to the Department of Commerce before July 1, 1979.

[ 32 ]
A Five-year Perspective of Smithsonian programs was prepared
to indicate the level of activities contemplated for the future with
appropriated and nonappropriated resources. A policy statement on
the Use of Nonappropriated Funds approved by the Regents under-
scored the need for the development of the unrestricted trust fund
endowment which serves to enhance the programs undertaken for
the benefit of the public.

The Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History Endowment was au-
thorized to be established and funded through transfers of receipts
from the auxiliary activities of the National Air and Space Museum.

The Regents reviewed financial data and work to date on two
popular publications, The Smithsonian Book of Invention and The
Magnificent Foragers. Future planning was authorized for proposed
Smithsonian books relating to such subjects as the American land
and the National Zoo.

The Board of Trustees of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden unanimously adopted a resolution of appreciation of the
action taken by the Board of Regents in establishing a Collections
Acquisition Program to enable the Museum to acquire important
works. In connection with the matching of funds requirement of
the program, it was noted with pleasure that gifts had already been
pledged by the Hirshhorn Trustees.

The Regents reviewed the various stages of progress on pending
legislation, work on a number of projects relating to administrative
matters, the collections management study, Mall underground
parking, construction projects, the selected studies program of the
National Associates, and the Smithsonian symposia and seminars.

Representative George H. Mahon, Regent of the Smithsonian
since 1964, retiring from the Congress, was presented a gift and
citation for his distinguished service as a Regent and for the pro-
found effect his leadership has had on our nation through forty-
four years in the Congress of the United States.

Mr. James E. Webb was honored at a dinner held at the Supreme
Court by the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution for his
exceptional services as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Regents.

[ 33 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS
Fiscal Years 1970 and 1975-1978
[ In $1,000,000's ]

200
FUNDS PROVIDED
175
Auxiliary
150 and
Pisobee Nonappropriated
OE fiiti,| Activities
re itll Expenses Trust Funds
tet brits (Gross Revenues)
125+— rans Ray ere ae Net
i'l Unrestricted Trust
AAA Restricted Funds
100 MRA Federal Grants
ed 4 and Contracts

POP
2} b ras

Federal
Appropriations

i

1975 1976 1977 1978

200
FUNDS APPLIED

175

To Plant and Endowment

Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

Support Activities and Administration

at Museum Programs

bs : a, WSS oa a Public Service

History and Art
50

25 Science

A
mT

O ——

1970 1975 1976 i977 1978
Smithsonian Institution « 1978

FINANCIAL REPORT

T. AMES WHEELER, TREASURER

Summary: In reviewing the Smithsonian’s financial progress for
fiscal year 1978, note should be taken of important matters which
have received much attention from financial and other management
personnel over this past year. These dealt with responses to recom-
mendations generated by extensive studies of Institutional opera-
tions by the General Accounting Office, the Surveys and Investiga-
tions Staff of the House Appropriations Committee and the Smith-
sonian Board of Regents—essentially the result of the Institution’s
increased “visibility” following years of physical and financial
growth. All of these studies substantiated the integrity of Smith-
sonian finances. At the same time they made a number of construc-
tive recommendations to strengthen administrative procedures as
outlined in Secretary Ripley’s statements in both this year’s and
last year’s annual reports. The resulting Smithsonian responses
include expanded efforts to provide more extensive financial in-
formation to the Congress, the Regents, and the public.

As a part of these efforts some modifications have been made in
this financial report. Whereas, it has been the practice in the past
to consider federal appropriations separately from nonappropriated
trust funds, the Regents, like the Congress, are now emphasizing
approval of consolidated budgets which include all types of In-
stitutional funds and clarify the relationships between them. Table
1 in this report, therefore, now sets forth the sources and applica-
tion of all funds available to the Institution. Other tables in this
report, for the most part, provide clarifying detail for this overall
summary.

[ 35 ]
As to the financial results themselves for the fiscal year 1978,
they demonstrate the continued strong appreciation and support of
the Institution by the Congress and the public as a whole. Federal
appropriations totaling $104.5 million overall were expanded suf-
ficiently to furnish protection against inflationary operating cost
increases, strengthen maintenance and protection services, and fund
a limited number of urgent additional program needs. Construction
appropriations were lower than in the previous year but those for
the Foreign Currency Program increased.

Results for our nonappropriated trust funds were equally satis-
factory, with further increases in income from investments, gifts
and bequests, and auxiliary activities. Restricted purpose funds
alone supplied over $5.0 million for activities and provided a $1.2
million addition to endowment funds largely dedicated to assistance
for Smithsonian scientific publications. The higher level of unre-
stricted nonappropriated trust funds income made it possible to
establish a new $2-million-per-year program for major collection
acquisitions, research, and public education, with an extra $2 mil-
lion reserve set aside this year in further support of such future
purchases for the collections. In addition, $869,000 of nonappro-
priated monies were used for construction, equipment, and land
purchases, and over $3.0 million for a multitude of other bureau
and Institution needs, including the inflation-bred rise in adminis-
trative costs. Remaining surplus for the year allowed a further pru-
dent addition to endowment funds to guard against possible less
satisfactory financial results in future years.

The Board of Regents and the Secretary, in conjunction with
Congressional representatives, have now concluded that the In-
stitution should assume in future years, with the use of nonappro-
priated funds, some program costs previously supported from fed-
eral appropriations. Such actions, together with the substantial
amounts of nonappropriated funds already being devoted to In-
stitutional operations, will reduce support needed from United
States taxpayers and provide strong evidence of the value to the
government itself of the Institution’s “self-help” auxiliary activities
—over and above the very real cultural values these activities pre-
sent for the public.

[ 36 ]
Tasie 1. Financial Summary

[$1,000’s]

FY 1977

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS

FUNDS PROVIDED:

Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ..
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts ............
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Mepieestricted PUTPOSES 2.2.6 le ee ee
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Acts. Revenues—Gross .
Mess’ Nelated EXpenses 22... i.e cs ees

Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Income .
Other Unrest. & Special Purp. Income .....

Total Net Unrest. & Spec. Purp. Income ..

Total Nonapprop. Trust Funds*—Gross ......
(een ae

Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ........
—Net

FUNDS APPLIED:

a REINA a ope Sa
RIN Ge Ch ago aw slates es sins
0) 2 5s See eee
EEE SSS ie SR rn eg eae
RE ETORN ES 5. a cone sm wce we ow nies 2 wb
Admunistration—Federal ...............2.-2+:
—Nonappropriated Trust Funds .............
Bess movernead Recovery ...-.....-...-..-

Total Operating Funds Applied ...............
Transfers (Nonapprop. Trust Funds)
Unrestricted Funds:
EI. kos es hes we Ch Redes
MUMIISIUIIETHES 2 oe ec ee eden
Restricted Funds: To Endowments ...........

Total Operating Funds Applied &
op bn 1 OE ae ne 2 ee

CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED
TRUST FUND BALANCES:

Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency
NE Se ere

Unrestricted—General Purpose ...............-
SEI PECLDOSOS 6 coos elon 6 sig - cw ew ose vine

Se ee

YEAR-END BALANCES—
NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:

Ce SS Se ee ee

Unrestricted—General Purpose ...............
5 Cl ean

15,129
143,718

$110,880

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange .....
Peace Ciirency Program ........--.cceveres
My ela o a's, Wings Sides fina Sn, es peo 00

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl.
Bolaries it EXpenSeS ADOVE) - 20.5 one eases

$100,219

FY 1978

$ 93,393
11,157

6,538

55,201
(43,570)

11,631
2,229

13,860
63,968
20,398
168,518
$124,948

$ 49,744
19,620
2,576
7,454
26,175
6,161
5,875
(5,200)

112,405

869
3,271
1,261

$117,806

$ 980

$ 1,857
4,000
5,250

$104,500

ES Ee eS nnn
* Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment

Funds: FY 1977—$239,000; FY 1978—$185,000.
Operating Funds—Source and Application

As may be seen from Table 1 and the chart on page 34, total
operating revenues of the Institution from all sources increased in
fiscal year 1978 to $168.5 million, compared with $143.7 million in
the preceding year. Net funds received (i.e., after expenses incurred
in generating the revenues of our auxiliary activities) increased by
more than $14 million to $124.9 million. These funds are of three
principal kinds: federal appropriations (55 percent), grants and
contracts received from federal agencies (7 percent) and nonappro-
priated funds from a variety of sources (38 percent), the percent-
ages shown relating to gross revenues received. While all monies
coming to the Institution are dedicated to the same broad objectives
of increasing and diffusing knowledge, there are important differ-
ences in the specific uses and in the restrictions imposed on these
funds. Further detail as to their uses is shown in Table 2.

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

Of the $14-million increase in net receipts, about two-thirds was
accounted for by the $8.2-million rise in the federal appropriation
to $93,393,000, equaling 75 percent of total net operating revenues.
Approximately $6.3 million of this increase was required merely
for the inflationary rise in salaries and utility rates. The remaining
$1.9 million represented additional program support, including pro-
vision for higher equipment maintenance costs at the Zoo, expanded
computer needs at the Astrophysical Observatory, a major increase
for the programs of the National Anthropological Film Center, and
added protection services.

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Grants and contracts from federal agencies amounting to $11.2
million (8.9 percent of net operating revenues) were slightly higher
than in the preceding year. These funds contribute importantly to
the scientific research efforts of the Institution in areas of special
capability. Again, as in preceding years (see Table 3), the Astro-
physical Observatory, under numerous contracts with the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, accounted for about three-
fourths of the total. Some examples of these projects are: research

[ 38 ]
in medical entomology and cancer in lower animals at the National
Museum of Natural History, geological studies of the lunar surface
at the National Air and Space Museum, studies on the molecular
processes of comets at the Astrophysical Observatory, and research
on the effects of radiation on plant metabolism at the Radiation
Biology Laboratory.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

Nonappropriated trust funds are now the second largest source of
operating support. In fiscal year 1978, their gross revenues rose by
33 percent, and net revenues after costs incurred in the Smi thsonian
magazine, museum shops, and other auxiliary activities which gen-
erate income, including those in some individual bureaux, increased
35 percent to $20,398,000. This amounted to 16.3 percent of total
net operating revenues compared to 13.6 percent in fiscal year 1977.
These included funds provided for both restricted and unrestricted
purposes of the Institution.

Restricted funds income, totaling $6,538,000 in fiscal year 1978,
as detailed in Table 4, was received for specific purposes designated
by the donors and was derived principally from gifts ($3,478,000)
and investment income ($2,022,000); also included was $1,038,000
of income from such diverse activities as the Freer Gallery shop and
memberships, museum classes, and fund-raising auctions of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the Archives of American Art. In
fiscal year 1978 we were fortunate to receive a $1.2-million bequest
from the estate of Dr. Atherton Seidell, which, as a part of the In-
stitution’s restricted purpose endowment funds, will henceforth
provide income for the publication of scientific papers. Major shares
of restricted purpose endowment investment income are dedicated
to the support of the Freer Gallery of Art, oceanographic research
at the Fort Pierce Bureau in Florida, and other specified areas of
science. Important uses of gift funds in the past year, as shown in
Table 4, include: completion and opening of the Marine Hall in the
National Museum of History and Technology, important additions
to the mineral collection of the National Museum of Natural His-
tory, portrait acquisitions at the National Portrait Gallery, support
of research fellowships at numerous bureaux, as well as a great
diversity of research and education activities at all levels of Smith-
sonian operations.

[ 39 ]
Taste 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds

Year Ended September 30, 1978
[Excludes SSIE, Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments]
[In $1,000’s]

Funds

Federal federal

funds

Total
non-

funds

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Aux- Spe- Grants
iliary cial and
Gen- activ- pur-  Gen- con-
eral ities pose eral tracts

FUND BALANCES—

1 Oeiaber 1997 2 oe oe se

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations ......
Investment Income ..........
Grants and Contracts ........
Gitts, ose Hee ar ee ae

Other Ose ee ee te ee

FUNDS APPLIED
Science:

Natl. Museum of Nat. History .
Astrophysical Observatory ...
Tropical Research Institute ...
Radiation Biology Lab. .......
Chesapeake Bay Center ......
Natl. Air and Space Museum .
Natl. Zoological Park) $2 05.22.,:
Center for Study of Man .....
Fort Pierce Bureaw s.).).):.. 25.
Fellowships and Grants ......
Other ‘frie ss eee tee ae

Fotali Science: >. ek

History and Art:
Natl. Museum of History

and Technology .2i s/s ana
Natl. Collection of Fine Arts .
Natl, Portrait Gallery ) 22.527"
Hirshhorn Museum ..........
Freer Gallery of Art .........
Archives of American Art ....
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ......
American & Folklife Studies ..
Others 4 tie. soon trates

Total History and Art .

$ -O- $11,934 $ 4,082 $

442
53,432

—0— $ 4,292 $ 3,518 $ 42,

ee

nn ee een ommmneseemsnemenesnnnssessneeneilltenememmmmenennennmmmmmmnns

a ssf EE

$12,447
4,613
1,743
1,721
626
5,777
7,584

$ 1,892
8,439
183

6

633
1,185
271

So) £25

NN

ee SEES —EeEEEEE—————————

[ 40 ]
Taste 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued

Year Ended September 30, 1978
[In $1,000’s]

Funds

Public Service:

mmacostiia Museum ..........
PamminsOMian Press ...........
memmrmane Arts ..........«..
meeositon BOOkKs ............
Other Public Service ........

Total Public Service ...

Museum Programs:

Conservation Analytical Lab. .
EMI Ga wee ee wk
PERPEN iele cies aw cw a se
Traveling Exhibition Svc. .....
National Museum Act .......
Other Museum Programs .....

Total Museum Programs

Other Activities:
Associates Program .........
Business Management .......

Total Other Activities .

Support Activities ...........
Pettrsiration 2 .........-..-
Overhead Recovery ........

Transfers Out/(In):

on
Coll. Acg., Research, Education
Collect. Acquis. Reserves .....
Euapility Keserves ...........
Net Auxiliary Activities ......
Other Designated Purposes ...
ES ae ee

FUND BALANCES 9/30/78 ..

Total

non-
Federal federal
funds funds

557 108
Fis 583
299 1,882

— 2,546
638 390

510 —_
2,204 144
1,141 10

154 620

793 —
2,319 143
7,121 917

— 27,328
— 9,382
— 36,710

= — (11,166)

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Aux- Spe- Grants
iliary cial and
Gen- activ- pur- Gen-  con-
eral ities pose eral tracts
24 —_ 15 69 —
_ 551 — —_ 32
12 1,752 37 21 60
—_ 2,546 — — —
95 285 é | 14 (15)
131 5,134 63 104 77
144 on == a ie
— 15 (5) —
=)» 895 = ons 45
31 a 11 101 =
£75 575 26 96 45
=. 27985 2 (5) 46
— 9,380 2 —_— —
— 36,665 4 (5) 46
324 334 127 32 —_—
1,065 1,762 264 506 2,295
(5,200) (590) (1,762) (171) (430) (2,247)
fier ae =n oe — = ze
ae a 2000 —~ {2,000} — Ss
ws =) 2900 — (2,000) z- a
Sus =) 4900 — (1,000) = =
11,166 ae = =
em BS TAO oh) E700) = ==
—24iA, o G0 869 aes ge ue ie
= Maa2 3 O24 =e, BED. LOBE =
112 5,401 (1,576) 11,166 (5,450) 1,261 =

$ -O-— $19,076 $ 4,932 $

* Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.

[ 41 ]

—O— $ 9,604 $4,428 $

112
TaBLeE 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
[In $1,000’s]

Transition
Federal Agencies FY 1976 quarter FY 1977 FY1978
Department of Commerce ..... $ . 218 $ 90 $ 82 $ 63
Department of Defense ....... 800 212 998 968
Department of Energy ........ 85 48 157 266
Department of Health,

Education and Welfare ...... 255 79 282 311
Department of Interior ........ 272 48 155 4
Department of Labor ......... 162 177 33 1
Department of State .......... 1,252 242 282 15
Environmental Protection

ARMIN 3 Saictinee ahs Rees sae 118 45 452 422.
National Aeronautics and

Space Administration ....... 6,222 1,845 6,346 7,324
National Endowments for

the Arts and Humanities .... 451 174 356 226
National Science Foundation ... 432 128 315 400
Di aM ROR bap APR UE EP ERA RE 1,258 899 1Adts 1,087

Makan shoe) ok wee ce $11,525 $3,987 $10,571 $11,087

Unrestricted purpose funds include both those for general op-
erating purposes of the Institution and a smaller category desig-
nated as Special Purpose Funds. In the latter are included funds
handled principally by individual bureaux and derived either from
activities of the bureaux themselves or received from shares of in-
come from shops and concessions. Detail on income and applica-
tion of Special Purpose Funds is set forth in Table 5. As shown
therein, a major portion of these funds is generated by the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum; the largest portion of such revenues
and expenditures relate to operation of the nasm theater and the
substantial reduction in revenues this year results from its 50 per-
cent cut in admission fees in July 1977. From this source, and a
number of other aviation-related auxiliary activities, however, this
bureau was able in fiscal year 1978 to transfer $250,000 to endow-
ment funds toward a $900,000 goal of funding a Lindbergh Chair
of Aerospace History. NasM also supports from these funds a re-
cently established newsletter on aeronautical subjects. Also in-
cluded in these Special Purpose Funds are reserves set aside for
possible additional magazine expenditures and the unspent portion

[ 42 ]
a
4

}

<

|
/
,
;

TasLe 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds Fiscal Years 1976-1978

[In $1,000’s]
Net
Trans-_ in- Fund
; Total fers crease balance
Invest- in- Deduc- in (de- end of
Item ment Gifts Misc. come __ tions (out) crease) year
FY 1976 and

Transition Quarter—

SU, wa

FY 1978:
Museum of
Natural History
Astrophysical
Observatory ....
National Air and

Space Museum ....
Fort Pierce Bureau ...

Museum of History

and Technology ...

National Collection
of Fine Arts .....

Freer Gallery of Art .

Archives of
American Art ...

Cooper-Hewitt
—Operating ....
Pa tner ........

National Portrait
eee

Hirshhorn Museum ..

Anacostia
Neighborhood
mauseum ........

Total FY 1978

. $2,137 $4,965 $ 686 $7,788 $8,357 $

gt 3 155 2

ae 18 424 —
3 254 —_
es _— 79 —

159

130

39
338

179 $(390) $3,984
354 $(140) $3,518*

ise @ Lal $1463 § 8 $1,592 $ 474 $(1,099) $

79

(15)

(7)

19 $ 506
108 8
36 1,012
256 377
(181) 366
83 147
48 260
(3) 175
8 8
(77) 319
330 339
238 253
10 3
35 655

ee ees

* Exclusive of funds of Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars ($326,414
as of 9/30/76) reclassified as Agency Funds.

of fiscal year 1978 commitment toward a new $2.0 million per year
program for Collection Acquisitions, Research, and Education, dis-
cussed below. In fiscal year 1978 an additional $2,000,000 was also
reserved for partial prefunding of commitments toward new col-
lection acquisitions. These added reserves account for the sub-
stantial rise in the year-end balance of these funds.

[ 43 ]
Taste 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Years 1976-1978
[In $1,000’s]

Bu-
Gifts reau Net
Bu- and Pro- activ- in- Fund
reau other Trans- gram ity crease balance
Invest- activ- reve- Total fers ex- ex- (de-  endof
Item ment ities nue income in/(out) pense pense crease) year
FY 1976 and
Transition Quarter $ 3 $ 630 $787 $1,420 $1,245 $ 952 $296 $1,417 $2,488
BY S977 Sao chee $¢ 3 $1,721 $387 $2,111 $ 828 $ 447 $617 $1,875 $4,292*

Museum of
Natural History .. $ 7 $ 3 $30 $ 40 $ 544 $ 281 $ 1 $ 302 $ 440

Astrophysical

Observatory ..... 1 _ 17 18 174 40 — 152 173
Tropical Research

Institwhes<..asie ix oe 67 a= 67 74 17 62 59 76
National Air and

Space Museum ... 79. + 1152 94 15325 (26) 255 684 360 1,938
National Zoological

Par. ke be. 29 — 128 17 70 51 — 176 619
Museum of History

and Technology .. 21 8 36 65 190 238 5 12 449
National Collection

of Fine Arts ...... 10 4 45 59 23 60 5 ag 200
Hirshhorn Museum . 5 — 9 14 55 gi — 54 12m
Exhibits Central .... 3 — 10 13 — 15 — (2) 47
Liability Reserves ... — — — — 1,000 — — 1,000 1,900
Unallocated Coll.

Acquisition

Research and

BGeCaHON is clas 2c —_— —_ —_— — 1,042 —_— — 1,042 1,042
Collections Acq.

ReSCTVE. nse ee — — _ — 2,000 — — 2,000 2,000
Support Activities

and Other 22.255 20 oS S137, 250 307 312 105 140 605

nl

FY 1978 Total $175 $1,327 $506 $2,008 $5,450** $1,284 $862 $5,312 $9,604

—_ ——_—_—_—__ == ny ——=——— —_—_ —_—_—_ ——— Ss

* Exclusive of funds of Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars ($70,655 as of 9/30/76)

reclassified as Agency Funds.
** Includes transfer of $250,000 to Lindbergh Chair Endowment.

[ 44 ]

Tasie 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities

[Excluding Special Purpose Funds and Gifts to Endowment]
[In $1,000’s]

Transition
Item © FY 1976 quarter FY 1977 FY 1978
INCOME
General Income:
RIES 8 aie vnc as $1,107 $ 263 $1,154 $1,400
Sg oy ko wires oo 66 16 48 112
Miscellaneous ........... 54 13 45 36
Total General Income 1,227 292 1,247 1,548
Auxiliary Activities (net):
BRS, Sok we eb we 3,256 1,011 6,416 7 A4l1
Shops, Product Develop-
ment, and Mail Order
0 We 521 261 828 738
i | ae (146) (46) (108) (199)
Performing Arts ......... (110) (9) (343) 253
Exposition Books ........ — — (131) 2,105
2S 657 517 1,651 1,567
Other Activities ......... (131) (70) (332) (739)
Total Activities ..... 4,047 1,664 7,981 11,166
Toit income ........ 5,274 1,956 9,228 12,714
EXPENDITURES AND
TRANSFERS
Administrative and
Program Expense ........ 5,024 1,530 6,382 7 A7A4
Less Administrative Recovery 4,558 1,201 4,592 5,200
Peet Expense ........ 466 329 1,790 2,274
Less Transfers:
To Special Purpose and
Restricted Funds for
Program Purposes ..... L151 499 1,350 5,700
To Plant Funds .......... 2,495 - 207 559 869
To Endowment Funds .... 1,021 755 5,521 3,021
MEL GAIN (LOSS) ........ 141 166 8 850
ENDING BALANCE ....... $3,908 $4,074 $4,082 $4,932

[ 45 ]
Smith-
Smith- sonian Per- Expo-
Museum sonian Assoc- forming sition Con-
Item Total shops* Press** iates Arts Books cessions Other**

Sales and

Other Revenue .. $53,432 $9,560 $ 352 $34,285 $2,005 $4,651 $1,685 $894
Cite Bes es Gan oe 442 — — 442 —_— a a —

Less Cost of Sales 23,536 5,141 240 16,013 664 1,449 —— 29

Gross Income . 30,338 4,419 112 18,714 1,341 3,202 1,685 865

ERDOTIBES: i 35.ea ican 17,410 3,245 299 10,330 965 1,033 100 1,438
Administrative

Castes. ise os 1,762 436 12 943 123 64 18 166
Income (Loss)

Before Transfers . 11,166 738 (199) 7 AAl1 253 2,105 ja aon (739)
Transfers In/(Out) . (390) (210) # — — == ere (180) =m
Net Income ....... $10,776 $ 528 $(199) $ 7,441 $ 253 $2,105 $1,387 $ (739)

TasLe 7. Auxiliary Activities for Fiscal Year 1978
[In $1,000’s]

* Includes Product Development and Mail Order Programs.
** The privately funded activities of the Press as opposed to the federally supported
publication of research papers.
*** Includes Traveling Exhibitions, Belmont Conference Center, Photo Sales, Tele-
communications, and Business Management Office.
# Allocations to the Smithsonian bureaux participating in this program.

A far larger category of unrestricted purpose nonappropriated
trust fund income is that for General Institutional Purposes, includ-
ing auxiliary activities, (refer to Tables 2 and 6). Investment income
applicable to these funds rose by $246,000 to $1,400,000 as the re-
sult of previous years’ income-generating transfers to endowment
funds plus larger invested current fund balances. More importantly,
however, net revenues from auxiliary activities rose this year by
$3.2 million to equal $11,166,000. The Smithsonian Associates Pro-
gram, including the Smithsonian magazine, continues to account for
the major share of this income (see Tables 6 and 7). In fiscal year
1978, however, important increases in income were realized from
sales of the first Smithsonian Exposition Books (The Smithsonian
Experience and The Magnificent Foragers) and from a major pro-
motion of musical records developed by the Division of Performing
Arts. Income from concessions and from museum shops, including
the promising new Mail Order Division, continue to provide im-
portant contributions.

[ 46 ]

These general unrestricted funds traditionally support a portion
of the Institution’s administrative costs, provide income sharing to
bureaux for their discretionary uses, make possible a great variety
of small but urgent operating or construction allotments, and in a
few cases, such as the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, furnish a portion of
basic operating support. In more recent years, as described in pre-
vious reports, sizeable amounts have also been transferred to en-
dowment funds to provide for future needs. The increase in net
revenues occurring in fiscal year 1978 allowed the Board of Re-
gents to establish a new program calling for the expenditure of $2
million per year. Of this, $1 million would be to provide for major
acquisitions for collections of the Smithsonian’s museums and art
galleries; until now only very limited funds have been available for
this purpose either from federal appropriations or from nonappro-
priated funds. The other $1 million per year would consist of two
allotments of $500,000 each to provide for special research projects
and public education improvements. Procedures approved by the
Regents governing the allotment of these funds call for some
matching monies from outside sources and for careful selection and
reporting of all projects funded in the three categories.

Other applications of general unrestricted funds in fiscal year
1978 included nearly $900,000 for construction improvements and
land purchase at the Chesapeake Bay Center and elsewhere. An-
other $2 million for future collection acquisitions was transferred
to Special Purpose Fund reserves, as outlined previously. The trans-
fer to endowment funds to provide income for future needs con-
sisted of $3 million in the current year, compared to $5.5 million in
fiscal year 1977.

Other Operating Programs

Not included in the general operating funds described above are
two other programs, listed at the bottom of Table 1, supported en-
tirely from separate federal appropriations. The Smithsonian
Special Foreign Currency Program provides grants to institutions in
this country for field research in other countries where “excess”
foreign currencies are available. Funding in fiscal year 1978 was in-

[ 47 ]
TaB.e 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1978—Obligations

System- __ Astro-
aticand physics

environ- and Grant
mental earth Museum adminis-

Country Archeology biology sciences programs tration Total
parma s.% .KaRR SS S — §$ 76 $ — $ — $ — §$ 76
Egypt ey ee PANG IAPS GIS) 102,449 73,192 9,962 6,297 2,324,208
ER apifaens sa re 1,344,603 69,728 32,156 54,735 58,472 1,559,694
Pakistan 92), 3.%45.0% 74,082 147,057 — 1,268 — 222,407
Sites 5c ane eee — — — 2,813 — 2,813

TOTAL ... $3,551,020 $319,310 $105,348 $68,778 $64,769 $4,109,225*

* An additional $21,000 was obligated through the National Science Foundation for
the translation and printing of scientific publications in India requested by the
Smithsonian Institution.

creased to $4 million, including $1 million for the fourth and final
contribution to the campaign to save the monuments of Nubia. The
general areas of research and geographical activities of this pro-
gram may be seen in Table 8.

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange also received a
$1,857,000 appropriation in fiscal year 1978, slightly lower than
in the previous year. This appropriation, together with fees and
contract income received from services provided by the Exchange,
is normally sufficient to cover operating costs of this organization
which has been operated for the benefit of the government as a
Smithsonian subsidiary for a number of years. (See also page 54.)

Construction

The federal appropriation of $5,250,000 in fiscal year 1978 for con-
struction projects was smaller than in recent years. As shown in
Table 9, however, it provided for continued work on the Master
Plan of the National Zoological Park in Rock Creek and for renova-
tion at its Front Royal Conservation and Research Center. About
an equal amount of money was appropriated for continued wide-
spread restoration and renovation projects, including added im-
provements for handicapped visitors and employees.

An amount of $325,000 was provided for initial planning work

[ 48 ]
Tas_e 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1976-1978

[In $1,000’s]
Transition
Sources FY 1976 quarter FY 1977 FY 1978
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:
National Zoological Park ...... $ 8390 $1,440 $ 6,580 $2,500
National Air & Space Museum . 2,500 — — —
Museum Support Center ...... — — — 325
_ Restoration & Renov. of Bldgs. 1,192 400 2,950 2,425
Total Federal
Appropriations ......... $12,082 $1,840 $ 9,530 $5,250
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..... 5 25 $ 30 $ 3 $ 60
Chesapeake Bay Center ..... = —_ 2 —
National Zoological Park .... 100 —
Mera: Income ............ $ 530 § 30 $ 5 $ 60
Transfers from Current Funds:
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..... §° 425 $ — $ 6195 $ (10)
Chesapeake Bay Center ..... 70 12 95 344
NMNH-West Court & Shops . 2,000 195 269 --
S.I. Building Improvements .. — — — 355
Pepe AOUSE .......---.... a — — 70
National Zoological Park .... — — — 110
onde transters .......... $ 2,495 C207 $ 559 $ 869
et trust Funds ........ $ 3,025 S237 $ 564 $ 929
Total Funds Provided ........... $15,107 $2,077 $10,094 $6,179

for an important new Museum Support Center for storage and re-
search purposes to be located at the Silver Hill facility near Wash-
ington. Additional federal monies for completion of the planning
are being provided in fiscal year 1979, and it is hoped that con-
struction of this facility, already authorized by the Congress, can
be funded in fiscal year 1980. The sum of $869,000 in nonappro-
priated trust funds was also provided in the past fiscal year toward
construction projects. This made possible the completion of a new
laboratory building at the Chesapeake Bay Center as well as its

[ 49 ]
Taste 10. Endowment and Similar Funds*
Summary of Investments September 30, 1978

Accounts | Book value Market value

INVESTMENT ACCOUNTS
Consolidated Endowment Funds:

Cash and Enuivaiente i\oosoucscesaewesiace $ 356,677 $ 356,677
BOGGS oo <2 wee an Sree a ee ee 15,913,468 16,030,543
Convertible Bonds 6s 06s i Nae eee Se ee 1,065,522 1,105,375
BHOCKS oo ais eiscs Keo aes Case Bec See 35,412,095 39,537,817

TO re ee ci ok s Cee ee ee eas $52,747,762 $57,030,412

Miscellaneous:

Cae oe ae. arene i ee eee $ —0- $ —0-
OTS she UG os ween § a ates De ee Cae 9,769 9,400
Common SIGCKS: .15 S25 cil ragvesteceareee 3,572 14,780

MORE ck as he Pei cee eee ee Oe $ 13,341 S 24,180

Total Investment Accounts «2.2 ideas oe ke $52,761,103 $57,054,592

Other Accounts:

Notes Recervanle 2. vc cky aw cel tare ee ee 5 42,370 $ 42,370
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity ......... 1,000,000 1,000,000
Total. Other: Accotsnts’ :.). 5 Gesu esas ks $ 1,042,370 $ 1,042,370

Total Endowment and Similar Fund
palances . Wis secs feo aa ok i Se eee $53,803,473 $58,096,962

* Includes both true endowment, whose income only may be expended, and quasi en-
dowments, whose principal as well as income may be used for current purposes on
approval of the Board of Regents.

continued land purchase payments. Additional funds were either
paid, or encumbered by transfer to plant funds, for physical im-
provements in the area of the Smithsonian Castle and for pur-
chase of a parcel of land surrounded by the present Front Royal
holding of the Zoo.

Endowment and Similar Funds

As of September 30, 1978, the Smithsonian endowment funds had
a total market value of $58,097,000 (see Table 10) which included
$57,030,000 in the Consolidated Endowment Fund, $1,000,000 on
permanent deposit in the United States Treasury, and $67,000 of

[ 50 ]

Taste 11. Market Values of Consolidated Endowment Funds*

[In $1,000’s]

Fund 6/30/74 6/30/75 9/30/76 9/30/77 9/30/78
Menrestricted ......... $ 3,906 $ 5,654 $ 7,477 $11,695 $17,206
ee * 14,250 15,744 16,035 15,410 16,807
Endowment No. 3.... 11,128 12,321 12,701 12,343 13,462
TY 6,266 7,148 7,420 7,431 9,555

RCE Da) es, . $35,550 $40,867 $43,633 $46,879 $57,030

* Not including Endowment Funds of $1,000,000 held in the United States Treasury,
carrying 6 percent interest, nor minor amount of miscellaneous securities treated
separately.

Taste 12. Changes in Consolidated Endowment Funds

for Fiscal Year 1978
[In $1,000’s]

us

In-
Gifts Interest crease

Market and and Income in Market

value trans- divi- paid Sub- market value

Fund 9/30/77 fers dends* out total value 9/30/78
Unrestricted

Becks ws $11,695 $3,250 $ 592 $ 637 $14,900 $2,306 $17,206

Sreer Fund ....... 15,410 — 672 724 15,358 1,449 16,807

Endowment No. 3 . 12,343 — 538 580 L230) 1,161 13,462

Restricted funds .. 7,431 1,409 334 362 8,812 743 9,555

Total** .... $46,879 $4,659 $2,136 $2,303 $51,371 $5,659 $57,030

* Income earned less managers’ fees.
** Not including Endowment Funds of $1,000,000 held in the United States Treasury,
carrying 6 percent interest, nor minor amount of miscellaneous securities treated
separately.

miscellaneous securities. Of this total, 69 percent are restricted,
with income to be used only for the purposes originally specified
by the donor. The Consolidated Endowment Fund consists of the
Freer Fund, supporting operations of the Freer Gallery of Art; En-
dowment Fund No. 3, used for oceanographic research at the Fort
Pierce Bureau; and a number of smaller restricted and unrestricted
funds (detailed in Table 13) which support a variety of research
and museum programs. The market values of the Consolidated
Endowment Fund, which is pooled for investment purposes, are
shown in Table 11 while Table 12 shows the change over the past
year due to transfers, reinvestment of income, gifts, and values in

[ 51 ]
TABLE 13. Consolidated Endowment Funds
September 30, 1978

Funds participating
in pool

UNRESTRICTED FUNDS:

Gomera.) 22s a iveece res kak

Dedicated-Lindbergh Chair

of Aerospace History .......

Total Unrestricted Funds

ENDOWMENT NO. 3 .........

RESTRICTED FUNDS:

Abbott, Walhiawa Lo fics ers «
Armstrong, Edwin James .......
Arthur, James BA0022 0.3555:
Bacon, Virginia Purdy ........
Baird, Spencer Fullerton .......
Barney, Alice Pike ............
Barstow, Frederic D:*. 2... 2s. .5
Batchelor, Emma’ Es 3..2 0 s2c8

Beauregard, Catherine

Memorial Fund .............
Becker, Gienree th. vids sess
Brown, Roland VW. js. 660225255:
Canfield, Frederick A. .........
Casey, Thomas Lincoln ........
Chamberlain, Frances Lea .....

Cooper, G. Arthur, Curator’s

FOR | each ond een wee oS ink
Cooper-Hewitt Museum .......
Desantels \Pasl Enos xe asec
Div. of Mammals Curator Fund ..
Div. of Reptiles Curator Fund ....
Drake, Carl Peve wes 8 sree
Dykes, Chases 450. 234 .2 hc
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ....
Guggenheim, David & Florence ..

Hanson, Martin Gustav and

Caroline; Ramage). 2s 60%) sce

Henderson, Edward P.

Meteorite Fund .............
Fitlives:’ Viret i 20s oeecaxanes
Hitvheoock. Albert: $2005) g%35's
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie ......
Hughes, Betice oigsts 1s so aie
Johnson, E. R. Fenimore .......
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ...
Kramar, Mada iis (22s bee
Lindbergh, Charles A. .........

Principal

Book Market

value value
.. $16,264,419 $16,956,569
oe: 250,000 250,000
.. $16,514,419 $17,206,569
-» 15,132,866 16,806,877
>.) See, nue 13,462,028
J 198,950 221,548
: 4,708 4,646
: 57,623 83,135
5g 174,725 172,905
. 53,007 74,314
: 41,328 59,575
: 1,907 Zk ad.
ae 63,805 61,624
be 74,759 83,251
ae 300,086 299,267
a 49,530 57,136
“Ss 53,953 91,596
ts 23,926 26,690
ate 40,577 58,495
ae 7 AO1 7,965
aye 153,077 144,170
ae 15,630 18,124
3,316 3,503
2,198 PM
oe 299,036 303,023
aS 82,176 91,623
15,664 22,570
232,241 214,510
oe 16,969 18,919
ae 587 739
ne 12,546 13,996
zs 2,269 3,330
Bs. 89,712 103,500
= Ih 27,576 39,806
aft! 15,540 14,008
46,942 41,624
By SSS 5,441
ae 6,136 6,730

[ 52 ]

Income
Unex-
Net pended
income balance
$ 637,157 $ -
oO -
$ 637,157 $ —0-
723,758 208,613
579,718 376,441
9,541 —O0-—
195 —0-—
3,580 450
7 446 23,518
3,200 134
2,566 6,063
91 2,339
2,654 18,732
3,573 6,764
12,887 11,241
2,452 8,194
3,944 1,094
1,149 1,087
2,519 7 A34
282 I
6,195 —0-
7o5 3
149 2,080
100 209
12,851 48,067
3,946 12,457
972 6,437
9,207 64
815 25128
32 141
603 5,574
143 756
4,457 3,973
LAs 10,867
603 7 ,816
1,790 6,592
234 528
290 1,166
TABLE 13. Consolidated Endowment Funds

September 30, 1978—Continued

Principal Income

Unex-

Funds participating Book Market Net pended

in pool value value income balance
Mamasey, Jessie H. ............... $ 1,303 $ 3 ee 59 $ 2,030
Loeb, SSE Be ae ee 166,632 187,640 8,080 2,626
Long, Annette E. and Edith C. ... 780 1,158 50 147
Lyons, Marcus Ward ............ 8,335 7,563 339 3
mel, Daaty E. ....-. 65.5.4... 28,259 40,784 1,756 6,806
Mineral Endowment ............. 179,831 183,170 7,862 5,563
Mitchell, William A. ............ 24,421 25,057 1,075 2,143
Myer, Catherine Walden ........ 38,566 43,004 1,852 1,910
Natural History and Conservation 14,431 15,529 356 —0-
Nelson, Edward William ......... 34,607 46,186 1,989 3,064
SS 1,849 2,167 93 1,743
Pell, Cornelia Livingston ......... 14,162 15,875 684 1,132
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ...... 10,675 15,470 666 9,951

Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs.

2 504,072 463,943 19,686 9,460
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ..... 20,316 22,747 980 12,786
eS 33,949 37 ,888 1,616 6,214
moeebling Collection ............. 174,179 249,497 10,744 9,644
Roebling Solar Research ......... 47,299 48,907 2,106 415
Rollins, Miriam and William ..... 312,424 391,023 16,610 1,242
SS 60,608 54,590 2,351 4,321
memmiee, beOrara P. ............. 24,703 25,634 1,104 8,588
memmell, Atherton ................ 1,193,671 1,182,351 7,899 10,562
Smithsonian Agency Account .... 276,899 276,366 11,406 6,323
Sprague, Joseph White .......... 2,293,121 2,338,805 99,187 18,324
a 26,119 37,230 1,603 20,112
Stern, Harold P., Memorial ....... 134,190 141,178 3,088 2,454
meewonson, jonn A. .............. 9,210 10,171 437 82
Strong, MEME ro nies was oe v's 3 a's 19,096 ZL 75 921 1,161
mecmcmtt, Charlies D. ............. 202,217 242,963 10,321 586
Walcott, Charles D. and

Mary Ee, oc ce ew ok we 663,104 955,244 41,136 13,107
Walcott Botanical Publications ... ~ 83,823 115,877 4,990 7,064
Zerbee, Francis Brinckle ......... 1,370 1,957 84 1,992

Total Restricted Funds .... $ 8,777,274 $ 9,554,938 $ 362,065 $367,849
Total Consolidated

Endowment Funds ........ $52,747,762 $57,030,412 $2,302,698 $952,903

[ 53 ]
the securities market. Income paid out under the total return policy,
which was in addition to managers’ and custodial fees, was
$2,303,000; this included $167,000 from accumulated capital gains.
Gifts and transfers to the Endowment Funds included the transfer
to Unrestricted Endowment referred to above ($3,000,000), the
creation of the Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History ($250,000),
the restricted gift from Dr. Seidell which the Regents have voted
to set aside in Endowment ($1,179,000), and other gifts and rein-
vestment of income pursuant to terms of gift ($230,000).

The investment management of the Consolidated Endowment
Fund is conducted by professional advisory firms under the close
supervision of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer,
subject to the policy guidelines approved by the Smithsonian’s
Board of Regents. During the year, after an extensive review by the
Committee of investment performance since 1971, the services of
two of these firms were terminated, and three new advisors were
selected, in addition to the one retained.

A listing of the individual investments held in the Consolidated
Endowment Fund as of September 30, 1978, may be obtained upon
request to the Treasurer of the Institution.

Related Organizations

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc., referred to in
“Other Operating Programs” above, is a separate nonprofit entity
incorporated by the Smithsonian in 1971. It receives as an annual
contract from the Smithsonian, the separate appropriation received
from Congress for this purpose. Ongoing research information ob-
tained by the Exchange from Government agencies and other
sources is catalogued and stored in a computerized data base to
permit the answering of thousands of inquiries on these subjects. In
return the Exchange also receives substantial revenues from users
of its services, totaling about $1,300,000 in fiscal year 1978, to
cover service costs. At the request of the Congress, the Exchange
will now be transferred by fiscal year 1980 to the Department of
Commerce, which will thereafter assume responsibility for its
program.

[ 54 ]
As mentioned in the financial report for last year, activities of the
Smithsonian Research Foundation have now been terminated and
incorporated in the Smithsonian’s general administrative offices.

The Institution is continuing to provide administrative services
for Reading is Fundamental, Inc., an organization which now oper-
ates independently after being associated with the Institution since
1968. This organization, dedicated to improvement of reading abili-
ties in children, has grown substantially and is now financed not
only by private contributions but also by extensive federal support.

~The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, estab-
lished by Congress “in the Smithsonian Institution” operates in
office space and with support services provided by the Institution
but is separately administered under its own Board of Trustees.
During the past year the Institution assisted the Center in its
launching of the new Woodrow Wilson Quarterly. The funds of
the Center, administered by the Smithsonian, are included as part
of “Agency Funds” like those of the organizations mentioned above.

The National Gallery of Art and the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts were established legally as bureaux of the In-
stitution to be administered, however, by separate Boards of Trust-
ees. These organizations, therefore, present their own independent
financial reports.

The Friends of the National Zoo (FoNz) is an independent, non-
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological
Park under contract with the Smithsonian. It operates a number of
beneficial concessions at the Zoo, from which it contributed con-
cession and rental fees amounting to over $115,000 during calen-
dar year 1977 (FoNz’s fiscal year), as well as important program
support for Zoo programs. Financial affairs of this organization are
disclosed separately elsewhere in the Smithsonian Year 1978, Pro-
grams and Activities.

Balance Sheet

The audit report of the Institution’s independent audit firm includes
detailed comparative balance sheets for the years 1978 and 1977,
shown on pages 58, 59. In accordance with practice governing non-
profit organizations, asset and liability accounts for current funds,

[ 55 ]
endowment and similar funds, plant funds, and agency funds are
set forth in separate sections of this balance sheet.

Current funds, which include both restricted and unrestricted
purpose operating funds, present a strong financial picture. The En-
dowment and Similar Funds, plus the Agency Fund sections of this
statement have been referred to at length previously. Plant Funds
include only fixed assets representing donations of or for land or
buildings, plus nonappropriated funds supplied by the Institution
itself for these purposes.

Accounting and Auditing

As mentioned last year, efforts have been underway for some time
to strengthen the Institution’s accounting capability, culminating
in fiscal year 1977 in the installation of a new accounting classifica-
tion system and increased computerization of accounts, while at the
same time, new, enlarged computer equipment was going through a
shakedown period. Fortunately, the system was largely completed
by the beginning of fiscal year 1978, and new information pro-
grams are now beginning to benefit the entire Institution. Such im-
provements will be continuing for years to come, and with present
computer capabilities can produce further substantial benefits.

Some of these benefits have already been useful in responding to
recommendations referred to at the beginning of this report, arising
from the four important audits of the Institution carried out by
external sources in the past two years. Complete resolution of the
questions raised is expected within the near future.

During fiscal year 1978 also, the Institution has continued to be
subject to the more usual type of audits, namely, those of the
internal audit staff, the annual financial review by independent
certified public accountants, and audits of grants and contracts re-
ceived from federal agencies conducted by the Defense Contract
Audit Agency.

[ 56 ]
PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
1990 k STREET, N.W.
WASHINGTON, D. Cc. 20006
(202) 223-9525

The Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution:

We have examined the balance sheet of the Trust Funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1978 and the related state-
ment of changes in fund balances for the year then ended. Such
statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of
Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or other
departments, bureaus and operations administered by the Institution
under Federal appropriations as detailed in note 2 to the financial
statements. Our examination was made in accordance with gen-
erally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such
tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present
fairly the financial position of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian In-
stitution at September 30, 1978 and the changes in its fund balances
for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted ac-
counting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the
preceding year.

PEAT, MARWICK, MITCHELL & CO.
December 15, 1978

[ 57]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS

Balance Sheet

September 30, 1978
(with comparative figures at September 30, 1977)

Assets 1978

CURRENT FUNDS:

CBB. Sanne ia Whee aw a ae Reh Ee ae eee $ 2,692,918
Investments (note.3) 5.60 ki See eee ee 17,572,508
Receivables:
Accounts and notes, less allowance for doubtful
accounts of $380,141 ($459,000 in 1977) ...... 6,823,230
Advances—travel and other ..............-2.0:. 420,710
Unbilled costs and fees—grants and contracts .. 1,316,166
Dae fram ageticy Hinds < ync26 feces eee 219,253
"Tokal reeerva pies’ -. oc as oe hie es ea ee 8,779,359
Te WPREO TIES cis ie som ircsens fk be ik wae ieee oe or dee hae 3,950,770
Prepaid ‘experses: ) o...5. Sot er coor eae Ele ee ae 1,454,753
Deferred extpensesss (55 4k Was See so ee 3,809,267
Capitalized improvements and equipment, used in
income-producing activities, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization of $585,349
oor aa eR a a oe gn eR A AE OST CS 1,275,899
Total. current: fundseie..4c ca 3h a eee $39,535,474
ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:
Cash, net of receivables and payables on securities
Pransactianiswwc Hee. snd Ae eo aie ee i 157,760
Notes receivables... ioc 55 a3 des oi ee ea eee 42,370
Dae front current: funds’ 20 Se ees oe ee eee 198,916
investments :(note 3). '.: i752 4s ee ee eee 52,404,427
Loan to U.S. Treasury in perpetuity at 6% ....... 1,000,000
Total endowment and similar funds ....... $53,803,473
PLANT FUNDS:
Due’ from ‘current funds (2) 34.25: 54s Tae eee eee. 542,738
Real estate (riete 4) 3 254.28 oe ee ee eee 10,701,349
Total plant fprids * age: 3. 2 oka Soe $11,244,087
AGENCY FUNDS:
Investments 40.0525... 0s dieeu tate oe te eee ee omre 10,000
Dae fron: current frnds:2)5.2 55 5. Sloe eee ee 1,392,879

Total agency funds

$ 1,402,879

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

[ 58 ]

1977

1,223,287
11,689,366

4,324,341
528,976
2,673,721
123,046

7,650,084
2,455,538

767,709
3,830,739

1,283,604

28,900,327

219,381
44,323
374,442
46,339,719
1,000,000

47 ,977 ,865

38,340
10,343,345

10,381,685

10,000
1,521,129

1,531,129
Liabilities and Fund Balances

CURRENT FUNDS:

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities .........
I
SEIN, FOIIS ws wei ee eee eens
Due to endowment and similar funds ............
Deferred income:

Semerame SUDSCrIpHONS .......6-...0.2 000s eee
Te ee eee ne ae

Fund balances:

Unrestricted:
EERE Sea RG Lon is we Wm aero wpe
IEE, ons So ik & oi = ow med es grein

DCMUMIVECETIOVC? .. os cuca s ech asses anes
IOI ohio Sw ot ete eS e a eS

oe EUS SOU

CCMEITESCUECTTNING ons do am wis iw we ee ale

ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR FUNDS:
Fund balances:
IN so i chs dc wie Sk ew www aie wer
Quasi-endowment:
Restricted
Unrestricted

Cae a Ae ee ee isl ele B16 Bie wae Ss Mee

wear euasi-endowment ..............-.:-

Total endowment and similar funds .......

PLANT FUNDS:
Serer Wabiites ..............-.-- ee eee
Mortgage notes payable (note 4) ...............-
Fund balances:
Acquisition funds:
Unrestricted
Restricted

a Re ee kA MN

Dn « aw oe @ oe «6 Cee « «se a 2 6 oe oe & 2» eS 66s

mata acametion funds ..........0<2...-:.
IEEE PAINE annie ee se ee sen sesso

MMe HAE PENS 2 oo ee ecc s 6 wid slaw eie os
AGENCY FUNDS:

ESS Ce ee eee ee
Deposits held in custody for others ............-

man apency FANGS... 2 see ese eee ees

1978

$ 3,885,700

542,738
1,392,879
198,916

12,059,452
2,379,668

20,459,353

4,932,516

9,603,694

14,536,210
4,539,911

19,076,121
$39,535,474

33,833,103

3,486,862
16,483,508

19,970,370
$53,803,473

480,608

60,300

540,908

10,618,149
$11,244,087

219,253
1,183,626

$ 1,402,879

1977

3,526,370
38,340
1,521,129
374,442

9,971,596

1,534,228
16,966,105

4,081,653

4,292,028

8,373,681
3,560,541

11,934,222
28,900,327

32,879,201

2,211,891

12,886,773
15,098,664
47,977,865

5,175
129,800

32,498
668

33,166

10,213,544
10,381,685

123,046
1,408,083

1,531,129
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Statement of Changes in Fund Balances
Year ended September 30, 1978

REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Auxiliary enterprises revenue
Federal grants and contracts
Investment income (net of $167,721 management and

custodian fees)
Gains on sale of securities
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants
Additions to equity in real estate
Rentals, fees and commissions
Other—net

ae 62 mw 8 5 WB eS ie eh oe me) OS ee ee cee

6 S/he Rh POLE SLe Le we ee 6 O ele Misidie en © 6 6 6 RR we Boe ee eS
afk Misha e.6 «ee» @ 6. Bie |S, 0m shells Be wee ee
a6 2 6 6 68 6) ek Aare Seba Sim) ale aie le
a aes eels ae Wee 6 pew es! ie aie wee Ole)
S\e°S 6 0 a eee. m we a By a) Seelam) eer Cee oe

en 2.5 eS 2 oe ae Wie Ore ie ie Ace's. « om @ ees a) exe te eS (ee leedeum @°6i-e ew, eee

Total revenue and other additions ...................
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:

Research and educational expenditures
Administrative expenditures
Auxiliary enterprises expenditures
Expended for real estate and equipment
Retirement of indebtedness
Interest on indebtedness

OC ak CLES 0 OW. AR Ome) Be we Se
2 ® che we 2 ew eS awe St et elie) me) BO) ie eee ee
22.0) es Ate Ge She a) 6S Ree few es oe 6 ee
6 /e 6,2 we) 6 swe ee ae wee we
es Dm 6) 8 6 e © ee we 0) = 2 Sralera ph oun sale elena a

ewe fa) a wee eee, we

Total expenditures and other deductions

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):
Mandatory—principal and interest on notes
Portion of investment gain appropriated
For plant acquisition
Income added to endowment principal
Appropriated as quasi-endowment
For designated purposes
Net increase in auxiliary activities

apn, @ @ (ease oe oe ylen eee
PY CPM sa et ae ae Pe tC yet) ee
a @ eee eee) @ ws ese) @ we 88. m wee lente, 2 le te) 8) ee eee ee
co 2 2 6 @ vie) em 0) 8), eee) elle ae wl
a 6 8 ie) Pie om ee) <6) S| o) ohn tele 8) .s) eo Wer let
S85 2.0.0 2.5 © @ 0) e 6 6 0.6 w © ee © se (oe OPS. 6s, 6) Ole) elm

Pee eo, 66)» Bs), oe ib SS ie ee fe ee Dow eee eee

Total transfers among funds—additions (deductions) ..

Net increase for the year
Fund balance at September 30, 1977

5 0.18) a oe 8) ENO a A, et eee = eS) ee ee ee ae eee

Fund balance at September 30, 1978

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

[ 60 ]

Total
current

funds

$54,759,388

11,157,066

3,429,901
4,046,505

784,210
1,371,431

75,548,501

15,759,210
5,675,636
41,737,456

63,172,302

(54,841)
166,548
(813,734)
(81,852)
(4,450,421)

(5,234,300)

7,141,899
11,934,222

$19,076,121

Total

unrestricted

funds

54,759,388

1,529,514

568,357

784,210
333,219

57,974,688

2,981,311
2,998,826
41,737,456

47,717,593

(54,841)
45,168
(813,734)
(106)
(3,271,053)

(4,094,566)

6,162,529
8,373,681

14,536,210
Current funds

a

Restricted

11,157,066

1,900,387

3,478,148

1,038,212
17,573,813

12,777 ,899
2,676,810

Endowment

and similar

funds

1,334,983
124,900

1,459,883

a

ee

121,380

(81,746)
(1,179,368)

(166,548)

81,852
4,450,421

es

Unrestricted
General Auxiliary Special
purpose activities purpose
— 53,432,037 1,327 351
1,354,942 — 174,572
112,158 441,959 14,240
589,953 — 194,257
35,798 —_— 297 421
2,092,851 53,873,996 2,007,841
1,797,289 —_ 1,184,022
1,065,592 1,762,100 171,134
— 40,945,975 791,481
2,862,881 42,708,075 2,146,637
(54,841) aut a
45,168 _— —_—
(813,734) ies wet
(106) — —
(3,021,053) — (250,000)
(5,310,104) (390,358) 5,700,462
10,775,563 (10,775,563) =
1,620,893 (11,165,921) 5,450,462
850,863 —_ 5,311,666
4,081,653 — 4,292,028
—_ 9,603,694

4,932,516

(1,139,734)
979,370
3,560,541

4,539,911

4,365,725

5,825,608

47 ,977 ,865
53,803,473

540,908

Plant funds

Investment

Acquisition in plant
60,000 —
— 404,605
60,000 404,605
365,992 —
46,600 _
8,241 —_
420,833 —
54,841 _—
813,734 _—
868,575 —_—
507,742 404,605
33,166 10,213,544

10,618,149

———

[ 61 ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Notes to Financial Statements

September 30, 1978

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and General Information

a. Accrual Basis—The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution—Trust
Funds have been prepared on the accrual basis, except for depreciation of
plant fund assets as explained in note 1(h) below, and are in substantial
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles included in the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Audit Guide, “Audits of
Colleges and Universities.”

b. Current funds include capitalized improvements and equipment use in
income-producing activities having a net carrying value of $1,275,899 and
$1,283,604 at September 30, 1978 and September 30, 1977, respectively.
Current funds used to finance the acquisition of plant assets and for pro-
visions for debt amortization and interest are accounted for as transfers
to the plant fund.

Separate sub-fund groups of current unrestricted funds have been re-
flected in the statement of changes in fund balances for auxiliary activities
(representing primarily the revenues and expenditures of the Smithsonian
Associates Program, including the Smithsonian Magazine, and museum
shop sales) and Special Purposes (representing internally segregated funds
for certain designated purposes).

c. Fund Accounting—In order to ensure observance of limitations and re-
strictions placed on the use of the resources available to the Institution,
the accounts of the Institution are maintained in accordance with the
principles of “fund accounting.” This is the procedure by which resources
for various purposes are classified for accounting and reporting purposes
into funds that are in accordance with activities or objectives specified.
Separate accounts are maintained for each fund; however, in the accom-
panying financial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have
been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions
have been recorded and reported by fund group.

Within each fund group, fund balances restricted by outside sources are
so indicated and are distinguished from unrestricted funds allocated to
specific purposes by action of the governing board. Externally restricted
funds may only be utilized in accordance with the purposes established
by the source of such funds and are in contrast with unrestricted funds
over which the governing board retains full control to use in achieving
any of its institutional purposes.

Endowment funds are subject to the restrictions of gift instruments re-
quiring in perpetuity that the principal be invested and income only be
utilized. Also classified as endowment funds are gifts which will allow the
expenditure of principai but only under certain specified conditions.

While quasi-endowment funds have been established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds, any portion of such
funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts
for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the principal be
maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the governing board
has elected to invest the principal and expend only the income for the pur-
pose stipulated by the donor.

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection, or other disposition
of investments and other noncash assets are accounted for in the fund
which owned such assets. Ordinary income derived from investments, re-
ceivables, and the like, is accounted for in the fund owning such assets,
except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar

[ 62 ]
—-
.

funds, which income is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted
or, if unrestricted, as revenues in unrestricted current funds.

All other unrestricted revenue is accounted for in the unrestricted current
fund. Restricted gifts, grants, endowment income, and other restricted re-
sources are accounted for in the appropriate restricted funds.

Investments are recorded at cost or fair market value at date of acquisition
when acquired by gift.

Inventories are carried at lower of average cost or net realizable value.

Income and expenses with respect to the Institution’s magazine and associ-
ates’ activities are deferred and taken into income and expense over the
applicable periods and are reported in the activities section of the current
unrestricted funds.

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this ap-
proach, the total investment return is considered to include realized and
unrealized gains and losses in addition to interest and dividends. In ap-
plying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide 4-42% of the
five year average of the market value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and
transfers during this period) as being available for current expenditures;
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is
less than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of dona-
tion) the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends re-
ceived.

Capitalized improvements and equipment used in income-producing activ-
ities purchased with Trust Funds are capitalized in the current unrestricted
fund at cost (see note 1(b)), and are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives of five to ten years. Depreciation expense
of $181,942 for 1978 is reflected in expenditures of the current funds.

Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to
the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or
appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in Chesa-
peake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal
values. Depreciation on buildings is not recorded.

All other land, buildings, fixtures and equipment (principally acquired with
Federal funds), works of art, living or other specimens are not reflected in
the accompanying financial statements.

The agency funds group consists of funds held by the Institution as cus-
todian or fiscal agent for others.

Pension costs are funded as accrued.

The Institution has a number of contracts with the U.S. Government, which
primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the Institution. Contract reve-
nues are recognized as expenditures are incurred.

Related Activities

The Trust Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained
from private sources, from Federal grants and contracts and from certain
business activities related to the operations of the Institution.

Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying finan-
cial statements, provide major support for the operations and administra-
tion of the educational and research programs of the Institution’s many
museums, art galleries and other bureaus, as well as for the maintenance
and construction of related buildings and facilities. In addition, land, build-
ings and other assets acquired with Federal funds are not reflected in the
accompanying financial statements.

The following Federal appropriations were received by the Institution for
the fiscal years ended September 30, 1978 and 1977:

[ 63 ]
1978 1977

ee

Operating funds $ 95,250,000 87,208,000
Special foreign currency

program 4,000,000 3,481,000
Construction funds 5,250,000 9,530,000

$ 104,500,000 100,219,000

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to certain sepa-
rately incorporated organizations on which certain officials of the Institu-
tion serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by
these organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for
Institution facilities occupied, etc., totaled approximately $409,000 for the
year ended September 30, 1978. The following summarizes the approximate
expenditures of these organizations for the fiscal years ended September
30, 1978, and September 30, 1977 as reflected in their individual financial
statements and which are not included in the accompanying financial state-
ments of the Institution:

1978 1977

a

Smithsonian Research Foundation $ 120,000 2,100,000
Smithsonian Science Information

Exchange 2,355,000 3,300,000
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 2,260,000 1,100,000
Woodrow Wilson International

Center for Scholars 2,079,000 1,500,000

The Smithsonian Research Foundation for the year ended September 30,
1978 did not receive Federal grants and accordingly the corporate structure
will be dissolved in fiscal year 1980. Also, in 1979 the Smithsonian Science
Information Exchange operations are to be transferred to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce.

Investments

Quoted market values and carrying values of investments (all marketable
securities) of the funds indicated were as follows:

September 30,1978 September 30, 1977

Carrying Market Carrying Market

value value value value
Current funds $ 17,572,508 17,483,598 11,689,366 11,538,378
Endowment and similar
funds 52,404,427 56,697,895 46,339,719 46,237,339

Total investments $ 69,976,935 74,181,493 58,029,085 57,775,717

Total investment performance is summarized below:
Net gains (losses)

Endowment
Current and similar
funds funds Total
Unrealized gains (losses) :
September 30, 1978 .............. $ (88,910) 4,293,468 4,204,558
September! 30, 1977. ii) ue wee noe (150,988) (103,381) (254,369)
Unrealized net gains for period 62,078 4,396,849 4,458,927
Realized net gains for period ........ — 1,334,983 1,334,983
Total net gains for period .... $ 62,078 5,731,832 5,793,910

[ 64 ]
Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds
are pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individ-
ual fund subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per
unit at market value at the beginning of the month within which the trans-
action takes place. Of the total units each having a market value of
$110.22 ($100.24 in 1977), 341,798 units were owned by endowment, and
173,810 units by quasi-endowment at September 30, 1978.

The following tabulation summarizes the changes in the pooled invest-
ments during the year ended September 30, 1978:

Market

Carrying value
value Market per unit

September 30, 1978 ......... $52,548,845 56,831,475 110.22
September 30, 1977 ......... 46,546,759 46,433,309 100.24
ST ris Sn gt a $ 6,002,086 10,398,166 9.98

Mortgage Notes Payable

The mortgage notes payable are secured by first deeds of trust on property
acquired in connection with the Chesapeake Bay Center. The details of the
mortgage notes payable are as follows:

1978 1977

Mortgage note, payable in semiannual installments of
$13,300, plus interest at the prevailing prime rate at
the due date of the installment payment but not less

fPaam7o, tirotigh July 1, 1980 .............e00002s $ 53,200 79,800
6% mortgage note, payable in semiannual installments of
$10,000, plus interest, through November 7, 1979 ... 30,000 50,000

$ 83,200 129,800

Pension Plan

The Institution has a contributory pension plan providing for the purchase
of retirement annuity contracts for those employees meeting certain age
and length of service requirements who elect to be covered under the plan.
Under terms of the plan, the Institution contributes the amount necessary
to bring the total contribution to 12% of the participants’ compensation
subject to social security taxes and to 17% of the participants’ compensa-
tion in excess of that amount. The total pension expense for the year ended
September 30, 1978 and 1977 was $1,459,325 and $1,134,312, respectively.

Income Taxes

The Institution has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as ex-
empt from income taxation as an organization described in Section 501(c)
(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that section
are subject to income taxation only on their unrelated business income as
defined under Code Sections 512 et. seq. The Internal Revenue Service is
presently considering a Request for Ruling filed by the Institution pertain-
ing to the proper interpretation of the current regulations concerning the
method of calculating certain unrelated business income. If the Institution’s
interpretation is approved, no tax would be imposed on this income. It is
the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an in-
strumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. Recognition of the dual status will be sought by the Institution. If
the Institution’s positions should not prevail, income taxes in a substantial
amount could be imposed on certain unrelated business income.

[ 65 ]
nw Al ¥ fA ieee alt
Se , a
iy AoA ae Reel var i,
’ a an DN ix Mt) add
ree Ta ny (A m
(Yew lied were: ag Pres: veal: ay

P D>” i Ae Thee ap Tee US \

A 7}
| Js : tor uJ ' wit, Ve.
\ i MW i

P vik r ie te The

waar
rely 4 inet
fhe! Dibe de aera ar
i! oe di man
7" ¥
Lh hes iL = ara
Na ye
; 1 “ay 5 o an & Lh 7 im
H : 1) i 4
, heli i-am @
a

iy hag gat a
AWS PPA? dD [9 ‘ is bir &
i Roa) 4 ata

vn

<M, Ml
a ES TS J
tin he hay:

wy f

pd) '

,
™.
j
j
fs
Ie
big!
an
¢
Et :
mets
= iA
a a
~
cy
— -
Ps nw
ae
tel
“a oY
I -
es -
Re +5
it Bd es
i

AV ug 4 « oy ©

t

owe >
nae a ay oe # ei
iT a ae =a

+ aa « ~ ‘

- ee
a

eee a

— re
ha AE oe

