| on
bea

‘The United States
National Museum
1964 ANNUAL REPORT

The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year knded
June 30, 1964

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Unrtrep States NatronaL Museum,

Unpbrr DiIrEcTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D.C., August 15, 1964.

Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1964.

Very respectfully,
Frank A. Taytor,
Director, U.S. National Museum.
S. Ditton Ripwey,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
II
Contents

BUILDINGS .

EXHIBITS

ACCESSIONS aa

CARE OF COLLECTIONS :

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH
Anthropology
Zoology . :
Entomology .
Botany :
Paleobiology .
Mineral Sciences ;
Science and Technology .
Arts and Manufactures
Civil BED Stonyenieae ee
Armed Forces History .

PUBLICATIONS

Donors TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

III

100
105
107
111
115
130
June 30, 1964

United States National Museum

Director: Frank A. Taylor

Registrar: Helena M. Weiss Conservator: Charles H. Olin
Chemist: Jacqueline S. Olin

Museum or Natura History

Director: T. Dale Stewart

Assistant Director: R.S. Cowan Assistant Director for Oceanography: I. E. Wallen
Mabel A. Byrd, Administrative Officer

Department of Anthropology: Waldo R. Wedel, chairman

ARCHEOLOGY : Clifford Evans, Jr., cura- William H. Crocker, associate cura-
tor tor
Richard B. Woodbury, curator PHysiIcaL ANTHROPOLOGY: J. Law-
Gus W. Van Beek, associate curator rence Angel, curator
ETHNOLOGY : Saul H. Riesenberg, cura- Lucile E. Hoyme, associate curator
tor A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits special-
Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator ist

Eugene I. Knez, associate curator

Department of Zoology: Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., chairman

Fenner A. Chace, Jr., senior scientist ; Watson M. Perrygo, in charge of Taxidermy

MAMMALS: David H. Johnson, curator MARINE INVERTEBRATES: Donald F.
Henry W. Setzer, associate curator Squires, curator
Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate Thomas E. Bowman, associate cura-
curator tor
Brirps: Philip 8. Humphrey, curator Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate
George E. Watson, associate curator curator
Richard L. Zusi, associate curator Marian H. Pettibone, associate cura-
REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Doris M. tor
Cochran, curator Raymond B. Manning, associate
Fisues: Leonard P. Schultz, curator curator
Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator David L. Pawson, associate curator
Victor G. Springer, associate curator Mo.tiusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator
William R. Taylor, associate curator Joseph P. FE. Morrison, associate
Stanley H. Weitzman, associate curator
curator Joseph Rosewater, associate curator

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., associate cura-
tor

IY
Department of Entomology: J. F. Gates Clarke, chairman

NEUROPTEROIDS: Oliver S. Flint, asso- COLEOPTERA: Oscar L. Cartwright,
ciate curator in charge curator
LEPIDOPTERA: J. KF. Gates Clarke, act- Paul J. Spangler, associate curator
ing curator HeEMIPTERA: Richard C. Froeschner,
Donald R. Davis, associate curator associate curator in charge
W. Donald Duckworth, associate MyrIAPpopA AND ARACHNIDA: Ralph EH.
curator Crabill, Jr., curator

William D. Field, associate curator

Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, chairman

PHANEROGAMS: Lyman B. Smith, cu- Thomas R. Soderstrom, associate
rator curator
Velva EH. Rudd, associate curator CRYPTOGAMS: Mason H. Hale, Jr., cu-
John J. Wurdack, associate curator rator
Wallace R. Ernst, associate curator Paul S. Conger, associate curator
Dan H. Nicolson, associate curator Harold E. Robinson, associate cu-
Stanwyn G. Shetler, associate cu- rator
rator PLanrt ANATOMY: William L. Stern,
FerNSs: Conrad V. Morton, curator curator
David B. Lellinger, associate curator Richard H. Eyde, associate curator
GRASSES: Jason R. Swallen, acting
curator

Department of Paleobiology: G. Arthur Cooper, chairman

INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY : Richard VERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY: C. Lewis

S. Boardman, curator Gazin, curator

Porter M. Kier, associate curator David H. Dunkle, associate curator

Richard Cifelli, associate curator Nicholas Hotton III, associate cu-

Erle G. Kauffman, associate curator rator

Martin A. Buzas, associate curator Clayton E. Ray, associate curator

Richard H. Benson, associate cura- PALEOBOTANY: Francis M. Hueber,
tor curator

Walter H. Adey, associate curator

Department of Mineral Sciences: George S. Switzer, chairman

MINERALOGY: George S. Switzer, act- METEORITES: Edward P. Henderson,
ing curator associate curator in charge
Paul E. Desautels, associate cura- Roy S. Clarke, Jr., chemist
tor

Oceanography Program: I. E. Wallen, Assistant Director for Oceanography

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

H. Adair Fehlmann, supervisory museum specialist
Museum oF History AND TECHNOLOGY

Director: Frank A. Taylor

Assistant Director: John C. Ewers

William E. Boyle, administrative officer

Virginia Beets, administrative officer

Department of Science and Technology: Robert P. Multhauf, chairman
Deborah J. Mills, assistant curator

PHYSICAL ScIENCES: Walter F. Can-
non, associate curator in charge;
in charge of Sections of Astron-
omy and Physics

Uta C. Merzbach, associate curator,
Sections of Mathematics and
Antique Instruments

Robert P. Multhauf, curator in
charge of Sections of Chemistry
and Meteorology

MECHANICAL AND CIvIL ENGINEERING:
Silvio A. Bedini, curator; in
charge of Section of Tools

Edwin A. Battison, associate cura-
tor, Sections of Light Machinery
and Horology

Robert M. Vogel, associate curator,

Sections of Heavy Machinery and
Civil Hngineering
ELEctTrRIicIty: Bernard S. Finn, asso-
ciate curator in charge
TRANSPORTATION : Howard I. Chapelle,
curator; in charge of Section of
Marine Transportation
Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator
John H. White, Jr., associate cura-
tor, Section of Land Transporta-
tion
MepicaL ScreENcES: Sami K. Hamar-
neh, curator; in charge of Sec-
tions of Medical and Dental
History and Pharmaceutical His-
tory and Health

Department of Arts and Manufactures: Philip W. Bishop, chairman

MANUFACTURES AND HEAvy INDUS-
TRIES: Philip W. Bishop, acting
curator

Lowell L. Henkle, industrial spe-
cialist

AGRICULTURE AND FOREST PRODUCTS:
Edward C. Kendall, associate
curator in charge

TEXTILES: Mrs. Grace Rogers Cooper,
curator

Department of Civil History:

Rita J. Adrosko, associate curator
CERAMICS AND GLASS: Paul V. Gard-
ner, curator
J. Jefferson Miller II, assistant
eurator
GRAPHIC ARTS: Jacob Kainen, curator
Fuller O. Griffith, associate curator
Eugene Ostroff, associate curator,
Section of Photography

Richard H. Howland, chairman

Peter C. Welsh, curator; Mrs. Doris Esch Borthwick, assistant curator ;
Anne Castrodale, assistant curator

PouitIcAL History: Wilcomb BH.
Washburn, curator
Mrs. Margaret Brown Klapthor,
associate curator
Keith E. Melder, associate curator
Mrs. Anne W. Murray, associate
curator
Herbert R. Collins, assistant curator
PHILATELY AND PosTaAL HISTORY:
Carl H. Scheele, associate curator
in charge

VI

CULTURAL History: C. Maleolm Wat-
kins, curator
Mrs. Cynthia Adams Hoover, asso-
ciate curator
John N. Pearce, associate curator
Rodris C. Roth, associate curator
NUMISMATICS: Vladimir Clain-Stefa-
nelli, curator
Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, asso-
ciate curator
Department of Armed Forces History: Mendel L. Peterson, chairman

Mivirary History: Edgar M. Howell, NAVAL History: Philip K. Lundeberg,
curator curator
Craddock R. Goins, Jr., associate Melvin H. Jackson, associate curator
curator

Office of Exhibits: John E. Anglim, Chief

MusEuM oF NATURAL History LABORA- MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY
tory: A. Gilbert Wright, assistant LABORATORY: Benjamin W. Law-
chief less, chief

Julius Tretick, production super- William M. Clark, production su-
visor pervisor in charge

Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Associates, Collaborators,
Custodians of Collections, and Honorary Curators

Anthropology
John M. Campbell, Archeology Walter W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology
C. G. Holland, Archeology William J. Tobin, Physical Anthro-
Neil M. Judd, Archeology pology
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology Nathalie F. S. Woodbury, Archeology
Frank M. Setzler, Anthropology

Zoology

Oliver L. Austin, Birds J. Percy Moore, Marine Invertebrates
Willard W. Becklund, Helminthology Dioscoro S. Rabor, Birds
J. Bruce Bredin, Biology Waldo L. Schmitt, Marine Inverte-
William L. Brown, Mammals brates
Ailsa M. Clark, Marine Invertebrates Bejamin Schwartz, Helminthology
Herbert G. Deignan, Birds Robert Traub, Mammals
Herbert Friedmann, Birds Alexander Wetmore, Birds
Laurence Irving, Birds Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Cope-
Allen McIntosh, Mollusks pod Crustacea

Entomology
Doris H. Blake Frank M. Hull
Melbourne A. Carriker, Jr. William L. Jellison
Carl J. Drake Carl F. W. Muesebeck
K. C. Emerson Thomas E. Snyder

Botany

Chester R. Benjamin, Fungi Kittie F. Parker, Phanerogams
*A ones Chase, Grasses John A. Stevenson, Fungi
Emory C. Leonard, Phanerogams William N. Watkins, Woods

Floyd A. McClure, Grasses

*Deceased September 24, 1963
VII
Paleobiology

C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate Pale- Axel A. Olsson, Invertebrate Pale-
ontology ontology

J. Thomas Dutro, Invertebrate Pale- Wendell P. Woodring, Invertebrate
ontology Paleontology

Remington Kellogg, Vertebrate Pale-
ontology

Mineral Sciences

Gunnar Kullerud, Mineralogy Waldemar T. Schaller, Mineralogy

Science and Technology

Derek J. Price

Civil History

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Cultural Mrs. Emery May Norweb, Numis-
History matics

Elmer C. Herber, History R. Henry Norweb, Numismatics

Ivor Noél Hume, Cultural History Joan Jockwig Pearson, Cultural His-

Fred W. McKay, Numismatics tory

Armed Forces History

William Rea Furlong Byron McCandless
Frederic C. Lane

VIII
Annual Report of
the Director

United States National Museum
President Lyndon B. Johnson speaking at ceremonies dedicating the
Museum of History and Technology.

Buildings
Museum of History and Technology

On October 25, 1963, the General Services Administration advised
the contractor that all remaining areas and systems of the Museum of
History and Technology not previously accepted were, with certain
exceptions, accepted effective August 30, 1963.

On January 22, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson dedicated the
building at ceremonies attended by Ambassadors, Ministers, Members
of the Supreme Court, Members of the Senate, Members of the House
of Representatives, other high ranking officials and important donors
and other friends of the Smithsonian Institution.

After introductory remarks by Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, the audience was addressed, in the
order of events, by Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution Earl
Warren, Chief Justice of the United States; by Senator Clinton P.
Anderson, United States Senator from New Mexico, Regent of the
Smithsonian Institution and Chairman of the Joint Congressional
Committee on Construction of a Building for a Museum of History

9
v
pipe age
wae Tareas

—

SS

= Huh mare mena ay,

Construction of new west wing of the Museum of Natural History from
top of Washington Monument; Museum of History and Technology in
foreground.

Views (pages 2, 4, 5) of new Museum of History and Technology: p. 2,
from across Constitution Avenue; p. 4 (top), Mall, or south, front and
closeup (bottom) of school-bus entrance from Smithsonian tower; p. 5,
east (top) and west ends from across Constitution Avenue.
BUILDINGS 7

and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution; and by the Pres-
ident of the United States. Music was provided by the United States
Marine Band, Lieutenant Colonel Albert Schoepper, Director.
conducting.

After the ceremonies the guests viewed the exlibits in ten halls
installed for the opening.

The building was opened to the public at 9:00 a.m., January 23,
1964.

On the first Sunday after the opening more than 57,000 persons
visited the building, causing traflic jams of substantial size. By June
30, 1964, a total of 2,510,672 persons had visited the building.

The opening of the building and its initial exhibits has focused the
attention of historians, museum professionals, scholars, writers and
many others on the scholarly competence of the curators and upon the
unportance of the Smithsonian collections in recording and interpret-
ing history and traditions. Interviews have been taped, and the build-
ing and its exhibits have been filmed for world-wide distribution by
the USIA and the Voice of America. Unprecedented requests have
been received from universities for joint programs in American
studies, and the history of science and technology. Architects and
museum directors from all sections of the United States and the world
have visited the Museum to inspect the building, to examine the pro-
grams and collections, and to obtain advice on the establishment, con-
struction, and improvement of museums.

Museum of Natural History

The contract for construction of the west wing of the natural history
building, including the last stage of renovation of the original build-
ing, was signed in August 1963 and excavation for the wing was
begun in November. The foundations were laid and the superstruc-
ture erected at a rapid rate, and by the end of the fiscal year most
of the granite facing was in place. Meanwhile, renovation of the
original building was commenced.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by the Congress to carry on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal
year 1964, the sum of $5,587,000 was obligated by the United States
National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the
national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geo-
logical materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering,
technology, industry, graphic arts, and history. (This amount in-
cludes sums expended for the program of exhibits modernization.)
E
=)
®
nw
=
®
fe
he
°
Fe}
<
D
3
=
fe
®
vu
=
5
h
—
rs
®
E
nw
®
u
3
he
he

Spangled Banne

Star

ing hangs the Foucault pendulum which demon-

of the earth to visitors on floor below (right).

Through circular open

1on

strates rotat

Exhibits

A significant milestone in the history of the exhibits program at the
Smithsonian Institution was passed when exhibition halls on the first
and second floors of the Museum of History and Technology were
presented to the public on January 23, 1964. Totaling more than
75,000 square feet of instructive displays, these areas include the fol-
lowing halls or portions thereof :

Flag Hall Light Machinery

First Ladies Tools

Everyday Life in the American Past Vehicles

American Costume Railroads

Farm Machinery Heavy Machinery (part)

Also placed on display were the Greenough statue of George Wash-
ington, flanked by eight cases of outstanding national treasures; a
centrally located Foucault pendulum; and a preview of future ex-

10 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

hibits, in which are presented examples of displays to be placed in
halls to be opened in the future. The halls and exhibits on view
at the opening had required less than eight months to install, and the
building was opened to the public in less than five months after its
substantial completion by the contractor. This achievement was the
result of nearly eight years of advanced planning and design of ex-
hibition halls, followed by the production of innumerable individual
displays, some of which had been temporarily exhibited in the Arts
and Industries building prior to being moved to the new museum. It
could not have been accomplished without the cooperation of many
individuals on the curatorial staff, in the office of exhibits and the
buildings management division, and in the employ of private con-
tractors—including subject matter specialists who planned and tech-
nically supervised development of the displays; specialists in exhibits
design, production, and installation; as well as model makers, plastics
technicians, painters, electricians, and laborers. Among those in charge
of this operation, and presently engaged in the task of installing the re-
maining halls of the museum are assistant director John C. Ewers, who
coordinates the varied exhibits activities of this museum with the able
assistance of John N. Edy in planning the physical movement of
materials; Benjamin W. Lawless, who supervises the design, produc-
tion, and installation of exhibits, aided by Robert Widder in design,
Bela S. Bory and Wilham Clark in production, Robert Klinger in
the model shop, Stanley Santoroski in supervision of installation, and
Carroll Lusk as lighting specialist; George Weiner, who edits the
curators’ drafts of exhibits scripts, with the assistance of Constance
Minkin and Edna Wright. The timely assistance of buildings man-
ager Andrew F. Michaels and his staff, of John E. Cudd, laison
architect, and of George Watson, skilled specialist in the renovation
and installation of period interiors, contributed substantially to the
success of this program.

Since the opening of the new museum the installation of additional
halls has progressed. The hall of historic Americans was opened
to the public in June, and five other halls will be installed and opened
during the four months following June 30, 1964.

John E. Anglim, exhibits chief, continued in charge of the planning
and preparation of all exhibits, and, with the assistance of Gilbert
Wright, directly supervised the operation of the exhibits laboratory in
the Museum of Natural Mistory. Julius Tretick supervised the pro-
duction and installation of exhibits in that museum. Substantial por-
tions of the halls dealing with cultures of Asia and Africa and with
comparative osteology were opened to the public in June, and progress
was made on five other halls in that Museum.
EXHIBITS let

Director T. Dale Stewart continued to serve as chairman of the
committee coordinating the exhibits modernization program in natural
history, and assistant director Richard S. Cowan coordinated the work
of curators and exhibits personnel in the development of natural his-
tory exhibits. To the advancement of this work substantial contribu-
tions were made by John H. Morrissey, project review chief, archi-
tectural branch of the Public Buildings Service, General Services Ad-
ministration, and by Joseph F. Cromwell, Jr., Mrs. Gertrude Hein,
and Albert Brigeda, design architects of that agency.

Anthropology

Colorful new exhibits of objects from the Near East, Japan, Korea,
China, and North and West Africa were first placed on public view
when the west portion of the hall of cultures of Africa and Asia
was informally opened in late June. Among the exhibits interpreting
the traditional cultures of the Asian peoples are a life-size group
portraying an episode from a Chinese opera, with accompanying push-
button sound recording, a display of objects illustrating the evolution
of farming in Japan, and a unit on the daily and religious life in Tibet.
The Republic of Korea has loaned one of its national art treasures,
a cast-iron figure of Buddha from the Koryo dynasty (A.D. 935-1392),
which is presented in a temple setting with a paneled screen of red silk
brocade. North and West African cultures present many striking
works of art from peoples whose accomplishments have had a profound
influence upon modern art in Europe and America. One of the most
dramatic displays is a diorama portraying the smelting of iron ore in
primitive furnaces and the fashioning of iron tools by tribesmen from
the Mandara Mountain region of northern Cameroon. This group
was created by exhibits specialists John Weaver, Robert Caftrey, and
Peter De Anna. The exhibits in this hall were planned and specified by
associate curators of ethnology Gordon D. Gibson and Eugene I. Knez.
The hall design was the work of exhibits designer Dorothy Guthrie
and the graphic design of individual units was the work of exhibits
designer Lucius Lomax.

The completely renovated life-size group portraying Indian quarry-
ing operations and making of stone artifacts at the Piney Branch site
within the present boundaries of the District of Columbia some 500
years ago was opened to the public in the hall of North American
archeology, and another group illustrating Indian copper mining in
present Michigan was nearing completion at year’s end. Contract
construction in the new hall of Old World archeology was virtually
completed at year’s end. This hall was designed by exhibits designer
12 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Rolland O. Hower under the scientific supervision of associate curator
Gus Van Beek.

The contractor’s work in the new hall of physical anthropology also
was nearing completion at the end of June. About half of the exhibit
units for this hall have been designed by exhibits designer Joseph
Shannon, who also served as architectural designer for the hall. The
contents of the exhibits have been specified by T. Dale Stewart, di-
rector of the Museum of Natural History and Lawrence Angel,
curator-in-charge of the division of physical anthropology.

During the spring of 1964, Dr. Knez supervised the installation of
41 outstanding examples of Chinese, Buddhist, and Hindu stone sculp-
ture, bronze and other items from China, India, Cambodia, and Java.
Dr. Van Beek worked with the Department of State and the Snuth-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service on arrangements for
loan of the Dead Sea Scrolls and associated materials from the govern-
ment of Jordan. In May, during his overseas detail, he conferred with
officials of the Jordanian government, the U.S. Embassy, and the
Palestine Archaeological Museum, and selected specimens and photo-
eraphs for use in the exhibition, which is scheduled to be opened in the
Museum of Natural History in March 1965. Thereafter it will cireu-
late for six months among other museums in the United States by the
Traveling Exhibition Service.

Zoology

At the end of June the exhibits in the east half of the hall of
osteology, comprising the sections on mammals and birds, were in-
formally opened to the public. The skeletons in this exhibition
range in size from one of the gray whale to those of small birds.
Skeletal materials are supplemented by graphic portrayals of the ap-
pearance in the flesh of the particular examples displayed. One in-
teresting display compares the skeleton of man with those of other
primates. Another points out the bony structures, differences in which
serve as the bases for scientific classification of birds. ‘The sections of
this hall devoted to reptiles, amphibians, and fishes are in process of
preparation and installation. Planning of the exhibits in this hall
has been coordinated by curator David H. Johnson, with the cooper-
ation of the staff members of all the vertebrate divisions of this de-
partment. Hall design was by Anthony DiStefano and Rolland O.
Hower, and graphic design by exhibits designer Morris M. Pearson.

On February 19, 1964, a temporary exhibition entitled “Return to
the Sea” was opened on the mezzanine of the hall of life in the sea.
This display, a joint effort of the Interagency Committee on Ocean-
ography of the Government and the Smithsonian Institution, has as

—
EXHIBITS ie

its theme the renewal of interest in oceanography and the marine en-
vironment. Associate curator Charles Cutress and Mr. Kjell Sandved
spent approximately two months in Honolulu, Hawan, Dillon Beach,
Calif., and at Friday Harbor, Wash., obtaining photographs and well-
preserved specimens of animals of which models will be made for
display in additional permanent exhibits in this hall.

Preparation of models and the securing of specimens for the hall
of cold-blooded vertebrates (fishes, amphibians, and reptiles) was con-
tinued during the year, and the installation of groups in this hall was
begun. Curator Leonard P. Schultz who is coordinating the planning
of exhibits for this hall, and Alfred Strohlein spent several days in the
vicinity of Seattle, Wash., during October collecting red salmon and
background materials for the group on salmon spawning. Exhibits
designer Barbara Craig prepared the architectural layout for this hall,
and graphic design is by Joseph Shannon.

Staff members of the department cooperated with the department of
paleobiology, the Oceanographic Sorting Center, the National Zoologi-
eal Park, and the Canal Zone Biological Area in preparing a special
exhibition for presentation in the foyer of the Natural History Mu-
seum at the time of the 16th International Congress of Zoology, held
in Washington, August 20-27, 1963. These displays illustrated facets
of the history of zoological research at the Smithsonian Institution,
the research programs currently in progress, and international co-
operation in the study of animal life.

Botany

Planning for the hall of plant life has continued at an accelerated
rate since January 1964, at which time was established a planning com-
mittee consisting of Assistant Director Richard S. Cowan, chairman,
and curators M. E. Hale, Jr., David Lellinger, T. R. Soderstrom,
Stanwyn G. Shetler, Dan Nicolson, and Richard H. Eyde. This
group met regularly with exhibits designer Rolland O. Hower to
develop specific plans for the exhibits. Study sites from which to
obtain data for construction of some of the habitat groups were
selected in the eastern United States, and preparation of botanical
models for use in the exhibits in this hall is in progress.

Paleobiology

The fourth and last of the remarkable series of mural paintings in
the hall of the age of mammals in North America, representing land
life during epochs of Tertiary time, was completed by artist Jay H.
Matternes. This mural depicts a Phocene mammalian assemblage.
14 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Associate curator Clayton EK. Ray initiated preliminary planning
of displays in the hall to be devoted to life of the Pleistocene, the geo-
logic epoch immediately preceding the present, in consultations with
members of the exihibit staff. Much of the time of the laboratory
staff has been devoted to repairing and remounting skeletons of the
various larger Pleistocene mammals that were previously exhibited,
and in restoring new skeletal remains for presentation in this hall.

Temporary exhibits, dealing with current research programs of staff
members, were prepared by the invertebrate paleontology staff and
U.S. Geological Survey paleontologists for the Intenational Zoologi-
cal Congress in the summer of 1963, and were sent to New York City
for display at the national meetings of the Geological Society of
America and he Paleontological Society in November.

Mineral Sciences

Planning and design of the new physical geology and meteorite ex-
hibits was completed in preparation for the start of construction, which
is to provide additional space for the gem exhibits. The physical
geology exhibit will interpret the nature and properties of materials
composing the earth; the distribution of these materials throughout
the globe; the processes by which they are formed, altered, trans-
ported, and distorted; and the nature and development of the land-
scape. The new hall has been planned by curator George S. Switzer
and associate curators Paul E. Desautels and Edward P. Henderson.
The hall layout has been prepared by exhibits designer Dorothy
Guthrie.

Science and Technology

Four halls of the Department of Science and Technology in the
east portion of the first floor were open when the interior of the
Museum of History and Technology first was revealed to the public.

By means of a few choice full-scale vehicles and an extended series
of accurately and precisely executed scale models the railroad hall
interprets the history of street railways as well as railroads. The
giant 280-ton Pacific-type steam locomotive No. 1401, largest and one
of the most impressive three-dimensional specimens in the museum,
stands near the row of east windows through which it may be viewed
from outside the building at night as well as by daylight. It contrasts
sharply with the boiler from the little “Stourbridge Lion” brought
from England in 1829 to become the first steam locomotive to run on
an American railroad built for commercial use, and with the bonnet-
stacked, wood-burning locomotive “Pioneer” built in 1851 by Seth
EXHIBITS 15

Wilmarth for the Cumberland Valley Railroad in Pennsylvania. A
cut-away scale model of a diesel-electric locomotive shows a type that
has supplanted the steam locomotive on American railroads in recent
years. A full-scale cable car used in Seattle, Wash., in the late 19th
century stands on a section of narrow-gauge track in an elevated posi-
tion so visitors can see the underground construction required for its
operation. Basic developments in street cars, locomotives, and rail-
road cars are illustrated by nearly 80 models, most of them built to the

ts

Brick-paved railroad hall has picture window (right) facing 12th Street.

same scale, which faithfuliy portray notable mechanical advances and
the contributions of famous designers. Also displayed are an out-
standing collection of rail samples, and examples of railway safety
devices. The hall was planned by associate curator John H, White,
Jr., in collaboration with exhibits designers James Mahoney, Virginia
Mahoney, and Deborah Bretzfelder.

The adjacent vehicle hall traces the development of various types
of road vehicles in the United States from the 18th century to the
present day. Among the outstanding horse-drawn vehicles on dis-
play are two variations of the famous stage coach built by the Abbot,
Downing Company of Concord, N.H., and widely used in the East and
16 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

West beyond the lines of the early railroads; the finely constructed
Lawrence family coach built by Thomas Goddard of Boston in 1851;
and a city omnibus built by E. M. Miller of Quincy, Ill. The auto-
mobiles illustrate the rapid evolution of automobile design and manu-
facture from the 1890’s. Along with the pioneer Balzer and Haynes
motor wagons, appear the famous Winton mile-a-minute racer of 1902,
the Winton in which Dr. H. Nelson Jackson drove the first transcon-
tinental motor trip m 1903, and a sturdy Mack Bulldog truck. Mu-
seum specialist Donald Berkebile planned the exhibits in this hall
with assistance in layout from exhibits designer Riddick Vann.

The hall of tools illustrates the history and development of machine
tools. Introductory exhibits display hand tools with which men per-
formed laboriously tasks later accomphshed with much greater speed
and precision by machine. A short sound film in color describes the
five basic machining operations—planing, milling, drilling and boring,
turning, and grinding. A full-scale reproduction of Thomas Blanch-
ard’s gunstock lathe of 1822 introduces a series of historic special-
purpose machines which, in their capacity for producing large num-
bers of interchangeable parts, played important roles in contributing
to increased American productivity and to a higher standard of living.
The attainment of greater precision in measurement, important to the
development of machine tools, is brought out in a series of exhibits
tracing the history of measurement from the Roman cubit to modern
times. An outstanding feature of this hall is a reconstructed full-
size machine shop of about 1855 equipped with some of the oldest
machine tools in the collection. Six machines, restored to operat-
ing condition, are placed in the surroundings in which they would
have been used. They are operated by a docent at designated times
to demonstrate their functions to museum visitors. Silvio A. Bedini,
curator of civil engineering, and his predecessor, Eugene S. Ferguson,
selected the machines and planned the case exhibits in this hall with
the cooperation of exhibits designers Bright Springman, Harry Hart,
and John Clendening. William Henson installed the machines and
placed them in operating condition.

A major portion of the hall of light machinery illustrates the
evolution of timekeeping. The introductory exhibit, through a re-
volving globe bearing small sundials on its surface, demonstrates the
basic importance of the daily cycle of the earth’s rotation as the
foundation of man’s timekeeping systems. The exhibits illustrate the
gradual development of timekeeping from early sundials, sandglasses,
and waterclocks to the most precise modern electronic clocks. His-
toric examples of European and American-made clocks and watches
and a number of enlarged escapement models are included. In the
Demonstrations are con-
ducted in pre-1855 ma-
chine shop in hall of tools.

18 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

center of the hall is a reconstruction of a Renaissance clock tower, the
four sides of which will display a sun dial, and civil, astronomical, and
automaton dials actuated by an American tower clock of 1786. Both
the sun dial and civil-time dials have been installed, the former by
museum specialist Dorothy Briggs and the latter by its maker,
Thwaites and Reed of London, England. Nearby is a reconstructed
chronometer-maker’s shop of 1830, complete with the tools used by
its proprietor in manufacturing these precise instruments. The ex-
hibits in other sections of this hall show machines derived from the
skills developed by clock and instrument makers. One series traces

Reconstruction of Renaissance clock tower in hall of light machinery.

the development of the phonograph from Thomas Edison’s original
invention and the work of Alexander Graham Bell’s Volta Laboratory
through the more recent talking machines. Exhibits on the evolution
of the typewriter include early original machines and patent models.
Still other displays interpret the history of locks from early times to
the present, showing how new materials and more subtle engineering
concepts led to the perfection of more secure locking devices. Ex-
hibits in this hall were planned by associate curator Edwin A. Battison
in cooperation with hall designer Bright Springman and exhibits
designer Barbara Bowes.
EXHIBITS 19

At the close of the year installation of exhibits in the hall of civil
engineering, adjoining the railroad hall, were nearing completion and
plans were made for an early July opening. An interpretation of
the story of bridge and tunnel building through the ages shows
how the use of new materials enabled bridge builders to construct
longer spans and illustrates through scale models many of the classic
bridges of history. The tunnels section features a series of cutaway
scale models that illustrates the development of methods in both soft-
ground and hard-rock tunneling and depicts men constructing some
of the major tunnels in which new drilling methods and mechanisms
were employed. Associate curator Robert M. Vogel prepared the
technical specifications for this hall and the exhibits layout and design
are the work of exhibits designers John Brown and Harry Hart.

Considerable progress also was made in the installation of exhibits
in the hall of heavy machinery. ‘Those at the west end of this hall,
opened to the public in January, interpret the early development of
the steam engine, and include a reconstruction of an early Watt rota-
tive engine. The series on refrigeration and the diesel engine are to
be opened in conjunction with the adjoining civil engineering hall in
July 1964.

All free-standing exhibition cases have been installed in the Ameri-
can merchant marine hall, and a considerable number of the scale
models of historic types of vessels from the museum’s outstanding
watercraft collection have been placed in them by exhibits specialist
James A. Knowles, Jr., under the supervision of curator of transporta-
tion Howard I. Chapelle.

A temporary exhibition of communications satellites, being installed
in the northeast portion of the hall of electricity, will be available to
the public in July. An item in this exhibit is the back-up satellite for
Telstar I—presented to the museum on July 10, 1963, the first anniver-
sary of its launching. Contract installation of cases for permanent
exhibits in the southwest portion of this hall, which will interpret
current electricity, neared completion at year’s end. These exhibits
have been planned by associate curator of electricity Bernard S. Finn.
Exhibits designer Nadya Kayaloff has nearly completed the display
designs.

In the halls of pharmacy, medicine, and dentistry at the extreme
west end of the first floor, installation of an 1890 period drugstore,
of period interiors depicting a portion of a room in the Massachusetts
General Hospital, and a midwestern dentist’s office are nearing com-
pletion. The Old World apothecary shop formerly on view in the
Arts and Industries building is to be installed in the new hall of
pharmacy. Two new exhibits destined for exhibition in the new
museum were placed on temporary display in the Arts and Industries
20 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL’ REPORT, 1964

building: A diorama depicting Dr. Philip S. Physick excising a
large paratoid gland tumor in the circular room of the Pennsylvania
Hospital in 1805, long before the discovery of anesthesia; and an
enlarged model of the human ear, donated by the Lambert Institute
of Otology of New York City. Curator of medical sciences Sami K.
Hamarneh, assisted by Dr. Alfred R. Henderson, consultant, are
completing exhibit plans for the medical science exhibits in coopera-
tion with exhibits designer, John Clendening.

The Foucault pendulum, prepared by the California Institute of
Technology and exhibited in the central rotunda of the new museum,
has fascinated visitors since the opening of the building. The division
of physical sciences, which is in charge of this exhibit, has been making
careful studies of its operation and of the problem of interpreting it
to the public. A large graphic explanation planned by curator Walter
F. Cannon, is being produced by the exhibits laboratory. Develop-
ment of exhibits for the hall of physical sciences progressed with the
completion of a layout plan for the mathematics section and the pro-
duction of all but two units in the section of astronomy.

Arts and Manufactures

The farm machinery hall, on view when the new building opened in
January, shows through displays of original objects and accurate scale
models how the invention and use of labor-saving machines played a
major role in the rapid expansion of American agriculture since the
early 19th century. The earlier hand-wielded and horse-drawn
implements are contrasted with later self-propelled machines which
performed the same basic tasks of plowing, planting, cultivating, and
harvesting food crops. The horse-drawn combine in the center of this
hall represents an early peak in mechanization. This machine, the
first built by Benjamin Holt at Stockton, Calif., in 1886, performed
all the harvesting and threshing tasks while moving through the wheat
fields of a western bonanza farm. <A feature display in the series on
the development of the plow is Thomas Jefferson’s plan for a more
efficient moldboard which any farmer of his time could make with his
own tools and fit to his plow. John Deere’s “steel” plow is shown, as
are scale models of the McCormick and Hussey reapers of the 1830's.

On view in another section of the hall is the first portable steam
engine made by J. I. Case, which produced about 8 horsepower for
driving threshers and sawmills by belt. The exhibits in this hall were
planned by associate curator Edward C. Kendall in cooperation with
exhibits designer Riddick Vann. The human figures which help to
establish scale and add interest to the miniature models of reapers were

executed by exhibits technician Susan Wallace.
EXHIBITS 21

Installation of exhibits in the new hall of graphic arts was begun
in spring of 1964 in anticipation of a fall opening of this hall, which
will explain the processes and present outstanding examples of works
created and produced by hand and by photomechanical processes.
These exhibits have been planned by curator Jacob Kainen and asso-
ciate curator Fuller O. Griffith in cooperation with exhibits designer
Nadya Kayaloff. Temporary exhibits of prints and photographs will
continue to be displayed in the Arts and Industries and the Smith-
sonian buildings until completion of the graphic arts salon in the new
museum. Nine special exhibits in graphic arts and seven featuring
the work of outstanding contemporary photographers were shown
during the year:

GRAPHIC ARTS

Recent accessions June 3—June 30, 1963
Monotype prints from the collection July 1-August 4, 19638

Prints by Conrad Ross, Art Department, Auburn August 5—September 15, 1963
sity of Maryland

Intaglio prints by Mario Micossi September 16—November 3,
1963

Intaglio prints by Jan Gelb November 4—December 8, 1963

Woodcuts by Hans Jelinek December 9, 1963—January 6,
1964

Etchings by Ruel P. Tolman from the collection January 7—February 3, 1964

Selected examples of nature printing February 4May 3, 1964

Prints by Conrad Ross, Art Department, Auburn May 4-June 30, 1964
University, Auburn, Ala.

PHOTOGRAPHY
Irving Penn June 14-July 28, 1963
Arthur Rothstein August 3-September 29, 1963
Andreas Feininger October 9—December 8, 1963
Elliott Erwitt December 10, 1963—February 4, 1964
Kosti Ruohomaa February 6—March 30, 1964
Robert Capa April 1—June 15, 1964
Sam Falk June 17—-August 30, 1964

Installation of exhibits in the hall of glass was begun in spring of
1964 in preparation for opening the hall the following fall. Develop-
ment of this hall is under the technical direction of curator Paul VY.
Gardner and assistant curator J. Jefferson Miller II of the division of
ceramics and glass. ‘The hall was designed by Dorothy Guthrie, and
the graphics design is being completed by exhibits designer Barbara
Bowes.

The Ninth International Exhibition of Ceramic Art, sponsored by
the Kiln Club of Washington, was held in the Natural History Mu-
seum September 8 through October 11,1963. On view were 550 pieces
of pottery, the work of ceramic artists from 39 foreign countries and
the United States. Five pieces, including two award winners from
the exhibition, were given to the division of ceramics and glass.
22 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

Among the displays in the preview of future exhibits in the tem-
porary exhibits gallery on the first floor of the new museum is an
early American handloom, built by a pioneer settler of western Penn-
sylvania about 1800, which is used for weekly demonstrations of
weaving by associate curator of textiles Rita Adrosko.

A reproduction of the figure-8 stellerator developed by Dr. Lyman
Spitzer of Princeton University was placed on exhibition in the
Constitution Avenue window area on the first floor of the new museum.
Symbolic of the research involving the generation of temperatures in
excess of 100 million degrees centigrade, the stellerator provides an
interesting contrast with the 19th-century farm machines which may
be seen through the display window in the adjoining hall of farm
machinery.

Reproduction of a figure-8 stellerator in the nuclear energy exhibit.
EXHIBITS 23
Civil History

Three halls dealing with civil history were on public view when the
new museum opened in January, and a fourth was formally opened
to the public in June.

The hall of everyday life in the American past, comprising the
largest exhibition gallery in the museum, displays the material evi-
dences of domestic life in America before 1900. The furnishings,
utensils, decorative arts and other objects illustrating aspects of the
cultural life of the country are presented in a series of cases, period
rooms, and platform groupings progressing chronologically from an
initial series of displays devoted to the European backgrounds of early
settlement groups to the interior of a confectioner’s shop in George-
town, D.C., at the turn of the 20th century. Among the outstanding
exhibits in the first series are a reproduction of a room from an 18th-
century Spanish New Mexican adobe home and objects of religious art
from the Franciscan missions of the Southwest. The English colonies
of the eastern seaboard are represented by displays ranging from arti-
facts obtained archeologically to fine furniture, pewter, and silver.
Period rooms in this portion of the hall include a chamber from a
17th-century Massachusetts house and mid-18th-century parlors from
Virginia and Massachusetts. An entire log house from Mill Creek
Hundred, Del., dating from about 1740, shows both the exterior and
interior construction and the furnishings of this house. Exhibits in
the 19th-century section of this hall portray the contrasts and transi-
tions from a handicraft to an industrial society through such objects
as Federal-period silver and furniture, rural pottery, foll arts, and
industrially-made decorations. Exhibits of children’s games and toys
are especially appealing to visitors of all ages. The starkly simple
furnishings of the Shaker sect appear in a display of furniture from
the collection of Dr. J. J. G. McCue. This hall was planned and
installed under the direction of curator C. Malcolm Watkins, assisted
by associate curators Rodris Roth and John N. Pearce. It was de-
signed by exhibits chief John E. Anglim, with the assistance of
exhibits designer Deborah Bretzfelder. Period rooms and the log
house were executed by George H. Watson and his staff of restoration
specialists with the professional assistance of Mrs. KE. Boyd, curator
of Spanish colonial art, Museum of New Mexico, and architects Robert
L. Raley of Newark, Del., and Robert E. Plettenberg of Santa Fe,
N. Mex.

The new First Ladies hall provides a more appealing medium for
continuing the tradition of exhibiting the dresses worn by the wife or
official hostess of each president of the United States. These dresses
show the changes in American costume from the 18th-century style
».

srsncattitatrrane estee ae

Hall of American costume contains examples of four centuries of dress,
with particular emphasis on styles of the 18th and 19th centuries.

worn by Martha Washington to the simple lines and elegant fabrics
of more recent First Ladies. Three dresses were presented to the pub-
lic for the first time: the handsome Empire gown worn by Mrs. James
Madison, on loan from the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery in Kansas
City, Mo.; the garnet velvet gown worn by Rose Cleveland, sister of
President Cleveland and hostess for the first two years of his first
administration; and a black silk dress of Mrs. Grover Cleveland. The
dresses are displayed upon mannequins in a series of eight room set-
tings, each appropriately finished and furnished to indicate the periods
and environments in which the dresses were worn. ‘Two rooms repro-
duce those in the house at 190 High Street in Philadelphia, where
President and Mrs. Washington lived before the White House was
built, and display furniture and fixtures owned and used by them.
The other room settings combine architectural details from the White
House, including four original White House mantels and the 1902
paneling from the East Room, with furniture and accessories used
both in the White House and in Presidential family homes. Espe-
cially interesting are the set of gold furniture purchased for use in
the Blue Room of the White House in 1859 and used until the admin-
istration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the elaborate gold piano used
in the Kast Room from Theodore Roosevelt’s administration to that of
Franklin D. Roosevelt. Small cases in this hall contain personal be-
EXHIBITS 5)

longings of the First Ladies and colorful Presidential china. A dio-
rama portrays the Oval Drawing Room in the White House as it
looked in 1814 after it was redecorated by Dolley Madison and Ben-
jamin Latrobe. This hall was developed by associate curator Mar-
garet Brown Klapthor in cooperation with exhibits chief Benjamin
W. Lawless.

The new hall of American costume adequately presents for the first
time the museum’s rich and extensive collection of men’s, women’s
and children’s clothing of the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries. It in-
cludes accessories of dress such as shoes, hats, handkerchiefs, parasols,
and gloves and such decorative accessories as fans, embroidered and
beaded purses, and many fine examples of period jewelry. Many of
the clothing items are exhibited on mannequins which portray the hair

Empire style of dress, 1800-1830, displayed in hall of American cos-

tume.
744-993—64

2
o

26 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

dress appropriate to the costumes, and some are shown in groupings in
partial room settings. Rare articles of everyday wear and early
underclothing are included. Among the outstanding materials pre-
sented in this graphic review of four centuries of American dress are
18th-century wraps, a freedom suit given to a young man who had
completed his apprenticeship to a cabinetmaker, an 18th-century
wedding gown of blue silk, children’s clothing of the period 1800 to
1830, a woman’s exercise suit of the mid-19th century illustrating dress
reform of the period, a dressmaker’s salon of the 1880's, and several
knee-length “flapper” dresses of the decade of the 1920’s. Illustrations
of various types of clothing selected from paintings and engravings
dealing with the history of costume supplement the original specimens
on display. The entire hall has been one of great interest for histori-
ans, artists, and students of American style and taste. The exhibits
were planned and installed under the direction of associate curator
Anne W. Murray. Hall design was by exhibits designer Robert M.
Widder; graphics design by exhibits designers Judith Borgogni,
Virginia Mahoney, and Deborah Bretzfelder.

The hall of historic Americans, opened to the public on June 30, is
unlike other museum presentations in the United States. A portion
of the hall is devoted to a capsule history of American political cam-
paign techniques, tracing their development from the era of genteel
“parlor politics” to the modern political use of the mass media of com-
munications. A dramatic political parade illustrates the development
of Presidential campaigning between 1840 and 1930. Papier-maché
marchers carry authentic political banners, pennants, and torchlights,
and wear campaign clothing and badges. In association with the
parade are exhibited a log cabin such as might have been erected as a
Whig party headquarters during the “Log Cabin and Hard Cider”
campaign of 1840, a front porch similar to those used by candidates
during the McKinley and Hardink ears, and a rear platform of a
railroad observation car representing the “‘whistle stop” period of
campaigning. An adjoming area, illustrating the important relation-
ship between politics and the press, radio, and television, includes
microphones used by Franklin D. Roosevelt in delivering his historic
radio fireside chats and by Dwight D. Eisenhower during the 1952
campaign. Other exhibitions in this hall interpret the contributions
to American history of certain major institutions and groups of
people. Personal memorabilia suggest the roles of Congress and the
Supreme Court, scholars, and “men of enterprise.” A former United
States Senate subway car is exhibited, while one of Robert C. God-
dard’s early experimental rockets indicates the impact of scientific
scholarship upon American lfe. The influence of “Americans
abroad” is suggested by an exhibition of gifts received by eminent
27

EXHIBITS

n_seuagionciuemecetnon a aniniiee eae aetreatet ee eee

€

gE

a

t

i
f

the hall of American costume.

in

ited

1 exhib

1930

1920-—

sea Os

quien!

erative atte
rhe pet

in rhvere was probably
the dreamer te

——
Flapper styles,
28 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Americans from foreign leaders, including a Sicilian cart given to
General George C. Marshall in gratitude for American aid to Italy
during the years after World War Il. Several exhibits display
memorabilia of distinguished families and individuals—the Wash-
ington and Adams families, Ulysses S. Grant, and Abraham Lincoln.
In one of these a newly sculptured figure of Abraham Lincoln, bear-
ing the business suit which he wore on the day of his assassination,
stands in a setting which closely resembles that shown in several
Mathew Brady photographs of the President. Planning and instal-
lation of the exhibits in this hall were under the direction of curator
Wilcomb 8. Washburn, assisted by associate curator Keith E. Melder
and assistant curator Herbert R. Collins in association with exhibits
designer Robert Widder.

At the west end of the west corridor on the second floor of the new
museum the heroic statue of George Washington by Horatio Green-
ough was in place on opening day, flanked by eight cases containing
some of the great national treasures in the museum’s collections, to be
displayed later in the series of halls interpreting the growth of the
United States in the area adjoming the statue. These historic objects
include George Washington’s uniform, the portable writing desk of
Thomas Jefferson, Joseph Henry’s electromagnet, the model of the
cotton gin built by Eli Whitney, Isaac Singer’s first patent model of the
vertical-needle sewing machine, the field compass used by William
Clark, Lewis Evans’ General Map of the Middle British Colonies in
America, and George Catlin’s brushes and palette, and his oil painting
of his Indian hero, Four Bears, second chief of the Mandans.

Marked progress was made in the preparation of the hall of philately
and postal history, scheduled for opening in September 1964. During
March a Stickney rotary printing press of 1914, a Stickney coiling
machine of 1920, and related stamp production equipment were trans-
ported to the museum and moved into position in the stamp production
alcove of this hall by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. Frames
and panels illustrating the postal history of the District of Columbia
anda special exhibition of the Emma Batchelor airmail collection were
installed. The series of exhibits on the history of the world’s posts were
produced, cases for models of vehicles used to transport the mails and
for postage meter and canceling machines were delivered to the hall,
and the refinishing of the pull-out frames which will exhibit by country
the systematic national postage stamp collection was completed. This
hall has been planned by curator Carl H. Scheele with the assistance
of museum technician Francis E. Welch in collaboration with exhibits
designer John Clendening.

From June 5 through July 5, 1963, an exhibition of stamps of the
world, issued in support of the Freedom from Hunger Campaign, was
EXHIBITS 29

displayed in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building with the
cooperation of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations and the Crown Agents. Postmaster General J. Edward Day
addressed the visitors who attended the opening of this exhibition.
A comprehensive exhibition of the postage stamps of Israel was held
during November and December 1963.

Associate curator of numismatics Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, as a per-
manent delegate of the United States to the International Federation
of Medal Editors, prepared a special display of contemporary medals
produced in the United States during the past five years for the inter-
national medal exhibit arranged by that federation in The Hague,
Netherlands. With the assistance of the Medallic Art Company and
the United States Mint she also prepared a display of contemporary
United States medals for the hall of monetary history and medallic art.
A temporary display illustrating the history of the traveler’s check,
including James C. Fargo’s announcement of 1891 initiating the issu-
ance of traveler’s checks by the American Express Company, was
installed in February. On March 27 a special exhibition of original
mint models and designs for the John F. Kennedy half dollar was
placed on display through the good offices of the Director of the Mint,
Miss Eva Adams, and the Superintendent of the Philadelphia Mint,
Mr. Michael H. Sura. In April a large display of the currencies of the
Austrian Empire was installed, employing material recently received
from the Mortimer and Anna Neinken collection.

Associate curator of musical instruments Cynthia Adams Hoover
organized a recital in July 1963, given by Mr. and Mrs. Efrim Frucht-
man of the University of Arizona, who played music for viola da
gamba and harpsichord, using the museum’s restored harpsichord
made in 1745 by Johannes Daniel Dulcken of Antwerp. In May 1964,
Miss Sylvia Kenney, associate professor of music at Bryn Mawr Col-
lege, presented a lecture-recital, “Paintings, Chronicles, and Stylistic
Criteria as Guides to the Performance of 15th Century Music.”

Armed Forces History

The Star-Spangled Banner, the original flag which, during the
attack of the British fleet on September 13-14, 1814, flew over Fort
McHenry at Baltimore, Md. and inspired Francis Scott Key to write
the words of our National Anthem, was installed in the Museum of
History and Technology when the new building was opened to the
public in January. Although this most important museum object
relating to the history of the United States had been exhibited in the
Arts and Industries building ever since it was presented to the Smith-
sonian Institution in 1912, it is now for the first time displayed at full
30 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

length, undraped, and in a place of honor befitting its importance as
a national symbol.

The visitor entering the museum from the mall gains an inspiring
view of the Star-Spangled Banner hanging on the north wall of the
3-story central rotunda in an alcove specially lighted to present the
flag most effectively. The flag is displayed over a supporting fabric
that is large enough to indicate its original dimensions of 30 by 42
feet and that completely covers the specially designed metal grid
which holds the flag and its supporting fabric in a vertical position.
The flag hangs in an atmosphere of filtered air carefully controlled for
the proper temperature and humidity. The only other exhibit in the
spacious hall is a small case, to the right of the flag containing a litho-
graph of the bombardment of Fort McHenry, a British 13-inch bomb
of the type fired at that time, and a rare early edition of “The Star-
Spangled Banner.” The flag was prepared for exhibition and in-
stalled under the direction of Edgar M. Howell, curator of military
history, with the assistance of Grace Rogers Cooper, curator of textiles.
Miss Doris Bowman, Mrs. Lois Vann, and Miss Maurine Collins of
the division of textiles assisted in preparing the backing for the flag
prior to its installation. The setting for the flag was designed by
Walker Cain of the firm of Steinmann, Cain and White, architects
for the new musuem. The cased exhibit was designed by Robert
Widder.

Development of exhibits for the armed forces history halls has
occupied the entire professional staff of the department. Installation
of free-standing cases and other elements in the halls devoted to
chronological history of the armed forces, to firearms and ordnance,
and to the display of the Revolutionary War gondola Philadelphia was
inaugurated in the spring of 1964 preparatory to the opening of the
major portion of this extensive series of exhibits next spring. ‘The
displays for the chronological series have been designed by exhibits
designers Fred C. Craig and John W. Brown.

During the year rigged models of the Union gunboat Carondelet, the
Confederate ironclads Virginia and Albemarle, as well as half models
of the Kearsarge, Brooklyn, San Jacinto, and Housatonic were lent to
the Department of the Navy for Civil War exhibits at the Truxtun-
Decatur Museum and the Naval Exhibit Center. German and Jap-
anese naval uniforms and side arms of World War II were lent for
an exhibition on the Normandy and Okinawa landings, held at the
Truxtun-Decatur Museum. A model of Robert Fulton’s Steam Bat-
tery (1814) was lent to the Peabody Institute of Baltimore for its
exhibit on Baltimore during the War of 1812, held in conjunction with
the annual meeting of the Company of Military Collectors and
Historians,
Accessions

During the Fiscal Year 1964

The national collections were increased during the past year by
1,234,752 specimens. These materials were distributed among the
ten departments as follows: anthropology, 38,484; zoology, 196,427;
botany, 30,427; entomology, 241,947; mineral sciences, 9,186; paleo-
biology, 376,007; science and technology, 1,361; arts and manufac-
tures, 2,697; civil history, 336,393; and Armed Forces history, 1,823.
This year’s accessions were acquired as gifts from individuals, by
staff collecting in the field, or as transfers from Government depart-
ments and agencies. A full list of donors will be found on page 130.

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1964

DEPARTMENT OF PALEOBIOLOGY .
Invertebrate Paleontology

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY Bee 980, 995
Archeology 755, 923
Ethnology . 187, 296
Physical Anthr aaalleasy 37, 776

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY ... .. 14, 654, 250
Mammals . 317, 518
Birds . 508, 016
Reptiles and henroinians! 157, 977
Fishes . bane 1, 763, 577
Marine Inv esnietorenes ‘ 2, 020, 489
Mollusks 9, 834, 997
Helminths . 51, 676

DEPARTMENT OF ENTOMOLOGY j 16, 220, 460
Coleoptera . 49, 528
Hemiptera . 81, 757
Lepidoptera : 72, 324
Myriapoda and Ar ac nmedle F 4, 369
Neuropteroids 30, 969

’ DEPARTMENT OF Borany . hoes) a 0: O8S4,624
Phanerogams . 1, 944, 572
Ferns . 235, 427
Grasses 385, 721
Cryptogams 476, 280
Plant Anatomy . 42, 624

. 13, 080, 604

Vertebrate Paleontology .

Paleobotany . 2, 070
DEPARTMENT OF MINERAL SCIENCES . t Pra 414, 481

Mineralogy 85, 000

Meteorites . 5, 000

Petrology 324, 481
32 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ........... 74, 833
Physical Sciences. . . . SSP eee tnane 4, 035
Mechanical and Civil nein conte NAR ees male eave be 1 10, 700
Electricity. SP SEF tak eee Ase Nee, MeN Ree Sh Awe a ee 5, 926
ELans POrvatiOn wasn Caer Ord peer ieee nee ee 25,320
MicdicaliSciemcesy Pare ek Peasant toaebe oe bo)  teieaaree 28, 845
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES. ..........-. 148, 270
Mextilesie seen: A ene eater ctr ees Pace a 34, 935
Carsmmesvmacl GIES 4, 2 6 Sk 6b 6 eb 6 ee 16, 720
Graphic Arts . Sn eae eanc’ Ward ONS in sas 51, 394
Manufactures and Heavy Industries ...... 34, 841
Agriculture and Forest Products ........ 10, 380
DEPARTMENT OF Civin HISTORY. | 95) 5 5. 2 4 5 4 5 4 25) e 2 LONO4 S095
Politicalsklistomyaice tasers atone ete el eae 47, 436
Cultural History . . ah de Rede torte 21, 938
Philately and Postal ietistosy 6 ay el eae ee, ee SOE SIMO 3rd
INI SHA ICSR Ow | aces er ee on SE 165, 384
DEPARTMENT OF ARMED FORCES HistoRY . - 4 5. . 5 9 4 . 2. 51, 487
Mnlitasyahistoryarer sacks At eye ee 40, 395
IND ga LISI (orca Tae An tee oe bauee Dia) enter ie bay eae ob 11, 092
ALO IMafsroone Crornmmincmmmoiss 5 95 596 6 6 6 6 6 5 5 6 0 o Oey Joe, OMY)
Anthropology

Two large and important North American collections were acces-
sioned in the division of archeology. One, received by transfer from
the River Basin Surveys, Bureau of American Ethnology, included
18,603 specimens from the Medicine Creek Reservoir, Nebr., and com-
prises one of the largest and most complete collections extant on the
prehistoric agricultural peoples of the Central Plains in the 9th to
14th centuries. The second lot is from the 1931-82 investigations of
the Bureau of American Ethnology at Signal Butte, a key stratified
site in western Nebraska with a series of occupational levels spanning
the period from 2600 B.C. to about A.D. 1700. Other noteworthy
accessions include 1,157 pieces collected by the Bureau of American
Kthnology from the Parita and Santa Maria areas in Panama; a
group of handaxes from the Fezan and microlithic blades from Tripo-
litania, Libya, presented by James R. Jones of the U.S. ATD mission to
Libya; and an exceptionally well-preserved Egyptian cat mummy
donated by Edith Goldsmith of Methuen, Mass.

In the division of ethnology, a large portion of the year’s acquisi-
tions were obtained for use in the new hall of cultures of Africa
and Asia. Noteworthy Asian accessions included : 79 specimens rep-
resenting Chinese opera, obtained through the aid of the Chinese
Nationalist Government; 116 items relating to agriculture and daily
life in Japan, obtained from the Japanese Association of Museums;
a Hindu village altar assemblage of 40 specimens, obtained with as-
ACCESSIONS 33

sistance of the government of Orissa, Bhubanaswar, and the Crafts
Museum, New Delhi; 255 Burmese items obtained from the collector,
Brian Peacock, University of Rangoon; 226 specimens mostly from
Isfahan and dealing with Iran textile printing, collected and donated
by Mrs. Ethel J. W. Bunting; 76 items of Korean furniture, archi-
tectural pieces, and objects of everyday use, presented by the Korean
Ministry of Public Information; 5 traditional Japanese swords, with
scabbards and a leather sword case, presented by Admiral William M.
Fechteler; a ceremonial bone apron from Tibet, by exchange from
Simon Kriger, Washington, D.C.; and 3 large rubbings of stone
relief from the Bayon at Angkor, donated by the Kingdom of Cam-
bodia. To the African collections were added 60 items from the
Endo-Marakwet of Kenya, donated by Dr. Deric O’Bryan; and full-
scale copies of 6 rock paintings from the Tassili Mountains of Algeria,
made at the Musée de l’Homme, Paris, under the direction of M. Henri
Lhote.

Among the accessions in the divisions of physical anthropology
are two casts of trephined skulls from Peru, one with five and the
other with seven openings, which will be used for exhibit purposes
as examples of the number of trephine openings which have been made
in an individual’s skull during his lifetime. One of two Kraho Indian
face masks from central Brazil is to be incorporated in the map of
peoples of the world in the hall of physical anthropology. Other
accessions include skeletal materials from Virginia, Maryland, Latin
America, and Alaska.

Zoology

The total of 14,869 mammals accessioned is well in excess of the
number for any recent year and reflects a currently accelerated pro-
eram of field activity. More than 5,000 specimens came from Africa
and southwestern Asia, collected by field parties working under the
cirection of Dr. Henry W. Setzer. Tropical American areas continued
to produce large numbers of specimens. Dr. Charles O. Handley’s
general collections from Panama and Arthur M. Greenhall’s large col-
lection of bats from Trinidad are especially noteworthy. Important
accessions also came from Mexico, Nicaragua, British Guiana, and
Brazil. Of unusual interest and scientific value are a rare marbled
cat from Sumatra presented by Kent Crane, a series of baboons ob-
tained by Clifford E. Sanders in Northern Rhodesia, South American
marmosets received from the National Institutes of Health Primate
Colony at the San Diego Zoo through Robert W. Cooper, and a good
series of canids allied to red wolves from the south-central part of the
United States received through the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
34 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

To the collection in the division of birds were added 45 accessions
including 2,690 bird skins and 332 anatomical specimens. Accessions
worthy of special note include 547 bird skins, 26 skeletons, 1 egg and
1 nest from Panama, received through Dr. Alexander Wetmore; 791
bird skins, 85 skeletons, and 1 nest from North America, by transfer
from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 301 bird skins from Formosa,
by transfer from the Department of Defense, Department of the Navy,
U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, through Dr. R. E. Kuntz;
190 bird skins from North Borneo, gift of the Bernice P. Bishop
Museum, through Dr. J. L. Gressitt; 175 bird skins from West Pakis-
tan, gift from Bucknell University, through Dr. Roy C. Tasker; 156
alcoholic specimens of birds from Prof. D. S. Rabor, Silliman Uni-
versity, Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental, Philippines; and 52 orig-
inal watercolor paintings executed as illustrations for F. Salomonson’s
“The Birds of Greenland,” by deposit from the artist, Mr. Aage Gitz-
Johansen, Trorod, Denmark, through Dr. Carl Christensen, Cultural
Counselor, Danish Embassy.

Outstanding among the 2,639 specimens accessioned in the division
of reptiles and amphibians are 58 West Indian lizards and frogs, in-
cluding paratypes of 13 new species and subspecies from Dr. Albert
Schwartz of Miami, Fla.; 213 reptiles and amphibians from Mada-
gascar collected by field parties under the direction of Dr. H. W. Setzer
of the division of mammals; and 219 reptiles and amphibians from
Darién, Panama, collected by Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., also of the
division of mammals.

Among the largest accessions in the division of fishes during the
year were 5,777 specimens received by transfer from the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, mostly through the efforts of Dr. Daniel Cohen,
Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., Willis King, J. H. Finucane, and P. J. Struh-
saker; a gift of 3,000 specimens of Panamanian fishes from Mr. Horace
Loftin, Florida State University; and through exchange, 6,020 Vir-
ginia fishes from Dr. Robert Ross, Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod, T. F. H. Publications, Inc., Jersey City, N.J.,
donated 443 South American fishes and aided in securing 18 additional
ones. Especially important acquisitions are holotypic and paratypic
specimens received from Dr. Jacques R. Géry, Dordogne, France; Dr.
Edward C. Raney, Cornell University; Dr. John E. Randall, Univer-
sity of Puerto Rico; Dr. Eugenie Clark, Cape Haze Marine Labora-
tory; Wayne J. Baldwin, University of California; Dr. Lindsey, Uni-
versity of British Columbia; Dr. J. L. B. Smith, Rhodes University,
Grahamstown, South Africa; and Dr. Stanley Weitzman, associate
curator in the division of fishes. The addition of some 47 shark speci-
mens undescribed and others representing species not previously

contained in the national collections, was made by Dr. J. C. Briggs,
With a_ helicopter and
mountain-peak landing
pad, expedition of Asso-
ciate Curator Handley to
Tacarcuna region, Darién,
Panama, cut a 5-day pack
trip to a half hour. Valley
camp shown at right.

36 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

University of Texas; Mr. H. Heyamoto and Mr. Susumu Kato, U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service; Donald Goff, Rehoboth Beach, Delaware;
Dr. Carl L. Hubbs, Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Dr. T. Abe,
University of Tokyo, Japan; Dr. F. H. Talbot, South African
Museum; and Miss Jeanette D. D’Aubrey, Oceanographic Research
Institute, Durban, Natal, South Africa. Valuable specimens were
also received from Ross Socolof, Gulf Fish Hatchery, Palmetto, Fla.,
and from Mac Entel, Sumac Trophical Fish Hachery, Miami, Fla.

Of special importance to the division of marine invertebrates was
the addition of 27,003 specimens of invertebrates from the Antarctic
collected by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, former curator of the division and
now research associate. Dr. Schmitt participated in the U.S. Ant-
arctic Research Program aboard the USS Staten Island and made
these collections during the Palmer Peninsula-South Shetlands Sur-
vey in 1963. Many existing gaps in the national collections of the
fauna of these regions have now been filled. Acquisition from Dr.
Rh. A. Boolootian, Department of Zoology, University of California,
Los Angeles, of the A. Weir Bell collection of Oligochaeta, comprising
about 900 slides of sections of these worms, a catalog, and a library of
separates of scientific articles dealing with the oligochaetes, was a
significent event during the year. A collection of 2,216 specimens of
polychaete worms from the Bering Sea was received from Dr. Donald
J. Reish, Long Beach State College, Long Beach, Calif.

In the division of mollusks, 187 accessions comprising 69,288
specimens were received during the year; in addition, 334 specimens
from previously recorded accessions were added, the largest annual
increment since 1953-54. This large increase is due mainly to three
large accessions: the personal collection of Arnon L. Mehring con-
sisting of approximately 23,800 specimens; a collection of 17,300
specimens mainly from Okinawa, Ryukyus, purchased through the
Chamberlain fund; and 7,600 specimens gathered by Dr. Harald A.
Rehder in Tahiti utilizing funds provided by General Frank R.
Schwengel in memory of his wife, Jeanne S. Schwengel. Other large
accessions include an exchange of 1,350 specimens, with the Academy
of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia, and a gift of 1,480 specimens
from Duncan Emrich of Washington, D.C. Holotypes were received
hie the Institute of Marine Science, University of Miami, through

. F. M. Bayer, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Laboratory,
ae Mississippi, through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and from
Richard E. Petit. A total of 843 specimens including a number of
holotypes were added to the helminthological collection during the
year. The largest accession, consisting of 339 lots collected in Panama
in 1931-34, was presented by Dr. A. O. Foster.
ACCESSIONS Bi)

Entomology

The division of Coleoptera received a total of 49,528 specimens,
including 66 holotypes. Major contributions include the follow-
ing: 730 beetles from Nepal and Pakistan from Dr. J. Maldonado
Capriles, University of Puerto Rico; 1,000 North American ground
beetles from Mr. John D. Glaser, Baltimore, Md.; 5,500 beetles from
Central America and the United States from Dr. John Kingsolver,
Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S.
Department of Agriculture; and 1,100 Mexican beetles from Dr.
Alfred B. Lau, Mexican Indian Training Center, Cordoba, Vera Cruz,
Mexico.

One of the more important accessions was 130 African water beetles,
acquired by exchange with Dr. Pierre Basilewsky, Chief, Entomology
Section, Royal Museum of Central Africa, Tervuren, Belgium, which
included 63 species new to our collection.

As the result of field work conducted by members of the Smithsonian
staff the following were acquired: 1,100 miscellaneous South Ameri-
can beetles from Mrs. Doris Blake and Dr. Doris Cochran; 300 scarab
beetles from South Carolina obtained by O. L. Cartwright; and
35,600 miscellaneous Mexican and North American beetles collected
by Dr. Paul H. Spangler.

The division of Hemiptera received 81,757 specimens in 102 acces-
sions during the year. The most important acquisition of the year
was the J. Douglas Hood collection of Thysanoptera (thrips), which
contains 1,055 holotypes and 11,203 paratypes of Hood and other work-
ers. The transfer of the very important collection of North American
fleas from the Rocky Mountain Laboratory of the National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare, was initiated through the efforts of Dr. William L.
Jellison, retired, of that institute. To date 12,780 carefully prepared
shdes from this collection have been received. The Scripps Institute
of Oceanography, through the cooperation of Dr. Martin W. Johnson
and H. George Snyder, presented over 1,300 specimens of the marine
water-strider genus /alobates. Other important accessions are: 1,144
ants from the Nevada atomic test site through the cooperation of Dr.
Dorald M. Allred, Atomic Energy Commission; 500 Australian ants
from Professor B. B. Lowery, St. Ignatius College, Sydney, Australia;
and 215 South American ants from Dr. K. W. Cooper, Hanover,
N.H. Other Hymenoptera received included 130 named European
wasps from Mr. W. S. Pulawski, University of Wroclawskiego, War-
saw, Poland; 486 North American bees and wasps from Dr. K. Y.
Kvombein, Arlington, Va.; 157 S. American velvet ants from Osvaldo
H. Casal, Instituto Nacional de Microbiologia, Buenos Aires, Argen-
38 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964.

tina; 448 Old World cercerid wasps from Dr. H. A. Scullen, Oregon
State University, Corvallis, Oreg.; 450 North American and Russian
chalcid flies from Mr. C. D. F. Miller, Canadian Department of Agri-
culture, Ottawa, Canada; and 100 European chalcid flies from Dr. A.
Hoffer, Prague, Czechoslovakia.

Mr. Friedrich Heller, Staatlisches Museum fiir Naturkunde in
Ludwigsburg, Germany, contributed 202 identified European leaf-
hoppers; Mr. N. L. H. Krauss, Honolulu, a constant supporter of
the national collection, donated 199 American Hemiptera. Numerous
lots of insects received included specimens of more than one order.
Among these were 595 specimens collected in Nepal and Pakistan by
Mediterranean insects from Dr. J. J. Drea, European Parasite Labo-
Dr. J. Maldonado Capriles, University of Puerto Rico; 431 circum-
ratory, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Nanterre, France; 320 North
American insects from Dr. Asa Maxson, Longmont, Colo.; 224 North
American examples from Dr. B. D. Burks, Insect Identification and
Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department of Agri-
culture, Washington, D.C.; Dr. C. P. Alexander, Amherst, Mass.,
donated 186 American specimens; and 147 Peruvian specimens were
received from Mr. Richard Straw, Lima, Peru.

The division of Lepidoptera received no major collections this year
but, largely because of the accelerated field activity of the staff mem-
bers and cooperating agencies, 72,324 specimens were added to the
division’s collections in 108 accessions. Significant contributions
made by staff members, include 9,115 specimens of Mexican moths
collected by Drs. Don R. Davis and W. Donald Duckworth; 1,280 but-
terflies from eastern United States collected by William D. Field;
Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Gates Clarke contributed 5,746 Lepidoptera (in-
cluding 760 reared specimens) and 155 Diptera from the island of
Rapa; Dr. William L. Stern, of the Division of Plant Anatomy, pre-
sented 134 specimens of Philippine butterflies and moths; C. W.
Sabrosky, Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research
Branch, U.S. Department of Agriculture, contributed 297 specimens
of North American flies; 2,718 specimens of North American flies
were received from Dr. C. P. Alexander of Amherst, Mass.; 92 Asian
flies, including 1 holotype and 9 paratypes, were donated by Dr. Ed-
ward I. Coher of Waltham, Mass.; Dr. D. Elmo Hardy, Honolulu,
presented 146 South American flies in which number were included
4. holotypes and 2 allotypes; from Dr. H. Kuroko of Fukuoka Prefee-
ture, Japan, we received 103 Japanese moths.

By transfer, 45,004 specimens were received from the Insect Identifi-
cation and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S. Department
of Agriculture, retained in the course of identifications made. This
accession includes all groups of insects.
ACCESSIONS 39

The division of Myriapoda and Arachnida received 4,369 specimens
in 82 transactions, including a number of extremely rare specimens,
many nonexistent in other museums. Mr. H. F. Loomis enriched the
millipede collection with approximately 300 both typical and ordinary
Neotropical specimens; Dr. G. E. Ball, University of Alberta, Edmon-
ton, Alberta, Canada, generously presented 425 centipedes from Can-
ada, southwestern United States and Mexico. Dr. R. L. Hoffman,
Radford College, Blacksburg, Va., sent 160 centipedes and millipedes,
including types of the latter from the United States; curator Ralph E.
Crabill contributed 1,100 centipedes from upper Bavaria and Austria,
including many specimens otherwise known only from the types; Dr.
Nell B. Causey, Fayetteville, Ark., donated 215 centipedes from
Arkansas and southeastern United States. Noteworthy among other
collections received here are centipedes from Micronesia, New Zealand,
and Australia, most of which hitherto have been represented in mu-
seums only by their types.

Progress has been made in improving the collection of neurop-
teroids; 33,969 specimens were acquired in 73 transactions, including
specimens of 291 species, 36 genera, and 1 family, not previously repre-
sented in the Museum.

The most important single accession consists of a synoptic collection
of African dragonflies and damselflies received from Dr. E. C. G.
Pinhey, Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia; 2,421 identified North Ameri-
can aquatic insects were received from Dr. Stanley G. Jewett, Jr., Port-
land, Oreg.; Dr. A. E. Brower, Augusta, Maine, presented 4,296 caddis
flies from northeastern United States; 4,002 caddis flies were acquired
from Mr. Fritz Plaumann, Nova Teutonia, Brazil; Dr. A. B. Gurney,
Insect Identification and Parasite Introduction Research Branch, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, presented 1,882 grasshoppers and lace-
wings from Texas and Virginia; Dr. O. S. Flint, Jr., of this division
collected and presented 6,768 caddisflies.

Botany

An excellent set of 1,859 plants collected on the British Solomon Is-
lands by T. C. Whitmore was received from the Forestry Department
at Honiara. Mrs. Paul Bartsch presented the herbarium of Dr. Paul
Bartsch consisting of 10,220 plants from Iowa and Virginia, many of
them of historical interest. Also received as gifts were 482 plants of
Bolivia from M. Cardenas, Cochabamba, Bolivia; 1,055 specimens of
Araceae from. southeast Asia from Dan H. Nicolson; 2,215 lichens of
Florida and Minnesota from Mason E. Hale; and 945 mosses from
Frederick J. Hermann.
40 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

There were received in exchange 4,675 plants, which included many
collections of historical importance, such as those of Gaudichaud,
Sieber, Sodiro, and Vieillard, from the Muséum National d’Histoire
Naturelle, Paris; 1,790 specimens mostly collected in northern South
America by Bassett Maguire et al., from the New York Botanical
Garden; 1,733 specimens from New Guinea, Thailand, and Africa,
from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, England; 1,578 speci-
mens from New Guinea received from the Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organization, Canberra, Australia; 1,380
plants collected in British Guiana by R. J. A. Goodland, from McGill
University ; 1,126 plants of Central America from the Escuela Agri-
cola Panamericana, Tegucigalpa, Honduras; 380 fine specimens col-
lected in Argentina by Troels Myndel Pedersen, from the Botanical
Museum, University of Copenhagen, Denmark; 306 selected specimens
of South African plants from the University of Pretoria, South
Africa; 500 mosses from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stockholm,
Sweden ; 209 plants comprising issues 85-88 of Schedae ad Herbarium
Florae Rossicae, from the Botanical Institute of the Academy of
Sciences, Leningrad, USSR; 3845 woods from the Servico Florestal,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; and 187 woods from the Conservator of
Forests, Kuching, Sarawak.

A total of 1,347 specimens comprising several collections was re-
ceived from the Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Venezuela, and 1,142
from the Herbério “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai, Santa Catarina,
Brazil, in exchange for names. From the University of Michigan
were received 542 grasses collected by Rogers McVaugh, and 2,629
woods from Sumatra, the Philippines, Mexico, and British Honduras,
mostly collected by the late H. H. Bartlett.

Transferred from Government departments were 9,354 specimens of
Alaska from the Geological Survey through Dr. Robert S. Sigafoos,
and 1,240 plants of Thailand, from the U.S. Army, Fort Detrick, Md.
Collected for the Museum were 564 plants of Alaska from William
J. L. Sladen, Baltimore, Md., 544 grasses collected on Trinidad by
Thomas R. Soderstrom, and 205 grasses collected by Jason R. Swallen
in South Africa.

Paleobiology

In the division of paleobotany important specimens received as gifts
include 36 prepared slides containing 84 fossil spore and pollen type
specimens from West Africa, from the Jersey Production Research
Co., through R. KE. Rohn; 11 silicified stems of the tree fern genus
Cyathodendron from the Eocene of Texas, from S. N. Dobie, Whitsett,
Tex.; and a large, very well-preserved limb section from the Kocene of

Wyoming from Mr. and Mrs. Jean Case. Dr. F. M. Hueber collected
ACCESSIONS Al

2,000 specimens of Lower Devonian plant remains from the Gaspé
and northern New Brunswick region of Canada, the field work sup-
ported by the Walcott bequest.

Among the 372,000 specimens accessioned by the division of inverte-
brate paleontology are a number of major importance. Transfers of
type specimens from the U.S. Geological Survey included 160 Cam-
brian trilobites described by A. R. Palmer; 46 cephalopods from the
western interior; conodonts from the Great Basin; corals from the
Ordovician of Alaska; and Foraminifera from the Tertiary of Equa-
torial Africa and from the Gilbert Islands in the central Pacific.

Johns Hopkins University gave 3,700 type specimens described in
the well-known Paleozoic volumes of the Maryland Geological Survey
stratigraphic series. One thousand specimens of Middle Ordovician
and Silurian invertebrates were collected in southwestern Ontario by
Dr. and Mrs. G. A. Cooper. Dr. R. S. Boardman completed a major
collection of more than 200,000 Paleozoic Bryozoa from a number of
measured sections in the Ordovician of Oklahoma. Dr. Franco Rasetti
donated 3,500 identified Cambrian trilobites including many type
specimens. Dr. A. J. Boucot gave 7,000 Silurian brachiopods col-
lected in Great Britain. A valuable collection of 5,000 mollusks from
the Tertiary of Virginia and Maryland was given by Dr. R. J. Taylor.
Other gifts included 140 specimens of Upper Paleozoic brachiopods
from Chihuahua, Mexico, given by Sr. Teodoro Diaz G.; a large
number of Tertiary mollusks from Hampton, Va., by Dr. T. Walley
Williams; 10 specimens of unique Tertiary mollusks from Florida
by Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Williams; and more than 1,000 thin sections of
Mississippian endothyrid Foraminifera, among which were many
type specimens, donated by Dr. Edward Zeller.

Funds from the Walcott bequest were used to purchase one of the
world’s most complete collections from the Jurassic and Cretaceous
of Chile, consisting of more than 20,000 invertebrates, from Mrs.
Elsa de Biese, Santiago, Chile. With the cooperation of the Arabian
American Oil Company, and financed partly by Walcott funds, Drs.
P. M. Mier and E. G. Kauffman of the Museum staff collected more
than 25,000 specimens of a variety of invertebrates from Mesozoic
rocks of Saudi Arabia. The Springer fund made possible the pur-
chase of 1,023 blastoids and crinoids from the Burlington limestone
of Iowa and Missouri, and 120 Triassic echinoids from the Moenkopi
formation of Utah.

Outstanding exchanges brought many important specimens, includ-
ing 150 species of Jurassic and Cretaceous mollusks from the Geologi-
cal Survey of Pakistan; 160 plastotypes of Mesozoic mollusks housed
at the University de Lyon; 12 species of ammonites from Moscow

74499364 —_4
42 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

University ; and 50 plastotypes of Upper Cretaceous species in the col-
lections of the Texas Bureau of Economic Geology.

In the division of vertebrate paleontology two outstanding acces-
sions resulted from field collecting by the staff: Dr. C. L. Gazin col-
lected some 350 specimens of early Tertiary mammals, principally
from the middle Eocene Bridger formation of southwestern Wyo-
ming, including a wealth of small forms such as primates, rodents, in-
sectivores, and carnivores, and from the Fossil, Green River, and
Bison Basins. Dr. D. H. Dunkle, assisted by Mr. Gladwyn B. Sulli-
van, collected approximately 307 specimens of fossil fish; the greater
number, from new localities in the upper Madera formation of Per-
mian or possibly Pennsylvanian age in central New Mexico, consisted
principally of sharks, acanthodian, paleoniscoid, and coelacanth fish.
Other important collections of these forms were obtained from the
Pennsylvanian Wea shale in Nebraska and Iowa. In addition, a small
collection of Zeptolepis remains was made in the Jurassic Todilto
limestone of New Mexico, and various bones of arthrodires and cros-
sopterygians were collected in a Middle Devonian quarry in Ohio.

Particular mention is made of a collection of 122 specimens of heter-
ostrachian, acanthodian, and arthrodire fish from a Lower De-
vonian quarry in Lucas County, Ohio, received in an exchange with
the Chicago Natural History Museum.

A collection of Pleistocene vertebrate remains from Cartersville, Ga.,
donated by Shorter College of Rome, Ga., includes at least 20 species
and is important as the most extensive Pleistocene vertebrate fauna

yet discovered in Georgia.

Mineral Sciences

A total of 9,230 specimens was received in the division of mineralogy.
Outstanding among the many important gifts was an exceptionally
fine gem-quality topaz crystal from Brazil, from Oscar Heyman and
Brothers, Inc. Other important gifts were scapolite, Madagascar,
from John B. Tago; rhodonite, Franklin, N.J., from Mrs. Frank A.
Lewis; opal, Australia, from Leland Quick; and tourmaline, Brazil,
from Bernard T. Rocca, Sr. Among the specimens received by ex-
change was a fine specimen of cuprosklodowskite, from the Congo, a
very fine large brazilianite crystal, from Brazil, and an exceptionally
fine, large, gem-quality crystal of beryl, variety aquamarine, also from
Brazil.

Among the 4,118 specimens added to the Roebling collection by
purchase or exchange; were a very large Japanese twin of quartz,
from Arizona; a fine specimen of scolecite from Brazil; a crystal of
ACCESSIONS 43

scapolite of unusually large size, from Mexico; some fine francevillite
and chervetite from Gabon; and some outstanding specimens of
raspite from Australia. Acquired by purchase through the Canfield
fund was a very large crystal of chrysoberyl, from Russia, and an
extraordinary crystal of danburite, from Baja California, Mexico.

Outstanding new additions to the gem collection included a 1,000-
carat aquamarine, from Brazil, from Evyan Perfumes, Inc.; a very
unusual star sapphire showing four separate stars, from Ceylon, from
Sidney Krandall and Sons; a jade bowl, formerly in the Vetlesen
collection, from Mrs. Mildred Tabor Keally; a Mexican opal, from
Mrs. Frank A. Lewis; two fine kunzites from Brazil, weighing 296.78
and 336.16 carats, from Robert C. Nelson, Jr.; four diamonds of rare
blue and green colors, from Van Cleef and Arpels, Inc.; and a collec-
tion of spheres of jade, petrified wood, and other gem materials, from
Albert R. Cutter. Gems acquired by purchase from the Chamberlain
fund for the Isaac Lea collection included a 22.35-carat golden
sapphire and a 24.15-carat cat’s eye diopside.

Five very exceptional gems, all from Brazil, were added to the col-
lection by exchange: A golden-green beryl weighing 1,363 carats, a
914-carat green beryl, a greenish-colored topaz weighing 1,469 carats,
a 1,362-carat amethyst, and a heart-shaped kunzite weighing 880
carats. Received from an anonymous donor was the Portuguese dia-
mond, a very fine step-cut stone weighing 127.01 carats. The Portu-
guese diamond is the largest cut diamond from Brazil and the 13th
largest in the world. In the 1920’s it was recut to its present shape
from a 150-carat cushion-shaped stone. Details of its early history
are unknown, but it is said that it was once owned by the royal family
of Portugal.

Twenty-eight meteorites not previously represented in the collec-
tion were accessioned during the year, out of a total of 83, making this
the best year in some time. The most important single addition was
the collection of the late Arthur R. Allen of Trinidad, Colo., con-
taining 45 meteorites and 636 grams of tektites. Specimens of partic-
ular interest were the 14 fine oriented individuals of the Pasamonte,
New Mexico fall (totaling 1.3 kg.) and a Canyon Diablo specimen
containing a large diamond inclusion. Seven stony meteorites that
had not been previously known were included: Alamosa, Colo. (1.8
ke.) ; Blackwell, Okla. (2.4 kg.); Georgetown, Colo. (0.68 kgs.) ;
Mosquero, N. Mex. (1.6 kg.) ; Thatcher, Colo. (2 g.) ; Tobe, Colo. (5.4
ke.) ; and Mosca, Colo. (6.1 kg.). Outstanding among the donations
received during the year was a specimen of the widely publicized
Bogou iron, which was presented by President Maurice Yameogo of
the Republic of Upper Volta.
4t4 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

Science and Technology

In the division of physical sciences an outstanding accession was
the gift from Vassar College of the large telescope built in 1863, by
Henry Fitz, one of America’s famous telescope makers, and used by
Maria Mitchell at Vassar. Preston Bassett lent an 8-sided revolving
mirror used by Albert Michelson in his famous determination of the
velocity of light in 1924. A Collins helium cryostat, from Loyola
University of New Orleans and Arthur D. Little, Inc., and an earlier
Collins cryogenic expansion machine, from Samuel C. Collins, are
basic artifacts in the recent development of commercially available
low-temperature apparatus.

In the section of chemistry, outstanding accessions relating to the
element fluorine were a replica of the platinum apparatus for elec-
trolysis and distillation used by Henry Moissan in his epochal isola-
tion of fluorine (1886), and a commerical fluorine cell made by the
Harshaw Company in 1942-43 and given to us by the company. ‘The
Moissan apparatus was fabricated through the courtesy of the Baker
Platinum Division of Engelhard Industries, Inc.

The collection of adding and calculating machines in the section of
mathematics was notably enriched by the gift of 76 specimens from
the Victor Comptometer Corportion. The gift includes several fa-
mous historical machines, such as the Schilt adding machine of 1851,
the oldest European key-driven machine; a Bollee direct-multiplica-
tion machine, one of only three such machines made by Louis Bollee
between 1888 and 1892; and the famous Scheutz difference engine of
1853, the first complete difference engine ever built. A replica of
Charles Babbage’s difference engine was donated by the International
Business Machines Corporation.

Among the most outstanding accessions in the section of light ma-
chinery and horology was a pocket watch made by Henry and James F.
Pitkin of East Hartford, Conn., in about 1838. This specimen is an
example of the first American attempt at watchmaking by machines.
Other significant acquisitions by this section were a splendid example
of a French skeleton clock of the late 18th century and a combination
lock patented in 1841 by Dr. Solomon Andrews, an American inventor.

The section of tools acquired the J. R. Brown linear dividing ma-
chine of 1859 from the Brown and Sharpe Company, which was a
milestone in the history of measurement in American manufacturing.
A. fully operative reproduction of the gun-stocking lathe developed
by Thomas Blanchard in 1820-22 was also received. This pioneer
machine, the original of which is in the Springfield Armory in Spring-
field, Mass., represents the beginning of American mass production
by machine tools. <A rare 19th-century Holtzapftel ornamental turn-
ACCESSIONS 45

Magneto-electric generator made _ in
1832 or 1833, representing first use of
a commutator, invented by A. M. Am-
pere, for production of direct current.
Cam on the vertical shaft caused con-
tact to be made on the crossed strips of
copper first in one direction, then in the
other.
46 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

ing lathe was acquired with a very comprehensive collection of acces-
sories. Edward Johansson, Royal Swedish Consul at Detroit, donated
a set of Johansson gauge blocks for the hall. The adoption of the
system of gauges, invented in the late 19th century by his father,
C. E. Johansson, revolutionized mass production by making it possible
to achieve universal interchangeability of machine parts. This par-
ticular set was the first to be produced in stainless steel and was made
especially to be given to the inventor, on his 71st birthday in 1933.
The presentation was made in a formal ceremony in the hall of tools
on March 13 by the Royal Swedish Ambassador, His Excellency
Hubert de Besch.

Among the outstanding models received by the division of trans-
portation, were a Pacific Coast lumber steamer, a 4-masted barkentine,
and the schooner “ly of 1812. A model of the new class of fast
freight steamers, the American Chailenger, 1962 record holder for
the North Atlantic crossing by a freighter, was received from the
United States Lines as a gift.

The oldest scale model of an American-built ship, His Majesty’s
44-oun ship America, built at Portsmouth, N.H., in 174647, was
received as a 3-year loan from the trustees of the Portsmouth Athe-
naeum, Portsmouth, N.H., on a special agreement. The model will be
repaired and exhibited by the marine section and, after a year, trans-
ferred to the division of naval history for a 2-year exhibition period.

Three early railway signals (1880-1905) were donated by ‘Thomas
T. Taber to the section of land transportation. The vehicle collection
was enriched by several important additions. The Mack Bulldog
truck (1950) is the first commercial motor vehicle to be added to the
collection and was donated by Victor Ottilio & Sons. <A fine Rock-
away (1860) was the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Flemer, Jr. A
Hack Passenger Wagon (1880), more commonly called a mud wagon,
was also added to the carriage collection.

The largest object accessioned in the division of electricity was an
85-ton alternating-current generator from the Adams station at
Niagara Falls, donated jointly by Niagara-Mohawk Power Corp.
and Westinghouse Electric Corp. It is this alternator that maugu-
rated in 1895 the modern era of central stations distributing electrical
power over large areas. A somewhat smaller, but very important,
magneto generator was received from the University of Virginia. It
was made by Hippolyte Pixii in 1832 or 1838, and represents the first
use of a commutator for the production of direct current. Only two
other machines like this are known to exist in the world. <A third
generator, by Charles Wheatstone, was obtained on indefinite loan
from King’s College, University of London. It is one of the first
ACCESSIONS AT

examples of a self-excited dynamo, a principle that was discovered
coincidentally by Wheatstone in England and Werner Siemens in
Germany in 1866. Excellent replicas of four alternating current
motors representing the pioneer work of Galileo Ferraris in 1885 were
given to the museum by the Associazione Elettrotecnica ed Elettronica
Italiana and Istituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale Galileo Ferraris of
Turin.

Among the major accessions during the past year in the division
of medical sciences were a collection of tools and research apparatus
used in a late 19th-century microbiology and biochemistry laboratory,
donated by the University of Michigan, and the 1953 hydraulic tur-
bine contra-angle handpiece with accessories and test model for dental
drilling, from the National Bureau of Standards. Also acquired were
the office material, dental instruments, and personal memorabilia of
Dr. Charles E. Kells as a gift from his daughter, Mrs. J. O. Pierson,
through the School of Medicine of Tulane University. ‘To the phar-
maceutical collection, an ancient Egyptian mortar and pestle, weights,
and amulets were added.

Arts and Manufactures

Mr. Ralph E. Becker presented to the division of textiles a compre-
hensive collection of silk Jacquard-woven pictures. These interesting
examples of an unusual weaving art date from 1867 through the 1930's.
The wide variety of subjects include pictures of Columbus sighting
America, Betsy Ross stitching the flag, and facsimiles of the signa-
tures of the Declaration of Independence. An excellent collection of
American needlework was presented by Dr. Margaret R. Sandels. One
of the embroidered pictures, Z’he Sea Beast, of Mrs. 'Theodore Roose-
velt, Jr., a noted needlewoman, was given by Mr. and Mrs. Sidney
dela Rue. A colorful 18th-century floral border by the distinguished
French designer, Philippe de Lasalle, was added to the brocade
collection.

Mrs. Clara W. Berwick supplemented her previous gifts to the divi-
sion of ceramics and glass by 74 pieces of rare early American glass
and 22 European and Oriental ivories. Robert H. McCauley pre-
sented 65 pieces of Liverpool-type transfer-printed earthenware, in-
cluding a number of rare pitchers decorated with American themes.
Mr. McCauley is the author of the definitive book, Liverpool Trans-
fer Designs on Anglo-American Pottery. Mr. William A. Suther-
land continued to add to the division’s collection of 18th-century
English porcelains. This year she gave 28 fine examples of the produc-
tion of 10 important factories, including a splendid Derby pitcher and
4S U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

a rare Lowestoft coffee pot. Dr. Hans Syz presented by transfer 53
pieces of 18th-century European porcelain. This collection, one of the
finest in America, is especially notable for examples of the important
German factories, such as Meissen, Berlin, Hohst, Frankenthal, Lud-
wigsburg, and of the extremely rare Viennese porcelain of the DuPa-
quier period.

Liverpool pitcher, ca. 1805, with full-length transfer print of Thomas
Jefferson. From Robert H. McCauley collection.

The most important accession received in the division of graphic
arts was a bequest of 243 Currier & Ives lithographs of sporting and
western subjects from the Adele S. Colgate Estate. This gift greatly
enhances the standing of the Museum’s collection of Currier & Ives
prints. The important gift of Mr. Erich Cohn of 20 drawings and
etchings by the German expressionist artists, Paul Kleinschmidt and
Ludwig Meidner, records a part of what was probably the strongest
group contribution to printmaking in this century. The Society of
Washington Printmakers donated, through its President, M1. Prentiss
Taylor, the intaglo print, Zmage 7/17, by Lois Fine; the woodeut Zhe
Valley, by Isabella Walker; and the lithograph, Nova Scotia, by Louis
Lozowick.

The section of photography acquired a number of historically note-
worthy specimens of photographs and equipment. Lucien G. Bull of
Paris presented a large group of material related to the early history
ACCESSIONS 49

of high-speed photography, consisting of original negatives, prints and
an electromechanical timing device. Ansco, Binghampton, N.Y., pre-
sented a model of a photographic wagon of the type used by Mathew
Brady during the Civil War. Nikon, Inc., presented a “Nikonos” 3
mm. underwater camera, with watertight lens and body, for use under
water without a protective housing. The New York Daily Mirror
donated a lightweight Zeiss Ikon, Ernemann plate camera, originally
purchased in the 1930’s by William Randolph Hearst to replace the
bulkier cameras used by his newspapers, and another specially designed
camera intended to take pictures from a concealed position.

The division of manufactures and heavy industries continued to
collect for the various halls planned for the Museum of History and
Technology. New York University presented to the section of nuclear
energy the first subcritical reactor to be installed in a teaching institu-
tion. It was improvised from two tons of fuel lent by the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission and installed in a pickle barrel, and it enabled the
university to secure at a cost of $1,500 a teaching research facility
which might otherwise have been unattainable.

Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company presented a model of an
electric weld pipe mill for the hall of iron and steel. A malleable-iron
air furnace was given by Erie Malleable Iron Co.; and some Roman
nails from the Inchtuthil excavation in Scotland came from Colvilles,
Ltd., of Glasgow.

The section of petroleum received further gifts as a result of the
excellent work of the American Petroleum Institute’s subcommittee.
Among these were: An animated model of a modern sea-going drilling
installation from Kerr-McGee Oil Industries, Inc.; three models of
drilling rigs from the Lee C. Moore Corp.; and an interesting survey
model of the Velma field from Skelly Oil Co.

The division of agriculture and forest products has been princi-
pally concerned with obtaining materials for the hall of forest prod-
ucts. The Forest Products Laboratory, Department of Agriculture,
Madison, Wis., gave a swellograph—a device that measures swelling
changes in wood which has a finished surface. Larus and Brother
Co., Inc., reproduced a tobacco hogshead like those used 125 to 150
years ago. Permali, Inc., contributed samples of machined parts
for electrical equipment and Fibron Products, Buffalo, N.Y., gave 17
handsome pieces of compressed wood products. To the agricultural
collection has been added catalogs of agricultural implement com-
panies around 1880 belonging to Sylvanus D. Locke, the inventor of
the famous wire binder. Mr. Gordon Dentry donated a 4-tined wooden
fork used by his grandfather and possibly his great-grandfather in
Baltimore County, Md.

50 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964.

Civil History

Several items with Presidential associations received in the divi-
sion of political history include a pair of leather chaps worn by
President Theodore Roosevelt in the Dakota Territory, the gift
of Mr. and Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt; a meerschaum pipe used by
President Ulysses S. Grant in the White House, from the estate
ef George W. Crouch; one of the microphones used by President
Franklin D. Roosevelt during his “fireside chats” to the American
people in the 1930’s and 1940's, the gift of the Columbia Broadcasting
System and WTOP-Radio, Washington, D.C.; a pen used on Jan. 23,
1964, by President Lyndon B. Johnson to sign the bill establishing the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the gift of Sena-
tor Clinton P. Anderson. Important additions to the First Ladies
collection are two dresses worn by Mrs. Grover Cleveland as First
Lady and an evening cape which had belonged to her, gifts of Mr.
and Mrs. Richard F. Cleveland. One of the new dresses, of black
satin and iridescent taffeta, now represents Mrs. Cleveland in the ex-
hibit in the First Ladies hall.

During the year, 303 examples of costume were added to the Ameri-
can costume collection. Outstanding among these additions were a
diamond necklace given by Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Breyer, Jr.; a
diamond and pearl necklace donated by Mrs. Gibson L. Caldwell; a
collection of very fine furs given by Mrs. Herbert A. May; an 18th-
century wedding dress given by Miss Lenora Bessey through Mrs.
Austin H. Clark; a pair of shoe buckles of about 1800 donated by Miss
Gertrude Watts; and a wedding dress of 1858 given by Mrs. Lloyd S.
Smith.

The division of cultural history received the frame and woodwork
of an entire house, the gift of Alexander B. C. Mulholland; built in
Ipswich, Mass., the older portion of this house dates from the late
17th century and the remainder from about 1750. The Honorable
David Bruce presented 18th-century woodwork and paneling from
two rooms from Charleston, S.C., houses. The architecture of Louis
Sullivan is represented in one lot of ornaments from his Chicago
Stock Exchange Building, given by Mr. and Mrs. Leon M. Despres,
and in another lot from Sullivan’s Garrick Building, given by the
Joint Committee on Preservation of the Garrick Building Ornament
aad by the World Book Eneyelopedia. Mr. and Mrs. Fielding Pope
Meigs, Jr., presented 223 miscellaneous pieces of furniture, utensils,
portraits, and other items, all heirlooms of the Meigs family. Other
gifts include 33 rare early maps, a gouache by D. Y. Cameron, a paint-
ACCESSIONS 51

ing by Thomas Wood, and two silver cans by Samuel Edwards, from
Mrs. Francis P. Garvan; an 18th-century account and letter book of
Alexander Smith of Alexandria, from Mrs. Jean M. Dodd; two ma-
hogany side chairs from Mrs. Wellington Powell; and four side chairs
and a Pennsylvania rocking chair from Mrs. George Maurice Morris.
The family of Harry T. Peters donated a poster advertising a travel-
ing menagerie from the Zoological Institute of New York City dated
1835, a rare and early example of its kind.

Drum used in the funeral of President John F. Kennedy, presented by
the Department of Defense.
o2 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

To the division of numismatics was added an original pewter strik-
ing of the noted Castorland token made for the officers of the French
colony established at Carthage, N.Y., 1796, and a rare pattern
half dollar of 1916, both given by Ben Douglas. Other outstanding
additions to the United States series were a $20 goldpiece in high
relief and a $10 goldpiece originally owned by Henry Hering, who
completed the design of these coins in 1907 for Augustus St. Gaudens,
and Mr. Hering’s notes concerning the history of this gold coinage
and the interest in it of President Theodore Roosevelt; these were
the gift of Stack’s of New York. A die used by the J. J. Conway
Co. of Colorado in the striking of a private $5 goldpiece was donated
by Robert Bashlow. Joseph B. Stack gave tintypes of the Bechtler
family, well-known private gold coiners from North Carolina, a da-
guerreotype of John Little Moffat, a leading coimer in San Francisco
during the gold rush, and the notebook of the mint engraver, J. B.
Longacre, concerning the design of the 1856 flying-eagle cent.

An important collection of silver bars, bullet money, and various
forms of media of exchange used in Siam and China was donated by
Mrs. F. C. C. Boyd; Harvey Stack gave the Edith and Jean Jacques
Ture collection of necessity pieces issued in France and the French
colonies during the 1914-26 period. Willis du Pont added 645 coins
struck during the second part of the reign of Catherine II of Russia
and 210 Russian silver and bronze medals. Mrs. Wayte Raymond
gave 1,167 coins of the world struck during the 19th and 20th cen-
turies. Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer Neinken made an important contri-
bution of a specialized collection of checks of United States banks
and a collection of nearly 10,000 items of European paper currencies
and documents of value. The first instance of the use of paper in
coinage, a quarter gulden in cardboard issued in Leyden in
1573 during the seige by the Spaniards, was a gift from Dr. V.
Clain-Stefanelli.

To the division of philately and postal history Baron Takaharu
Mitsui of Tokyo, Japan, donated an outstanding group of early let-
ters and documents pertaining to the private posts of 19th-century
Japan and the early government postal service of that country.
Morrison Waud of Chicago, Ill, gave a large and comprehensive
collection of United States newspaper stamps, proofs, essays, and
forgeries and 669 examples of stamped revenue paper. Mr. and Mrs.
R. O. D. Hopkins donated a collection of essays and die proofs of
the stamps of China and placed additional material of that nature
on loan. <A large specialized collection of stamps of South Africa
was given by Dr. O. L. Harvey. Dr. James Matejka donated early
airmail stamps of Syria and a rare airmail stamp of France. Harry
L. Lindquist donated a large number of United States and foreign
ACCESSIONS 58

Model of Robert Fulton’s 26-gun Steam Battery (1814), the first steam
man-of-war.
54 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

covers, many of which bear special postal markings and commemo-
rative stamps. Charles H. Wuerz, Jr., continued to contribute
stamps of Siam in an effort to complete that section of the National
Postage Stamp collection.

Armed Forces History

A fine example of a Gatling gun was presented by the Armed
Forces of Honduras. Mrs. George C. Marshall presented several uni-
forms worn by General of the Army George C. Marshall during
World War II. The division of naval history made significant addi-
tions to the national collection of historic warship models while pro-
jecting further units required to complete the hall of armed forces
history. Particularly notable was a rigged model of Robert Fulton’s
Steam Battery, the world’s first steam man-o-war, which was built
by Adam and Noah Brown in 1814 for the defense of New York.
Plans for this 26-gun blockship were provided by Howard I.
Chapelle who in 1961 discovered a contemporary draught of the
Steam Battery in the Danish Royal Archives at Copenhagen. By
happy coincidence, the division of naval history also received an origi-
nal Fulton draught of the armored torpedo boat J/ute, presented by
the family of George F. Brown, descendants of her versatile builders,
the Brown brothers of New York. ‘The emergence of the steam navy
was further represented with the completion of a superb model of
the side-wheel steamer Powhatan which served with Commodore
Perry in the opening of trade with Japan.

Through the generosity of the U. S. Coast Guard, the division of
naval history received a fully-equipped beach cart of the type used
by the Life Saving Service for offshore rescue, a set of range lights
from Alaska, and an oil painting by Hunter Wood of the topmast
schooner Massachusetts, first cutter commissioned by the early Reve-
nue Marine.

A patent model of the revolutionary K—1 firing device, the heart
of the antenna mine employed in the North Sea mine barrage during
World War I, was presented by Mrs. Ralph C. Brown, widow of its
eifted inventor. Vivid memories of the battle of Midway were evoked
by the bullet-torn flight jacket and combat decorations donated by
George H. Gay, sole survivor of Torpedo Squadron 8.

Among the more important objects acquired by the section of under-
water exploration during the year are ship’s fittings from a wreck
site in Bermuda believed to date from the 1560’s. These include a bar
shot, several single blocks, two parrels, small and medium-sized dead-
eyes, and a large collection of ceramic sherds some of which will yield
nearly complete vessels when reconstructed.
Care of Collections

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1964

Accessions - Trans- Lent for
(transac- ferred to study to
tions) Exchanged other Gov- investigators
1964 Received on with other ernment and other Specimens
Departments (new) loan institutions agencies institutions identified
ANIME ATRO}ONONOBY, 5 6 o 6 6 123 3 504 0 473 256, 100
HO OLO Leas fo lke kw) ee 591 4,203 3,380 198 29,249 40,774
JDIMIOWMONOAY.5 5 6 6 6 6 381 0 3,488 1 D0, (a5) 0
SOLEMN Nem teas! as. ge, ius 378 4,047 16, 807 0 29, 226 17, 843
IPAIAOIONOIOAY 6 6 o 6 6 ¢ 149 2,787 2,619 0 9, 733 31, 562
Mineral Sciences... . 329 1 1, 589 140 717 92
Science and Technology . 291 2 13 1 ad 0
Arts and Manufactures . 203 2 0 0 34 917
(Citvilll Iason s G5 6 6 573 a2 0) 0) IOs AH, isis
Armed Forces History. . 119 IG 4 0 91 315
MOTE re yeti ess ce ay ey iil, Aa¥vb We, Beth — B40) 1 IGS B45 BE}
Anthropology

The custodial and other departmental activities concerned with
maintenance and preservation of collections are still hampered by
construction work, but improvement over the preceding year can be
noted in several particulars. In the division of archeology, all stor-
age units from the third floor corridors have been moved to permanent
quarters on the fourth floor; the special air-conditioned textile room
at the east end of the attic has been occupied; metal shelving for
heavy stone objects has been installed behind the exhibits area in
hall 21; and much useful space for storage of drawers, trays, and
pasteboard boxes has been gained by partial flooring over the skyhght
space. White paint on the walls and added lighting fixtures have
very greatly improved working facilities in the division’s attic space.

In the division of ethnology, the movement of North American
Indian collections into the north attic has been almost completed; and
the arrival of a supply of storage cases has made possible a significant
improvement in the previously crowded conditions here. The re-
arrangement of the African and Asian collections on the fifth floor of
the east wing continued; special attention was given items requiring
protection. A temporary workshop for cleaning and restoration of
objects needed for exhibits was set up in the attic, and a crew of col-
lege students worked on a contract basis under technical supervision of
Mr. Charles Olin of the Conservation Laboratory. Continuation of
this successful enterprise is anticipated.

55
56 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

In the division of physical anthropology, a double move of the brain
collection and the Aleutian and Kodiak Island materials, was occa-
sioned by preparation for renovation of the present quarters of the
division.

The repair and restoration of damaged anthropological specimens,
including newly received objects and others from older collections
continued to occupy the time of exhibits specialist A. J. Andrews; ap-
proximately 200 archeological, ethnological, and skeletal items were
treated in his laboratory. As in previous years, several tasks were
done for other units in the Smithsonian Institution, and technical in-
formation on preservation and conservation methods was suppled
to individuals outside the agency. Scientific illustrator George R.
Lewis completed 465 stipple- and 87 line-drawings, 25 maps and
charts, 2 signs and labels, 1 color and 6 detailed pencil drawings, most
of which will be included in archeological and ethnological manu-
scripts intended for publication.

Zoology

The rapid growth of the collections, the necessary disruptions of
normal routine procedures by the building construction program, and
the anticipated move to new quarters combined to create unusually
dificult problems in caring for the zoological collections.

In the division of mammals, good progress was made by museum
aide B. T. Lovinggood in rearranging the alcoholic collections, and
about two-thirds of this material is now properly organized; newly
accessioned material was integrated as it was received. The card-
index system was reorganized and brought up to date. The renova-
tion of the west attic was completed and the skeleton collection that
had been evacuated from that area in the previous year was returned ;
its final arrangement cannot be made until the part of the attic area
now occupied by other divisions is made available.

In the division of birds, museum specialist Theodore S. Bober has
had major responsibility for the care of the collections. With his
assistance, Dr. George E. Watson planned for the installation of 400
new cases in the skin and skeleton collection. Under the direction
of the latter, summer intern David A. Bratley rearranged the entire
library collection, rare folio volumes and field catalogs now being
stored in locked cabinets. Dr. R. L. Zusi supervised arrangements
for the installation of equipment in the alcoholic storage room and
has developed plans for rearranging the anatomical collections. A
geographic punch-card file of species needed for the skeleton and
alcoholic collections is in preparation, and lists of desiderata will be
prepared for field parties in various parts of the world. Research
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 57

associate Alexander Wetmore, and Dr. Lester L. Short, Jr., John W.
Aldrich, and Mrs. Roxie Laybourne of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service have generously provided identifications and information to
the division of birds. Dr. Short assumed major responsibility for the
care of the collection of North American birds.

In the division of reptiles and amphibians, museum aide Dorsey
Williams completed an inventory of the entire collection of reptiles
and amphibians. Most of the specimens misplaced in previous years
have been located and properly filed, recent acquisitions have all been
cataloged, and only a limited number of specimens remain to be
identified.

With the assistance of a temporary aide in the division of fishes,
about 50 percent of the glass jars in the alcohol storage area were ex-
amined and the alcohol content replaced or altered to proper level
and strength. This project will be continued and should be accele-
rated by the addition of another aide in the division. About 47 new
storage tanks were acquired, replacing about twice as many crocks.
This project is progressing slowly; there remain 132 crocks from
which the loss of alcohol endangers the specimens stored in them. A
new system of cataloging collections, involving 3 x 5’’ cards, has been
devised and will be operational by July 1964.

Critical shortage of space in the existing alcohol stack in the divi-
sion of marine invertebrates has resulted from the acquisition of large
collections from the Antarctic and from the Atlantic coast, and from
the return of large segments of collections which had been sent to spe-
cialists for identification. These collections have necessitated the
use of temporary storage in other divisions and at the Sorting Center.
Dry collections, now stored in a number of areas in the Natural His-
tory Museum, were almost completely reorganized for moving them
into the west wing. The worm groups were rearranged and put in
proper order, collections of stomatopods were expanded and reorga-
nized, and nondecapod crustacean types were segregated and reshelved
systematically. Museum specialist Henry B. Roberts, who bears pri-
mary responsibility for the organization of the move of the collections,
spent considerable time in designing and planning new cataloging
procedures. Mrs. Emily Mandelbaum, museum technician, made
great progress in the cataloging of the polychaete collection and spent
considerable time in rearranging general collections. Miss Maureen
Downey, museum technician, continued her work on the echinoderm
collection and arranged publications, manuscripts, and other docu-
ments in preparation for the move of the division. Museum techni-
cian Roland Brown assisted in the movement of collections in the
alcohol stacks and processed incoming collections; and museum tech-
nician T. P. Lowe completed the organization of the coral collections

744-993-645
58 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

and of the stony hydroids. Much progress was made in examining
the alcoholic collections for state of preservation and transferring
specimens from the older ground-glass sealed bottles to clamp-top,
rubber sealed jars. Summer intern James Casey worked principally
on the divisional library, bringing the filing of separates and their
card indexing up to date. Summer intern Richard Laub arranged
the Tertiary fossil corals, a collection that had never been organized.

With the addition of new quarter-unit cases in the division of mol-
lusks, the storage facilities for the reference collection is adequate,
and progress has been made in distributing the previously crowded
portions of the collection in the new cases. A rearrangement of cer-
tain families that have been sorted on a geographical basis to a sys-
tematic one was 2lso initiated. The helminthological collection, both
slides and alcoholic specimens, in the care of the Beltsville Parasitologi-
cal Laboratory, is in excellent condition.

Entomology

In the division of Coleoptera, with the aid of a National Science
Foundation grant, several thousand specimens of the scarab genus
Atsenius were mounted. labeled, and placed in museum drawers, and
7,000 specimens of Neotropical water beetles were prepared for critical
study and placed in standard museum drawers. An additional 9,500
specimens of water beetles are on hand and preparation of them is
continuing.

David R. Rentz, while serving as a summer intern, incorporated
certain orthopterous insects, accumulated over a period of many years,
with the main series of our determined collection. This major proj-
ect required the sorting of 146,000 specimens and arranging them in
their proper places under appropriate names. This part of the col-
lection now occupies 400 drawers in 19 standard cases.

Marked improvement in the collection of Neuroptera, Trichoptera,
and allied groups occurred again this year with the addition of more
than 20,000 specimens. Among these were 291 species, 36 genera, and
one family not previously represented in the national collection.

This year emphasis has been placed on reorganization and rehabili-
tation in the Hemiptera collection. Mrs. Florence A. Ruhoff has
heen instrumental in accomplishing this task. The major heter-
opterous families Lygaeidae, Miridae, Reduviidae and Coreidae, as
well as most of the small families, were rearranged and labeled to
conform to a uniform system now in use, and in the process numerous
small lots of specimens were incorporated. The rearranged part of
the collection now occupies 779 standard drawers. Research associate
Carl J, Drake actively continued improvement of the Drake collection
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 59

by a program of exchange and cooperative publication with other
workers. By this means he acquired numerous types and specimens
of other species not previously represented in the national collection.

Research associate C. F. W. Muesebeck continued to bring improve-
ment and growth to the collection of braconid wasps by an active
program of research and by his cooperative work with students in
other institutions.

In the division of Lepidoptera the condition of the collection con-
tinued to improve during the year. Mrs. Joan Ledbetter, museum
aide, completed labeling and transferring to standard museum draw-
ers the following three collections: Ernest Shoemaker collection, 4,100
specimens; J. C. Hopfinger collection, 5,500 specimens; Graham Heid
collection, 1,500 specimens. In addition, Mrs. Ledbetter spread and
labeled 1,100 specimens obtained on recent expeditions. More than
1,600 Microlepidoptera from Rapa, mostly Tortricidae, have been pre-
pared, labeled and placed in the collection. The Neotropical Ypono-
meutidae were rearranged and properly labeled in accordance with
contemporary systems, and the Western Hemisphere Stenomidae were
appreciably augmented by the identification and addition of many
species not previously represented.

Summer intern Jay C. Shaffer amalgamated three separate collec-
tions of pyraloid moths totaling 11,500 specimens into a single, well-
organized unit, making available heretofore nearly maccessible data.

Restoration and rehousing of the oldest holdings of Arachnida and
Myriapoda continued. Many old specimens have been restored by the
use of trisodium phosphate, rebottled and relabeled. More than
306,000 ticks were restored during the past year by museum aide
Mrs. Sophie Lutterlough, using this procedure, and the treatment of
the tick collection is continuing. Many old or damaged microscopic
preparations have been disassembled and remounted.

During the year Mrs. Mary Quigley mounted 5,079 miscellaneous
insects and summer intern Mrs. Kathleen Rentz prepared 3,283 mis-
cellaneous insects, all of which were incorporated in the collection.

Botany

The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and
the processing of new material are summarized in the following table:

1962-638 1963-64

Specimens and photographs mounted ... . 30, 441 21, 734
Specimens repaired .. . . OW Op ceceep 13, 925 9, 744
Specimens stamped and recor dle al Petar neck 34, 692 15, 727

Specimens incorporated in herbarium or addled i
the permanent collections. ........ 20, 424 44, 845
60 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

There are now 59,732 types in the segregated type herbarium, in-
cluding 41,719 phanerogams, 10,133 grasses, 3,484 ferns, and 4,396
cryptogams. ‘This is an increase of 430 types during the year.

Paleobiology

In the division of paleobotany museum technician James P.
Ferrigno, under the supervision of associate curator Francis M.
Hueber, segregated approximately 48 percent of the primary and
secondary type specimens from the general] paleobotanical collections.
The types are being checked for accuracy of labeling by comparing
them with original illustrations and descriptions, and are being
arranged alphabetically under the heading used in their original pub-
lication. After completion of segregation, the individual groups of
specimens will be arranged in chronological order by publication, thus
eliminating the problems raised by changes in taxonomic classification
of particular species, and also by changes of interpretation of geologic
age of the specimens.

Curatorial work in the invertebrate paleontology collections cen-
tered on the carding of type specimens. Much progress was made
in building a card file of all types as an addition to the standard cata-
loging procedures now in use. The cards serve as a ready reference
for specimen control and as the primary source of data for a pub-
lished catalog, the first section of which is in the final stage of
preparation. The conodont and Paleozoic nautiloid collections are
carded and the manuscript preparation is undergoing final typing;
the blastoid, cystoid, and echinoid type collections are carded and
waiting for the recording of the crinoids prior to publication.

Dr. P. M. Kier completed the integration of the U.S. Geological
Survey collection of fossil echinoids with the museum collection, mak-
ing for the first time a usable biologically arranged collection of all
specimens available at the museum.

The arrival of some new cases has enabled storage of part of the
extensive stratigraphically arranged reference collections. Museum
specialist Frederick Collier and museum technician Lorenzo Ford
checked the geographic arrangement and placed more than 250
quarter-unit cases of drawers containing tens of thousands of speci-
mens. These collections are now readily available for the first time
since the move to the east wing storage area where they had been
stacked. ;

Dr. Richard Cifelli developed a significant advance in the prepara-
tion and sorting of Foraminifera from general plankton collections.
Concentrations of the calcitic skeletal parts of the planktonics are
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 61

rapidly achieved by ignition: the sample is washed with distilled water
and dried, it is then burned at a temperature of 500° C. to remove all
organic matter, leaving foraminiferal tests unaltered. Because the
average plankton sample consists of a large variety of organisms
with high protoplasm-skeletal ratios, the work of separating the
Foraminifera from the mass with needles has been a tedious and time-
consuming task. With this new technique, the number of samples
handled is greatly mcreased over a given time.

In vertebrate paleontology the recent acquisition of storage cases
to completely utilize the space provided on the first floor of the east
wing now permits better distribution and organization of the collec-
tions and, as planned, provides for a normal increase in the collections
for several years. Transfer to this storage area of the large residue
of fossil fish and the smaller collections of fossil birds, formerly on
the steel range of the old storage area, has freed the latter for the
rapidly expanding collections of fossil marine mammals and has also
permitted better care of the large series of titanothere skulls, formerly
on display but now stored in temporary, inadequate racks on the
ground floor of the old area.

Laboratory technician removing plankton sample after ignition in muf-
fle furnace located in foraminiferal laboratory. Sample contains con-
centrate of shelled organisms (mostly Foraminifera, Pteropoda, some
Radiolaria) mixed with fine ash.
62 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

The construction of covered racks with sliding doors over the
quarter-unit cases of each third double row, now two-fifths completed,
provides adequately protected space for storage of most of the larger
dinosaur bones, fish slabs, and plaques. An important beginning was
aiso made in similarly protecting the numerous, bulky remains of the
larger mammals, such as the proboscideans, bison, ground sloths, and
titanotheres.

Mineral Sciences

During the year both the polished and thin-section collections of
meteorites were photographed, and the task of assembling this mate-
rial into albums was started. Because the meteorite collection previ-
ously had been stored in a non-air-conditioned area, protecting the
specimens against corrosion due to humidity had always been a con-
stant problem. The collection now is housed in a room with con-
trolled 25 percent relative humidity and the polished specimens are
much more stable. Some of the specimens most susceptible to cor-
rosion have been sectioned and mounted in plastic. Others which
proved difficult to preserve are housed in cabinets in which electric
lights are burned continuously to further reduce the humidity.

Science and Technology

Considerable staff time in the division of physical sciences has
been devoted to planning the move into the reference area in the new
museum. Details of the actual move were handled by scientific instru-
ment repairer C. KE. Dennison. Because of disruption of the old lab-
oratory and incomplete equipment in the new one, most complex res-
toration work has been suspended. Scientific instrument repairer
C. G. Smith restored a beautiful antique quadrant, and experimented
on new types of lacquer for preserving indefinitely the surface of re-
stored instruments.

In the division of mechanical and civil engineering the transfer
of offices and collections permitted a much more rational scheme of
specimen storage; special shelving has made the reference collections
more readily accessible for the staff as well as for study by interested
visitors. Every effort was directed also to the restoration of speci-
mens scheduled for exhibition, particularly in the section of tools and
of light machinery and horology. The National Air Museum facility
at Silver Hill completed the restoration of the Pelton-Riedler pump-
ing engine, and that of the large American diesel engine.

With the movement of the collections into the new building, the
division of electricity now has a true reference area where the objects
are easily available. Most of the items chosen for exhibition have
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 63

Technical laboratory, division of civil and mechanical engineering, pro-
vides facilities for repair and restoration of specimens such as antique
machine tools and steam engines.

been renovated. Electronic equipment repairer Roy V. LaRoche
made considerable progress in restoring television sets to operating
condition, and museum technician Elhot Sivowitch completed the
arduous task of cataloging the radio tubes from the Franklin Wingard
collection.

In the division of medical sciences, museum technicians George
Ford and Everett Jackson aided in the transfer of the medical, dental,
and pharmaceutical collections and fixtures to the new museum. The
operation was completed without a single instance of breakage or
damage to the collections which are composed largely of fragile mate-
rial and drug containers. In the division of transporation, three
carriage restorations, the Bayly gig, Saltonstall buggy, and the Still-
man landau, were completed.

Arts and Manufactures

The reference collections of the division of agriculture and forest
products have been moved to the new museum. ‘The entire reference
64 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964,

collection has been consolidated, and the new storage units used for
patent models afford better accessibility and added protection.

In the division of graphic arts, the Franklin press was dismantled,
thoroughly cleaned, and reassembled preparatory to being placed on
exhibition. The same procedure was followed with the Gordon-type
job press, the linotype machines of 1884 and of 1920, the monotype
caster and keyboard, and the Bruce typecasting machine. Reorgani-
zation of the hand-process prints continued; several hundred prints
were covered with acetate sheets and about two hundred prints were
matted. Museum technician Elhott Hawkins examined and reor-
ganized the illustrations file and established a new motion picture sec-
tion. Associate curator Eugene Ostroff, continued his long-range
program of reviewing the entire collection. Special attention was
given to the editing and preservation of photographs, the entire col-
lection having been brought together in the air-conditioned storage
facilities of the new offices.

Removal of the collections of manufactures and heavy industries
from the Arts and Industries building and their rearrangement in
the new museum was accomplished by museum technicians John C.
Carter and Francis Gadson with a minimum of interruption to cur-
rent work. Mr. Gadson skillfully restored and repaired items in the
collections of this and other divisions of the department, while Mr.
Carter maintained effective control over the material being assembled
for five halls of greatly diverse character.

The division of textiles collections of more than 40,000 cataloged
items were moved to their new location in the new museum, under
the supervision of museum technician Everett Parker.

During this fiscal year, 205 items from the textile collections were
successfully cleaned in the textile laboratory by Miss Maureen Collins.
This work has been confined to the use of proved methods for cleaning
undyed items of cotton and linen that are of a size that can be safely
handled in the limited space available. Both nonionic detergent and
a neutral soap have been used successfully with distilled water. Vari-
ous methods of hand blocking have been perfected for finishing these
textiles; a heated iron is never used. For articles of this limited size,
the results have been excellent and the smoothed end product is far
superior to the most carefully ironed one and with less chance of dam-
age from the drying effects of the heated iron. The articles included
lace, needlework, crochet, damask, and plain fabric in caps, edgings,
handkerchiefs, bodices, sleeves, pockets, and so forth. The work of
the textile laboratory included several items received from other
divisions.

Screening is necessary to properly support fragile fabrics in the
water solutions. The saran screening formerly used has been re-
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 65

| PHOTOGRAPHY
RAPRY |

nnn!

Coverlet weaving is demonstrated in special exhibition hall to Wash-
ington, D.C., youth group.

placed by fiberglass screening, which, it was found, is more pliable,
does not ravel, and is easier to handle than the saran. For one piece
of Valenciennes edging so badly deteriorated that the screening did
not offer sufficient support, the lace was stitched between layers of
crepeline and then between layers of screening. The cleaning pro-
cedure could then be followed as usual. The lace having been cleaned,

the screening was removed and the crepeline left for ease in future
handling.

Civil History

Museum technician Richard Muzzrole cleaned, renumbered, and
recataloged the museum’s large collection of whaling irons, correlating
specimens with data published in the descriptive catalog of the col-
lections sent from the United States to the International Fisheries
Exhibition in London in 1885. This well-documented collection has
thus been revived to its original usefulness after being moribund for
80 years. Museum technician Jay Scott Odell carried on a continuing
conservation program for the musical instrument collection in the new
musical instruments laboratory, where installation of equipment has
66 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

commenced. Expert consultants called in to advise on restoration
included Donald Warnock of Cambridge, Mass., for plucked strings;
Charles Fisk of Gloucester, Mass., for pipe organs; and Robert Shel-
don of Arlington, Va., for brass instruments.

The division of cultural history has been participating in the experi-
mental use of the Termatrex system of data retrieval as applied to
museum objects. The experiment, undertaken by means of an anony-
mous private foundation grant to the Henry Francis du Pont Winter-
thur Museum, involved several participating institutions. It was in-
augurated with an opening seminar at the Winterthur Museum,
attended by curator C. Malcolm Watkins, who read a paper “Problems
in Cataloguing Museum Objects.” The goals of this experiment are
simplified and controlled recording of the collections, efficient locating
of objects, and a vaster capability in extracting data concerning the
collections.

The move of the civil history collections from the Arts and Indus-
tries building was carried out successfully and all the items in scat-
tered and unsatisfactory storage areas were brought together in a more
efficient, centralized area in the new museum. ‘The details of the move
of the First Ladies materials are typical of the care and effort that
was put into the movement of other materials. The most difficult task
was moving the mannequins. Special carrying cases were planned
and executed by associate curator Margaret B. Klapthor and the ex-
hibits staff so that the mannequins could be moved without removing
the dresses. The ingenious cases permitted the dressed mannequin to
be lifted from the old exhibit case directly to the carrying case where
it was carefully screwed to the bottom, and braced at the waist. The
loaded case was then rolled to the loading platform, placed on a truck,
and brought to the new building, where it was unloaded directly into
the exhibition case. Moving the 38 mannequins into the new hall,
which took four people about ten days, was accomplished without any
damage to either the dresses or the mannequins.

Tests were conducted by the division of numismatics in cooperation
with the Bureau of Standards in order to determine metallurgical de-
tails in connection with a platinum 50-cent piece dated 1814, a Russian
3-rouble piece, and two $5 gold pieces issued in 1849 by the Massachu-
setts and California Gold Company. X-ray radiographic and diffrac-
tion techniques were used, and the experiments were continued in the
spectrochemical analysis section of the Bureau of Standards.

Through the cooperation of the Naval Research Laboratory, it was
possible to conduct comparative analyses of an ancient quarter-shekel
in silver, struck during the first year (A.D. 66/67) of the Jewish War
against the Romans, and of a silver shekel struck during the third year
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 67

of the war. The composition of the quarter-shekel was found to be
silver, with 2 to 3 percent copper and approximately 1 percent arsenic,
according to X-ray fluorescence analysis. The shekel was made in-
stead of practically pure silver, with 1 percent copper and no other
elements present. The interpretation of the X-ray diffraction pat-
terns allows some conclusions concerning the manufacture of the
pieces, the quarter-shekel apparently being worked cold, while the
shekel planchet was subject to a long annealing process with very
little, if any, cold work. These analyses are of significance for a better
knowledge of ancient metallurgical and striking techniques, and are
being expanded in our own research laboratory.

Armed Forces History

Extensive progress was made in the restoration, renovation, and re-
arrangement of the collections, and repair of specimens designated for
exhibit in the new museum was completed. Under the direction of
museum specialist Donald E. Kloster, the military reference collec-
tions were moved into the new building.

The Continental gondola Philadelphia was installed on its perma-
nent base, located appropriately adjacent to the halls of ordnance and
underwater exploration. Grapeshot and other small objects were re-
covered from the gunboat’s mud-caked inner bottom during cleaning
operations preparatory to the application of final preservatives. Ex-
hibits specialist Howard P. Hoffman completed an exhaustive survey
of the Philadelphia, preparing detailed plans from which will be con-
structed a rigged model representing this vessel as she appeared at
the battle of Valcour Island. Meanwhile, periodic hygroscopic tests
have been made to insure maintenance of satisfactory humidity condi-
tions in the vicinity of the gunboat.

Museum aides John L. Rawls and Harold W. Ellis continued to or-
ganize by exhibit groups and refurbish specimens and graphic items in
the naval collections pending their installation in the new hall of
armed forces history. Substantial reorganization of the uniform
storage and ship plans archives of the division of naval history was
initiated following movement of the reference collections to new
quarters.

Separation of the underwater collections from those of the division
of naval history was completed, and the new facilities have permit-
ted a more efficient and readily accessible arrangement of the materials.
Preservation of the collection is carried on continuously, the new labo-
ratory permitting a speed-up of these processes. Museum specialist
Alan B. Albright adapted a completely successful routine for the use
68 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964.

of the heavier molecular weights of polyethylene glycol in the preser-
vation of ancient, water-soaked wood, as follows:

After the object has been cleaned and towel-dried, the weight of the specimen
is recorded. At this point, careful measurements of all of the important dimen-
sions are made; to obtain critical measurements when the specimen is of awk-
ward shape and/or precise measurements are difficult, several pins are inserted
deep into the wood and the distance between them is measured. A second
measurement, made when the preservation process is completed, will show any
change. The wood is next submerged in 100 percent ethyl alcohol three or four
times its volume (to prevent evaporation) and left there for at least three days,
after which the wood is dried and reweighed, and the weight recorded. The
above step is repeated several times, using new alcohol, until at least a 15 per-
cent reduction in weight is obtained; a higher percent reduction, if possible, is
desirable. The lowest weight recorded is the base from which wax absorption
is calculated.

Next, a solution of polyethylene glycol 4000 and ethyl alcohol is prepared, in
the ratio of 1:1 by weight, in a container of glass so that the level of the liquid
can easily be seen and recorded. After the solution is thoroughly mixed and
heated to 65°C., the object is placed in it and the container is put in a 65°C.
electric oven. Sometimes it is necessary to submerge the wood with weights;
if so, the weights are placed in an inconspicuous spot, for they often tend to
discolor the wood. As the alcohol in the solution slowly evaporates, the poly-
ethylene glycol content rises and the level of the liquid will show less and less
change. After 20 or 30 days, all the alcohol will have evaporated and the remain-
ing liquid should be 100 percent polyethylene glycol. At this point, several ounces
of the solution are removed and allowed to cool in a shallow dish at room tem-
perature; it should harden within an hour. If it does not, the wax is retested
after a wait of several days. When it tests hard, the process is completed, but as
a safety measure, a further wait of four or five additional days before removing
the wood is advisable. When the object is removed from the solution, it is rinsed
for 2 or 3 seconds in hot water, dried with a paper towel or lint-free cloth, and
weighed. This final weight should represent an increase of at least 20 percent
over the minimum weight recorded earlier. The sample is then placed in a dust-
free area to cool.

Usual precautions against damage from insects, dust, rats, and rust
are taken on a regular schedule.
Investigation and Research

Some of the research projects described below have been undertaken
with the partial support of research grants from such Federal granting
agencies as the National Science Foundation and the Office of Naval
Research. <A detailed listing of these is published in the Report of the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Dr. T. D. Stewart, director of the Museum of Natural History, ac-
companied by exhibits specialist, John C. Widener, went to Mexico
City in mid-December 1963, the former to select examples of prehistoric
filed and inlayed human teeth, and the latter to make moulds thereof.
Mr. Widener will make casts from the moulds for an exhibit in the
planned hall of physical anthropology.

Dr. Stewart, serving as a member of the Committee on Research and
Exploration of the National Geographic Society, inspected the
Wetherill Mesa archeological project in Mesa Verde National Park
in late June, stopping off there on his way back from a second trip to
Mexico City where he attended the 33rd annual meeting of the Ameri-
can Association of Physical Anthropologists.

At various times during the year Dr. I. EK. Wallen, assistant director
for oceanography, visited institutions in Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
New York, Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi,
Louisiana, Texas, California, and Hawaii in connection with the
program of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center. Dr.
Wallen also prepared several short papers dealing with developments
in oceanography and the role of the Sorting Center.

Dr. H. Adair Fehlmann, supervisor of the Smithsonian Oceano-
graphic Sorting Center, participated in Cruise 4B of the R/V Anton
Bruun, of the International Indian Ocean Expedition, from early
November to mid-December. This trip gave him a useful opportunity
to study curatorial procedures on shipboard and to determine the need
for a trained technician to oversee the handling of biological samples
from the time of collection to the time the specimen cargo is consigned
for shipment to the Sorting Center. Thanks to his recommendations,
future collections should come through more intact and with better
records. Dr. Fehlmann also had an opportunity to observe the tech-
niques and equipment used in handling plankton in the Indian Ocean
Biological Laboratory at Ernakulam, South India.

69
70 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Anthropology

Chairman Waldo R. Wedel completed a study of the prehistory and
aboriginal ecology of north-central Colorado in continuation of his
researches on the archeology of the Plains. He also continued his
account of the 1961-62 archeological-paleontological site near Little-
ton, Colo. His study of a prehistoric Wyoming bison kill assumed new
interest in hght of recently determined radiocarbon dates which moved
back some 2,000 years the date for the outstanding series of artifacts
collected at the site.

Archeology.—Curator Clifford Evans and research associate Betty
J. Meggers largely completed a major monograph on two phases in
the prehistoric cultural development of coastal Ecuador. Inclusion
cf 22 radio-carbon dates of shells and charcoal establishes the earlier
phase (Valdivia) at 5150 to 3400 years ago.

Curator Richard B. Woodbury, who joined the division of archeology
December 15, 1963, continued his studies of prehistoric water manage-
ment in arid regions of the southwestern states and in Mexico. In this
connection, he made two field trips to the Tehuacén Valley in southern
Puebla, Mexico, to examine evidences of prehistoric irrigation and
farming techniques. His conclusion that large scale irrigation there
has been carried on for the past 2500 years makes this perhaps the
longest record of irrigation in the New World.

Associate curator Gus Van Beek, in collaboration with Drs. Glen H.
Cole and A. Jamme, completed a preliminary report on an archeo-
logical reconnaissance of Wadi Hadhramaut, South Arabia. Dr. Van
Beek also spent more than a month in an archeological reconnaissance
in Yemen at the invitation of the Yemen government. He discovered
two new paleolithic sites and visited three previously known pre-
Islamic sites.

Museum specialist George Metcalf continued his studies of a large
collection of 11th- and 14th-century archeological artifacts from cen-
tral Nebraska. Radiocarbon dates supplied by the Smithsonian’s car-
bon dating laboratory are adding new significance to the project.
Collaborator C. G. Holland continued to study the prehistory of south-
western Virginia as revealed by data and collections from 161 sites
visited in 1963.

Ttesearch associate Neil M. Judd completed a monograph on archeo-
logical materials from Chaco Canyon, New Mexico. During the sum-
mer of 1963, research associate John M. Campbell carried out an
archeological and ecological survey of the Koyukuk River drainage
in northern Alaska, aided by a grant from the Arctic Institute of
America, and continued preparation of a monograph on Nunamiut
Kiskimo prehistory.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH “all

CHINESE WRITING

El 2

==
Chinese calligraphy is explained in new hall of cultures of Africa and
Asia.

Ethnology.—Curator Saul H. Riesenberg completed a monograph
on the aboriginal political organization of Ponape, Caroline Islands.
In collaboration with Drs. Evans and Meggers, he has underway a
study of the megalithic structures on the Nan Madol, Ponape, the site
of a joint ethnological-archeological field program last year.

Associate curators Gordon Gibson and Eugene Knez were heavily
involved throughout the year in research directed toward completion
of the exhibit hall on the peoples of Asia and Africa. Dr. Gibson
devoted a substantial part of this time to a search of the literature
on Africa in an effort to identify accurately objects selected for exhibi-
tion. Dr. Knez completed most of the exhibit units on Asiatic cultures
in the hall, which opened informally at the end of the year.

Associate curator William Crocker continued work on the Canela
Indians in northeastern Brazil. He spent two weeks with the tribe
in July 1963, and three months early in 1964. At year’s end he was
again living among the Canelas.

Physical Anthropology.—Curator J. Lawrence Angel completed a
manuscript on the anatomy of the hip joint; another on human skele-
tons associated with extinct animals at the Tranquiliity site in Cali-
fornia; and assembled data for a paper on hyperostosis spongiosa to
be included in a volume on paleopathology. He advanced his long-
term program on the anthropology of chronic disease, involving re-
study of students at Jefferson Medical College who had been studied
72 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

several years ago. Another aspect of this program is on aging,
pathology, and mortality among prehistoric and ancient Greeks,
Eskimos, and U.S. Whites. With his technical assistant Donald
Ortner, Dr. Angel worked out a special blank which will permit rapid
coding of data for computer analysis.

Associate curator Lucile E. Hoyme was in England at the beginning
of the year, studying human skeletal collections and visiting labora-
tories of physical anthropology. Particular attention was given to a
series of 19th-century skeletons of known name, age, and sex at St.
Bride’s Church, Fleet Street, London. In December Dr. Hoyme
received a Ph. D. degree from Oxford University, since which time
she has continued her studies of skeletal variation and participated
in the training of visiting scholars. Because of her radiological skills,
she has been able to contribute to study and identification of anthro-
pological and other materials in and outside the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

Visiting investigators.—As in previous years, the collections and
other resources of the department were extensively utilized in further-
ing their researches by many distinguished visitors and scientists,
among whom were the following:

Archeology: Keith Anderson, National Park Service; Jose Juan Arrom,
Michael D. Coe, Yale Univ.; Lewis Binford, Univ, of Chicago; Ripley Bullen,
Florida State Museum; David Chase, Fort Benning Museum; Ray L. Cleveland,
Johns Hopkins Uniy.; Joffre Coe, Musem of Archeology, Univ. of North Carolina ;
Mitchell Dahood, S.J., Pontificial Biblical Institute; Sigfried De Laet, Univ. of
Ghent; Rustem Duyuran, Director of Antiquities, Ankara, Turkey; Robert
Ehrich, Brooklyn Univ.) wee huinrst Wmv California, Los Angeles; Patrick
Gallagher, George Washington Uniy.; Gerard G. Gayot, Gorham State Teachers
College; D. C. Geijskes, Stichting Surinaams Museum; Mrs. Gilliland, Univ. of
Florida; Thor Heyerdahl, Kontiki Museum; Sister Inez Hilger, College of St.
Benedict ; H. Irwin, Harvard Univ. ; Albert Jamme, W. F., The Catholic Univ. of
America; Mr. and Mrs. Louis S. B. Leakey, Coryndon Memorial Museum; Olga
Linares, Peabody Museum; Luis Lumbreras, Universidad de Huamanga, Ayacu-
cho, Peru; Howard A. MacCord, Virgina State Library; Kaoru Omine, Ryukyu
Cultural Properties Protection Commission; Alicia Dussan de Reichel, Universi-
dad de los Andes, Bogota; Mario Sanoja, Universidad de los Andes, Merida,
Venezuela; Carl Schuster Woodstock, N.Y.; Helen Schuster, Univ. of Washing-
ton; P. Schuyler-Miller, Pennsylvania Archeological Society; C. E. Snith, Agri-
culture Research Center, Beltsville; Paul H. Smith, Community Service Ine.,
Yellow Springs, Ohio; James Swauger, Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh; Kazuo
Terada, Univ. of Tokyo; Hareld Tsai, Asia Foundation; A. Douglas Tushing-
ham, Royal Ontario Museum; Howard Winters, Univ. of Virgina; George Wil-
liams, Duke Uniy.; Prescott H. Williams, Austin Theological Seminary ; Henry
Wright, Uniy. of Michigan; Edwin N. Wilmsen, Univ. of Arizona.

Hthnology: Princess Pantip Chumbhot, Swan Pokk Palace, Bangkok; Philip
Dark, Southern Illinois Univ.; William Fagg, British Museum, London; Mari-
anne Forssell, Uppsala, Sweden; Julia Blena Fortin, Directora Nacional
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH We

This Koryo Dynasty (A.D.
lent by Republic of Korea,
and Asia.

744-993—64—_6

918-1392) Buddha, a national art treasure
is featured in new hall of cultures of Africa
74 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

de Antropologia, La Paz, Bolivia; Richard A. Gard, Hong Kong; Shoji
Hamada, Japanese Folkcraft Museum, Tokyo; Seiko Hokama, Ryukyu Museum,
Naha, Okinawa; Kunio Kagayama, Tokyo; H. H. Assrate Kassa, President of the
Ethiopian Senate; Jin Gue Kim, Seoul; Gerd Koch, Museum ftir Volkerkunde,
Berlin; Stela Kramrisch, Univ. of Pennsylvania; Frederica de Laguna, Bryn
Mawr College; Prince Regent Dhani Nivat, National Thai Cultural Commission,
Bangkok; Grga Novak, Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts, Zagreb; Kaoru
Omine, Ryukyu Cultural Properties Protection Committee, Naha, Okinawa;
Prince Tungi, Crown Prince of Tonga; Allen Wardwell, Art Institute of Chicago ;
Lt. General and Mrs. Raymond A. Wheeler, S. E. Asian Mekong River Project ;
Hyum Mok Yoo, Seoul.

Physical Anthropology: John H. Adams, Milton Linthicum, R. O. Peach, and
James EH. Tyler, Jr., Baltimore; Harry Alpert, Univ. of Oregon; Paul T. Baker
and Frank Saul, Pennsylvania State Univ.; B. E. and M. Baldwin, and Jack
Campbell, George Washington Univ.; R. E. Blackwelder, Southern Illinois Univ. ;
Ernesto G. Brion and Conrado Y. Dimatulac, National Bureau of Investigation,
Manila; Naney Cameron, Univ. of Toronto; Clyde Carter, Mary Washington
College; William D. Colley, E. R. Kerley, and Charles J. Stahl, III, Armed Forces
Institute of Patholegy; M Couperus, Loma Linda Univ., California; H. G. Deig-
nan, Lausanne; Josef Biegert, Univ. of Zurich; Sigfried De Laet, Ghent Univ.;
Tilly Edinger, Museum of Comparative Zoology; Robert W. Ebrich, Brooklyn
College; George E. Erikson, Harvard Medical School; Corinne Farrell, Univ. of
Pennsylvania Pathology Department; S. M. Garn, Fels Research Institute;
Santiago Genovés, Univ. of Mexico; C. W. Goff, Hartford; M. 8S. Goldstein and
James E. Hamner, National Institutes of Health; J. Harrington, National Park
Service; C. G. Holland, Charlottesville; G. H. Karplus, Institute of Forensic
Medicine, Jaffa, Israel; Bryon H. Kern, Univ of Pennsylvania; Mansfield Lonie,
National Bureau of Standards; William 8. Laughlin, Univ of Wisconsin; H. A.
MacCord, Richmond; Donald Marshall, U.S. Army; H. J. Mehta, Western Re-
serve Uniy.; Ashley Montagu, Princeton; J. H. Naud, Univ. of Pittsburgh Medi-
cal Center; Georg Neumann, Univ. of Indiana; Russell W. Newman, U.S. Army
Laboratories, Natick; J. D. Niswander, National Institute of Dental Health;
Lawrence Oschinsky, Univ. of Toronto; Sister Puyo, Univ. of St. Louis; Samuel
Rabkin, Winter Park, Fla.; L. R. Setty, Howard Uniy.; Ronald Singer, Univ. of
Chicago; Alan Smith, National Science Foundation; William C. Tobin, Wash-
ington, D.C.; Christy Turner, Univ. of Wisconsin; Antonio J. Waring, Savannah,
Ga.: Dr. Whiteford N. Walensky, Georgetown Univ. Medical School; J. 8.
Weiner, London School of Hygiene; Hsi-mei Yang, Institute of History and
Philology, Taiwan.

Zoology

Chairman Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., studied the freshwater decapod
crustaceans on the island of Dominica, West Indies, as a participant
in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that island.
He has continued his investigations of crayfish; he has made substan-
tial progress on a revision of some of the Mexican and Cuban ostra-
cods; and he completed a manuscript on new entocytherids from
Virginia.

Senior scientist Fenner A. Chace, Jr., completed a study on one
species of shrimp in the northeastern Pacific. He also largely com-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 15

pleted a report on the decapod crustaceans of St. Helena in the South
Atlantic.

Mammals.—Curator David H. Johnson, although responsible for
the general development of exhibits in the newly opened hall of oste-
ology, found time to study the distribution of hares and certain species
of bats in southeastern Asia, and to continue his general survey of
the mammals of that area.

Direction of the field parties collecting specimens of mammals and
their ectoparasites in Iran and southern Africa occupied much of the
time of associate curator Henry W. Setzer; this field program is car-
ried on with the cooperation of the Army Medical Research and
Development Command. Dr. Setzer joined the African party in
September; from late October to mid-December he directed the field
operations in Iran. He worked in the museum collections identifying
mammals of Kgypt and the Sudan collected by a Naval Research Unit.

Associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., continued his mono-
graphic research of the bat genus Artibeus by a study trip to the Uni-
versities of Kansas and New Mexico, and to Texas AGM University.

In newly opened hall of osteology, differences in skeletal structures and

postures of man and manlike apes are related to their specialized ways
of life.
76 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

At the First International Symposium on Cetacean Research he pre-
sented a paper embodying some of his research toward a monograph
on the pigmy sperm whales. From January to March he collected
mammals, especially bats, in the high mountain region of Darién,
Panama, at the boundary with Colombia. Among the many valuable
collections were two species of bats new to Panama, as well as rare
marsupials, shrews, and rodents.

Research associate Robert A. Traub of the University of Maryland
School of Medicine collected vertebrates and their ectoparasites in
Pakistan in continuation of his studies of rickettsial infections.

Birds.—The Pacific Ocean Biological Survey Program, under the
direction of curator Philip S. Humphrey, has increased greatly in
scope since its inception in October 1962. It is chiefly concerned with
the distribution, migrations, and ecology of central Pacific sea birds.
Collaborative relationships have been developed with the U.S. Bureau
of Commercial Fisheries, the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, the State
of Hawaii Division of Fish and Game, and others. Many members
of the field staff in this program are graduate students gathering
data for doctoral dissertations.

The Rockefeller Foundation provided support for a field study en-
abling Dr. Humphrey to work with the Belém Virus Laboratory,
Fundacao Servico Especial de Satide Publica, and the Museu Para-
ense “Emilio Goeldi,” Belém, Brazil. This cooperative field study
deals with the relationship of birds and arthropod-borne virus dis-
eases. Dr. Humphrey continued his studies of plumage succession in
birds and on the distribution, ecology, and classification of Patagonian
and Brazilian birds.

Associate curator George E. Watson completed his dissertation on
the ecology and evolution of passerine birds on the islands of the
Aegean Sea, and received from Yale University a Ph. D. degree in
June. He was on loan to the Office of the Secretary of Defense as
official United States observer on the Chilean-Antarctic Commission
Expedition, 1963-64. His main purpose on the expedition was to
gather specimens and to make photographs for use in preparing an
identification guide to Antarctic birds. He visited Nelson, Robert,
Greenwich, and Deception Islands in the South Shetland group, and
localities on the Antarctic Peninsula and near Anvers Island. The
last two weeks of December were spent in the forested lake region
of Llanquihue Province, Chile, and he collected specimens farther
south, near Punta Arenas and on Navarino Island.

Associate curator Richard L. Zusi, who joined the staff September 3,
1963, undertook research on the collections of the Museum of Zoology,
University of Michigan, in November and consulted with Dr. R. W.
Storer concerning their joint research project on the myology of
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH a7

Structural similarities of birds that are underwater swimmers are com-
pared and explained in this osteology exhibit.

grebes. From January to April, Dr. Zusi was in Dominica as a par-
ticipant in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of
that island.

Professor D. S. Rabor of Silliman University, Philippine Islands,
was appointed honorary research associate in September 1963. Prof.
Rabor is continuing research on the ornithology of the Philippine
Islands. Dr. Robert W. Ficken of the University of Maryland, also
a new honorary research associate, is engaged in extensive field and
laboratory research on the behavior of wood warblers.

In continuation of his field work on the bird life of the Isthmus of
Panama, research associate Alexander Wetmore concentrated his
efforts during January through March in Darién Province, mainly in
the heavy rain forest adjacent to the Colombian boundary. The re-
sults were most successful, for specimens were obtained and observa-
tions made on species that have been little known in the Republic, and
several new records of South American birds not previously known
from Panama were established.

Research associate Herbert G. Deignan studied at the Museum from
mid-January to late April, concentrating his efforts on the NAMRU
collections of birds from Formosa and specimens collected in Viet
Nam and Cambodia by Bernard Feinstein, former museum specialist
in the division.
78 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Research associate Herbert Friedmann continued his work on brood
parasitism and completed a manuscript dealing with evolutionary
trends in the avian genus Clamator.

Reptiles and amphibians.—With the collaboration of Dr. C. J.
Goin, work on the bulletin on Colombian frogs by curator Doris M.
Cochran has progressed rapidly and should be completed during the
next fiscal year.

Fishes.—Curator Leonard P. Schultz has continued his studies of
the frogfishes and is actively engaged in the direction of a research
program on sharks. Mrs. Marilyn H. Malin, research assistant, is
maintaining an up-to-date documented file of shark attacks through-
out the world, a project partially supported by the Office of Naval
Research. Dr. Schultz’s manuscript, “The Family Sternoptychidae,”
is being published by the Sears Foundation in volume 4 of “Fishes of
the Western North Atlantic.”

Associate curator Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., has continued his research
on the comparative anatomy and systematics of tunas and of the family
Scombridae, on the systematic and ecology of stomiatoid fishes, the
systematics of the western Atlantic flying fishes, the distribution of
surface fishes from the vicinity of the Gulf Stream, and the systematics
of the subgenus Cyprinella of Notropis. During the past year, Dr.
Gibbs participated in Cruise 3 of the International Indian Ocean
Expedition and studied in laboratories in Europe and Asia from
August to December. Purpose of the cruise was to sample deep-sea
ichthyofauna of the western Indian Ocean and to relate the distribu-
tions of species and biomass to the physiochemical and biological prop-
erties of the water masses sampled in a north-south transect.

Associate curator Ernest A. Lachner participated in Cruise 4B of
the R/V Anton Bruun, purpose of which was to evaluate the relative
distribution and abundance of benthic organisms inhabiting the con-
tinental shelf and upper slope of the Arabian Sea. Enroute to the
Indian Ocean and return, Dr. Lachner examined specimens and ar-
ranged for the loan and exchange of collections in Europe, Israel,
India, Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and at Stanford University,
California. While in Australia, Dr. Lachner revised his manuscripts
on the Gobiidae and Eleotridae and also expanded his study of the
diskfishes. In cooperation with Mr. Robert Jenkins, graduate student,
Cornell University, Dr. Lachner has undertaken a study of the system-
atics of the American barbeled minnows. They visited the Virginia
Polytechnic Institute in March and prepared more than 5,000 speci-
mens of fishes for exchange with the U.S. National Museum.

Associate curator Victor G. Springer has expanded his studies on
sharks, completing revisions of three genera. During the year, he
visited Stanford University and the British and Paris Museums where
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH. 79

he studied blennioid fish types and other specimens, bringing close to
completion a revision of the genus Hntomacrodus. He has begun an
osteological study of blennioid fishes and has accumulated data and
material for revisions of several genera.

Associate curator William R. Taylor continued his study of the
families Ariidae and Aspredinidae for the publication, “Fishes of the
Western North Atlantic,” and of the genus Votwrus. He has developed
new techniques in the preparation of specimens for osteological study
that involve the use of solutions of the enzyme trypsin buffered with
sodium borate. This treatment, which removes the muscle tissue, has
proved to be effective in making both preserved and fresh specimens
translucent—the connective tissue, cartilage, bones, viscera, and major
nerves remaining.

Associate curator Stanley H. Weitzman completed a study of two
genera of Asiatic minnows, three manuscripts dealing with South
American catfishes, and a study of the osteology and relationships
of the characid subfamilies Lebiasininae and Erythrininae. He began
esteological studies on the isospondylous oceanic fishes of two other
families of fishes (Astronesthidae and Gonostomatidae).

Gray-whale skeleton hangs above case of even-toed ungulates (arti-
odactyls) in hall of osteology.
80 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964:

X & A
>
or ' :
_

a

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., chairman of department of zoology, inspects a
recently acquired fresh-water shrimp, Macrobrachium carcinus from
Dominica. A specimen of Penaeus brasiliensis offers a_ size
comparison.

Research associate J. A. F. Garrick returned to Victoria University,
Wellington, New Zealand in November and is continuing his world
revision of carcharhinid sharks. During May 1964 he visited Australia
to study specimens of sharks that were not available in museums of
Kurope, America, or Africa. When completed, this critical revision
of carcharhinid sharks will be the first ever attempted.

Marine Invertebrates.—Curator Donald F. Squires continued his
investigations on southern ocean corals. Considerable progress has
been made in this study, supported by the National Science Founda-
tion, and facilitated by the assistance of Mr. Ian W. Keyes, senior
paleontological technician, New Zealand Geological Survey, who
worked as research assistant to Dr. Squires during the year. Much of
the preliminary compilation of data for a study of the evolution and
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 81

distribution of New Zealand Tertiary and modern corals has been com-
pleted. In joint authorship, they have finished a review of the corals
of the New Zealand shelf. During the year, a study of the biomechan-
ics of the scleractinian coral J/anicina areolata was completed, as were
several other studies of fossil and Recent corals. Continued progress
was made on the monographic studies of the deep-water corals of the
family Micrabaciidae and on the complex group of species comprising
the “lacerate Flabellum.” From December to February, Dr. Squires
was a participant on the New Zealand Oceanographic Institute cruise
“Macquarie Gap” which made geological and biological studies in the
area of the Campbell Plateau and the Subantarctic Islands of New
Zealand. Visits were also made during the year to the Museum of
Comparative Zoology and the American Museum of Natural History
where types were examined and from which specimens of deep-water
corals were obtained for further study.

Associate curator Thomas EK. Bowman completed an account of an
arostrate population of the planktonic calanoid copepod Acartia lillje-
borgii, from St. Lucia, West Indies. He described a new genus and
species of cirolanid isopod from Madison Cave, Va., the first troglodytic
cirolanid to be found in the United States outside of Texas; completed
the description of a new anthurid isopod from the Caguanes Caves of
Cuba; and described a new mysid crustacean, abundant in Lake Pont-
chartrain, La. With L. J. Lancaster, he prepared a description of a
bloom of the planktonic blue-green alga Skujaella, from the Tonga
Islands. Work was begun on an account of pelagic amphipods of the
family Hyperiidae from the northeastern Pacific.

Associate curator Charles EK. Cutress, Jr., continued his studies of
several families of anemones. During most of April and May, he
collected marine materials in Hawaii and coastal California, for docu-
menting future exhibits in the museum. He was accompanied by
Mr. Kjell Sandved who acted as official photographer. Following
this trip, Mr. Cutress visited the Friday Harbor Laboratory of the
University of Washington where he engaged in studies to clarify the
taxonomy of the swimming anemones Stomphia.

Associate curator Raymond B. Manning, who had joined the staff of
the division in June 1963, in September studied stomatopod crustacean
specimens in the American Museum of Natural History, the Vanderbilt
Marine Museum on Long Island, the Museum of Comparative Zoology,
the Yale Peabody Museum, and the Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia. In May 1964, Dr. Manning joined a research team from
the Institute of Marine Science, University of Miami, for a 20-day
offshore scientific cruise in the Gulf of Guinea. Following the cruise
he spent several days collecting inshore marine invertebrates near
Dakar, Senegal, before visiting natural history museums in Paris,
82 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Leiden, and London to study types of stomatopod crustaceans. During
the year, Dr. Manning finished most of a manuscript revising the
stomatopods of the western Atlantic, collaborated with L. B. Holthuis
of the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, in Leiden, on a contri-
bution on the stomatopods for the “Treatise of Invertebrate Paleontol-
ogy,’ and completed two additional manuscripts dealing with these
animals.

Associate curator Marian H. Pettibone carried on preliminary work
with a large collection of polychaete worms from the Canadian Arctic,
collected by E. H. Grainger. She continued her long-range study of
the polychaete worms from the Gulf of St. Lawrence to the Chesapeake
Bay, completed a revision of the polychaete family Pilargidae, includ-
ing a description of three new species from Virginia, and conducted
further work on the Paraonidae, including the preparation of descrip-
tions of two new species from Virginia and Florida.

Museum specialist Henry B. Roberts continued his research on
Recent and fossil crabs. In addition to studying a new species of crab
from the Miocene of Virginia, he completed a description of a new
genus of Cretaceous crab, and has compiled a checklist and bibliog-
raphy of the Pleistocene decapods of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal
Plain.

Research associate Waldo L. Schmitt continued his studies on the
American commensal crabs, family Pinnotheridae, and completed the
revision and updating of a popular account of the “Crustaceans” pre-
pared several decades ago for the original Smithsonian Scientific
Series. As an associate editor for biology for the Antarctic Research
Series, sponsored by the American Geophysical Union, he has been
encouraging systematists to undertake monographic reports to be
followed by handbooks dealing with the invertebrate marine fauna of
Antarctica.

David L. Pawson joined the staff as associate curator of marine
invertebrates May 20, 1964. His field of special interest is echino-
derms, in particular the echinoids and holothuroids of the sub-
Antarctic.

Mollusks.—Curator Harald A. Rehder continued work on a study
of the marine mollusks of Polynesia. He sorted and arranged the
material he gathered in Tahiti last year, identified and studied speci-
mens from Tonga and Hawaii, and initiated a bibliography of Poly-
hesian marine malacolegy. Notable progress was made on his mono-
graph of the Harpidae and on a study of certain species of the family
Volutidae.

Associate curator Joseph P. E. Morrison has continued his research
of the brackish water mollusks of New Caledonia, studying collections
of the family Melampidae in the Academy of Natural Sciences of
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 83

= * -
e « ~
° .
~~ ° >
- ° -
* . .
ca * >
- ° -
- -

” °

Specimens recently received from International Indian Ocean Expedi-
tion being measured by associate curator Joseph Rosewater for his
revision of family Tridacnidae.

Philadelphia, and a collection gathered by him in 1960-61. His work
on the brackish water mollusks of the Gulf States was continued, and
he completed a manuscript describing new species of the families
Hydrobidae, Pyramidellidae, and Mactridae, from Louisiana.

Associate curator Joseph Rosewater spent three months as a partici-
pant in the International Indian Ocean Expedition Auxiliary Cruise
“A” aboard the R/V Ze Vega. A large collection of mollusks was
made from the shores of western Malaysia and Thailand and from
the Mentawai Islands southwest of Sumatra, Indonesia. A brief visit
was also made to the British Museum (Natural History) where he
studied types of the family Littormidae. He is continuing studies of
Indo-Pacific mollusks, especially the families Littorinidae and Tri-
dacnidae; a monograph of the latter is nearly complete. A taxonomic
study of the subfamily Periplomatinae has also been initiated.

Visiting investigators.—Among visiting scientists who studied the
zoology research collections during the year were:

Mammals: Sydney Anderson, American Museum of Natural History; Beatrice
Dulié, Zoological Institute, Zagreb; Francis C. Fraser, British Museum (Natural
History), London; E. Raymond Hall, Univ. of Kansas; Philip Hershkovitz and
Joseph C. Moore, Chicago Natural History Museum; Robert S. Hoffman, Uniy.
of Montana ; Donald F. Hoffmeister, Charles A. Long, Uniy. of Illinois; Russell E.
Mumford, Purdue Uniy.; Juhani Ojasti, Universidad Central de Venezuela, Ca-
racas; David R. Swindler, Medical College of South Carolina; John A. White,
Uniy. of California ; Pyong-Heci Won, Tong Kook Uniy., Seoul.
84 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Birds: Reay H. N. Smithers, National Museum of Southern Rhodesia;
Stephen M. Russell, Louisiana State Univ., New Orleans; Burt L. Monroe and
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Warter,. Louisiana State Univ., Baton Rouge; Dr. Herbert
Friedmann, Los Angeles County Museum; James H. Meysilles, Hanover, Ind. ;
M. A. Carriker, Jr., Colombia; Dr. D. S. Farner, Washington State College;
Dr. R. W. Storer, Univ. of Michigan; Dr. Clarence Cottam, Welder Wildlife
Foundation, Sinton, Tex.; Dr. Martin H. Moynihan, Canal Zone Biological Area,
Balboa; Paul Peterson, Univ. cf Nebraska; Dr. Douglas Lancaster, Dr. Leigh
Van Valen, and Dr. Charles Vaurie, American Museum of Natural History ; Don
Baldwin, Royal Ontario Museum; Herbert G. Deignan, Pully, Switzerland; Dr.
Robert W. Dickerman, Monrovia, Calif.; Dr. Joe T. Marshall, Jr., Univ. of Ari-
zona; Frangois Vuilleumier, Museum of Comparative Zoology: Mrs. Delwyn G.
Berrett, Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho; Dr. H. Morioka, Univ. of Illinois; Dr.
Kenneth C. Parkes, Carnegie Museum; Dr. J. W. Hardy, Moore Laboratory of
Zoology, Occidental College; Dr. Pierce Brodkorb, Univ. of Florida; Dr. W. J. L.
Sladen, Johns Hopkins Univ.; Max C. Thompson, Univ. of Maryland; Mrs. Anne
LaSassier, Midland, Tex.

Fishes: Abdul Hakim A. Al-Rawi, Univ. of Oklahoma; W. D. Anderson, Jr.,
F. H. Berry, Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and John K Thompson, Bureau of Commer-
cial Fisheries ; Clyde D. Barbour, John 8. Ramsey, and Royal D. Suttkus, Tulane
Univ.; Richard H. Backus and Frank Mather III, Woods Hole Oceanographie In-
stitution; L. F. de Beaufort, Amsterdam Museum; Adam Ben-Tuvia, Sea Fish
Research Station, Haifa, israel; David K. Caldwell and Melba C. Caldwell, Los
Angeles County Museum; HE. J. Crossman, Royal Ontario Museum, Canada;
William P. Davis, William N. Eschmeyer, John M. Green, Albert C. James, and
C. Richard Robins, Uniy. of Miami; Humphry Greenwood, Norman B. Marshall,
and Hthelwyn Trewavas, British Museum (Natural History) ; Marion Grey and
Loren P. Woods, Chicago Natural History Museum; Joel D. Hubbard, Univ. of
Wisconsin; Carl L. Hubbs, Laura C. Hubbs, and Richard Rosenblatt, Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography; Amin Jarur M., Univ. de Guerrero, Mexico; Duvall
A. Jones, Univ. of Florida, Gainesville; S. Jones, Central Marine Fisheries Res.
Inst., Mandapam Camp, India; Ralph Kirkpatrick, Oklahoma State Univ., Still-
water; William H. Krueger, Boston Univ.; Harrison Matthews, Zoological So-
ciety of London; G. E. Maul, Madeira; Robert R. Miller, Univ. of Michigan;
Dr. Max Poll, Museum of Central Africa, Tervuren, Belgium; Richard T. Rep-
pert, Univ. of Maryland; Edward C. Raney, Timothey W. Robbins, Chu-Fa Tsai,
and Timothy Zorach, Cornell Univ.; Chote Suvatti, Kasetsart Uniy., Bangkok ;
Enrico Tortonese, Museum Natural History, Genoa, Italy; V. D. Vladykov, Univ.
of Ottawa; Raul Vaz Ferreira and Blanca Sierra de Soriane, Facultad de
Humanidades y Ciencias, Montevideo; N. J. Wilimovsky, Univ. of British Colum-
bia ; James P. Williams, Univ. of Alabama.

Reptiles and Amphibians: W. BE. Duellman and E. H. Taylor, Univ. of Kansas;
Carl Gans, Univ. of Buffalo; A. Hoge, Instituto Butantan Sao Paulo; R. F. Inger,
Chicago Natural History Museum; W. G. Lynn, Catholic Univ.; T. S. Parsons,
Uniy. of Toronto; H. W. Parker, British Museum (Natural History) ; B. Orejas-
Miranda, Museo Nacional de Argentina; O. Reig, Univ. of Buenos Aires;
W. Steyn, Nat. Museum South West Africa; W. A. Thornton, Univ. of Illinois;
G. I’. de Witte, Institute Royale Science Nationale de Belgique, Brussels.

Marine Invertebrates: Isabel Perez-Farfante-Canet, Washington, D.C.; M. J.
Cerame-Vivas, Duke Univ. Marine Laboratory; Robert L. Cory, U.S. Geological
Survey; Roger F. Cressey, Boston Uniy.; Elizabeth Deichmann, Museum of
Comparative Zoology; Angela Edwards, British Museum (Natural History) ;
J. Forest, Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; Olga Hartman, Allan Hancock
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 85

Foundation; L. B. Holthuis, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Histoire, Leiden;
Meredith L. Jones, American Museum of Natural History; MacKenzie Keith,
Pennsylvania State Univ.; J. Laborel, Instituto Oceanografico, Recife, Brazil;
William H. McCaul, Hastern Illinois Univ.; D. C. Miller, Queens College, New
York; Elizabeth Pope, The Australian Museum, Sydney; Patricia M. Ralph,
Victoria Univ., Wellington ; Mary Rice, Univ. of Washington; Alfred HE. Smalley,
Tulane Univ.; Nasima Tirmizi, Univ. of Karachi; Marvin L. Wass, Virginia
Institute of Marine Science; Austin B. Williams, Institute of Fisheries Research,
Univ. of North Carolina.

Mollusks: Argentino A. Bonetto, Santa Fe, Argentina; H. Alison Kay, Univ.
of Hawaii; Ian McTaggart Cowan, Univ. of British Columbia ; Hugene EH. Binder,
Muséum d’Histoire Naturelle, Geneva, Switzerland ; Henning Lemche, Zoologisch
Museum, Copenhagen; Vera Fretter, the University, Reading, England; M. J.
Klappenbach, Museo Nacional de Historia Natural, Montevideo; H. B. Stenzel,
Houston, Tex.; Battus Oostburg, Paramaribo, Surinam; Allyn G. Smith and
Charles B. Stasek, California Academy of Sciences; Alan Solem, Chicago Nat-
ural History Museum.

Entomology

On July 1, 1963, the division of insects was separated from the de-
partment of zoology and became the department of entomology. The
five divisions in the department are: Neuropteroids, Lepidoptera, Cole-
optera, Myriapoda and Arachnida, and Hemiptera.

Chairman J. F. Gates Clarke conducted intensive field studies of
Microlepidoptera on the island of Rapa in French Polynesia from
September 1 to December 15. In addition to providing a basis for
a better understanding of Micronesian Microlepidoptera, it was hoped
that the collections would indicate substantial relationship to these
insects in New Zealand, southern South America, and South Africa.
The food plants of more than half of the approximately 75 species
collected were determined, and Mrs. Clarke reared in the field 760
specimens, of which the immature stages were preserved for study.

Dr. Clarke continued his studies of several genera and families of
Neotropical Microlepidoptera and preparation has continued of ma-
terials which will be used for critical studies of Micronesian Lepi-
doptera—a long-range project.

Lepidoptera.—Associate curator Donald R. Davis continued his
studies of the Western Hemisphere bagworms (Psychidae) ; his re-
vision of the group was published. Dr. Davis has also completed
a revision, employing statistical analyses, of the Yucca moths (Pro-
doxidae) of the Western Hemisphere. During July and August he,
with Dr. Duckworth, engaged in field research on the latter group.
In preparation for revisionary studies of two insect families, Dr.
Davis studied the collection at the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh,
and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
86 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Associate curator W. Donald Duckworth advanced toward his goal
of a world monograph of the family Stenomidae with the publica-
tion of one paper on a new Brazilian moth species and the preparation
of three other papers. In the Neotropical area alone are more than
1100 species of this large family whose taxonomy, evolution, and geo-
eraphic affinities interest Dr. Duckworth. In the course of his studies
of the family with respect to these subjects, types from Vienna and
Munich, as well as many others which are more accessible, are being
or have been examined; field study was undertaken jointly with Dr.
Davis to northeastern Mexico, where important distributional data
were gathered; and in April and May Stenomidae were studied and
collected in the Panama Canal Zone.

William D. Field, associate curator, continued his revision of the
butterfly genus Vanessa and of the lycaenid genus Calycopis. In July
he gathered significant distributional data and specimens in the moun-
tains of New England.

Coleoptera.—Curator O. L. Cartwright was in London at the end
of the year to study type specimens at the British Museum (Natural
History) in connection with his continuing research on the scarab
beetles of the Bahamas and of Micronesia.

Water beetles of the Neotropics continue as associate curator Paul J.
Spangler’s special interest. In July and August he spent seven weeks
in Mexico and the Southwestern States collecting valuable materials
for his studies. In the area of Mexico where the Nearctic and Neo-
tropical faunas are contiguous and intermingled, most collections are
useful for evaluating the effects of this overlapping; it is significant
to note that here Dr. Spangler recorded six genera for the first time
for Mexico and at least twenty species new to science. Previously un-
known data with respect to the immature forms of most species col-
lected were obtained, and many individuals of the rare semiaquatic
beetle family Georyssidae were taken. He has also continued his
research on the adult and immature stages of the water beetles of
Puerto Rico and with Mr. Hugh Leech, California Academy of Sci-
ences, he is engaged in a joint revision of the genus Hydrochara. Dr.
Spangler also contributed significantly to the collections by his use
of a battery of Berlese Funnels, which permit the operator to collect
minute insects from decaying leaves. More than 38,000 insects were
obtained by use of this apparatus by Dr. Spangler and in the Protura
alone, the national collections were nearly tripled during the past year.

Myriapoda and Arachnida.—Curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., con-
centrated most of his attention on a general revision of the order
Geophilomorpha, his study of the chilopod faunae of New Zealand
and Australia has progressed, and he is presently reviewing generic
and familial delimitations, which is possible only after thorough study
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH. 87

of type species. To accomplish this end he has visited insect collections
at Harvard University, in Munich, and in London.

Neuropteroids.—The caddis flies (Trichoptera) continued to at-
tract the research attention of associate curator Oliver S. Flint, Jr.,
and he published or completed several papers on Nearctic members
of the group. Dr. Flint has begun to devote increasingly large parts
of his research to the Neotropical Trichoptera and two papers on
species of this region were published or completed this year. At the
beginning of the year Dr. Flint collected and studied in the field on
Jamaica, Dominica, St. Lucia, and Grenada; the first collections of
Trichoptera in the Lesser Antilles resulted from this trip. From April
through June he spent in field studies on Dominica as a participant
in the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that island.

Hemiptera.—Dr. Richard C. Froeschner joined the staff as asso-
ciate curator in charge of Hemiptera on August 26, 1963.

Visiting investigators.—Among visiting scientists who studied the
entomology research collections during the year were:

Coleoptera: Dr. Ross Arnett, Brother Bernardine, Mr. Lee Herman, Mr. John P.
MacNamara, Rev. Michael I. Morgan, OSB, and Miss Hileen Van Tassell, Catholic
Univ., Washington, D.C.; Dr. William F. Barr, Univ. of Idaho; Dr. Pierre
Basilewsky, Musée Royal du Congo Belge, Tervuren, Belgium; Dr. Richard S.
Beal, Arizona State College; Mrs. O. F. Bodenstein, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture ;
Dr. Candido Bolivar y Pieltain, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias, Instituto
Politécnico Nacional, Mexico; Mr. John C. Boyd and Dr. J. L. Gressitt, Bernice
P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu; Dr. Dale F. Bray and Dr. W. A. Connell, Univ. of
Delaware; Dr. Per Brinck, Zoologiska Institution, Lunds Universitets, Lund,
Sweden; Dr. W. J. Brown and Dr. Henry F. Howden, Canada Dept. of Agricul-
ture; Mr. J. A. Bullock, Univ. of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaya; Dr. John A.
Chemsak, Mr. John Lawrence, and Dr. Ray Smith, Univ. of California, Berkeley ;
Dr. H. L. Clark, Howard Univ., Washington, D.C.; Dr. Edward I. Coher, Waltham,
Mass.; Dr. T. P. Copeland, East Tennessee State College, Johnson City; Mr.
Herbert Dozier and Mrs. Mary G. Wetzel, Univ. of Maryland; Mr. John Fales
and Mr. Horace Lancaster, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Beltsville, Md.; Dr. Eugene
J. Gerberg, Insect Control & Research, Inec., Baltimore; Dr. Lester P. Gibson,
Central States Forest Experimental Station, Forest Service, USDA, Columbus;
Mr. John D. Glaser, Baltimore; Mr. Michael A. Goodrich, Frear Laboratory,
Pennsylvania State Univ.; Dr. Robert C. Graves, Carthage College, Kenosha,
Wis.; Mr. R. C. Hansell, Oregon State Uniy.; Dr. George R. Hopping, Forest
Entomology & Pathology Lab., Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Dr. David G. Kissinger,
Atlantic Union College, South Lancaster, Mass.; Mr. M. C. Lane, Tacoma, Wash. :
Mr. James D. Marshall, Dept. of Entomology, Cornell Univ.; Mr. Findley B.
Negley, Pennsylvania Dept. of Agriculture, Harrisburg; Dr. L. D. Newsom,
Louisiana State Univ. & Agricultural & Mechanical College, Baton Rouge; Mr.
W. H. Nutting, Oakland, Calif.; Mr. Virgil H. Owens, Missouri Dept. of Agricul-
ture, Kennett; Dr. R. M. A. Paulian, Institut de Recherche Scientific de Mada-
gasear, Tananarive, Tsimbazaza, Madagascar; Dr. fH. Avery Richmond, Moores-
town, N.J.; Dr. Jerome G. Rozen, Jr., Mrs. Patricia Vaurie, American Museum of
Natural History, New York, N.Y.; Mr. Norman L. Rumpp, China Lake, Calif. ;
Dr. W. E. Simonds, California Dept. of Agriculture, Sacramento; Dr. John B.
88 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Simone, Syracuse Univ.; Dr. H. F. Strohecker, University of Miami, Miami, Fla. ;
Dr. Walter R. Suter, Carthage College, Kenosha, Wis.; Dr. Vasco M. Tanner,
Brigham Young University, Provo; Dr. J. G. Watts, New Mexico State Univ. ;
Mr. Charles E. White, Indianapolis; Dr. John A. Wilcox, New York State Museum
& Scienee Service, Albany; Dr. Elwood C. Zimmerman, Peterborough, N.H.

Hemiptera: Dr. Dale Jackson, Akron Univ., Ohio; Dr. Paul D. Hurd, Jr., Univ.
of California; Mr. C. D. F. Miller, Dr. Leonard A. Kelton, Dr. H. E. Milliron, and
Dr. Lois K. Smith, Entomology Research Institute, Canada Dept. of Agriculture;
Dr. B. Miczulski, College of Agriculture, Lublin, Poland; Dr. James A. Slater,
Univ. of Connecticut; Dr. Lubomir Masner, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences,
Prague; Dr. George E. Bohart, Bee Culture Laboratory, Utah State Uniy.; Mr.
Gerd Heinrich, Dryden, Maine; Dr. George C. Hickwort, Dr. H. K. Townes, Mrs.
Marjorie Townes, Mrs. Sigeko Momoi, and Dr. Setsuya Momoi, Museum of
Zoology, Univ. of Michigan; Dr. C. W. McComb, Univ. of Maryland; Mr. Frank
Kurezewski, Cornell Univ.; Dr. J. G. Rozen, Jr., American Museum of Natural
History, New York, N.Y.; Dr. T. B. Mitchell, North Carolina State College,
Raleigh; Dr. W. F. Buren, National Institute of Health, Bethesda; Dr. F. J. D.
McDonald, Univ. of Alberta; Dr. A. C. Cole, Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville; Dr.
R. D. Shenefelt, Univ. of Wisconsin; Dr. R. E. Gregg, Univ. of Colorado; Dr.
Frank W. Mead, Florida Depart. of Agriculture, Gainesville; Dr. Abram Willink,
Instituto Miguel Lillo, Tucuman, Argentina; Dr. David E. Leonard, Connecticut
Agricultural Experiment Station, New Haven; Dr. M. MacKauer and Dr. M.
Capek, Entomology Research Institute for Biological Control, Belleville, Canada ;
Dr. A. de Barros Machado, Museu de Dundo, Lunda, Angola, Africa; Padre J. S.
Moure, Uniy. do Paranda, Curitiba, Brazil; Dr. M. EH. W. Valentine, New Zealand
Dept. of Scientific and Industrial Research, Nelson; Dr. P. H. Van Doesburg, Jr.,
Cantonlaan 1, Baarn, Holland; Dr. Roland F. Hussey, Univ. of Florida, Gaines-
ville; Dr. David R. Smith, Oregon State Univ.; Dr. William E. China, British
Museum (Natural History), London; Dr. J. Carayon, Museum National d’Histoire
Naturelle, Paris; Dr. Paul M. Marsh, Univ. of California, Berkeley; Dr. J. van
der Vecht, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, Netherlands; Dr.
Howard EH. Evans, Museum of Comparative Zoology; Dr. John H. Flynn, Albany
College of Pharmacy, Union Univ.; Dr. Pierre Basilewsky, Musée Royal du
Congo Belge, Brussels; Dr. Elbert R. Jaycox, Univ. of Illinois; Dr. M. W. Nielson,
Entomology Research Division, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Mesa, Arizona; Dr.
Harry Allen, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Moorestown, New Jersey.

Lepidoptera: Mr. James HE. Appleby, Ohio Agricultural Experiment Station,
Wooster; Dr. John N. Belkin, Univ. of California, Los Angeles; Dr. Clifford O.
Berg, Cornell Univ.; Mr. A. Blanchard, Houston, Texas; Mr. F. Martin Brown,
Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs; Dr. George J. Burton, National Cancer
Institute, West Africa Research Laboratory, Ghana; Mr. J. G. Chillecott, Ento-
mology Research Institute, Canada Dept. of Agriculture; Dr. Edward I. Coher,
Waltham, Mass.; Dr. Mario Coluzzi, Instituto di Malariologia “EK. Marchiafava”’
Monticelli (Frosinone), Italy; Mr. Charles V. Covell, Jr., Virginia Polytechnic
Institute, Blackburg; Dr. A. Diakonoff, Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie,
Leiden, Netherlands; Dr. John G. Franclemont, Cornell Univ.; Maj. Thomas J.
Curtin, 6570th Epidemiological Laboratory, Lackland Air Force Base, Tex.;
Miss Mercedes Delfinado, Bureau of Health, Manila; Dr. J. Linsley Cressitt,
Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu; Miss Gail Grodhaus, Dept. of Public
Health, Berkeley, Calif. ; Dr. Charles Hartley, Entomology Branch, Camp Detrick,
Md.; Dr. Alexander A. Hubert, Walter Reed Army Institute of Medical Research ;
Dr. H. C. Huckett, Riverhead, N.Y.; Mr. Charles P. Kimball, West Barnstable,
Mass.; Dr. Peter Mattingly and Mr. P. Whalley, British Museum (Natural
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 89

History), London; Mr. W. S. McAlpine, Birmingham, Mich.; Dr. Max W. Me-
Fadden, Fairfax, Va.; Dr. Judson U. McGuire, Plant Industry Station, USDA,
Beltsville, Md.; Col. S. S. Nicolay, U.S. Marine Corps, Norfolk, Va.; Dr. Nicholas
S. Obraztsov, Sea Cliff, Long Island, N.Y.; Mr. Thomas M. Peters, Univ. of
Minnesota; Mr. Robert W. Poole and Dr. Roger Williams, Cornell Univ. ; Mr.
George W. Rawson, Washington, D.C. ; Dr. Klaus Sattler, Zoologische Sammlung
des Bayerischen Staates, Munich, Germany; Dr. Yale 8S. Sedman, Western Illinois
Univ., Macomb; Mr. Walter A. Steffan, Univ. of California, Berkeley ; Dr. James
E. Sublette, Univ. of Eastern New Mexico, Portales; Dr. Pierre Viette, Museum
National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris; Dr. Pedro Wygodzinsky, American Museum
of Natural History, New York; Dr. Koji Yano, Kyushu Univ., Fukuoka, Japan.

Myriapoda and Arachnida: Dr. B. Condo, Université de Nancy, Nancy, France ;
Dr. O. Kraus, Senckenbergische Naturforschende, Gesellschaft, Frankfurt am
Main; Dr. W. T. Keeton, Cornell Univ.; Mrs. H. Frizzell, Rolla, Mo.; Dr. N. B.
Causey, Fayetteville, Ark.; Dr. R. L. Hoffman, Radford College, Blacksburg, Va.

Neuropteroids: Dr. Vincent D. Roth, American Museum of Natural History,
Southwest Research Station, Portal, Ariz.; Dr. C. S. Carbonell, Univ. of Mon-
tevideo, Uruguay; Dr. T. P. Copeland, Eastern Tennessee State Univ., Johnson
City; Miss Virginia Spaeth, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana; Dr. Thomas J. Walker,
Univ. of Florida; Dr. D. C. Geijskes, Director, Surianaams Museum, Paramaribo,
Surinam; Mr. David C. Rentz, Novata, Calif.

Botany

Chairman Jason R. Swallen continued his investigations of the
grasses of southern Brazil, and published two papers, the first on the
Gramineae, in “Vegetation and Flora of the Sonoran Desert,” by
Forrest Shreve and Ira L. Wiggins, and the second on new species of
Digitaria and Trichachne. In September and October he visited South
Africa at the invitation of the National Botanic Gardens of South
Africa for the Golden Jubilee Celebration of the Gardens. The cele-
bration included over a month’s tour of South Africa, and afforded
an excellent opportunity for selective collecting to obtain a number of
species new to the U.S. National Herbarium.

Phanerogams.—Curator Lyman B. Smith continued his studies in
the Bromeliaceae and in the flora of Brazil. In collaboration with
The George Washington University, he supervised the completion of
a master’s thesis on the Apocynaceae of Burma by Ma Mya Bwin anda
doctoral thesis on Z/ex in North America and the Guayana Highland
by Gabriel Edwin; both papers were based largely on material in the
National Herbarium.

Associate curator Velva E. Rudd continued her work on the papilio-
noid legumes of Mexico, bringing the manuscript of part I to comple-
tion. Dr. Rudd also continued her research on the myrmecophilous
acacias of Mexico and Central America and on the Leguminosae of the
Yucatan Peninsula, and began monographic studies on the tribe
Dalbergieae. In connection with her studies in the Leguminosae, she

744993— 64

=
‘
90 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

visited the herbarium of the Instituto de Biologia in Mexico City, and
in September attended the Second Mexican Botanical Congress in
San Luis Potosi.

Associate curator John J. Wurdack continued his review of neo-
tropical Melastomataceae, with special emphasis on collections from
southern Ecuador and northern Peru. In connection with this work
and with his studies on the flora of the Guayana Highland, Dr.
Wurdack visited the New York Botanical Garden in June and Novem-
ber. Recently he undertook the preparation of the Melastomataceae
for the “Flora de Venezuela,” a project involving over 700 species.

Associate curator Stanwyn G. Shetler continued his biosystematic
and monographic studies of North American Campanula, with special
emphasis on the Harebell Complex (C. rotundifolia and related spe-
cies). Also continuing were floristic and phytogeographic studies of
the Alaskan flora, with emphasis on the Seward Peninsula, the south
slope of the Brooks Range, and the Pribilof Islands. Between June
17 and August 31 he spent six weeks collecting plants in the Brooks
Range, Alaska.

Dr. Wallace R. Ernst joined the staff July 29, 1963, as associate cura-
tor of phanerogams. During the years he completed a manuscript on
the genus /’schscholzia in the South Coast Ranges of California, and
with Dr. H. J. Thompson of the University of California at Los An-
geles, one on the pollination patterns and the taxonomy of the genus
Eucnide. Dr. Ernst began a research project with Dr. A. C. Smith
toward a flora of Fiji with studies of the Araliaceae and Guttiferae.
In August he attended the AIBS meetings at Amherst, Mass., where
his joint paper with Dr. H. J. Thompson won an award in taxonomy.
On April 1, Dr. Ernst left for three months to participate in the
Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of Dominica, British
West Indies.

Associate curator Dan H. Nicolson, who joined the staff January 5,
1964, continued twin projects begun before coming to the Smithsonian,
a preparation of scripts for all genera of Araceae for the “Index
Nominum Genericorum,” and a revision of the genus Ag/laonema
(Araceae). In early May, with Stanwyn Shetler and David Lellin-
ger, he made a reconnaissance visit to the Great Smoky Mountains Na-
tional Park for the Smithsonian exhibits program.

Research associate José Cuatrecasas, concentrated on the prepara-
tion of a revision of Colombian Compositae of some 800 species. Re-
search associate Kittie F, Parker, continued her monographic studies
of several genera of American Compositae.

Grasses.—Associate curator Thomas R. Soderstrom participated in
the New York Botanical Garden expedition to the Wilhelmina Moun-
tains, Surinam, from June te October. Before joining the expedition
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 91

party, he spent nine days in Trinidad collecting and studying the
grasses of the island. With Dr. Henry Decker, Ohio Wesleyan Uni-
versity, he published a paper on Swadlenia, a new name for the Cali-
fornian genus /’ctosperma, and another on eederochiloa, a new genus
of dioecious grasses from Mexico. His studies of some collections of
British Guiana grasses resulted in the description of six new species,
to be published in the Memoirs of the New York Botanical Garden.

Research associate F. A. McClure, continued his studies relating
to the redefinition of the genera of the Bambusoideae, especially the
bamboos of the Old World. A taxonomic paper, giving subgeneric
status under the genus Zhamnocalamus to two species of hitherto
uncertain taxonomic position is being prepared under joint author-
ship with W. C. Lin of the Taiwan Forestry Research Institute.

Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton continued his studies of the ferns of
tropical America, especially an account of the genus Blechnum in
Brazil, based mostly on the large collections made by Father Raulino
Reitz in southern Brazil. He continued his study of the photographs
he made of fern types in European herbaria; the work of labeling the
duplicates is being continued under a new grant from the National
Science Foundation. Mr. Morton spent three weeks in July in libra-
ries in London and Paris checking bibliographic information for this
work, and five days in April at Harvard University and the New York
Botanical Garden. Jointly with Mr. Lellinger, he prepared a treat-
ment of the genus Aspleniwm in Venezuela, based largely on the exten-
sive collections assembled from the Guayana Highlands region by the
New York Botanical Garden and the Chicago Natural History Mu-
seum; this work will be pnblished in the Memoirs of the New York
Botanical Garden.

Associate curator David B. Lellinger, who joined the staff August
26, 1963, continued with his revisions of the genera Ji/della and
Cheiloplecton, began a study of Pterozonium, and accumulated ma-
terials for revisions of two groups of species in the genus Checlanthes.
He spent brief periods in research at the herbaria of Duke University,
North Carolina State College, Michigan State University, and the
University of Michigan.

Cryptogams.—Curator Mason E. Hale continued monographic
studies on the lichen genus Parmelia, with special reference to sub-
genus Xanthoparmelia. Elizabeth J. Denison, supported by National
Science Foundation funds, assisted with technical problems from
January to May 1964. Dr. Hale made a five weeks’ trip to the major
European herbaria to examine and to test chemically type specimens
and general herbarium collections. Field studies of populations of
Xanthoparmelia were conducted in Minnesota, New England, and the
92 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL. REPORT, 1964

southern Appalachians. A large manuscript on subgenus Amphi-
gymnia and a summary of subgenus Parmelia are now in press.

Associate curator Harold E. Robinson conducted field exploration
for bryophytes during three months in Dominica as a member of
the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey. He continued
floristic studies of the bryophytes of tropical America, especially
southern Brazil and Venezuela.

Associate curator Paul Conger continued studies on a large collec-
tion of British, Australian, and New Zealand Antarctic diatoms, both
plankton and sediments. He completed a manuscript on a new species
of epibenthic marine diatom from Honolulu harbor, Hawaii.

Associate curator Richard E. Norris, before resigning in August,
completed two cruises on the R/V Anton Bruun in the Indian Ocean
and made a number of collections of marine algae and plankton,
which are now being processed at the Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center.

Plant Anatomy.—Curator William L. Stern was on leave from the
Smithsonian Institution, having been transferred temporarily to the
International Civil Service so that he could spend a year in the Philip-
pines as a Forestry Officer with the Food and Agriculture Organiza-
tion of the United Nations.

Associate curator Richard H. Eyde completed a comparative ana-
tomical investigation of the flower in Garrya, an American genus of
debated affinities, concluding that the closest allies are the Old World
cornaceous genera Aucuba and Griselinia. He continued research on
the comparative anatomy of fossil and modern members and allies of
the dogwood family, with emphasis on the genera Corokia, Mastixia,
and Alangium.

Visiting investigators——Among those who visited the department
were the following:

Bernice G. Schubert, Harvard Univ.; B. L. Turner, Univ. of Texas; D. B.
Ward, Univ. of Florida; Dana Griffin and Aaron J. Sharp, Univ. of Tennessee ;
C. L. Lundell, Texas Research Foundation; R. H. Mohlenbrock, Southern Illinois
Uniy.: George Shields, Lamont Geological Laboratory; R. Schuster, Uniy. of
Massachusetts; J. W. Price, Franklin and Marshall College; Emil G. Kukachka,
Minnesota Forestry Dept.; George L. Church, Brown Uniy.; Louis O. Williams,
Chicago Natural History Museum; Mike Neushal, Univ. of California, Santa
Barbara: P. C. Hutchison, Univ. of California, Berkeley; Elva Lawton and
Grace Howard, Univ. of Washington, Seattle; Alma Toevs Walker, Univ. of
Georgia; Margaret Fulford, Univ. of Cincinnati; Ira L. Wiggins, Stanford Univ. :
G. T. Johnson, Univ. of Arkansas; I. T. Prance, New York Botanical Garden;
Helmut Krempl, Forest Product Research Station, Vienna, Austria; Alain Ma-
riaux, Centre Technique Forestier Tropical, France; Robert Ross, British Mu-
seum (Natural History), London; Bro. Fabius Leblane, Univ. of Ottawa; Aino
Henssen, Univ. of Marburg, Germany; F. G. Wessels Boer, State Univ. of
Utrecht, Netherlands: Mario Ricardi, Universidad de Concepién, Chile; T. D.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 93

Pennington, Oxford Univ., England; Tang-shui Lin, National Taiwan Univ. ;
J. M. Gillett, Canada Dept. of Agriculture; A. L. Cabrera, Museo de La Plata,
Argentina; Benigno A. Lomibao, Forest Products Research Institute, P.I.;
Tsuneo Kishima, Wood Research Institute, Kyoto, Japan; Shripad N. Agashe,
Poona, India; L. J. Shallom, Nagpur, India; E. A. Quist-Arcton, Ministry of
Agriculture, Ghana; B. 8S. Venkatachala, Lucknow, India.

Paleobiology

A plan to divide the department of geology into two departments,
mineral sciences and paleobiology, was approved on August 20, 1963,
and the reorganization became effective on October 15, 1963. The
diversity of disciplines in the old geology department made the parti-
tion logical and desirable. The purely physical subjects of mineralogy,
petrology, and meteorites are now separated from the biological sub-
jects of paleontology and ecology. The department of mineral sci-
ences consists of three divisions, mineralogy, meteorites, and petrology.

In hall of fossil mammals, fourth and last of series of murals by artist
Jay H. Matternes depicts an assemblage of Pliocene animals.
94 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

The department of paleobiology consists of four divisions: Inverte-
brate paleontology, vertebrate paleontology, paleobotany, and sedi-
mentology.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, chairman of the department of paleobiology, in
collaboration with R. E. Grant of the U.S. Geological Survey, nearly
completed the manuscript on the Permian brachiopods of the Glass
Mountains, Tex. In March and April Dr. Cooper went to New Mex-
ico with Dr. J. T. Dutre of the Geological Survey, to study local
Devonian materials.

Paleobotany.—Associate curator Francis M. Hueber has continued
his investigations of the Lower Devonian flora of the Gaspé and north-
ern New Brunswick regions of Canada. Preparations of petrifac-
tions collected during August from one locality near Dalhousie, New
Brunswick, have helped clarify certain anatomical] details of a pro-
fern which is being studied cooperatively with Dr. Harlan P. Banks
of Cornell University and with Dr. Suzanne Leclereq of the Univer-
sité de Liege, Belgium. The final details have been obtained for com-
pleting the redescription and reconstruction of Psilophyton princeps
var. ornatum; the results of these findings demonstrate the need for
broad taxonomic changes among the fossil Psilopsida. New re-
ports of genera heretofore known only from European Devonian de-
posits are being established by the continued laboratory investigation
of the material. Excellent preparations of petrified materials have
been made by museum technician James P. Ferrigno. Dr. Hueber’s
studies, in collaboration with Mr. Leeds M. Carluccio and Dr. Har-
lan P. Banks of Cornell University, of fossil plants presently referable
to the genera Archaeopteris and Callixylon are soon to be published.
This investigation has pointed up the need for a revision of the genus
Archaeopteris.

Dr. Walter H. Adey, who specializes in Tertiary and Recent Marine
algae, joined the staff as associate curator of paleobotany on June 30,
1964.

Invertebrate Paleontology.—Curator Richard S. Boardman and
museum specialist George T. Farmer completed their collecting of
the bryozoan fauna of the Middle Ordovician of Oklahoma. Mr.
Farmer is using a part of the fauna for a doctoral dissertation and has
made good progress on its preparation.

Research assistant Dr. John Utgaard is working in cooperation with
Dr. Boardman on a revision of the genera of the Paleozoic Bryozoa.
Two manuscripts have been completed and Dr. Utgaard has made good
progress on the Cyclostomata.

Museum specialist Frederick Collier has completed the tedious prep-
aration, working on his own time for a master’s thesis on the rhombo-
poroid Bryozoa, of some Middle Devonian strata of New York State;
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 95

and he has started collecting biometrical data for a taxonomic treat-
ment.

Associate curator Porter M. Kier spent June and part of July study-
ing the living habits of echinoids in the Florida Keys. Dr. Ker, ac-
companied by Dr. Norman Sohl of the U.S. Geological Survey, used
scuba diving equipment to observe species distribution relative to bot-
tom conditions and depth. Large collections were made for com-
parative investigations, and individuals were studied both in their
natural environment and in aquaria. Dr. Kier continued these in-
vestigations in the month of April, diving off Dominica as part of
the Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian biological survey of that island.
Scuba and other diving techniques were employed to make collections
and note environmental relationships of the echinoid populations.
Museum investigations enabled Dr. Kier to complete a major manu-
script on the evolutionary trends in Paleozoic echinoids.

Associate curator Richard Cifelli continued his studies of the dis-
tribution and abundance of Recent planktonic Foraminifera. These
studies are being pursued in relationship to the circulation and general
hydrography of the north Atlantic. In a concurrent investigation,
in the equatorial Atlantic, Dr. Cifelli is making an analysis of sub-
marine cores which is concerned with problems of correlation of the
cores by Foraminifera and paleoclimatic interpretations. In a joint
study with Dr. T. G. Gibson of the U.S. Geological Survey, Dr. Cifelli
is conducting investigations of the stratigraphic succession of Tertiary
planktonic Foraminifera in the coastal plains of eastern United States.
Dr. Cifelli completed two papers now in press, one on planktonic
Foraminifera from the western Atlantic and the other on concentra-
tion techniques of separating shelled organisms from plankton.

Associate curator Erle G. Kauffman has continued investigations of
the evolution and taxonomy of Cretaceous pelecypods in North Amer-
ica, In particular the Inoceraminae and Ostreidae. Dr. Kauffman,
accompanied by Mr. G. R. Paulson, made a two months’ collecting trip
to the mid-continent and eastern Rocky Mountains. More than 25
detailed stratigraphic sections were measured and an estimated 4,000
specimens were collected; these latter will be of great value in distribu-
tional and evolutionary studies, as well as for determining the bio-
stratigraphic utility of the species. Also, studies have been started on
the Cretaceous pelecypods of the Caribbean area. Two weeks in March
were spent with Dr. Norman F. Sohl, collecting at localities in Puerto
Rico. A silicified fauna was collected which contains many new species
apparently endemic to the Caribbean area. A review of the Jurassic
and Cretaceous Ostreidae of Saudi Arabia has been started; the
Pholadomyidae from this fauna are now under study. Dr. Kauffman
completed four manuscripts which have been approved for publication.
96 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Associate curator Martin A. Buzas joined the staff June 1963. His
research activities involve distributional studies of Recent and late
Tertiary smaller Foraminifera. Dr. Buzas completed manuscripts on
the Foraminifera from a late Pleistocene clay near Waterford, Maine,
and a distributional study of the species of Foraminifera in Long
Island Sound. The New York study included analyses of many en-
vironmental conditions, such as sediment particle size and chemical
properties of the water. His most recent investigation is a canonical
analysis of four species of EVphidium. Eight characters were meas-
ured on series of specimens and the statistics programmed for evalua-
tion by means of a multivariate technique which utilizes a high-speed
electronic computer.

Dr. Richard H. Benson joined the staff as associate curator of in-
vertebrate paleontology on June 30, 1964. His area of specialization
is the Ostracoda of the Tertiary.

Vertebrate Paleontology.—Curator C. L. Gazin completed his
morphologic study of the Early Eocene condylarthran mammal d/enis-
cotherium. This has included a detailed review of nearly the entire
skeleton, which is compared with those of other condylarths and
the hyracoids. The latter were once thought to be fairly closely
related to Meniscotherium, but the resemblances are now regarded as
primarily adaptive. A beginning was also made in study of a fauna
from a new Paleocene horizon in the Evanston formation of south-
western Wyoming, and of a recently prepared endocranial cast of the
Middle Eocene Bridger primate Smilodectes.

In connection with his condylarthran studies, Dr. Gazin visited the
Chicago Natural History Museum in February for further evidence on
the ecology of Aeniscotherium as interpreted from details of associ-
ated biota, and in June again visited Princeton and Yale Universities
and the American Museum to wind up details of the morphologic study,
under funds provided by the National Science Foundation.

Field work by the curator earlier in the year was carried on prin-
cipally in the Middle Eocene Bridger formation of southwestern
Wyoming. Much of the time was devoted to a careful search for
smaller mammals in the upper part of the formation, as exposed in the
upper basin of Sage Creek, but with some attention to the lower levels
in the Grizzly Buttes and to the north of Cedar Mountain. Occasional
trips were made to profitable localities of earlier years in the Paleocene
and Early Eocene of adjacent basins. Franklin L. Pearce, chief of the
laboratory of vertebrate paleontology, assisted him during the early
part of the field season but illness prevented his remaining throughout.
At the close of the year Dr. Gazin and Mr. Pearce departed for field
work in New Mexico and Wyoming.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Q7

During September and October associate curator D. H. Dunkle,
accompanied by museum technician G. B. Sullivan, conducted field
work in northwestern Ohio, the area around Council Bluffs, lowa, and
the Manzano Mountains of central New Mexico. Their collections and
stratigraphic observations will permit important additions to and
revisions of the known paleoichthyological faunas of the Middle De-
vonian silica shale of Ohio and several Late Paleozoic horizons of the
mid-continent and Rocky Mountain regions. The New Mexico occur-
rence investigated is of especial interest ; it is practically the lone source
in North America of a varied marine assemblage of well-preserved
fishes, invertebrates, and plants from the Permo-Carboniferous
interval.

Aided by a study trip to Pittsburgh and Cleveland, excellent prog-
ress was accomplished in the preparation and description for publica-
tion of a new paleoniscoid fish from the Upper Devonian Ohio shales
and of the fishes of the Middle Devonian silica shale.

In September associate curator Nicholas Hotton III left Washington
for field work in Africa. In addition to collecting in the Permo-Tri-
assic beds of the Karroo region in South Africa, which has yielded a
variety of mammal-like reptiles, he has been carrying on during a
greater part of the year a detailed stratigraphic study of the Beaufort
series with a view toward a better understanding of the distribution
and ecology of the forms. At the end of this year he had left Africa
for Europe to study at certain of the leading museums.

Associate curator Clayton E. Ray, who joined the staff on December
18, 1963, has continued his studies, carried on previously at the Univer-
sity of Florida, of fossil and modern terrestrial vertebrates, especially
rodents of the Antillean region. Since his arrival he has completed
reports of a new species of capromyid rodent and an undescribed
mimiature ground sloth, both from a cave in the Dominican Republic.
He also continued his studies, initiated in Florida, of the North Amer-
ican Quaternary fauna, including that of a Blancan fauna from
Florida, the first in eastern United States.

In April, sponsored by the National Science Foundation, Dr. Ray
gave at Shorter College, Rome, Ga., a lecture on Pleistocene animals.
At that time he visited a Pleistocene fossil locality. Near the close
of the year, in the vicinity of Puebla, Mexico, Dr. Ray conducted a
field investigation of Pleistocene occurrences in collaboration with an
NSF-sponsored archeological party from the Peabody Museum in
Cambridge, Mass.

Dr. Remington Kellogg, research associate, continued his studies of
the Tertiary Cetacea and completed a report on the skeleton of one of
the larger Calvert Miocene whalebone whales. Satisfactory progress
98 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964:

was made on the evaluation and identification of some of Cope’s
cetacean types which had been based on imperfectly preserved verte-
brae. Comparative studies of several types of Miocene mysticetes are
being pursued.

Visiting investigators.——Among the scientists using the facilities
of the department were the following:

Paleobotany: Dr. Suzanne Leclercq, Université de Liege, Belgium; Dr. Erling
Dorf, Princeton Univ.; Mrs. M. R. Davis, Univ. of Miami; Mr. Lawrence C.
Matten and Mr. Leeds M. Carluecio, Cornell Uniy.; Dr. Maxine L. Abbott, Univ.
of Cincinnati.

Invertebrate paleontology: Dr. A. F. Leanza, Haedo, Argentina; Dr. Irene
McCullock of the Allan Hancock Foundation, Los Angeles; Dr. Walter Sadlick,
Univ. of Houston, Tex.; Dr. Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska, Polska Akademia Nauk,
Warsaw, Poland; Dr. Hans E. Kaiser, Bonn, Germany; Dr. J. D. Wiseman,
British Museum (Natural History), London; Dr. David Nichols, Oxford, Eng-
land; Drs. Frank C. Killey and W. VY. Ramsey, British Petroleum Research
Centre, Sunbury, England; Dr. Johannes, Geological Survey of Indonesia; Dr.
Carl Waage, Yale Univ.; Dr. Bernhard Kummel, Harvard Univ.; Mr. Marshall
Kay, Columbia Univ.; Dr. Raymond C. Moore, Univ. of Kansas; Drs. John
Bradshaw and F. D. Phleger of Scripps Institution of Oceanography; and Dr.
Keith Young, Univ. of Texas.

Vertebrate paleontology: Shelton P. Applegate, James R. Macdonald, and John
A. White, Los Angeles County Museum; Donald Baird, Princeton Univ.; Edwin
H. Colbert, Giles T. MacIntyre, Malcolm C. McKenna, Bobb Schaeffer, Morris F.
Skinner, Beryl E. Taylor, and Leigh Van Valen, American Museum of Natural
History; Mary R. Dawson, Carnegie Museum; John A. Dorr, Univ. of Michigan ;
Tilly Edinger, Bryan Patterson, and Alfred S. Romer, Museum of Comparative
Zoology; Robert W. Fields, Montana State Univ.; G. Edward Lewis, Denver
Federal Center; Richard Lund, Columbia Univ.; John S. McIntosh and John H.
Ostrom, Yale Peabody Museum; Stanley J. Olsen, Florida Geological Survey ;
Donald E. Savage, Univ. of California; and C. Bertrand Schultz, Univ. of
Nebraska State Museum, Hans E. Kaiser, Hanover-Kirchrode, West Germany ;
Bjorn Kurtén, Geological Institute, Helsingfors, Finland; René Lavocat and
Donald E. Russell, Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris; F. R. Parring-
ton, Cambridge Univ., England; Osvaldo A. Reig, Univ. of Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina; A. J. Sutcliffe, British Museum (Natural History), London; Heinz Tobien,
Hessisches Landesmuseum, Darmstadt, West Germany; Georges Vandebroek,
Université, Louvain, Belgium.

Mineral Sciences

Department chairman George Switzer completed the annual review
of the diamond industry and, with Roy S. Clarke, Jr., Helen Worthing,
and John Sinkankas, completed a manuscript on “Fluorine in
Hambergite.”

Associate curator Paul E. Desautels began an investigation of a suite
of rare uranium minerals from a new locality in Mexico, and completed
a study of one of them, sklodowskite, a hydrous magnesium uranyl
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 99

silicate. Mr. Desautels addressed mineral societies in Tucson, Phila-
delphia, New York, Baltimore, Toronto, and Washington, D.C.

John S. White, Jr., museum technician, nearly completed a study of
the rare mineral plattnerite, oxide of lead, from several new localities
in Arizona and Mexico.

Associate curator EK. P. Henderson completed two manuscripts—one,
a study of the hexahedrite meteorite group, and the second, a discussion
of the legendary and probably nonexistent Port Orford, Oreg., meteor-
ite. A study of the metallography of the Bogou, Upper Volta, iron
meteorite was also completed.

During the year Mr. Henderson spent four months in the field in
Australia with Dr. Brian Mason of The American Museum of Natural
History, and Dr. R. O. Chalmers of The Australian Museum. Meteor-
ite material was collected from four well-known Australian craters,
Henbury, Boxhole, Wolf Creek, and Dalgaranga. The Dalgety Downs
meteorite was relocated and nearly 500 pounds of material recovered,
and many fine tektite specimens were also collected. Exchanges ar-
ranged during the stay in Australia, and on the return trip through
the Middle East and Europe, have added a number of fine new speci-
mens to the collection.

In November 1963 Mr. Henderson was awarded the degree of Doctor
philosophiae honoris causa by the University of Bern for his many
contributions to the study of meteorites.

Roy 8S. Clarke, Jr., continued his studies of chemical methods of
meteorite analysis; minor element analyses of several iron meteorites
are in progress. Investigation of an iron oxide corrosion product of a
metal blade from the Freer Gallery collection, conducted in cooperation
with R. J. Gettens and E. W. FitzHugh, proved that this ancient blade
was fabricated from meteoritic iron. A complete chemical analysis of
the mineral phosphophyllite from Bolivia was made.

Tektite studies, particularly relating to the Martha’s Vineyard and
Georgia tektites, are continuing. Mr. Clarke attended the Second
Tnternational Symposium on Tektites in Pittsburgh in September, and
participated in the organization of a fruitful meeting of tektite re-
search workers and representatives of the scientific staff of the Corning
Glass Works held in Corning, New York in February. Henderson
and Clarke visited the Georgia tektite area with Mr. Thomas E. Allen
of Atlanta in March.

In June 1964 a grant was received from the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration to conduct studies of constituents, composi-
tions, and textures of meteorites, and their bearing on theoretical
problems.
100 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Library in new Museum of History and Technology occupies a central
location among fifth-floor curatorial offices.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Science and Technology

Chairman Robert P. Multhauf was principally occupied with a
study of the history of early chemistry, which was nearly complete
at year’s end. During the year Dr. Multhauf presented a paper on
the use of calculating machines in scientific work, and another on
early theories of the nature of metals.

Physical Sciences.—Curator Walter F. Cannon devoted his re-
search time to a continuation of his studies of English scientists of
the early 19th century. He prepared two papers for publication
on the characteristics of physical science in the 19th century. A paper
on the scientific work of William Whewell was prepared at the request
of the editor of the Notes and Records of the Royal Society and will
be published in that journal.

Uta C. Merzbach, associate curator, continued her investigations
of the history of modern algebra, and began a detailed research proj-
ect on the mathematics of Leibniz.

Mechanical and Civil Engineering.—Curator Silvio A. Bedini
toured technical museums and other institutions of learning in Great

3ritain and continental European countries and presented lectures
on 17th-century optical instrument makers at the Astrophysical Ob-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 101

servatory at Arcetri and at the Instituto Nazionale della Ottica of
the University of Florence. He was invited to present a paper on
Giovanni de’Dondi at the University of Padua in October for the
sexcentenary of the astrarium. He has completed a book entitled
“Mechanical Universe” on the de’Dondi astrarium in collaboration
with Francis R. Maddison of the Museum of the History of Science
at Oxford University. This work, which is scheduled for publication
during the present year, is the product of his research in north Italian
archives during his tour of museums and will present a considerable
amount of hitherto unstudied documentary material.

During the past year Mr. Bedini also completed three more articles
about antique scientific instruments in the national collections, one of
which has already been published; a comprehensive investigation of
the invention of the orrery, including study of an unrecorded instru-
ment recently discovered in an American collection; an article on
the evolution of science museums for the special museum issue of
Technology and Culture; and a study of early Italian science museums
for publication in Cultura e Scuola in Rome. In addition to these,
Mr. Bedini has completed an article on Galileo’s preoccupation with
the measurement of time, which will form part of the Saggi, the
memorial volume of Galilean studies to be published by the Consiglio
Nazionale delle Ricerche in Rome; a comparative study of Galileo’s
instruments for the memorial volume of Galilean studies to be pub-
lished by Notre Dame University; and a paper about the craftsmen

Historic machines and patent models illustrate development of type-
writer in hall of light machinery.
102 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Automatic graduating machine of 1859, for linear and circular gradua-
tions, made by J. R. Brown of Providence, R.!., who in 1850 made the
first such device known to have been used in the United States.

who produced the instruments used by Galileo, which will be pre-
sented at the Symposium Internationale di Storia, in Florence and
Pisa in September 1964. In progress is a biography on the Della
Volpaia, a family of engravers, sculptors, clock-makers, engineers and
instrument-makers which flourished in Florence during the 15th and
16th centuries and which made a considerable contribution to science,
technology, and the arts.

In the section of light machinery and horology, associate curator
Edwin A. Battison completed the first draft of a translation of Jacques
Besson’s Theatrum Instrumentarum et Machinarum from the 16th-
century French with the assistance of summer intern Bruce H. White.
Since this work has not been previously available in English, this
translation will be a significant contribution to the history of technol-
ogy. Names of American patentees appearing on subject lists for a
period of three years of the mid-19th century were added to an alpha-
betical card file in progress, making a total of six years now completed.

Associate curator Robert M. Vogel in the section of heavy machinery
and civil engineering, during the course of a study trip to the Midwest,
conducted research on the development of the uniflow steam engine in
the United States. In addition to interviewing numerous individuals
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 103

who were instrumental in the introduction of the uniflow concept into
American engineering practice prior to World War I, Mr. Vogel made
a thorough search of the archives of the Skinner Engine Company,
the leading manufacturer of this type of engine.

Trans portation.—Three trips to Spain were made by curator How-
ard I. Chapelle in connection with the reconstruction of Columbus’
Santa Maria by a Barcelona shipyard for the New York World’s
Fair. At the same time he was able to accomplish research on Span-
ish shipbuilding of the 18th and early 19th centuries, especially with
respect to American colonial shipbuilding and Spanish influence on
their design. Mr. Chapelle has also completed about half the antici-
pated work on his long-range project regarding the search for speed
under sail.

John H. White, Jr., associate curator, has concentrated on his proj-
ect entitled “Representative Locomotives”; about 200 illustrations are
now completed and about a third of the text in first draft.

Museum specialist Donald Berkebile has nearly completed his re-
search on the famous Liberty Truck of World War I.

Electricity.—Curator Bernard S. Finn continued his research into
the history of thermoelectricity, with a view to publishing a source
book of the important historical documents in the field. Information
compiled from trips to Kuropean museums last year and to American
museums this year will be used in an article characterizing the modern
science museum.

Over the past two years a large-scale effort has been made to visit
colleges and universities to find objects for the collections. Toward
this end Dr. Finn made a week’s tour through South Carolina and
Georgia, and Mr. Sivowitch had a fruitful two days in the Philadel-
phia area. Partly as a result of this type of direct searching, the di-
vision has received objects over the past year from fourteen of these
institutions. Important large collections of material have been re-
ceived from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Columbia
University.

Medical Sciences.—Dr. Sami Hamarneh revised a Bibliography of
Medicine and Pharmacy in Medieval Islam for publication in mid-
1964. He also studied the life and literary contributions of the 9th
century physician-philosopher Yaqub al-Kindi. Dr. Hamarneh vis-
ited the University of Wisconsin to inspect and select pharmaceutical
objects of historical significance.

Visiting investigators.—Among the scholars, students, and other
interested individuals who visited the department of science and
technology during the year to use the collections were:

Physical Sciences: Dr. Victor Lenzen, Uniy. of California (outside investigator
interested in instruments for measurement of gravity); Dr. Sigvard Strandh,
104 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Technical Museum, Stockholm (studying Swedish instruments represented in
U.S. National Museum); Major William F. Leubbert, U.S. Military Academy
(studying the use of historical information in teaching the use of computers) ;
Edmund A. Bowles, International Business Machines Corp. (Studying the estab-
lishment of a museum of the history of mathematics) ; Edward McCormick,
National Science Foundation (studying the history of computers); Victor S.
Johnston, Victor Business Machines (studying the history of calculating ma-
chines) ; John Coldman, National Academy of Sciences (studying the biography
of former members of the Naticnal Academy of Sciences) ; Willis Van Devanter,
Upperville, Va. (interested in information on the history of alchemy) ; Robert B.
Lewis, Uniy. of California (establishment of an exhibition of science for teach-
ing purposes) ; Dr. Philip George, Univ. of Pennsylvania (studying the teaching
of the history of science) ; Douglas H. Bedell, the Evening and Sunday Bulletin,
Philadelphia (interested in Philadelphia inventions) ; Richard Perkin, Perkin-
Elmer Corp. (history of astronomical instruments); Raymond Szymanowitz
(studying the biography of Edward Acheson).

Mechanical and Civil Engineering: Preston R. Bassett, Ridgefield, Conn. ;
Prof. William Bassett, Univ. of Rochester; Miss Molly Cooper, Life Science Li-
brary, New York; Prof. Vasco Ronchi, Instituto Nazionale della Ottica, Flor-
ence, Italy; Brother Nivard, Catholic Univ.; Mr. and Mrs. James M. Doubleday,
Ridgefield, Conn.; J. K. Schofield, Pratt & Whitney Corp., East Hartford, Conn. ;
Prof. Derek J. de Solla Price, Yale Univ.; Father William Stenger, Dominican
School, Racine, Wis. ; John P. McNeel, Popular Mechanics Magazine; Mrs. Joseph
F. Carson; Prof. R. J. Hansen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; H.
Badorrek, German Embassy; Rowland Mainstone, Garston, England; Peter S.
Lamb, Stratford-on-Avon, England; Dr. Torsten Althin, former Director of the
Tekniska Museet, Stockholm; M. J. B. Rauck, Deutsches Museum, Munich;
Eugene W. Bolling, Upper Montclair, N.J.; Mrs. William Slater Allen, Provi-
dence, R.I.; Charles 8. Parson, Goffstown, N.H.; Dr. Robert Wildhaber, Swiss
Museum for Folklore and Folk Art, Basel,; D. W. Leverenz, Elgin, Ill.; John
Vernon, London,; A. T. Haendler, Boston Edison Company, Ashland, Mass.;
Alvan Fisher, General Electric Co., Ashland, Mass.; Walter M. Fisk, United Press
International; G. Fritsen, Aarle-Rixtel, Netherlands.

Transportation: Mr. EK. W. Paget-Tomlinson, City of Liverpool Museum, Eng-
land; staff members of the San Francisco Maritime Museum; Frederick <A.
Chapman, Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit, Mich.; Leslie Henry,
Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, Dearborn, Mich.: William E. Swigart,
Swigart Auto Museum, Huntingdon, Pa.; Prof. George Hilton, Univ. of California,
Los Angeles, Calif. (narrow-gauge railways).

Electricity: Miss Brooke Brown (master’s thesis), Fairfax, Va.; Stanley
Golden (master’s thesis), Staten Island, N.Y.; Dr. John C. Fisher and Mr.
Miland Fiske, American Museum of Electricity, Schenectady, N.Y.; Ted Dietrich,
and Col. A. A. Kennedy, Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario: Dr.
George H. yon Fuchs, Belmont, Mass.; Prof. Perry Sprawls, Emory Uniy., At-
lanta, Ga.; H. J. Kostkos, Bell Telephone Laboratories; Alistair G. Thomson,
Royal Scottish Museum, Edinburgh.

Medical Sciences: Medical and pharmaceutical students and educators from
George Washington Uniy., including Dr. Robert Leonard, Dean of the School
of Pharmacy; and 24 German pharmacists visited the division during their tour
of this country.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 105

This 1886 combine is the first built by Benjamin Holt of California, in-
ventor of the caterpillar tractor. It was pulled by 20 horses or mules.

Arts and Manufactures

Manufactures and Heavy Industries.—The acting curator of the
division Philip W. Bishop continued work on the revision of his history
of the Scovill Manufacturing Company. Several trips to Tulsa, Okla-
homa to consult with the subcommittee of the American Petroleum
Institute have resulted in important additions to the exhibition ma-
terials. The acting curator represented the Smithsonian Institution
at the mauguration of Babcock and Wilcox’s new nuclear research
facilities at Lynchburg, Va., in April.

Agriculture and Forest Products.—Associate curator Edward C.
Kendall continued his research into the relationship of early American
plows to those of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries.

Textiles Curator Grace Rogers Cooper completed her monograph
on the Robertson and the Clark Dolphin and Cherub sewing machines
of the 1850’s. Mrs. Cooper continued her study of textile machines
and implements, especially on the use of the spinning wheel in Amer-
ica, and also continued to serve as a technical adviser on textiles to
the Encyclopaedia Britannica. At the end of the year she was in The
Netherlands to study textiles at the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, and to
attend a conference on textile conservation.

Associate curator Rita Adrosko undertook study of American hand-
woven coverlets, and she is completing the photographing and indexing
of all the coverlets in the Museum collection. She visited the Metro-
politan Museum of Art and the Cooper Union Museum to obtain data

744993648
106 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

for her study of early damask linen table linens. Miss Adrosko con-
tinued to study methods of vegetable dyeing, and she completed a
paper for publication on the preparation of a loom for exhibition.

Doris Bowman, museum technician, began a study of early machine-
made net and continued cataloging the Museum’s outstanding collec-
tion of sewing birds and similar clamping devices. Miss Bowman
studied examples of needlework and lace in the collections in the
Philadelphia Art Museum, the Henry Ford Museum, and Colonial
Williamsburg.

Ceramics and Glass.—Paul VY. Gardner, curator of the division,
continued his biography of Frederick Carder, founder of the Steuben
Glass Works.

He visited 64 museums, private collections, and glass factories in 11
European countries from September to December, to evaluate the Syz
porcelain collection; to meet and confer with collector: and museum
people in the ceramics and glass areas of study; and to examine new
exhibit techniques for these objects.

Associate curator J. Jefferson Miller II, continued his projects on
Staffordshire ware and English earthenware for the American market,
and began a study of previously unrecorded historical items of Chinese
export procelain.

Graphic Arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen made field trips to Sarasota,
Fla., Philadelphia, and New York, to obtain material for his study of
the Dutch engraver Hendrick Goltzius (1558-1617).

Fuller O. Griffith, associate curator, examined exhibits and printing
equipment in Boston, Montpelier, Vt., New York, and Philadelphia, in
connection with planning toward a new exhibit of photomechanical
processes.

Associate curator Eugene Ostroff, who directs the work of the section
on photography, has devoted most of his time to the preparation of
exhibits scripts. In this connection he identified unmarked specimens
of photographic equipment, cross-indexing them according to design
and manufacturer. He also visited European museums, fabricators
of photographic equipment, art dealers, photographic galleries, and
private collectors, to acquire apparatus and prints for exhibit purposes.

Visiting investigators.—Of the many visitors and researchers to
the department, the following may be listed:

Arts and Manufactures: Charles H. Rutledge, Textile Fibers Dept., E. I. du
Pont de Nemours and Company, Inc., Wilmington; Robert B. Thornhill, College
of Engineering, Wayne State Univ., Detroit; Miss D. C. Carruthers, Edinburgh ;
Mrs. eae Freedman, American Association of RA Persons, Washington,
D.C.: Mr. CG. Aspin, Lancashire, England; and Mr. Ian M. G. Quimby, Merrimae
Valley Taette Museum, North Andover, Mass.; Mrs. Ingeborg Lyche, Under-
Secretary of Ministry of Church and Education, Norway; Mrs. Rothe, a German
publisher of original prints; Miss Valerie Thornton, a printmaker from Surrey,
England; Sam Rosenberg, to gather information for use on educational televi-
sion; and James L. Wells, Howard Univ.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH NOM

Development of presidential campaigning, 1840 to 1930, including
whistle-stopping and front-porch speeches, is illustrated by this exhibit
in hali of historic Americans.

Civil History

Richard H. Howland, Chairman of the department, spent much of
the early part of the year on the project to remodel parts of the old
Patent Office building into a National Portrait Gallery. The syste-
matic inventory of the contents of Blair House was completed under
his direction in collaboration with the Department of State.

Curator Peter C. Welsh has in press three papers on hand-tools and
he made substantial progress during the year on his catalog of the
Harry T. Peters Lithography Collection.

Mrs. Doris Esch Borthwick, assistant curator, made a study of the
letters of Charles Wilkes to his wife in 1836, during the outfitting of
the U.S. Exploring Expedition. She has also made a preliminary
survey of the museum collections for examples of the scientific instru-
ments purchased by Wilkes for this important American exploration
effort.

Assistant curator Anne Castrodale continued her studies of the diary
of Willham Wood Thackara, a volunteer in the War of 1812, and of
the Philadelphia cabinetmaker Daniel Trotter.
108 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Political History.—Curator Wilcomb Washburn prepared and pre-
sented a paper on law and authority in 17th-century Virginia at a con-
ference on early American history under the joint sponsorship of the
American Antiquarian Society and Clark University. He also par-
ticipated in a conference at Williamsburg, Va., entitled “Arts in Early
American History: Need and Opportunities for Study.” At a sym-
posium dealing with Virginia’s human resources, sponsored by the
Virginia Academy of Sciences, Dr. Washburn presented a paper on the
origins and composition of Virginia’s population in the 17th century.
At the annual meeting of the American Association of State and Local
History meeting jointly with the Society of American Archivists, Dr.
Washburn organized, and participated in, a session on “What’s New
and Effective in Museum Interpretation.”

Mrs. Margaret Klapthor, associate curator, presented lectures to
several groups, mostly with interests in historical aspects of official
Washington and surrounding areas.

Associate curator Keith M. Melder was awarded a doctor of phi-
losophy degree at the end of the year. In continuation of his inter-
ests in the history of women’s rights movements, he completed a paper
on organized women’s benevolence in early 19th-century America.
Dr. Melder also completed a biographical sketch of Josephine 8.
Griffing, a 19th-century reformer; revised his manuscript on “Bryan
the Campaigner”; and continued his long-term investigation of the
Republican presidential campaign of 1896.

Herbert R. Collins, assistant curator, continued his research on
political campaign objects, presidential carriages and automobiles,
and other artifacts associated with former American Presidents.

Cultural History.—Curator C. Malcolm Watkins worked on two
research projects—one, to record by means of text and photographs
a series of 19th-century houses in northern California which reflect
different eastern sources of inspiration; the other study is to record
in photographs and on magnetic tape the traditional pottery-making
techniques which have been practiced in Moore County, N.C. since the
second half of the 18th century.

Associate curator Rodris Roth has enlarged the scope of her study
on the revival of colonial decorative styles in the 19th century and
she now has in preparation a monograph on the subject. She is also
continuing her related study of furniture exhibited at the Phila-
delphia Centennial Exhibition of 1876.

Associate curator John N. Pearce and archeological aide Richard J.
Muzzrole represented the Smithsonian at a second 10-day archeo-
logical investigation of the site on which stood the New Bremen
Glassworks in Frederick County, Md. The excavations revealed a
Room from 18th-century adobe dwelling, from area of Santa Fe,
N. Mex., illustrates blending of Spanish and Indian building charac-
teristics in hall of everyday life in the American past.

complex foundation structure indicating that this was a typical Ger-
manic glass-house of the 18th century. Mr. Pearce also is continuing
his research on a family of cabinetmakers; and he presented several
lectures to historic organizations.

Associate curator Cynthia Adams Hoover completed a paper, ‘The
Shde Trumpet of the 19th Century,” and is now working on a study
of the life of John T. Norton, a slide trumpet player in the United
States during the second quarter of the 19th century. In November
she presented a paper, “Ornamentation in the Performance of
Renaissance Music,” before the Greater Washington area of the Amer-
ican Musicological Society meeting at the Smithsonian. She was
elected chairman of this group and was also chosen member of the
committee on historic instruments, Music Teachers National
Association.
The Stohlman Confectioner’s Shop, a famous Georgetown, D.C., land-
mark from the period 1900-1910. Closed in 1957, its furnishings are
preserved in the hall of everyday life in the American past.

Philately and Postal History.—Associate curator Carl Scheele, has
continued his project of compiling an outline history of Colonial
Posts in North America. He has also presented talks to various phila-
telic groups.

Numismatics.—Curator V. Clain-Stefanelli completed a research
study on a mission from Peru which came to Philadelphia to obtain
modern equipment for the Lima mint, and the striking in 1855 of
pattern coins for Peru. He has also submitted for publication a
paper on “A New Quarter Shekel of the First Year of the Jewish
War.” Dr. Stefanelli was invited to be an official guest of Israel
in June—July 1963 to lecture and to study recently developed exhibit
techniques. He also visited museums and private collections in Greece,
The Netherlands, Belgium, and England to study coins and the history
of coining techniques.

Mrs. E. Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator, studied ancient Greek
coinage of Messina at the British Museum, at Oxford and Cambridge,
and in The Hague. While in Israel in 1965 as an official guest of
the government she lectured on various topics.

Visiting investigators.—The following visitors received assistance
in their study of the collections:
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH WALL

Cultural History: Donald K. Paterson, president, Organ Historical Society ;
Edward Croft-Murray, British Museum; Laurence Thurman, Old Economy, Pa. ;
Edward Larrabee, Fortress of Louisburg Restoration, Nova Scotia ; Scott Symons,
Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto; H. J. Swinney, Director, Idaho Historical
Society, Boise; Charles Oman, Victoria & Albert Museum, London; Mrs. H. K.
Hammitt, American Museum in Britain, Bath; Donald Shelley, Henry Ford
Museum, Dearborn, Mich.; Paul N. Perrot, Corning Museum of Glass, Corning,
N.Y.; John Graham, Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., Williamsburg, Va.; Charles F.
Montgomery and six Winterthur Fellows in American Civilization and Culture,
Henry Francis du Pont Winterthur Museum ; Robert Wildhaber, Schweizerisches
Museum fiir Volkskunde, Basel; William H. Glover, Shaker Community, Ine.,
Hancock, Mass.; Sylvia Soublette and Irene Siburcon, Santiago, Chile; Ernst
Branziger, Walter Bianchi, and Klaus Every, Herisau, Switzerland; Sir Jack
Westrup, Oxford Uniy., England.

Numismatics: Herbert J. Hrlanger and Don Taxay, New York City, Leonid
Sodermann, Helsinki; Erich Cahn, Basel; Itzhak Avni, Jerusalem.

Philately and Postal History: A. M. Dickie, Alhambra, Calif.; Ellery Denison,
Takoma Park, Md.; Mrs. Harvey VanDyke, Treasure Island, Fla.; Robert M.
Leard, Arcadia, Calif.; Leonard Dulberg, Arthur Hecht, and O. E. Lancaster,
Washington, D.C.; Gale W. Allen, McLean, Va.; Melvin Ricks, Juneau, Alaska ;
I’. Raymond Stillwell, Takoma Park, Md.; Colin McP. Makepeace, Providence,
R.I.

Political History: Miss Minilou Hoetink, Historisches Mueums, Rotterdam,
Holland; Mrs. Stefania P. Holt, Los Angeles County Museum of Art; Miss
Margaret T. Hall, Wilmington, N.C.; Mrs. Albert B. Greene, Washington, D.C.;
Mrs. Laurence Gouverneur Hoes, Fredericksburg, Va.

Armed Forces History

Chairman Mendel L. Peterson continued his investigation of two
underwater archeological sites in Bermuda.

Military History.—Curator Edgar M. Howell and museum special-
ist Donald M. Kloster continued work on a critical and descriptive
catalog of United States Army uniforms in the national collections.
Mr. Kloster also completed a short manuscript on quartermaster badges
in the Civil War. Mr. Howell completed a descriptive catalog of the
World War I paintings of Harvey Dunn, and continued his study
of eyewitness art of the Indian Wars.

During the Third Congress of the Association of Museums of Arms
and Military History, at which he was a delegate, associate curator
Craddock R. Goins, Jr., examined several weapons collections in
England, Scotland, and Denmark. From these collections he obtained
information pertaining to the Hall and Maynard breech-loading
systems.

Naval History.—Curator Philip K. Lundeberg continued his re-
search on the Continental gondola Philadelphia and the Northern
Campaign of 1776. Dr. Lundeberg secured valuable data from the
Public Records Office in London relative to British plans for the in-
vasion of New York, and additional illustrative material was obtained,
112 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

including a reproduction of a contemporary watercolor sketch of the
battle of Valcour Island by a British 18th-century combat artist. Re-
search was also launched on the memorandum book of Samuel Nutt,
a British seaman who kept a most informative journal while serving
on board HMS America, 1779-1783.

Following publication of his paper “The German Naval Critique of
the U-Boat Campaign, 1915-1918,” which was awarded the Moncado
Prize of the American Military Institute, Dr. Lundeberg initiated a
study of the impact of technology upon the naval strategy of World
War I, with particular emphasis on undersea warfare.

Dr. Lundeberg has continued work on a catalog of the growing
national collection of models of historic United States warships; much
of the information currently is being utilized for completion of the
models themselves. Extensive research was carried out in connection
with plans for models of the frigate Constitution and the torpedo boat
Cushing, while a check list of selected ship plans in the divisional
archives has been completed and will be shortly available to the public.

During the year, associate curator Melvin H. Jackson completed
the first draft of his maritime history of the Caribbean, 1793-1800,
based partly on archival materials in Jamaica and Curacao. Further
research is planned in France, The Netherlands, Spain and Great
Britain. Closely allied to these studies is his search for objects and
documents illustrative of the history of privateering. With the co-
operation of the curator of transportation, Howard I. Chapelle, re-
vised plans of the schooner Prince de Neufchatel have been com-
pleted preparatory to the construction of a model of that handsome
privateer.

The history of the United States Revenue Marine continued as a
major element of Dr. Jackson’s research program. A reassessment
of the battle of Negro Head in 1814, involving the Revenue cutter
Eagle, H. M. Sloop Dispatch and H. M. Frigate Varcissus, was pub-
lished in the spring of 1964. Wide-ranging research was conducted
into the history of the celebrated Revenue cutter Bear in preparation
for construction of a model representing that vessel as she appeared
between 1880 and 1900.

In the field of naval ordnance, Dr. Jackson undertook the com-
pletion of a manuscript by the late Colonel Carey Tucker of Maryland
on the history of muzzle-loading ordnance in the United States. Ad-
ditional research was carried out in connection with construction of
models of the 8-inch barbette battery of the USS A¢/anta, the 10-inch
turret of the USS J/aine and a Terrier missile launcher, while data
were collected also for graphic representation of a 16-inch naval
turret.
Taking-off the hull lines of Continental gondola Philadelphia, in order
to make a lines drawing, is a step in the process of preserving this
famous vessel and building a model of it.

Exhibits specialist Howard P. Hoffman of the divison of naval his-
tory conducted an exhaustive survey of the Continental gondola Phila-
delphia, preparing detailed plans of the vessel and her armament as
the basis for construction of a large-scale model. He also conducted
extended research on David Bushnell’s submarine 7urt/e, draughting
plans for a longitudinal-section model of that early submersible.

Alan B. Albright, museum specialist, completed a paper on the
preservation of organic materials recovered from underwater sites;
publication is expected during the year.

In July and August, Chairman Peterson and museum specialist
Albright investigated two underwater sites in Bermuda through the
cooperation of Mr. E. B. Tucker and the Government of Bermuda.
During the diving season of 1964, a full-scale expedition will be
mounted to be financed by two generous supporters of the underwater
program. This expedition will investigate thoroughly the early Span-
ish wreck site which was given a preliminary investigation last year.
This site, believed to date from the 1560’s contains large portions of
the ship’s bottom timbers. Special measuring devices designed by
Howard P. Hoffman and James Mahoney of the museum staff, modi-
fied and built by William Sonntag of the buildings management de-
partment, are expected to give accurate measurements of these early
timber remains. The resulting drawings should be of importance
to historians of naval architecture.
114 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Visiting investigators.—Assistance was provided to other Govern-
ment agencies throughout the year. Among those so assisted were
the National Institute of Heraldry, of the Office, Chief of Military
History; Historical Division and Technical Intelligence, Office, Chief
of Ordnance, Department of the Army; Prints Division and General
Reference Service, Library of Congress; Army and Air Force Branch,
National Archives; and Division of Naval History and Records, De-
partment of the Navy.
Publications

The scientific publications of the United States National Museum
continued under the editorship of John S. Lea.

In addition to the annual report, the Museum issued publications
based on research in the national collections. Of these, 5 whole vol-
umes were in the Bulletin series, 16 publications were in the Pro-
ceedings series, and 4 were in the Contributions from the National
Herbarium.

At the close of the year, 14 Proceedings papers, 4 Contributions
from the National Herbarium, and the following bulletins were in
press :

82, vol. 1, part 5. A monograph of the existing crinoids, the Comatulids,
suborders Oligophreata and Macrophreata, by Austin Hobart Clark and
Ailsa McGown Clark.

161, part + (end of volume). The formation of the tropical Pacific collections of
the Albatross, 1899-1900, by Ruth Todd.

229. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 31-33,
by members of the staff.

Paper 32. Numismatics: An ancient science. A survey of its history, by
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli.
Paper 33. Italian coin engravers since 1800, by Elvira Clain-Stefanelli.

230. The bark canoes and skin boats of North America, by Howard I. Chapelle
and Edwin Tappan Adney

231. Early American mathematical instruments and their makers, by Silvio A.
Bedini.

237, part 1. Life histories of North American cardinals, grosbeaks, buntings,
finches, sparrows, towhees, and allies, by Arthur Cleveland Bent, Oliver L.
Austin, Wendell Taber, and collaborators.

238. The engineering experiences (1815-1840) of George Escol Sellers, edited
by Eugene S. Ferguson.

239. The Recent Mollusca of Augustus Addison Gould, by Richard I. Johnson.

240. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 34-44,
by members of the staff and others.

Paper 34. ‘The 1893 Duryea automobile, by Donald H. Berkebile.

Paper 35. The Borghesi astronomical clock, by Silvio A. Bedini.

Paper 36. The engineering contributions of Wendel Bollman, by Robert M.
Vogel.

Paper 37. Screw-thread cutting by the master-screw method since 1480,
by E. A. Battison.

Paper 38. The earliest electromagnetic instruments, by Robert A. Chipman.

Paper 39. Fulton’s “steam battery”: Blockship and catamaran, by How-
ard I. Chapelle.

Paper 40. History of Phosphorus, by Edward Farber.

Paper 41. Tunnel engineering—a museum treatment, by Robert M. Vogel.

Paper 42. The “Pioneer”: Light passenger locomotive of 1851, by John
H. White.

Paper 43. History of the Division of Medical Sciences, by Sami Hamarneh.

Paper 44. Development of gravity pendulums in the 19th century, by Vic-
tor F. Lenzen and Robert P. Multhauf.

115
116 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

241. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 45-—
52, by members of the staff and others.
Paper 45. Political campaign torches, by Herbert B. Collins.
Paper 46. Bryan the campaigner, by Keith Melder.
Paper 47. Presentation silver, by Margaret Klapthor.
Paper 48. United States patents, 1790-1870: New uses for old ideas, by
Peter C. Welsh.
Paper 49. Floor coverings in 18th century America, by Rodris Roth.
Paper 50. Dolley Madison and Benjamin Latrobe redecorate the White
House, 1809-1811, by Margaret Klapthor.
Paper 51. Red Cross ambulance of 1898, by Herbert B. Collins.
Paper 52. White House china of the Lincoln Administration, by Margaret
Klapthor.
Paper 53. Excavations at Tutter’s Neck in James City County, Virginia,
1960-1961, by Ivor Noél Hume.
Paper 54. Excavations at Clay Bank in Gloucester County, Virginia, 1962—
1963, by Ivor Noél Hume.
242. Tanning in the United States to 1850: A brief history, by Peter C. Welsh.
243. Lacebugs of the world: Catalog of the family Tingidae (Hemiptera), by
C. J. Drake and Florence Ruhoff.

Publications reported by the staff, including honorary members,
totaled 253. These, listed on pages 118 to 129, were distributed as
follows:

Publi- Publi-
Department cations | Department cations
PNMANROOONOPAY 5 Go os 2 0 60 bo 6 0 30 | Science and Technology ....... 13
LOO LY os fens la ve ese on awl guia GP Civil! HEbiStonyi cee tices Oe 21
IBOLT ee oe vagleseser tod de ee eee ete theo 54] Arts and Manufactures ....... 8
Mineral Sciences. ........... 2|Armed Forces History ........ a
LEAUKG COUR ON o'uolo 6 oo gio 8 Gare 610 13
TDINOUNOIOAY 5560.66.56 60.0 0 00 ¢ 38 TOA. jel owes hkueoe, SO ee

Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1963 through June 1964

REPORT

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1968. Pp. viii+226, illustr., January 23, 1964.

BULLETINS

226. Checklist of the birds of Thailand, by Herbert G. Deignan, Pp. x+2638, 1
fig., December 31, 1963.

227, part 1. Marine polychaete worms of the New England region: 1. Families
Aphroditidae through Trochochaetidae, by Marian H. Pettibone. Pp. v+3856,
83 figs., November 5, 1963.

234. Cephalopods of the Philippine Islands, by Gilbert L. Voss. Pp. v-+180, 4 pls.,
36 figs., August 27, 1963.

236. Free-living Copepoda from Ifaluk Atoll in the Caroline Islands with notes
on related species, by Willem Vervoort. Pp. ix-+481, 151 figs., June 30, 1964.
PUBLICATIONS ILI

244. Bagworm moths of the Western Hemisphere (Lepidoptera: Psychidae), by
Donald R. Davis. Pp. v-+233, 12 maps, 385 figs., June 1, 1964.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE NATIONAL HERBARIUM

FroM VOLUME 32

Part 4. The genus Dussia (Leguminosae), by Velva E. Rudd. Pp. iii+-247-277,
11 figs., November 4, 1963.

FrRoM VOLUME 34

Part 2. The woods and flora of the Florida Keys: Capparaceae, by William L.
Stern, George K. Brizicky, and Francisco N. Tamolang. Pp. 25-48, 7 pls.,
November 4, 1963.

FROM VOLUME 36

Part 38. The Lichen family Graphidaceae in Mexico, by Michael Wirth and Mason
E. Hale, Jr. Pp. 63-119, 82 figs., December 6, 1963.

FROM VOLUME 38

Part 1. A revision of Trichantha (Gesneriaceae), by Conrad V. Morton. Pp. 1-27,
October 9, 1963.

PROCEEDINGS

FroM VOLUME 115

No. 3476. Additional information on the morphology of an embryo whale shark,
by J. A. F. Garrick. Pp. 1-7, 4 pls., February 28, 1964.

No. 3477. Notes on new and old species of Alticinae (Coleoptera) from the West
Indies, by Doris H. Blake. Pp. 9-29, 25 figs., February 28, 1964.

No. 3478. Asteroidea of the Blue Dolphin expeditions to Labrador, by E. H.
Grainger. Pp. 31-46, 4 figs., February 28, 1964.

No. 3479. Moths of the genus Rhabdatomis Dyar (Arctiidae: Lithosiinae), by
William D. Field. Pp. 47-60, 6 pls. (33 figs.), February 28, 1964.

No. 3480. Neotropical Microlepidoptera, III. Restriction of Gonionota melo-
baphes Walsingham with descriptions of new species (Lepidoptera : Oecopho-
ridae), by J. F. Gates Clarke. Pp. 61-83, 3 pls. (1 color), 7 figs., March 17,
1964.

No. 3481. Chironomid midges of California. II. Tanypodinae, Podonominae, and
Diamesinae, by James H. Sublette, Pp. 85-135, 7 figs., February 28, 1964.

No. 3482. Caligoid copepods (Crustacea) of the Hawaiian Islands: parasitic on
fishes of the family Acanthuridae, by Alan G. Lewis. Pp. 137-244, 24 figs.,
February 28, 1964.

No. 3483. Notes on Aradidae in the U.S. National Museum. III. Subfamily
Mezirinae (Hemiptera), by Nicholas A. Kormilev. Pp. 245-258, 7 figs., Febru-
ary 28, 1964.

No. 3484. A generic revision of the leafhopper subfamily Neocoelidiinae (Homop-
tera: Cicadellidae), by James P. Kramer. Pp. 259-287, 114 figs., March 17,
1964.

No. 3485. A review of the North American moths of the family Walshiidae
(Lepidoptera: Gelechioidea), by Ronald W. Hodges. Pp. 289-329, 66 figs.,
March 17, 1964.

No. 5486. American species of the lacebug genus Acalypta (Hemiptera : Tingidae),
by Carl J. Drake and John D. Lattin. Pp. 331-345, 15 pls., December 31, 1963.

No. 3487. The caligid copepod genus Dentigryps (Crustacea: Caligoida), by Alan
G. Lewis. Pp. 347-880, 13 figs., March 17, 1964.

No. 3488. A new Brazilian moth of the genus Gonioterma with notes on related
species (Lepidoptera : Stenomidae), by W. Donald Duckworth. Pp. 381-389,
3 figs., March 17, 1964.
118

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1964

No. 3489. Seven new amphipods from the west coast of North America with notes

on some unusual species, by Ciarence R. Shoemaker.

March 17, 1964.

Pp. 391-429, 15 figs.,

No. 3490. Shrimps of the genus Betaews on the Pacific coast of North America with

descriptions of three new species, by Josephine F. L. Hart.

2 pls., 80 figs., February 28, 1964.

Pp. 431-466,

No. 3491. Notes on some nearctic Psychomyiidae with special reference to their

larvae (Trichoptera), by Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

28, 1964.

Pp. 467-481, 5 figs., February

Publication by Members of the Staff
of the
United States National Museum

July 1963 through June 1964

Alvarez Lépez, Enrique, and Cuatreca-
sas, José. El género Theobroma en la
“Flora Peruviana et Shilensis” de
Ruiz y Pavon. Ciencia, Mexico, vol.
22, no. 4, pp. 85-92, 2 pls., May..1968.

Angel, J. Lawrence. The reaction area
of the femoral neck. Clinical Ortho-
paedics, vol. 32, pp. 1380-142, 1964.

Becklund, Willard W. Lamanema cha-
vesi gen. n., sp. n. and Nematodirus
lamae sp. n. (Nematoda: Tricho-
strongylidae) from the alpaca, Lama
pacos, and the vicuna, Vicugna vicu-
gna, in Peru. Journ. Parasitol., vol.
49, no. 4, pp. 1023-1027, 14 figs., De-
cember 1963.

Bedini, Silvio A. The scent of time.
Trans. Amer. Philos. Soe., vol. 58,
part 5, pp. 1-51, 45 illus., August 1963.

The role of automata in the his-

tory of technology. Tech. and Cult.

vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 9-42, 18 illus., winter

1964.

Galileo Galilei and time measure-
ment. Physis, vol. 5, fase. 2, pp. 145—-
165, 5 illus., 1963.

Holy smoke, the Oriental fire
clocks. New Scientist, vol. 21, no. 880,
pp. 5387-539, 6 February 27,
1964.

illus.,

Seventeenth century Italian com-
pound microscopes. Physis, vol. 5,
fase. 4, pp. 883-422, 20 illus., 1965.

Thomas Jefferson, clock designer.
Proce. Philos. Soc., no. 108, part 3, pp.
3-37, 15 illus., June 28, 1964.

The Dentzel brothers of Ulm.
Physis, vol. 6, fase. 1, pp. 12-23, 9
illus., 1964.

La Clessidra cilindrica a scom-
partimenti. Clessidra, Anno XIX, no.
6, pp. 29-35, 8 illus., June 1963, part
2 of 4; no. 7, pp. 15-22, 12 illus., July
1963, part 3 of 4; no. 8, pp. 21-26, 8
illus., August 1963, part 4 of 4.

Blake, Doris H. Notes on new and old
species of Alticinae (Coleoptera) from
the West Indies. U.S. Nat.
Mus., vol. 115, no. 3477, 25 figs., pp. 9-

Proc.

29, February 1964.
Bowman, Thomas E. An _ arostrate
population of the copepod Acartia

lilljeborgii Giesbrecht (Calanoida:
from St. Lucia, West

Crustaceana, vol. 7, no.

Acartiidae )
Indies. 2,
1964.

, Meyers, Caldwell, D., and Hicks,

Steacy D. Notes on associations be-

tween hyperiid amphipods and me-
dusae in Chesapeake and Narragan-
sett Bays and the Niantic River.
Chesapeake Sci., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 141—
146, 2 figs., 19638.
PUBLICATIONS

Bunting, George S., and Nicolson, Dan
H. The Alocasia plumbea confusion.
Baileya, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 142-146, De-
cember 1963.

Campbell, John M. Arctic. Current re-
search. Jn American Antiquity, vol.
29, no. 2, p. 256, October 1968; no. 4,
pp. 535-539, April 1964.

Ancient Alaska and Paleolithic
Europe. Jn Karly man in the western
American Arctic. Anthrop. Pap. Univ.
Alaska, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 29-49, 1963.

Carriker, M. A., Jr. On some Mallo-
phaga from Trinidad, W.I. and Brit-
ish Guiana in the collections of the
British Museum (Natural History).
Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 13, vol. 5,
pp. 449-483, 57 figs., March 1963.

New and little known Mallo-

phaga from Venezuelan birds (part

II). Mem. Soe. Cienc. Nat. La Salle,

vol. 23, no. 64, pp. 5-42, 10 pls., April

1963.

Neotropical Mallophaga  (In-
secta) Miscellany No. 18. Rey. Bra-
sileira Biol., vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 293-316,
32 figs., October 1963.

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. Art in coin-
age. The Numismatist, vol. 76, no. 12,
pp. 1635-1638, December 1963.

Mottoes on coins and their signif-
icance. Journ. Middle Atlantic Nu-
mismatie Assoe., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 7-11,
1964.

Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. New quar-
ter-shekel of the first Jewish war
against the Romans. Amer, Journ.
Arch., vol. 68, p. 193, 1964.

A few thoughts about numis-

matics. Journ. Middle Atlantic Nu-

mismatic Assoe., vol. 7, pp. 4-5, 1963.

Genuine or false? The applica-

tion of X-ray fluorescence analysis in

the authentication of coins. Journ.

Middle Atlantic Numismatic Assoc.,

vol. 7, pp. 16-17, 1963.

From barter to banking.

ing, vol. 56, p. 194, 1968.

Hall of Monetary History and

Medallic Art, Smithsonian Institu-

tion, Washington, D. C. Museum,

vol. 15, pp. 191-194, illustrated with

French translation, pp. 194-196, 1962.

Bank-

119

Clarke, J. F. Gates. Butterflies. Golden
Press, New York, pp. 1-68, 187 figs.,
October 1963.

—-- Neotropical Microlepidoptera,
Ill. Restriction of Gonionota melo-
baphes Walsingham with descrip-
tions of new species (Lepidoptera:
Oecophoridae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 115, no. 3480, pp. 61-83, 3 pls., 7
figs., March 1964.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr.
Paul EF.)

Cochran, Doris M., and Goin, Coleman
J. Two new genera of leptodactylid
frogs from Colombia. Proc. Califor-
nia Acad. Sci., vol. 31, no. 17, pp. 499-
505, 2 figs., December 1963.

Cooper, Grace Rogers. Watkins Mill re-
visited. Mus. News, vol. 42, no. 1, pp.
11-15, September 1963.

James Hargreaves. HEneyclopae-
dia Britannica, vol. 11, p. 102, 1964.

Cowan, R. S. Correct name of the pow-
der-puff tree. Baileya, vol. 11, pp. 94—
98, September 1963.

Crabill, Ralph E., Jr. A preliminary
review of Zelanophilus with descrip-
tion of a new species. Psyche, vol.
70, no. 3, pp. 164-169, September 1963.

A. new interpretation and rede-

seription of a bizarre New Zealand

ecentipede, Australiophilus ferrugi-

neus (Hutton). Ent. News, vol. 74,

no. 10, pp. 265-274, December 1963.

On the true nature of Schizo-

taenia with notes on contingent mat-

ters. Ent. News, vol. 75, no. 2, pp.

33-42, February 1964.

A preliminary review of J/aori-
ella, with description of a new species
from the Chatham Islands. Ent.
News, vol. 75, no. 4, pp. 85-97, April
1964.

Crocker, William H. Extramarital
sexual practices of the Ramkokame-
kra-Canela Indians: an analysis of
socio-cultural factors. In Beitriige zur
Volkerkunde Stidamerikas, Festgabe
fiir Herbert Baldus zum 65 Geburt-
stag, edit. Hans Becher, Volkerkund-
liche Abhandlungen, Band I, Des
Niedersichsischen Landesmuseums

(See Desautels,

120

Abteilung fiir V6lkerkunde, Hann-

over, Germany, pp. 25-35, 1964.

Ethnology : South America.
Handbook of Latin American Studies,
No. 25 (1962), Univ. of Florida Press,
pp. 40-50, 1963.

Cuatrecasas, José. Una impresién per-
sonal de Paul Standley. Jn L. O.
Williams, Homage to Standley, pp. 88,
89, 1963.

(See Alvarez Lépez, Enrique)

Davis, D. R. Bagworm moths of the
Western Hemisphere (Lepidoptera :
Psychidae). U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull.
244, 233 pp., 12 maps, 385 figs., June
1964.

Deignan, Herbert G. Checklist of the

Birds of Thailand, U.S. Nat. Mus.
Bull. 226, 263 pp., 1963.
——. The Timaliinae and allies. In

Peters’ Check-List of Birds of the

World, vol. X, pp. 240-442, 1964.

A new race of the Alpine Accen-

tor, Prunella collaris from Formosa.

Bull. Brit, Orn. Club, vol. 84, pp. 39-

40, February 1964.

Birds in the tropical Pacific.
Paper presented at the 10th Pacific
Sci. Cong., 1961, Bishop Mus. Press,
1968.

— and Watson, George E. Birds
taken by U.S. Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 2 on Taiwan and its off-
shore islands, 1957-1962. U.S. Naval
Med. Unit No. 2, 13 pp., October 1963.

Desautels, Paul E., and Clarke, Roy S.,
Jr. Re-examination of legrandite.
Amer. Mineral., vol. 48, pp. 1258-1265,
1963.

Dobkin, Sheldon, and Manning, Ray-
mond B. Osmoregulation in two
species of Palaemonetes (Crustacea:
Decapoda) from Florida. Bull. Mar.
Sci. Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 14, no.
1, pp. 149-157, fig. 1, 1964.

Dorr, J. A., and Kauffman, E. G. Rip-
pled toroids from the Napoleon Sand-

Member (Mississippian) of
Southern Michigan. Journ. Sedimen.
Petrol., vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 751-758,
September 19638.

Drake, C. J.

strider

stone

A new Neotropical water-

(Hemiptera : Gerridae).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1964

Journ. Kansas Ent. Soe., vol. 36, pp.
93-95, 1 fig., April 1963.

New shorebugs from Central
Africa (Hemiptera : Saldidae).
Rey. Zool. Bot. Africa, vol. 67, pp.
1+4, March 1963.

New lacebugs from the Hastern

Hemisphere. Great Basin Natural-
ist, vol. 238, pp. 149-158, 5  figs.,
December 1963.

and Chapman, H. C. A new

genus and species of water-strider

from California (Hemiptera: Macro-

veliidae). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 76, pp. 227-234, December

1963.

and Lattin, J. D. American
species of the lacebug genus Acalypta
(Hemiptera: Tingidae). Proc. U.S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3486, pp. 331-
345, 15 pls., December 1963.

— and Livingstone, D. Two new
species of lacebugs from India
(Hemiptera: Tingidae). Great
Basin Naturalist, vol. 24, pp. 27-380,
March 1964.

Duckworth, W. D. A new Brazilian
moth of the genus Gonioterma with
notes on related species (Lepidoptera :
Stenomidae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 115, no. 3488, pp. 381-389, 3 figs.,
March 1964.

Dunkle, David H. Norman H. Boss
[Obituary]. Soc. Vert. Paleont. News
Bull. no. 69, p. 28, October 1963.

Activities of the Division of Ver-
tebrate Paleontology. Soc. Vert.
Paleont. News Bull. no. 70, p. 19, Feb-
ruary 1964; no. 71, pp. 18-19, June
1964.

Emerson, K. C. A new species of Mal-
lophaga from Malaya. Journ. Kan-
sas Ent. Soc., vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 4-5,
January 1964.

Two new species of Mallophaga
Tasmania. Journ. Ent.

Queensland, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 80-81,

January 1964.

Checklist of the Mallophaga of

North America (North of Mexico),

Part I, Suborder Ischnocera, pp. 1-171

[Dugway Proving Ground, Utah],

March 1964.

from Soe.

PUBLICATIONS

North America (North of Mexico),
Part II, Suborder Amblycera, pp.
1-104 [Dugway Proving Ground,
Utah], April 1964.

A new species of Mallophaga

from the blackbilled cuckoo. Ent.

News, vol. 75, no. 3, pp. 69-71, March

1964.

and Stojanovich, C. J. Two new
species of Mallophaga from Asia, Ent.
News, vol. 74, no. 10, pp. 261-264, De-
cember 19638.

Ernst, Wallace R. The genera of Ber-
beridaceae, Lardizabalaceae, and
Menispermaceae in the southeastern
United States. Journ. Arnold Arb.,
vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 1-85, 2 figs., Janu-
ary 1964.

Evans, Clifferd. Lowland South Amer-
ica. In Prehistoric Man in the New
World, edit. Jesse D. Jennings and
Edward Norbeck. Published for
William Marsh Rice University by

Checklist of the Mallophaga of | ——.

121

Plains Indians (signed article).
Encyclopedia Americana, vol. 22, pp.
147-148, 1964.

Hyde, Richard H., and Barghoorn, Elso
S. Morphological and paleobotanical
_ Studies of the Nyssaceae, II. The fos-
sil record. Journ. Arnold Arb., vol.
44, no. 3, pp. 328-376, July 1963.

——. A Shoreorylon and two other
Tertiary woods from the Garo Hills,
Assam. Palaeobotanist, vol. 11, pp.
115-121, 1962 [1963].

Typification of Nyssa aquatica

L. Taxon, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 129-132,

May 1964.

(See Stern, William L.)

Field, William D. Moths of the genus
Khabdatomis Dyar (Arctiidae: Litho-
siinae). Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
115, no. 3479, pp. 47-60, 6 pls. (33
figs.), February 1964.

Finn, Bernard S. Laplace and the speed
of sound. ISIS, vol. 55, no. 179, pp.
7-19, March 1964.

University of Chicago Press, pp. 419-| Flint, Oliver S., Jr. The species of

450, 1964.

and Meggers, Betty J. (contribut-

ing editors) Archeology : South Amer-

ica (except Colombia and Venezu-
ela). In Handbook of Latin Ameri-
can Studies, No. 25, Univ. of Florida

Press, pp. 26-34, 1963.

(See Meggers, Betty.)

Ewers, John C. Blackfoot Indians
(signed article). Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica, vol. 3, pp. 748-744. 1963.

Blackfoot Indian Pipes and

Pipemaking. Bur. Amer. Ethnol.

Bull. 186, Anthrop. Pap. No. 64, pp.

29-60, pls. 20-27, 1963.

George Catlin, Carl Bodmer,

Plains Indian Drawing and Painting.

In Catlin-Bodmer-Miller Exhibition

Catalog, pp. 8-10, 12-15, 32-33. Illus.

Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebras-

ka, 1963.

Iroquois Indians in the Far

West. Montana, The Magazine of

Western History, vol. XIII, no. 2, pp.

2-10, 9 pls., 1963.

Backstage at the Smithsonian.

Civil Service Journ., vol. 4, no. 4, pp.

14-15, 6 pls., April-June 1964.

744-993—- 64 9

Limnephilus from Central America
and Haiti. Proc. Ent. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 65, pp. 211-213, 3 figs., Sep-
tember 1963.

The Odonata collection of the

United States National Museum,

Smithsonian Institution. Selysia, vol.

1, no. 2, pp. 1, 4-5, November 1963.

New species and new state rec-

ords of Sialis (Neuroptera: Sialidae).

Ent. News, vol. 85, pp. 9-13, 11 figs.,

January 1964.

Notes on some Nearctie Psycho-

myiidae with special reference to

their larvae (Trichoptera). Proce.

U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 115, no. 3491, pp.

467-481, 5 figs., February 1964.

Two species of Limnephilidae
new to North America (Trichoptera).
Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 66,
p. 60, March 1964.

Friedmann, Herbert. Science museums
in retrospect and prospect. Western
Mus. Quart., vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 1-5.

The western foundation of ver-

tebrate zoology. Los Angeles Co.

Mus. Alliance Quart., vol. 2, no. 1, pp.

8-9.
NATIONAL MUSEUM

122 U.S.

Morphological data on two sib-
ling species of small honey-guides.
Los Angeles Co. Mus. Contr. Sci., no.

79, pp. 1-5.

— —. Symposium on ‘The Curator’;
Introduction. Curator, vol. 4, pp.
280-281.

Gardner, Paul V. Glass at the Smith-
sonian Institution. Jn Clubwoman,
December 1963.

Great glass from American col-
lections. Jn Antiques Mag., February
1964.

Garrick, J. A. F. Additional informa-
tion on the morphology of an embryo
whale shark. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 115, no. 3476, pp. 1-7, 4 pls., Feb-
ruary 1964.

——, Backus, Richard H., and Gibbs,
Robert H., Jr. Carcharhinus flori-
danus, the silky shark, a synonym of
C. falciformis. Copeia, no. 2, pp. 1-8,
1964.

and Schultz, Leonard P. A guide
to the kinds of potentially dangerous
sharks. Jn Sharks and Survival, D.C.
Heath and Co., Boston, pp. 3-60, figs.
1-33, February 1964.

Gazin, C. Lewis. Paleocene mammals
from the Denver Basin, Colorado.
Rocky Mountain Assoc. of Geologists
Guidebook on Geology of the northern
Denver Basin and adjacent uplifts,
1963 Field Conf., pp. 167-169, 2 figs.
1963.

Activities of the Division of Ver-
tebrate Paleontology. Soc. Vert.
Paleont. News Bull. No. 69, pp. 12-18,
October 1963.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr.

Cyprinid fishes of the subgenus

Cyprinella of Notropis. The Notropis

whipplei-analostanus-chloristius com-

plex. Copeia, no. 3, pp. 511-528, 1963.

(See Garrick, J. A. F.)

Gibson, Gordon D. Herero. Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, vol. 11, p. 429, 1964.

Goin, Coleman J. (See Cochran, Doris
M.)

Hale, Mason E., Jr. The chemical
strains of Usnea strigosa. The Bry-
ologist, vol. 65, no. 4, pp. 291-294,
1962.

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

——. Populations of chemical strains
in the lichen Cetraria ciliaris. Brit-
tonia, vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 126-133, 1963.

——, The systematic position of Par-
melia albaita Wils. The Bryologist,
vol. 66, no. 2, pp. 71-74, 1963.

(See Wirth, Michael)

Hamarneh, Sami K. The first recorded
appeal for unification of weight and
measure standards in Arabie medi-
cine. Physis, vol. 5, fase. 3, pp. 230—-
248, 1963.

—— and Sonnedecker, Glenn. A
pharmaceutical view of Abulcasis al-
Zahrawi in moorish Spain, with spe-
cial reference to the Adhan, Brill,
Leiden. Pp. xii.+176, 17 figs., 1963.

Handley, Charles O., Jr., and Mondolfi,
Edgardo. A new species of fish-eating
rat, Ichthyomys, from Venezuela (Ro-
dentia, Cricetidae). Acta Biol. Vene-
zuelica, vol. 3, art. 26, pp. 417-419,
November 1963.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Walton
Margaret. Four new species of the
genus Donnaldsoncythere (Ostracoda,
Entocytheridae) from Virginia with
a key to the species of the genus.
Trans. Amer. Micros. Soe., vol. 82, no
4, pp. 363-370, 26 figs.

Holland, C. G. Two strata cuts in the
large Hirsh Mound—1962. Quart.
Bull. Arch. Soc. Virginia, vol. 18, no.
1, pp. 12-19, September 1963.

— and O’Ryan, William D., Jr. The
Octonia Rockshelter, Greene County,
Virginia. Quart. Bull. Arch. Soe.
Virginia, vol. 18, no. 4, part 1, pp. 66—
75, June 1964.

Holthuis, L. B., and Manning, Ray-
mond B. Proposed use of the plenary
powers (a) to designate a type-spe-
cies for the genera Pseudosquilla
Dana, 1852, and Gonodactylus Bert-
hold, 1827, and (b) for the suppres-
sion of the generic name Smerdis
Leach, 1817 (Crustacea, Stomato-
poda). Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol. 21,
no. 2, pp. 187-148, 1964.

Hoover, Cynthia A. The reason for
historical instruments. The Amer.
Musie Teacher, vol. 18, no. 15, pp.
10-11, September-October 1963.
PUBLICATIONS

123

Hoyme, Lucile E. Science fair projects | Kauffman, E.G. Saudi Arabia’s desert

in human biology. SIL—408, 14 pp.,
1964.

Hubbs, C. L., Schultz, Leonard P.,
Springer, Victor G., and Randall,
John E. Comments on the proposed
rejection of the type designations of
Jordan and Evermann 1896-1900 and
1896. Bull. Zool. Nomencl., vol. 20,
no. 4, pp. 257-259, 19638.

Humphrey, Philip S., and Clark, George
A., Jr. The anatomy of waterfowl.
In J. Delacour, The waterfowl of the
world, vol. 4, pp. 167-232. Country
Life Ltd., London, 1964.

— and Parkes, Kenneth C. Com-
ments on the study of plumage suc-
eession. Auk, vol. 80, pp. 496-503,
October 1963.

—— and Parkes, Kenneth C. Plumages
and systematics of the whistling
heron (Syrigma sibilatriv). Proce.
13th Internat. Ornith. Cong., pp. 84—
90, 1963.

Jackson, Melvin H. The Labrador land-
fall of John Cabot; the 1497 voyage
reconsidered. The Canadian Hist.
Reyv., vol. 44, no. 2, 2 maps, pp. 122-
141, June 1963.

—. The defense of the cutter Hagle,
a new view on Negro Head. United
States Coast Guard Academy Alumni
Bull., vol. XXVI, no. 2, 5 figs., pp. 151-
166, March—April 1964.

Kainen, Jacob. In Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica, 1963: Silk Screen Printing,
vol. 20, p. 671c; Sepia, vol. 20, p.
334b.

——. Book review of Geoffrey La-
page’s Art and the Scientist, John
Wright and Sons Ltd., Bristol. Isis,
vol. 54, no. 177, pp. 411-412, 1963.

In Encyclopedia International,
1963-64: Drypoint, vol. 6, pp. 131-
1382; Engraving, vol. 6, pp. 482-484;
Lithography, vol. 11, pp. 26-27.

Kanazawa, Robert H. Two new species
of ophichthid eels from the western
Atlantic. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 76, pp. 281-288, figs. 1-3, pl.
1, December 31, 1963.

of fossils. Shells and their Neigh-

bors, no. 22, April 1964.

(See Dorr, J. A.)

Kier, Porter M. Tertiary echinoids

_from the Caloosahatchee and Tami-
ami Formations of Florida. Smith-
sonian Mise. Coll., vol. 145, no. 5, 63
pp., August 1963.

Klapthor, Margaret B. The Dress of
Mrs. John F. Kennedy. (Suppl.,
Dresses of the First Ladies of the
White House), 5 pp., Smithsonian
Institution, 1963.

A First Lady and a New Fron-
tier 1800. Historie Preservation, vol.
15, no. 3, pp. 88-93, 1963.

Lundeberg, Philip K. The German
naval critique of the U-boat cam-
paign, 1915-1918. Military Affairs,
vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 105-118, fall 1963.

—. The battle of the Atlantic. In
C. W. Nimitz, H. H. Adams, and E. B.
Potter, eds., Triumph in the Atlantic.
Prentice Hall, ch. 3, pp. 69-101, 1964.

Maguire, Bassett, and Smith, Lyman B.
Xyridales. In Bassett Maguire, John
J. Wurdack, and collaborators, Botany
of the Guayana Highland—Part V.
Mem. New York Bot. Gard., vol. 10,
no. 5, pp. 7-387, 22 figs., 1964.

Malin, Marilyn H. (See Schultz,
Leonard P.)
Manning, Raymond B. Preliminary

revision of the genera Pseudosquilla
and Lysiosquilla, with descriptions of
six new genera (Crustacea: Stoma-
topoda). Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf and
Caribbean, vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 308-328,
1963.

——. Notes on the embryology of the
stomatopod crustacean, Gonodactylus
oerstediti Hansen. Bull. Mar. Sci.
Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 138, no. 3,
pp. 422-482, 1963.

——. Hemisquilla ensigera (Owen,
1832) an earlier name for H. bigelowi
(Rathbun, 1910) (Stomatopoda).
Crustaceana, vol. 5, pt. 4, pp. 315-317,
1963.

—— and Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr.
Studies on development of stomatopod
Crustacea. I. Early larval stages
124

of Gonodactylus oerstedii Hansen.
Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf and Caribbean,
vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 467-487, figs. 1-8,
1963.

A new west American species of
Pseudosquilla (Stomatopoda). Crus-
taceana, vol. 6, part 4, pp. 303-309,
1964.

(See Dobkin, Sheldon)

(See Holthuis, L. B.)

McCall, Francis J. Homestead Act com-
memorative issue. The Bureau Spe-
cialist, vol. 34, no. 8, pp. 227-230, Au-
gust 1963.

McClure, F. A. Index nominum generi-
corum Bambusoidearum. Internat.
Assoe. for Plant Taxonomy. 1963.
(Cards covering the typification and
basionyms of 87 generic names per-
taining to the Bambusoideae. )

Bambusoideae. Jn Bassett Ma-

guire, John J. Wurdack, and colla-

borators, Botany of the Guayana

Highland—Part V. Mem. New York

Bot. Gard., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 1-6, 1964.

A new feature in bamboo rhizome

anatomy. Rhodora, vol. 65, pp. 134-

136, 1968.

A neglected Mexican species of
Arundinaria. Phytologia, vol. 10, pp.
162-163, April 1964.

Meggers, Betty. North and South
American cultural connections and
convergences. Jn Prehistoric Man in
the New World, edit. Jesse D. Jen-
nings and Edward Norbeck. Pub-
lished for William Marsh Rice Univ.
by Univ. of Chicago Press, pp. 511—
526, 1964.

— and Evans, Clifford. Genealogical
and demographic information on the
Wai Wai of British Guiana. In Bei-
triage zur Volkerkunde Siidamerikas,
Festgabe fur Herbert Baldus zum 65
Geburtstag, edit. Hans Becher.
Volkerkundliche Abhandlungen, Band
I, Des Niedersiichsischen JLandes-
museums Abteilung fur Volkerkunde,
Hannover, Germany, pp. 199-207, 1964.

(See Evans, Clifford)

Metcalf, George S. Small sites on and
about Fort Berthold Indian Reserva-
tion, Garrison Reservoir, North Da-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

kota. Bur. Amer. Ethnol. Bull. 185,
River Basin Surv. Pap. No. 26, pp.
1-56, 1968.

Star Village: A fortified historic
Arikara site in Mercer County, North
Dakota. Bur. Amer. Hthnol. Bull. 185,
River Basin Surv. Pap. No. 27, pp. 57-
122, 1963.

Miller, J. Jefferson, II. The designs for
the Washington Monument in Balti-
more. Journ. Soe. Architect. Hist.,
vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 19-28, Mareh 1964.

Morrison, Joseph P. E. Notes on Amer-
ican Siphonaria. Amer. Malacological
Union Ann. Rep. for 1968, Bull. 30,
pp. 7-9, December 1963.

Notes on American Melampidae.

Nautilus, vol. 77, no. 4, pp. 119-121,

April 1964.

Formation of an epiphragm and
true aestivation in Melampidae.
Nautilus, vol. 77, no. 4, pp. 189-140,
April 1964.

Morton, C. V. Some west Indian species
of Thelypteris. Amer. Fern. Journ.,
vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 57-70, June 1963.

Observations on cultivated ferns,

VII. The mother ferns. Amer. Fern

Journ., vol. 58, no. 2, pp. 81-84, June

1963.

The classification of Thelypteris.
Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 53, no. 4, pp.
149-154, December 1963.

A revision of Trichantha (Ges-

neriaceae). Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb.,

vol. 88, part 1, pp. 1-27, 1963.

Paul C. Standley and his work
as revealed through his letters. Jn
L. O. Williams, Homage to Standley,
pp. 7-22, 1963.

Muesebeck, C. F. W. Six new reared
species of Bracon (Hymenoptera:
Braconidae). Hnt. News, vol. 74, pp.
157-165, June 1963.

A new Hawaiian Opius from ‘a

leaf-mining pest of beans (Hymen-

optera: Braconidae). Proce. Hawaiian

Ent. Soec., vol. 18, pp. 289-290, July

1968.

oe |

Host relationships of the Eu-
phorini (Hymenoptera: Braconidae).
Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 65,
p. 806, December 1963.
PUBLICATIONS

A platygasterid parasite of cer-
tain wasp larvae (Hymenoptera:
Proctotrupoidea, Platygasteridae).
Beitr. Ent., vol. 13, pp. 391-394, 19638.

Nicolson, Dan H. Proposal to conserve
the generic name Alocasia (Schott)
G. Don. Taxon, vol. 12, no. 5, pp. 208,
209, June 1963.

(See Bunting, George 8.)

Pearce, John N., Pearce, Lorraine W.,
and Smith, Robert C. The Meeks
family of cabinetmakers. Antiques,
vol. 85, no. 4, pp. 414-420, April 1964.

Peterson, Mendel L. Additional notes
on ordnance materials recovered from
an early seventeenth-century ship-
wreck site. Mil. Coll. and Hist., vol.
15, no. 3, pp. 89-90, fall 1963.

Forms of New World treasure.

The Numismatist, vol. 77, pp. 5-18,

January 1964.

The condition of materials found
in salt water. Diving into the past,
pp. 61-65, 1964.

Pettibone, Marian H. Revision of
some genera of polychaete worms of
the family Spionidae, including the
description of a new species of Scole-
lepis. Proce. Biol. Soc. Washington,
vol. 76, pp. 89-104, 2 figs., 1963.

Marine polychaete worms of the
New England region. I. Families
Aphroditidae through ‘'Trochochae-
tidae. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 227, part
1, 356 pp., 83 figs., 1963.

Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr.
ning, Raymond B.)

Ray, Clayton E. A new capromyid ro-
dent from the Quaternary of Hispan-
iola. Mus. Comp. Zool. Breviora, no.
203, pp. 1-4, 1964.

The taxonomic status of Hep-

tazodon and dental ontogeny in Elas-

modontomys and Amblyrhiza (Roden-
tia: Caviomorpha). Bull. Mus. Comp.

Zool., vol. 131, no. 5, pp. 107-127, 1964.

Tapirus copei in the Pleistocene

of Florida. Quart. Journ. Florida

Acad. Sci., vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 59-66,

1 pl., March 1964.

The Jaguarundi in the Quater-

nary of Florida. Journ. Mammalogy,

(See Man-

125

vol. 45, no. 2, pp. 880-382, 1 fig., May
1964.

——. and Gut, H. J. The Pleistocene
vertebrate fauna of Reddick, Florida.
Quart. Journ. Florida Acad. Sci., vol.

26 [1963], no. 4, pp. 315-328, 1964.

——, Olsen, S. J., and Gut, H. J. Three
mammals new to the Pleistocene
fauna of Florida, and a reconsidera-
tion of five earlier records. Journ.
Mammalogy, vol. 44, no. 3, pp. 373—
395, 1963.

Rehder, Harald A. To Tahiti for Mol-
lusks. Hawaiian Shell News, vol. 12,
no. 5, pp. 4-5, map, March 1964.

Notes on Hawaiian Muricidae.

Hawaiian Shell News, vol. 12, no. 6,

pp. 4-5, fig., April 1964.

Marine mollusks of Polynesia—
A research project. Hawaiian Shell
News, vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 6-7, May 1964.

Ripley, S. Dillon, and Watson, George
E. A new peregrine falcon from the
Cape Verde Islands, eastern Atlantic
Ocean, Yale Peabody Mus. Postilla
no. 77, 4 pp., November 1963.

Robinson, H. EK. The nomenclature and
distribution of three species of
Brachythecium. The Bryologist, vol.
66, no. 3, pp. 136-139, 1963.

Notes on three collections of

Bryum from Africa. Rey. Bryol.

Lichenol., vol. 32, fase. 14, pp. 212-

214, 1963.

Five bryophytes of interest from
Chile. The Bryologist, vol. 67, no. 1,
pp. 58-55, 1964.

Rosewater, Joseph. An effective anes-
thetic for giant clams and other
mollusks. Turtox News, vol. 41, no.
12, pp. 300-302, 2 figs., December 1963.

Problems of species analogues
in world Littorinidae. The American
Malacological Union Ann. Rep. for
1963, Bull. 30, pp. 5-6, December 1963.

Rudd, Velva KE. The genus Dussia
(Leguminosae). Contr. U.S. Nat.
Herb., vol. 32, part 4, pp. 247-277,
11 figs., November 1963.

Ruhoff, Florence A. A homonym in
Temnostethus (Hemiptera: Antho-
ecoridae). Proc. Ent. Soe. Washing-
ton, vol. 65, p. 246, September 1963.

126

The proposal of a new name
(Hemiptera: Hydrometridae). Proc.
Ent. Soe. Washington, vol. 66, p. 32,
March 1964.

Scheele, Carl H. The Mitsui donations
to the Smithsonian Institution.
Japanese Philately, vol. 19, no. 1, pp.
3-5, February 1964.

Schultz, Leonard P. Fishes of North
and Middle America. Copeia, no. 1,
p. 254, 1964.

—. Attacks by sharks as related to
the activities of man. Jn sharks and
Survival. D. C. Heath and Co., Bos-
ton, pp. 425-452, figs. 1-4, February
1964.

— and Malin, Marilyn H. A list of
shark attacks for the world. In
Sharks and Survival. D. C. Heath
and Co., Boston, pp. 509-567, Febru-
ary 1964.

(See Garrick, J. A. F.)

(See Hubbs, Car! L.)

(See Smith, Hugh M.)

Setzer, Henry W. Directions for pre-
serving mammals for museum study.
SIL-380, 20 pp., July 1963.

Shetler, Stanwyn G. An annotated list
of vascular plants from Cape Sabine,
Alaska. Rhodora, vol. 65, no. 763, pp.
208-224, July-September 1963.

On the interpretation of Article

24 of the International Code. ‘Taxon,

vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 260-262, August—-} ——.

September 1963.

A checklist and key to the spe-

cies of Campanula native or com-

monly naturalized in North America.

Rhodora, vol. 65, no. 764, pp. 319-337,

October—December 1963.

Botany—A passing phase?

Amer. Inst. Biol. Sci. Bull., vol. 13, no.

6, pp. 28-25, December 1963.

Priority and the stabilization of
names. Taxon, vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 77-
83, April 1964.

Smith, Hugh M., and Schultz, Leonard
P. The genera of fishes and a classi-
fication of fishes by David Starr
Jordan. Reprinted with a new fore-
word by George S. Myers and a com-
prehensive index by Hugh M. Smith

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

and Leonard P. Schultz. Stanford
University Press, pp. 747-800, 19638.
Smith, Lyman B. Vriesea soderstromii.
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 18, no. 3, pp.
52, 53, 1 fig., May—June 1963.
Andre’s bromeliad collecting in
Colombia and Ecuador. Bromel. Soc.
Bull., vol. 138, no. 5, pp. 106-114, 3
figs., September—October 1963.
Man in a hurry. In L. O. Wil-
liams, Homage to Standley, pp. 27, 28,
1968.

“e

Notes on Bromeliaceae, XX.
Phytologia, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 242-261,
4 pls., October 1963.

——. Synopsis of American Vellozia-
ceae, Supplement III. Phytologia,
vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 262-264, 1 pl., Oc-
tober 1963.

Aechmea nallyi. Bromel. Soc.
Bull., vol. 18, no. 6, pp. 124, 125, 1 fig.,
November-December 1968.

——. Bromeliadata of the month, no.
4: Deuterocohnia. Bromeliana
(Greater New York Chapter of the
Bromeliad Society), vol. 1, no. 4, pp.
2-4, 1 fig., February 1964,

Bromeliaceae. Jn Bassett Ma-

guire, John J. Wurdack, and collabo-

rators, Botany of the Guayana High-
land—Part V., Mem. New York Bot.

Gard., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 37-41, figs.

23-28, 1964.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, XXI.

Phytologia, vol. 10, no 1, pp. 1-55,

1 pl., March 1964.

and Downs, Robert J. Las espe-
cies Peruanas de la familia Xyrida-
ceae. Publ. Mus. Hist. Nat. “Javier
Prado,” ser. B, Bot., no. 15, pp. 1-18,
pls. 1, 2, 1964.

—— and Reitz, Raulino. Aechmea bam-
busoides. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 14,
no, 2, pp. 31, 32, 1 fig., March-April
1964.

and Steyermark, J. A. Bromeli-

aceae. Jn J. A. Steyermark, Botani-

cal novelties from upper Rio Pragua,

Hstado Bolivar, Venezuela—II. Bol.

Soe. Venezolana Ciene. Nat., vol. 25,

no. 106, pp. 50-58, 2 figs., December

19638.

PUBLICATIONS

(See Maguire, Bassett)

Snyder, T. E. The foundation of new
termite colonies by supplemental re-
productives of species of Reticulo-

127

—— and Eyde, Richard H. Fossil
forests of Oct, Panama. Science,
vol. 140, no. 3572, p. 1214, June 14,
1963.

termes. Symp. Genet. et Biol. Italica,| Stewart, T. D. Neanderthal scapulae

vol. 11, pp. 175-179, December 1963.
Soderstrom, T. R., and Decker, H. F.
Swallenia, a new name for the Cali-

fornian genus Hctosperma (Grami- | ——.

neae).
19638.

Spangler, P. J. A description of the
larva of Macrovatellus mexicanus
Sharp (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae). The
Coleopterists’ Bull., vol. 17, no. 4, pp.
97-100, December 1963.

Springer, Victor G. Two species of
Indo-West Pacific Blenniid fishes er-
roneously described from the western
Atlantic Ocean. Copeia, no. 2, pp.
452-454, June 14, 1963.

Die Unterwasserfauna der Mit-
telmeerkiisten (book review), Copeia,
no. 1, p. 218, March 30, 1963.

— and John H. Finucane. The Afri-
ean cichlid, Tilapia heudeloti Dumeril,
in the commercial fish catch of Flor-
ida. Trans. Amer. Fish. Soc., vol. 92,
no. 3, pp. 317-318, 1963.

(See Hubbs, Carl L.)

Squires, Donald F. Carbon 14 dating
of the Fossil Dune Sequence, Lord
Howe Island. Australian Journ. Sci.,
vol. 25, pp. 412-418, 1963.

Pinnacles on the Continental
Shelf. Oceanus, vol. 9, pp. 20-21,
1963.

——. Madreporas rizangiidas, fosiles y
vivientes de la Argentina. Neo-
tropica, vol. 9, pp, 9-16, figs. 1-11,
1963.

Madrono, vol. 17, no. 2, p. 88,

Gaimard). New Zealand Oceano-
graphic Inst., Mem. 20, 44 pp., 2 pls.,
1964.

Stern, William L., Brizicky, George K.,
and Tamolang, Francisco N. The
woods and flora of the Florida Keys:
Capparaceae. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb.,
vol. 34, part 2, pp. 25-43, November
1963.

Flabellum rubrum (Quoy and |——.

with special attention to the Shanidar
Neanderthals from Iraq. Anthropos,
vol. 57 (for 1962), pp. 779-800, 1963.

Human skeletal remains [from

the Townsend site near Lewes, Dela-

ware]. The Archeolog, vol. 15, no. 1

(for 1963), pp. 44-53, pls. 13-18, 1964.

Skeletal remains of aboriginal
dogs [from the Townsend site near
Lewes, Delaware]. The Archeolog,
vol. 15, no. 1 (for 1963), pp. 54-58,
1964.

Swallen, Jason R. Two new species of
Digitaria and Trichachne. Rhodora,
vol. 65, no. 764, pp. 355-357, 1963.

Gramineae. Jn Forrest Shreve
and Ira L. Wiggins, Vegetation and
flora of the Sonoran Desert, vol. 1,
pp. 287-298, March 1964.

Switzer, George. Thirty-eighth annual
report on the diamond industry.
Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, Phila-
delphia, Pa., 71 pp., 1963.

Van Beek, Gus W., and Mandaville,
James P., Jr. A pre-Islamic copper
hoe from northeastern Arabia. An-
tiquity, vol. 37, pp. 138-139, 1963.

Washburn, Wilcomb E. The great
‘autumnal madness: Political symbol-
ism in mid-nineteenth-century Amer-
ica. Quart. Journ. Speech, vol. 49, no.
4, pp. 417-481, December 1963.

(Hditor). The Indian and the

White Man. Anchor Books, Double-

day and Company, 480 pp., 32 pls.,

1964.

A book to emulate. Virginia
Quart. Reyv., vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 186-140,
Winter 1964.

Natural light and the museum.
In Life is a local story: A collection
of talks concerning local history,
historic sites, and history museums.
Edit. Clement M. Silvestro, American
Association for State and Local His-
tory, pp. 10-20, 1964.
128

——. The museum’s responsibility in
adult education. Curator, vol. 7, no.
1, pp. 83-38, April 1964.

Manuscripts and manufacts.
The Amer. Archiv., vol. 27, no. 2, pp.
245-250, April 1964.

Watkins, C. Malcolm. Smithsonian
preview. Antiques, vol. 85, no. 1, pp.
86-87, January 1964.

Watson, George E. A _ simultaneous
meeting of the robin and the blue jay
in one tree. Auk, vol. 80, pp. 377-378,
1963.

A second record of the Palearctic
red-throated pipit from St. Lawrence
Island, Bering Sea. Condor, vol. 65,
p. 477, 1963.

Review of J. C. Welty’s The Life

of birds. Atlantic Naturalist, pp.
7-9, 1963.

——. The mechanism of feather re-
placement during natural molt.

Auk, vol. 80, pp. 486-495, October
1963.

serine birds on the islands of the

Agean Sea. 237 pp. -+ appendices

(219 pp.), 13 figs., Univ. Microfilms.

(See Ripley, S. Dillon)

(See Deignan, Herbert G.)

Wedel, Waldo R. The Great Plains.
In Prehistoric Man in the New World,
edit. Jesse D. Jennings and Edward
Norbeck. Rice Univ. Semicentennial
Publ., Univ. Chicago Press, pp. 193-
220, 1964.

Welsh, Peter C. A craft that resisted
change: American tanning practices
in 1850. Tech. and Cult., vol. 4, no.
3, pp. 299-317, Summer 1963.

Wetmore, Alexander. An additional
race of the pileated tinamou from
Panama. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 76, p. 178, August 1963.

(Review) Birds of the World,

by Oliver L. Austin, Jr. In Expl.

Journ., vol. 41, no. 3, p. 52, September

1963.

An extinct rail from the Island
of St. Helena. Ibis, vol. 103b, no. 3,
pp. 379-881, pl. 9, September 1963.

Ecology and evolution of Pas-|——.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

— —. American purple gallinule Por-
phyrula martinica (Linnaeus), life
history (part). Jn Bannerman, D.
A., The Birds of the British Isles,
vol. 12, pp. 227-229, October 1963.

An early report of the cattle

egret in Colombia. Auk, vol. 80, no.

4, p. 547, October 1963.

Additions to records of birds
known from the Republic of Panama.
Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 145, no.
6, pp. 1-11, December 1963.

—— and Borrero, H., J. I. Description
of a race of the double-striped thick-
knee (Aves, family Burhinidae) from
Colombia. Auk, vol. 81, no. 2, pp.
231-233, April 30, 1964.

and Bullis, Harvey R. Jr. The
birds of Serrana Bank in the western
Caribbean Sea. Condor, vol. 65, no.
4, p. 229, July 1963.

White, John H. The Centipede. Rail-
way and Locomotive Hist. Soc., Bull.
109, pp. 11-15, 2 figs., October 1963.

The Janus: A locomotive’s his-
tory revised. Journ. Transport Hist.,
Univ. Leicester, England, vol. 6, no. 3,
pp. 175-181, 3 illus., May 1964.

Wirth, Michael, and Hale, Mason E.,
Jr. The lichen family Graphidaceae
in Mexico. Contr. U.S. Nat. Herb.,
vol. 36, part 3, pp. 63-119, 82 figs.,
1963.

Woodbury, Nathalie F. S. Paperbound
books in anthropology and related
fields in print (U.S8.A., Winter-Spring,
1963). Current Anthropology, vol. 4,
no. 4, pp. 889-402, October 1963.

Woodbury, Richard B. Social implica-
tions of prehistoric Arizona irriga-
tion. Actes du VI° Congrés Interna-
tional des Sciences Anthropologiques
et Ethnologiques (Paris 1960). Tome
II—Ethnologie, I° vol., pp. 491-493,
Musee de l’Homme, Paris, 1963.

Indian adaptations to arid envi-

ronments. Jn Aridity and Man: The

challenge of the arid lands in the

United States, edit. Carle Hodge,

Amer. Assoe. Advane. Sci., Publ. No.

74, pp. 55-85, Washington, 19638.

PUBLICATIONS 129

—— and Ressler, John Q. Effects of | Cienc. Nat., vol. 25, no. 106, pp. 54, 55,
environment and cultural limitations December 1963.
upon Hohokam agriculture, southern|———. In Mathews’ country. Gard.
Arizona. In Civilizations in Desert| Journ. New York Bot. Gard., vol. 14,
Lands, Univ. of Utah Anthrop. Pap., ae 1, ea 8 figs., January—Feb-
no. 62, pp. 41-55, 1963. hae :

Wurdack, John J. An evaluation of the TOR ere Gp steed dae
genus Poteranthera. Yieldiana: Bot- 4 RYE med BRA? Rea ;

February 1964.
any, vol. 29, no. 9, pp. 585-541, 1 fig., ——. Melastomataceae. In Bassett

June 1963. Maguire, John J. Wurdack, and col-
Melastomataceae. In J. A. Stey- laborators, The botany of the Guay-
ermark, Botanical novelties from up- ana Highland—Part V. Mem. New
per Rio Paragua, Estado Bolivar,) York Bot. Gard., vol. 10, no. 5, pp.
Venezuela—II. Bol. Soc. Venezolana 135-186, 5 figs., 1964.

Donors to the National Collections

(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual
donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance

with law.)

A. G. Parser, Inc., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Donald Parser) aquamarine
from Minas Gerais, Brazil (2387523,
exchange).

Abbott, Dr. R. Tucker (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Aberdeen Auto Parts, Aberdeen, Md.:
(Through Vincent Mullin) 2 gasoline
pumps, ca, 1922-23 (254113).

Abonnenc, Dr. E., Bondy, France: 2
moth flies from Africa (253902).

Abrasive Dressing Tool Co., Detroit,
Mich.: (Through Sidney Krandall) lot
of rough diamonds from Thailand
(251818).

Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Dr. R. Tucker Abbott) 39
marine and fresh-water mollusks from
Cook Islands, Hawaii, and New Cale-
donia (249482, 253078, exchanges) ; ap-
proximately 1,850 marine mollusks from
Cocos-Keeling Atoll, Indian Ocean, and
Phuket, Thailand, collected on the In-
ternational Indian Ocean Expedition
(251525, exchange); (through Dr.
James H. Bohlke) 49 crayfishes and 3
shrimps (249191); (through C. W.
Hart) 28 erustaceans, including types
(250209, 250754, 251282).

Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.,
Moscow, U.S.S.R.: V. L. Komarov Insti-
tute of Botany: 209 phanerogams ‘and 19
grasses (252839, exchange); (through
Prof, F. Kh. Bakhteev) 87 wood speci-
mens from the U.S.S.R. (249042, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. K. B. Zinovjeva)
5 tachinid flies from Russia (253551,
exchange).

Ackerman, Louise, Huron, Ohio: Cro-
cheted hanging and pattern, The Last
Supper (251667).

Adams, Dr. David A.
Carolina State Museum)

130

(See North

Adams, John, Baltimore, Md.: Rachet
drill (253646).

Adamson, Col. and Mrs. Keith, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Portrait of Mrs. Adam-

son’s grandfather, Herman Haupt
(252494).
Adelaide, University of, Adelaide,

South Australia: (Through Prof. A. R.
Alderman) 1 specimen each of the
Artracoona and Pinnaroo, South Aus-
tralian meteorites (252481, exchange).

Adolfo M., Brother, Cochabamba, Bo-
livia: 57 phanerogams, 20 grasses, 6
ferns, and 2 cryptogams from Bolivia
(246920, 249479, 252115)

Agence Philatelique (See Burundi,
Government of)

Agence Philatélique Haitienne (See
Haiti, Government of).

Agostina, Dr. Getulio (See Ministerio
de Agricultura y Cria)

Agricultural and Mechanical College
of Texas, College Station, Tex.: 24
grasses from Mexico (248497); 82
grasses (249326, exchange); (through
Dr. Louis S. Kornicker) 8 corals
(249301).

Agriculture, U.S. Department of,
Washington, D.C.: Thatcher slide rule
with metal support and mahogany case
(252315). Agricultural Research Serv-
ice: 404 phanerogams, 41 grasses, 38
ferns, and 2 eryptogams from world-
wide localities (248661, 249324, 249534,
251270, 253224) ; (through Lyle T. Alex-
ander) 2 laterite specimens from the
Ivory Coast and Nigeria (249045) ;
(through Dr. William H. Anderson) 135
land, marine, and fresh-water mollusks
from worldwide localities and 49,972
miscellaneous insects (247889, 248495,
252258, 253907); (through Dr. Philip
B. Dowden) 8 land and marine snails
from the Azores, Grand Cayman, Guate-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

mala, and Italy (247215) ; (through Dr.
J. J. Drea) 705 miscellaneous arthro-
pods and 218 insects from the Mediter-
ranean (252854, 253503) ; (through Dr.
Ashley B. Gurney) 2,793 miscellaneous
insects from Texas and Virginia
(251237) ; (through Dr. R. W. Hodges)
25 lizards from Hgypt collected by Dr.
Hodges (248474); (through Hdna
Hoover) 65 branchiopods from Green-
land (252527) ; (through Dr. Fred G.
Meyer) 26 wood specimens from Hthi-
opia, 97 phanerogams, and 5 grasses
(248657, 2490389) ; (through Dr. R. A.
Roberts) 5 land snails from Texas
(250946). Forest Service: 6 grasses
from Louisiana, 8 phanerogams from
Peru, and a _ swellograph (248662,
252830, 2538621). National Arboretum:
130 phanerogams, mostly types
(249328).

Ahti, Dr. Teuvo (See Helsinki, Uni-
versity of)

Aitken, Dr. T. H. G. (See Trinidad
Regional Virus Laboratory)

Ajax Manufacturing Co., Cleveland,
Ohio: (Through Wayne N. Sacchini)
sample forgings and set of forging dies
(253948).

Akerman, Mr. and Mrs. Alex, Jr.,
Alexandria, Va.: Wooden medicine
chest, ca. 1910 (252397).

Alabama, State of: Geological Sur-
vey: (Through Thomas A. Simpson) 2
metastrengite specimens from Coosa
Co., Ala. (2499382).

Alabama, University of, Birmingham,
Ala.: Medical Center: (Through Dr.
Harrison R. Steeves III) 6 isopods and
11 barnacles (247047, 250882) ; 14 new
isopods from Kentucky and West Vir-
ginia (253298).

Alaska, State of: Agricultural Experi-
ment Station: (Through William W.
Mitchell) phanerogam from Alaska
(250262). Department of Fish and
Game: (Through Guy C. Powell) shrimp
and 3 crabs (241626).

Alaska, University of, College,
Alaska: (Through Dr. Clyde F. Herreid
Il) 8 boreal toads from Liard Hot
Springs, B.C., Canada (249211).

131

Alayo D., Dr. Pastor, Marianao, Ha-
bana, Cuba: 14 wasps (250600).

Alberta, University of, Edmonton, Al-
berta, Canada: (Through Dr. R. E.
Folinsbee) 551 grams of the Peace
River, Alberta, Canada, meteorite
(253219, exchange); (through Robin
Leech) 15 ice bugs from British Colum-
bia (252110, exchange).

Alderman, Prof. A. R.
University of)

Alexander, Andrew S., Charleston, W.
Va.: 239 communion tokens, mostly used
in Scotland, 18th and 19th centuries
(258096).

Alexander, Dr. C. P., Amherst, Mass. :
3,156 miscellaneous insects from North
America (251610).

Alexander, Lyle T- (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Alford, Joe B. (See Society of Petro-
leum Hngineers of AIME)

Alio, Mr. and Mrs. Constantin G.,

(See Adelaide,

Philadelphia, Pa.: Objects from an
18th-century gristmill in Newton Square
(236256).

Allan, Greever (See Post Office
Department)

Allen, Mrs. Edna Murray, Wilming-
ton, Del.: Iron cooking pot from Mc-
Pherson House (253153).

Allen, Dr. H. W., Moorestown, N.J.:
6 wasps from North America (249059).

Allen, Richard §S., Round Lake, N.Y.:
22 sections and parts of early bridges
(254091).

Allen-Mitchell and Co., Washington,
D.C.: (Through A. Steuart Mitchell)
Howard wall clock (249270).

Allison, Lloyd, Durham, N.C.: Speci-
men of ferrimolybdite (253330).

Allred, Dr. Dorald M. (See Atomic
Energy Commission)

Almodovar, Dr. Luis R. (See Puerto
Rico, University of)

Amberson, J. M.
Department of)

Amelinckx, Dr. S., Mol-Donk, Bel-
gium: Cuprosklodowskite from Ka-
tanga, Congo (253392, exchange).

American Express Co., Washington,
D.C.: (Through Stephen 8. Halsey) 5

(See Defense, U.S.
132 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
traveler’s checks and 2 credit cards is-
sued by donor (252886).

American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr.
Roger L. Batten) 2 corals from the
Tertiary of Alabama and Georgia
(250411); (through Dr. Meredith L.
Jones) 14 polychaete worms, paratypes
(248174); 6 marine invertebrates
(250560, exchange); (through Dr.
Peter Wygodzinsky) 6 flies from Africa
(253514).

American Oil Co. Chicago, Ill.:
(Through J. C. Ducommun) memora-
bilia discovered by Wilson L. Hum-
phreys pertaining to Dr. Robert E.
Humphreys’ academic career (252300).

American Security and Trust Co.
(See Rohrer, Josephine Arthur )

American Society Gem Counsellors,
Boston, Mass.: (Through Dr. Meyer
Browne) 2 Swiss watches (249859).

American Telephone and Telegraph
Co., New York, N.Y.: (Through F. R.
Kappel) 9 components from the Telstar
satellite (247512).

American University, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Prof. Robert Gates) 30
brachiopods from the Devonian of
Michigan (251096, exchange).

Amor, Dr. Analia (See Universidad
Nacional de La Plata)

Amorés, Prof. J. L. (See Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas)

Amsterdam, University of, Amster-
dam, Netherlands: (Through Dr. J. H.
Stock) 21 polychaete worms (250499).

Anaconda Co., Butte, Mont.:
(Through William B. Renouard) Inger-
soll-Rand rock drill, ca. 1910 (253250).

Anders, Dr. Edward (See Chicago,
University of)

Anderson, Hon. Clinton P., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Pen used by President
Lyndon B. Johnson to sign the legis-
lation establishing the John F.. Kennedy

Center for the Performing Arts
(252883).
Anderson, David L. (See Oberlin
College)

Anderson, Dr. Paul K.
bia University)

(See Colum-

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964:

Anderson, Dr. R. H.
Government of)

Anderson, Ray (See Anderson, Van)

Anderson, Van and Ray, Tarboro,
N.C.: Tusk of extinct walrus collected
in Edgecombe Co., N.C. (253558).

Anderson, Dr. William H. (See Agri-
culture, U.S. Department of)

Andrews, A. Joseph, Washington,
D.C.: Handwritten invitation on Execu-
tive Mansion stationery, 1892 (250074).

Angel, Jonathan S., Washington, D.C.,
and Bennett, Michael St. Cyr, Bethesda,
Md.: Lamprey (248198).

Anonymous: Pocket knife (247917) ;
20 costume and accessory items, 20th
century (249153) ; cross-peen hammer,
ball-peen hammer, alligator-type
wrench, and 3 scrapers (250541);
bronze medal commemorating Detroit’s
250th birthday festival, 1951, by Rene
P. Chambellan (252792).

Ansary, Dr. S. A., Dokki, Cairo,
Egypt: 10 Foraminifera from a well
core taken in the Jurassic, Western
Desert of Egypt (252827).

Ansco, General Analine & Film Corp.,
Binghamton, N.Y.: (Through Philip
Mikoda) model of Brady-type field
photo wagon (250070).

Anthony, Mrs. Deforest, Washington,
D.C.: 9 items of dress accessories, 19th
century, and 2 napkins with pictorial
design (252400).

Antiques Group,
(Through Mrs.
Chinese export
(250969).

Appleby, Dr. James E. (See Ohio
Agricultural Experiment Station)

Appleby, Comdr. Thomas (Ret.),
Washington, D.C.: Operator’s Certifi-
eate of Skill in Radiocommunication,
1911 (251545).

Argonne National Laboratory, Ar-
gonne, Ill.: (Through J. R. Farmakes)
graphite blocks (250358).

Aristeguieta, Dr. Leandro
Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria)

Arizona, University of, Tucson, Ariz.:
(Through H. §. Hanson) “Olivine
granite” from Brewster Co., Tex.
(252164, exchange).

(See Australia,

Bethesda, Md.:
Martin K. Worthy)
porcelain platter

(See
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Arizona State University, Tempe,
Ariz.: (Through Dr. Mont A. Cazier)
75 legionary ants from North America
(251463).

Arnett, Dr. Ross H., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 231 beetles from Peru (249425).

Arnoldo, Brother M., Curacao, Neth-
erlands West Indies: 25 phanerogams
from Bonaire, and Curacao, N.W.I.
(248139, 250336).

Aron, Dr. William (See Washington,
University of)

Arpad, Michael (See Powell, Mrs.
Wellington; and Shulman, Dr. Hmanuel
V.)

Arpels, Claude (See Van Cleef & Ar-
pels, Inc.)

Arthur D. Little, Inc. (See Loyola
University)

Artz, Hugh M., Boonsboro, Md.: Bag
wagon, 1831, and log clamp, 19th cen-
tury (249865, 251478).

Aslakson, Capt. Carl I, Bethesda,
Md.: 2388 miscellaneous marine and
land mollusks (250922).

Associazione Elettroteenica ed Elet-
tronica Italiana, Milan, Italy, and Is-
tituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale Gali-
leo Ferraris, Turin, Italy: (Through
Franco Tedeschi and Dr. Ing. Mario
Loria) 4 reproductions of models con-
structed by Galileo Ferraris (254122).

Athearn, Herbert D., Cleveland,
Tenn.: 15 new species of fresh-water
mussel from Florida (252868).

Atkins, H. W., London, England:
Bronze medal by Paul Vincze, commem-
orating Cecil H. King and 60 years sery-
ice on the Daily Mirror (252331).

Atoda, Dr. Kenji (See Tohoku Univer-
sity )

Atomic Energy Commission, Wash-
ington, D.C.: (Through Dr. Dorald M.
Allred) 1,144 ants from Nevada
(249429, 249618) ; (through Dr. Lyman

Spitzer, Jr.) figure 8_ stellarator
(251830). (See also Yameogo, Mau-
rice)

Ault, Mrs. Leslie, Cranford, N.J.: 46
19th-century tools (250998).

Austin, Dr. O. L., Jr., Gainesville,
Fla.: Bird skin (248322, exchange).

133

Austin, R. M. (See Nordberg Manu-
facturing Co.)

Australia, Government of: Australian
Museum: (Through Dr. R. O. Chalmers)
meteorite from Antarctica and 5 from
New South Wales, Australia (248443,
254020, exchanges) ; (through Dr. J. W.
Evans) 5 fishes from Australia (252513,
exchange); (through Dr. Donald F.
McMichael) marine bivalve mollusk
(252473) ; (through Dr. A. B, Walkom)
14 marine mollusks from Australia,
New Hebrides, and New Zealand
(190898, exchange). Botanic Museum
and Herbarium: Phanerogam and 24
grasses from Australia (253599, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. 8. L. Everist)
26 phanerogams and 50 grasses from
Australia (250349, 251264, exchanges).
Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology
and Geophysics: (Through Dr. John
Roberts) 7 brachiopods from the Car-
boniferous of Australia (251063, ex-
change). Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organization: 562
phanerogams, 35 grasses, 83 ferns, and
16 eryptogams from New Guinea
(249588, exchange) ; (through Dr. R. D.
Hoogland) 814 phanerogams, 43 grasses,
and 25 ferns mostly from New Guinea
(252842, exchange) ; (through H. 8S. Mc-
Kee) 92 phanerogams, 22 grasses, and
8 ferns from Guadaloupe, Puerto Rico
and Trinidad (250113, 251446). Queens-
land Institute of Medical Research:
(Through Dr. R. Domrow) 5 mites, in-
cluding a holotype, and 4 slides from
Australia (251594, 251878, 253919).
Royal Botanic Gardens and National
Herbarium: 58 phanerogams and 5
ferns from Australia (248652, ex-
change) ; (through Dr, R. H. Anderson)
54 phanerogams, 29 ferns, and 2 crypto-
gams from Australia (247705, 253057,
exchanges). South Australian Museum:
(Through Dr. G. F. Gross) marine
water strider (250598).

Avis, Dwight E. (See Treasury, U.S.
Department of the)

Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R., Jersey City,
N.J.: 434 fishes and a fresh-water mol-
lusk from Brazil and Peru (248498,
248991, 251920, 252019). (See also
134

Entel, Mac; Géry, Dr. Jacques R.; and
Socolof, Ross)

Ayre, Katie May, Washington, D.C.:
Woman’s cloak, slipper, embroidered
searf, petticoat band, silver hairpin,
and a hat pin, 18th and 19th centuries
(247408).

Babcock & Wilcox Co., Washington,
D.C.: (Through R. C. Dannettel, Jr.)
model of a Wilcox boiler, 1856 (251001) ;
(through Francis R. Russell) N.S.
Savannah reactor and 4 models of reac-
tor installations and demonstrations of
the method of preparation of reactor
fuel elements (249728, 253943).

Baccus, Dr. Howard P., Arlington,
Va.: 2 specimens of serpentine from
Israel (253601).

Baghdad, University of, Abu Ghraib,
Iraq: (Through Dr. Fred A. Barkley)
55 phanerogams, 151 grasses, and 2
eryptogams from Iraq (248583); 87
phanerogams and 2 grasses from Iraq
(250281, exchange).

Bahral, Lt. Col. David, Tel Aviv,
Israel: 14 mollusks (253120, exchange).

Bailey, Prof. S. F., Davis, Calif.: Vial
of thrips from Ecuador and North
America (248832, exchange). (See also
California, University of)

Bailey, W. F. (See Skelly Oil Co.)

Baker, Dr. Arthur A. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Baker, James H, Baxer, Oreg.: 424
caddis flies, stoneflies, lacewings and
katydids from North America (251248,
251589).

Baker, Sid G., North Kamloops, B.C.,
Canada: Jamesonite from British Co-
lumbia and chalcodite from Longvale,
Calif. (250783, 252478).

Bakhteev, Prof. F. Kh. (See Acad-
emy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California,
University of)

Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corp., Phila-
delphia, Pa.: (Through Morgan White)
3 Pelton turbine buckets and a segment
of a wheel with 5 buckets (252496).

Ball, Dr. George E., Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada: 425 centipedes from
Arizona, British Columbia, and Cali-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

fornia, and 156 miscellaneous insects
from Alaska (251235, 251593, 251612).

Ball, Dr. Gordon H. (See California,
University of)

Ball State Teachers College, Muncie,
Ind.: (Through Charles D. Wise) 185
crayfishes (250140).

Ballent, Joseph E., Tampa, Fla.:
(Through Dr. Donald F. Squires) 7
eorals from the Tertiary of Tampa
(248340).

Bank Melli Iran Sports Club, Tehran,

Iran: Plaque commemorating the
American ascension on Mt. Everest
(248399).

Banker, Paul, Woodlawn, Md.: 10

U.S. Marine Corps band uniform items,
1890-1913 (253324).

Banks, Dr. Harlan P.
University )

Barbera, Mrs. Louise Mary H., Dis-
trict Heights, Md.: U.S. Navy band uni-
form, music books, and 2 medals
(253613).

Barkley, Dr. Fred A., Abu Ghraib,
Iraq: 100 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and
a fern from Iraq (252806). (See also
Baghdad, University of)

Barlow, F. D. (See Louisiana State
University)

Barnaby, James, Short Hills, N.J.:
Willis planimeter with attachment
(252501).

Barnard, Dr. J. Laurens (See Beau-
dette Foundation for Biological Re-
search)

Barnard, Logan W. (See Rocky Moun-
tain Dental Products Co.)

Barnes, Robert, Judson, Ind.: 1-cent
piece of Liberia, 1961 (252090).

Barr, Dr. Ralph A., Fresno, Calif.:
Mosquito from North America (251461,
exchange).

Barr, Dr. Thomas C., Jr., Lexington,
Ky.: 219 miscellaneous beetles from
North America, including 11 holotypes
and 2 paratypes (250610, 253506, 253912,
253917).

Barron, Col. E. M., El Paso, Tex.:
15 minerals from various localities
(251088, 253765).

(See Cornell
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Barry, Charles K., Honolulu, Hawaii:
4 fishes from tropical western Pacific
(248213).

Barry, Edward J., Richmond Heights,
Mo.: Missouri World War I commemo-
rative medal (248150).

Bartholomai, Dr. C. W. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Bartlett, Mrs. Andrew, Washington,
D.C.: 4 accessories of dress, 20th cen-
tury (250822).

Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 83
phanerogams, 3 grasses, 10 ferns, and
31 mosses from Ohio and West Virginia
(249189, 2517738, 252098).

Bartsch, Dr. Elizabeth Parker, Lor-
ton, Va.: 7,800 phanerogams, 120
grasses, 2,000 ferns, and 300 crypto-
gams from Iowa and Virginia collected
by Dr. Paul Bartsch (249615).

Bashlow, Robert, New York, N.Y.:
Obverse die used by J. J. Conway &
Co. in striking 5-dollar goldpieces in
1861, and 3 restrikes in silver, goldine,
and bronze (249848, 251161).

Basilewsky, Dr. P. (See Musée Royal
de l’Afrique Centrale)

Baskin, Salem N. (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Newton Minow) sample-
type embroidered drawstring pocket-
book, 19th century (250523).

Bassett, Preston R., Ridgefield, Conn. :
Michelson rotating mirror and 9 glass
blower’s tools (241017, 250972).

Batchelor Fund, Charles and Ro-
sanna, Smithsonian Institution: Stamp
of Bahawalpur and 1 of Newfoundland
(251186).

Batham, Dr. E. J. (See Otago Univer-
sity)

Batson, Dr. W. T. (See South Caro-
lina, University of)

Batten, Dr. Roger L. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Bayer, Dr. Frederick M. (See Miami,
University of)

Beachum, Gary, Falls Church, Va.:
World War I helmet (248354).

Beaman, Dr. John H. (See Michigan
State University )

135

Beans, Mr. and Mrs. G. H., Jr., Alex-
andria, Va.: Horseshoe crab from Ore-
gon Inlet, N.C, (250385).

Beardsley, John W., Honolulu, Ha-
waii: Holotype and paratype of mealy
bug from Hawaii (253496). (See also
Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Assoc.)

Beardsley, Robert S., Madeira Beach,
Fla.: Fish skull (246044).

Bears Bluff Laboratories, Wadmalaw
Island, 8.C.: (Through Dr. G. Robert
Lunz) 5 nemertean worms from South
Carolina (252576).

Beaudette Foundation for Biological
Research, Solvang, Calif.: (Through
Dr. J. Laurens Barnard) 111 amphipods
(247387).

Beaver, Alfred T., Washington, D.C.:
Funeral badge (248944).

Beck, Dr. D. Elden (See Brigham
Young University)

Becker, Ralph E., Washington, D.C.:
112 Jacquard woven pictures (2516638) ;
letter appointing W. L. Ames Deputy
Marshall for inauguration of U.S. Grant,
baton, and sash used on that occasion
(251858) ; 68 pieces of political sheet
musie (251917); 131 fabric objects
(252230).

Becker Manufacturing Co., New York,
N.Y.: (Through Peter J. Rosa) 89 coin
reproductions (252066, 252329).

Beckert, Ferdinand, Seat Pleasant,
Md.: 27 iron utensils, bedroom icebox,
ca. 1878, crowbar, and a splitting tool
(251851).

Beeman, Lt. R. N. (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)

Beets, Virginia, Washington, D.C.: 2
buttons and a paper hat from ‘March
on Washington,” 1963 (250459).

Behlen, Eugene F., Washington, D.C. :
1896 political campaign oversize dollar
(253824).

Belém Virus Laboratory, Belém,
Para, Brazil: (Through Dr. Robert EH.
Shope) 122 bats from Belém (252384).

Belfort Instrument Co., Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Richard C. Higbee) por-
trait, photograph, 4 letter books, and
diploma of Julien P. Friez (252312).
136

Bell, James M.
Department)

Bell, Kermit O., Jr., Fayetteville,
Ark.: 13 fishflies from Arkansas
(252862).

Bell, Mary E., Oakton, Va.: Flute by
Wylde of London (249582).

Bemis, J. R. (See Ozan Lumber Co.)

Benesh, Bernard, Burrville, Tenn.:
23 scarab beetles from the U. S.
(251230).

Benke, Paul A. (See Colt’s Patent
Fire Arms Manufacturing Co., Inc.)

Bennett, Michael St. Cyr (See Angel,
Jonathan §.)

Benson, Joseph (See Joint Committee
on the Preservation of the Garrick
Building Ornament and World Book
Encyclopedia )

Bentley, Fred P., San Jose, Calif.: 2
rainbow obsidian specimens from Modoe
Co., Calif. (249646).

Berg, Mrs. Edith G., College Park,
Md. : Six-keyed flute (249396).

Berg, Dr. Rolf (See Universitetets
Botaniske Museum )

Berg, Dr. Rolf Y., Davis, Calif.: 50
ants from North America (251229).

Bergquist, R. A. (See Western Hlec-
tric Co., Inc.)

Berkebile, Donald, Takoma Park,
Md.: 2 items of U.S. Army winter
underwear (251788) ; 2 gasoline pumps,
ca. 1916-18 (254115).

Berkeley, Cyril. (See Canada, Gov-
ernment of; and Pacific Biological
Station)

Bermuda, Government of: Govern-
ment Aquarium and Museum: (through
Spencer Tinker) eel from Bermuda
(252188).

Berry, F. H.
partment of the)

Bertossa, Antonio, Ruhengeri, Repub-
lic Rwandaise: 12 unindentified phos-
phate minerals from Buranga, Rwanda
(253022, exchange). (See also Minis-
tére des Affaires Hconomiques; and
Rwanda, Government of)

Berwick, Mrs. Clara W., Norwood,
Mass.: 74 pieces of American glass and
a Dedham pottery platter (248370).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(See Post Office

(See Interior, U.S. De-

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Bessey, Lenora (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Austin H. Clark) wed-
ding dress, 1777 (252525).

Bhatti, J. S., Jabalpur, India: 8
thrips from India (258898, exchange).

Bierwagen, Dr. Elmer E., Princeton,
N.J.: Brachiopod from the Devonian of
Montana (247661).

Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas, Brazil:
1,540 miscellaneous insects from Brazil,
Germany, and Poland (249067, 249078,
249426, 249627, 251609, 252784, 253515).

Billing, Wyly M., Jr., Miami, Fla.: 2
ferns (253060). (See also Fantastic
Gardens)

Bingham, Mrs. Millicent Todd, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 14-piece canister set and
sugar bucket (253797).

Bingham, Mrs. Walter V., Washing-
ton, D.C., and Hodgkin, Dr. W. H. (de-
ceased) : Mahlon Loomis experimental
wireless apparatus (152233).

Bishop, Dr. Philip, Washington, D.C. :
59 foreign postage stamps and covers
(253887).

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-
lulu, Hawaii: 54 phanerogams, 7 gras-
ses, and 5 ferns (249320, exchange) ;
(through Dr. J. L. Gressitt) 32 beetles
from New Guinea (248921, exchange) ;
6 beetles from islands south of New
Zealand and 190 bird skins from North
Borneo (249075, 252167) ; (through Dr.
Tsing C. Maa) 8 bot flies from the Old
World (248349).

Bittinger, Mrs. Charles, Washington,
D.C.: Pair of lamp mats (248936).

Black & Decker Manufacturing Co.,
Towson, Md.: (Through Robert H.
Riley, Jr.) pilot model of donor’s first
cordless electric drill (254086).

Blair, Dr. Albert P. (See Tulsa, Uni-
versity of)

Blake, Mrs. Alice H., Miami Beach,
Fla.: 4 fossil olive shells from Florida
(252160).

Blake, Dr. Emmet R. (See Chicago
Natural History Museum)

Blaker, Mrs. Margaret C., Washing-
ton, D.C. : 2 postal covers from Germany
(2538880).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS,

Blancett, Esther, Mansfield, Ohio: 20
U.S. postage stamps and 2 foreign post-
ecards (252032, 253872).

Blanchard, A., Houston, Tex.: 28
moths from Texas (247900, 249249,
249428, 250591).

Blanchard, Ruth E. (See Smithsonian
Institution)

Blanding, Dr. Sarah Gibson (See Vas-
sar College)

Blandy Experimental Farm, Boyce,
Va.: (Through Dr. Walter S. Flory)
137 phanerogams (249541).

Blauston, Dr. Francis M., White
Plains, N.Y.: Collection of antique
toothbrushes, toothpicks, and a tooth-
brush rack (253101).

Blumberg, Dr. Baruch S., Rockville,
Md.: 2 baskets (251760).

Blydenstein, Dr. John, Bogotdé, Co-
lombia: Phanerogam and 7 grasses
from Colombia (250818).

Bohart, Dr. Richard M., Davis,
Calif.: 133 mosquitoes from North
America (253910). (See also Califor-
nia, University of)

Bohlke, Dr. James E. (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Bokermann, Dr. Werner C. A., Sao
Paulo, Brazil: 3 beetles from South
America (251864, exchange).

Bolling, Eugene W., Upper Montclair,
N.J.: 3 shawls given in memory of Vir-
ginia Cary Smith Bolling (249729) ;
clock in Dutch marquetry case and a
Joseph Johnson watch (254081).

Bolton, Richard, Pomonky, Md.: 5 in-
complete skeletons found on donor’s
farm (252463).

Boolootian, Dr. Richard A., Los An-
geles, Calif.: A. Weir Bell collection of
slides, specimens, catalog, and reprint
library of oligochaete worms (253263).

Born, Dr. W. T. (See Geophysical Re-
search Corp.)

Boston University, Boston, Mass.:
(Through Dr. Arthur G. Humes; and
Dr. R. U. Gooding) 81 polychaete worms
from Bermuda, Madagascar, and the
West Indies (252097).

Bostrom, Martin, Orebro, Sweden: 5
first-day covers of Scandinavian coun-
tries (253856).

744-993—64——_10

137

Botanisch Museum and Herbarium,
Utrecht, Netherlands: 24 phanerogams
from Peru (249616).

Botanische Staatssammlung, Miinch-
en, Germany: (Though Dr. J. Poelt) 40
lichens (252469, exchange).

-Botanischer Garten und Museum,
Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: (Through
Dr. G. Wagenitz) 192 wood specimens
mostly from Africa (249333, exchange).

Bothwell, Theodora, Fredonia, N.Y.:
Jacquard-woven bookmark, late 19th
century, and a carnelian ring (249312).

Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Pasadena,
Calif.: 7,262 invertebrate fossils from
Antarctica, Bolivia, and the Silurian of
Great Britain and New Hampshire
(250058, 252780, 252825) ; 20 minerals
from Vance Co., N.C. (253528).

Bousfield, Dr. E. L. (See Canada,
Government of)

Bowden, Mrs. R. Renee, Washington,
D.C.: Letter, dated 1748, carried by the
Thurn and Taxis Postal System from
Copenhagen to Bordeaux via Hamburg
(252027).

Bowen, Douglas M., Jr., Hanover,
N.H.: Xanthoxenite from New Hamp-
shire (252479).

Bowman, Prof. Paul W., Arlington,
Va.: 376 phanerogams, 67 grasses, 7
ferns, and 170 cryptogams from Canada
and the U.S. (251257).

Bowsher, Arthur L. (See Sinclair Oil
& Gas Co.)

Boyd, Mrs. F. C. C., East Orange,
N.J.: 215 primitive media of exchange
used in China and Siam and modern
coins mostly from the Far FEast
(252072).

Boyd, Louise A. San Francisco,
Calif.: 18 costume items, 13 cultural
history items, 3 horological items, a
pair of Derringer pistols, and a mili-
tary monograph on Murman Railway
(250307) ; 269 miscellaneous U.S. and
foreign philatelic covers and postage
stamps (249856).

Boyer, Raymond, Leonardo, N.J.:
19th-ceentury ice-cream freezer
(252821).

Bradford, Faith, Washington, D.C.:
Pocket memorandum (2538635).
138

Bradford, Rev. Louis M., Alexandria,
Va.: Battle pennant from Spanish Aux-
iliary Cruiser, Santo Domingo, journal
of ship’s positions, USS Lackawanna,
private journal of Commander of USS
Lackawanna (251791).

Bram, Ralph A. (See Casal, Dr. Os-
valdo H.; Cova Garcia, Dr. Pablo; and
Vargas, Dr. Luis)

Brandenburg, E. W., Colorado
Springs, Colo.; Stibnite from Cripple
Creek, Colo. (250399).

Brandhorst, Carl T., Seward, Nebr.:
21 gall wasps and their galls from North
America (251491).

Brannock, Dr. Kent C., Kingsport,
Tenn.: 3 garnets, prehnite, and 2 clino-
zoisite specimens from North Carolina,
and 4 celestite specimens from Wise Co.,
Va. (249378, 250903, exchanges).

Branson, Dr. Branley A., Pittsburgh,
Kans.: Paratype of a land snail from
Mexico (251832).

Bratter, Herbert M., Washington,
D.C.: 7 Chinese and Japanese items of
clothing (248910).

Breland, Dr. Osmond P., Austin, Tex.:
10 mosquitoes from North America
(258904).

Breyer, Mr. and Mrs. Henry W., Jr.,
Philadelphia, Pa.: Diamond necklace
(251140).

Briggs, Dr. J. C. (See Texas, Uni-
versity of)

Brigham Young University, Provo,
Utah: (Through Dr. D. Elden Beck)
11 erayfishes (250303).

Brison, Dr. P. J., Anderlues, Belgium:
13 minerals from worldwide localities
(251512, exchange).

Bristow, City of, Okla.: (Through Dr.
M. A. Yourman) gasoline firetruck,
1920 (250762).

British Columbia, University of, Van-
couver, Canada: (Through Dr. C. C.
Lindsey) fish, paratype, from Ecuador
(252190).

British Solomon Islands Protecto-
rate: Forestry Department: (Through
Dr. T. C. Whitmore) 1,680 phanero-
gams, 2 grasses, and 177 ferns from the
British Solomon Islands (253806).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Britton, Dr. E. B.
tain, Government of)

Broadbent, Sam R., Washington,
D.C.: 4 American Indian pouches
(249632).

Broder, Richard E., Santa Barbara,
Calif. : 327 phanerogams, 33 grasses, and
4 ferns from Baja California (252337).

Broderick, R. E. (See Northeastern
Lumber Manufacturers Assoc., Inc.)

Brooks, H. A., Worcester, Mass.:
Hampden watch (249269).

Brower, Dr. A. E., Augusta, Maine:
5 bot-flies from Maine (251611). (See
also Maine, State of)

Brown, Dr. C. J. D.
State College)

Brown, Franklin Q., Bethesda, Md.:
Toy railroad engines and cars (253333).

Brown, George F., Family of, Belford,
N.J.: (Through Neil M. Brown) plans
of the submarine Mute (253326).

Brown, Gerald, Washington, D.C.:
Official souvenir dollar of Montana
Statehood Diamond Jubilee celebration,
1964 (253774).

Brown, James E., Washington, D.C.:
Crayfish from West Virginia (251027).

Brown, Neil M. (See Brown, George
F.)

Brown, Sam, Hendersonville, N.C.:
Marcasite in spinel from North Caro-
lina (252287).

Brown, Dr. W. L., Ithaca, N.Y.: 14
ants from North America (250599).

Brown, W. S. (See Colvilles, Ltd.)

Brown, Dr. Walter C. (See Stanford
University )

Brown, Dr. William L., Jr., Ithaca,
N.Y.: 4 ants, including a paratype, from
Africa and New Guinea, and 4 centi-
pedes from Mexico (251869, 258520).

Browne, Mrs. Francis C., Washington,
D.C.: 2 paisley shawls and 2 19th-cen-
tury pelerines (253954).

Browne, Dr. Meyer (See American
Society Gem Counsellors)

Browne, Mrs. Ralph C., Salem, Mass. :
K-1 firing device with accompanying
data (243208).

Bruce, David K. E., Washington, D.C. :
Interior woodwork from 2 Charleston,
S.C., drawing rooms (250183).

(See Great Bri-

(See Montana
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Bruce, George A., Stone Mountain,
Ga.: Chrome diopside cat’s eye
(249643).

Brundritt, John (See Canada, Govern-
ment of)

Buckey, Mrs. Charles William, Arling-
ton, Va.: Pencil sharpener (253335).

Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pa.:
(Through Dr. Roy C. Tasker) 175 bird
skins from West Pakistan (252865).

Buckup, Dr. Ludwig (See Museu Rio-
grandense de Ciéncias Naturais)

Buehler, Ernest, Murray Hill, N.J.:
Silicon crystal transistor (253239).

Buenos Aires, University of, Buenos
Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr. Os-
valdo A. Reig) 7 frogs from Argentina
(253194, exchange).

Buerger, Prof. M. J., Cambridge,
Mass.: 7 pieces of prototype X-ray dif-
fraction equipment (253941).

Buffalo Museum of Science, Buffalo,
N.Y.: 46 phanerogams from Mexico
(245829).

Bulkley, Capt. Morton C., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: 2 Thailand coins issued
in 1963 (252081).

Bull, Lucien, Paris, France: Photo-
graphic negatives, prints, and appara-
tus relating to high-speed photography
(246492).

Bullard, William C.
U.S. Department of the)

Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. (See Harvard
University; and Interior, U.S. Depart-
ment of the)

Bullock, Dr. Dillman §S., Angol, Chile:
32 springtails from Chile (250559).

Bunting, Mrs. Ethel Jane W., Wash-
ington, D.C.: 267 ethnological items
from Iran and Pakistan, including ma-
terials for a Kalamkar textile printing
display and a brush from Laos (242185,
246937).

Burbanck, Dr. W. D.
University )

Burch, J. B. (See Michigan, Univer-
sity of)

Burch, John Q., Los Angeles, Calif. :
3 paratypes of a new species of mollusk
from Mexico (249642).

Burch, Dr. Thomas A., and family,
Silver Spring, Md. : 396 marine inverte-

(See Interior,

(See Emory

139

brates from Guam, Mexico, and western
U.S., also a fish (247441).

Burden, L. C. (See Defense, U.S. De-
partment of)

Burden, Mr. and Mrs. William A. M.,
New York, N.Y.: 25 archeological mate-
rials from Egypt, Greece, Italy, and
Palestine (253493).

Burdette, Mrs. John S., Arlington,
Va.: Watch (251553).

Burjorjee, Mrs. Lucille P., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 4 foreign postal covers
(253881).

Burke, Dr. Horace R., College Station,
Tex.: 4 weevils, paratypes, from Texas
(252372).

Burks, Dr. Barnard D., Washington,
D.C. : 224 miscellaneous insects from the
U.S. and ii foreign postal covers
(249062, 253848).

Burton, Mrs. Josie E. Newcomb (de-
ceased): (Through Guy J. Cappello)
40 items of needlework and lace, 15
items of women’s and children’s dress,
and 6 porcelain custard cups (247913).

Burundi, Government of: (Through
Agence Philatelique) first-day cover
honoring Dag Hammarskjold (252040).

Bush Romero, Pablo, Mexico, D.F.:
15 items, ca. 1742, recovered from the
1960 C.E.D.A.M. trip to Hl Matancero,
Mexico (249440).

Bushey, Dr. Harold L., Barbourville,
Ky.: 2 bronze medals issued by the

| Daniel Boone Festival at Barbourville,

1963 (251160).

Butcher, Henry P., Volcan, Republic
of Panama: Phanerogam from Panama
(251271).

Buxton, George M. (See California,
State of)

C. & E. Fein Co., Stuttgart, Germany :
(Through Kurt Widmaier) 1890 D.C.
motor (251699).

Cailler, Hugh E., New York, N.Y.:
Chinese porcelain vase (250966).

Cain, Mrs. Benjamin B., Washington,
D.C.: English Queen Anne _ desk
(248728).

Cain, D. Jamison (See Pittman, Mrs.
Velna)
140 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Caldwell, Mrs. Gibson L., Wheeling,
W. Va.: Diamond and pearl necklace
(2513891).

California, State of: Depariment of
Agriculture: (Through George M. Bux-
ton) 2 grasshoppers, paratypes, from
the U.S. (251533); (through Tokuwo
Kono) 22 thrips from California and
Virginia (252783, exchange). Depart-
ment of Fish and Game: (Through
John H. Fitch) fish, paratype, from
Santa Catalina Island, 24 isopods, and
2 amphipods (219016, 248592).

California, University of, Berkeley
Campus: 41 grasses from Argentina, 215
ferns from Costa Rica and 9 bryophytes
from Chile (237084, 2438985, 251266) ;
55 phanerogams from Mexico and South
America (251447, gift-exchange);
(through Dr. Paul D. Hurd, Jr.) 2
wasps from California (251597);
(through Dr. Herbert L. Mason) 3
phanerogams, 9 ferns and a eryptogam
(248089) ; (through Dr. Ralph I. Smith)
18 archiannelids and 6 isopods (251040).
Davis Campus: (Through Prof. Stanley
F. Bailey) 14 thrips from California
(249428, exchange); (through Dr.
Richard M. Bohart) 16 wasps from
South America (248845, 249911). Los
Alamos Campus: (Through Peter
Mygatt) cross section of Columbus II,
a linear pinch device (253944). Los
Angeles Campus: (Through Wayne J.
Baldwin) fish, holotype, from the east-
ern Pacific Ocean (248207); (through
Dr. Gordon H. Ball) slide containing
syntypes of 2 new species of sporozoans
(252531) ; (through Lyle E. Pyeatt) 9
cultivated phanerogams (250554) ;
(through Mrs. L. R. Saul) 14 specimens
and 6 plastotypes of pelecypods from
the Cretaceous of California (246889,
exchange). Riverside Campus: 35 her-
mit crabs (247599).

California Academy of Sciences, San
Francisco, Calif.: (Through John
Thomas Howell) 4 grasses (251898) ;
(through Dr. Hugh B. Leech) 6 leaf
beetles from Central and South America
(250378, exchange) ; 21 leaf beetles from
the Western Hemisphere (253608).

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Califernia Redwood Assoc., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: (Through Sager-Redford
Lumber Co.) 2 redwood boards
(250516).

Cambodia, Kingdom of: (Through
Bernard P. Groslier) 3 rubbings from
the Bayon at Angkor (249561).

Cameron Iron Works, Inc., Houston,
Tex.: (Through G. 8. Leonard) first
successful blowout preventer developed
by J. S. Abercrombie (252302).

Campbell, Lt. Col. Duncan, Harris-
burg, Pa.: Aircraft emblem of the 1st
Observation Squadron, ca. 1980
(250588).

Campbell, Dr. J. M., Washington,
D.C.: Hskimo skull from Alaska
(252462).

Campden-Main, Simon, Washington,
D.C.: 29 reptiles and amphibians from
South Viet-Nam collected by donor
(253456).

Canada, Government of: Department
of Agriculture: (Through Dr, W. J.
Cody) 214 phanerogams, 27 grasses, and
7 ferns (250341, exchange) ; (through
Dr. T. N. Freeman) 82 small moths
from North America (248441, ex-
change) (through C. D. F. Miller) ap-
proximately 450 chalcid flies from North
America and Russia (252855, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. H. EH. Milliron)
14 sawflies (250603). Department of
Lish and Game: (Through John Brund-
ritt) approximately 45 crayfishes
(249880). Hntomology Research Insti-
tute: (Through Dr. K. W. Neatby) 20
parasitic wasps of 4 species from Europe
and North America (253502). Fisheries
Research Board: (Through Cyril Berke-
ley) 4 polychaete worms (249460) ;
(through Dr. Leo Margolis) 6 new
species of copepods, paratypes, from
British Columbia (252125). National
Museum of Canada: (Through Dr. E.
L. Bousfield) 4 sea anemones (237665) ;
(through Dr. Arthur H. Clarke, Jr.) 4
marine bivalve scallops, paratypes,
from Sable Island, Nova Scotia
(251944, exchange). Geological Sur-
vey: (Through Dr. Peter Harker) 17
brachiopods from the Permian or Arc-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS,

tic Islands, Canada (251134, exchange).
National Research Council: (Through
Dr. W. S. G. Maass) 35 lichens from
eastern Canada (252999).

Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 2 stilbite specimens from Poonah,
India (247909); danburite from El
Alamo, Baja California, Mexico
(249176) ; malachite from the Congo
(249825) ; alexandrite from the U.S.S.R.
(250954) ; beryl from Salinas, Minas
Gerais, Brazil (251811) ; opal in matrix
from Queretaro, Mexico (253530) ; va-
nadinite from Tucson, Ariz. (253762) ;
scheelite from Dos Cabesos, Ariz.
(253766) ; 265 minerals mostly from
Mexico (253744, 253760, 258761) ; gold
nugget, 65 grams (253767).

Canisius College, Buffalo, N.Y.:
(Through Rey. James J. Ruddick)
4 pieces of electrical laboratory demon-
stration apparatus (252896).

Canterbury Museum, Christchurch,
New Zealand: (Through Ron J. Scar-
lett) bird skin (251584, exchange).

Cape Haze Marine Laboratory, Sara-
sota, Fla.: (Through Dr. Eugenie
Clark) 8 sharks from Florida and 4
paratypes of a new pipefish from the
Red Sea (248646, 251894).

Capener, Dr. A. L., Pretoria, South
Africa: 2 tree hoppers and 12 mem-
bracids from Africa (250789, 253899).

Capitol Medals, Inc., High Point,
N.C.: 2 States of the Union series
medals honoring the State of North Da-
kota (252064) ; (through A. C. Schultz;
and Token and Medal Society) 4 medals
honoring the States of California and
Tilinois (248939, 248940); (through
Token and Medal Society) 5 silver and
4 bronze medals honoring the States of
Colorado, Montana, New Jersey, and
New York (249852, 250468, 252330,
258351); 2 John Fitzgerald Kennedy
memorial medals (252887).

Caplin, Mortimer M. (See Treasury,
U.S. Department of the)

Caplinger, H. S. (See Treasury, U.S.
Department of the)

Cappello, Guy J. (See Burton, Mrs.
Josie HE. Newcomb)

141

Capps, Mrs. Stephen, Washington,
D.C.: Photograph of painting by W. D.
Taylor showing harp piano, 1909
(251850).

Caraker, G. E., Deep Springs, Inyo
Co., Calif.: Black toad from Deep
Springs (250532).

Cardenas, Dr. M., Cochabamba, Bo-
livia: 487 phanerogams, 35 grasses, 6
ferns, and 4 cryptogams from Bolivia
(249316).

Carl, Mrs. G. C., Victoria, B.C., Can-
ada: 3 shrimps (244450).

Carl Zeiss, Inc., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Bruce Maxfield) 2 cross-sec-
tioned binoculars, Diasport and Carl
Zeiss (250105) ; (through Raoul J. Men-
endez) 8 sonnar lenses, a planar lens,
and a biogon lens (250521).

Carmichael, Dr. Leonard, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Cover bearing cancellation
commemorating pilgrimage of Pope Paul
VI and presentation album containing
278 mint stamps and 8 souvenir sheets
(251958, 252489).

Carnegie Institution of Washington,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Dr. R. BE.
Hewitt) 2 fishes from Bermuda
(251441).

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
228 phanerogams, 67 grasses, and 76
ferns from Colombia (248653, ex-
change) ; (through W. W. Woodside) 4
Assam paper chits and a New Orleans
brass ‘‘quarte” token (252067).

Carriker, Dr. M. A. Jr.. Bucara-
manga, Colombia: Land snail from Co-
lombia (250531).

Carson, Dr. Hampton L. (See Wash-
ington University)

Carter, William G., Stillwater, Okla.:
25 ants from North America (253082).

Cartwright, O. L., Washington, D.C.:
Tsopod and 301 scarab beetles from
South Carolina (231304, 2494380).

Casal, Dr. Osvaldo H., Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 157 velvet ants from South
America (251931, exchange) ; (through
Ralph A. Bram) 2 mosquitoes (253612).

Case, Mr. and Mrs. Jean, Ogden,
Utah: 4 silicified coral specimens and
4 variscite specimens from Utah
142

(249048); (through Dr. Francis M.
Hueber) limb section of petrified wood
from Wyoming (249047).

Case Institute of Technology, Cleve-
land, Ohio: (Through Prof. Robert S.
Shankland) 8 pieces of electrical and
physical apparatus (251332).

Casey Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 86 holotypes, 15 allotypes, and 23
paratypes of leaf and darkling beetles
(246758).

Cassidy, Dr. William A. (See Colum-
bia University)

Castlen, Dr. Charles R., La Canada,
Calif.: 15 ethnological items from
Papua, New Guinea, an Australian
campaign hat, and a Japanese flag
(252811).

Casto, Carroll W. (See West Virginia
Centennial Medallion Committee)

Castro, Maj. Cecilio B. (See Hon-
duras, Government of)

Cate, Mrs. Helen W. (See Weyl, Anna
Czachorowsky )

Causey, Dr. Nell B., Fayetteville,
Ark.: 14 millipedes, including types,
and 215 centipedes from Mexico and
North America (250592, 251236).

Cavitron Ultrasonics, Inc. Long
Island City, N.Y.: (Through Leonard
W. Suroff) 2 ultrasonic dental hand-
pieces and an assortment of dental cut-
ting tips (250505).

Cazier, Dr. Mont A. (See Arizona
State University )

Centre Technique Forestier Tropical,
Nogent-sur-Marne (Seine), France:
(Through M. D. Normand) 100 micro-
scopic preparations of woods from
Africa and New Caledonia (253056,
exchange).

Cerame-Vivas, Maximo (See Duke
University)

Chace, E. P. (See Natural History
Museum)

Chalmers, Dr. R. O.
Government of)

Chamberlain Fund, Frances Lea,
Smithsonian Institution: Golden sap-
phire, 22.35 carats (249824) ; 17,300 mol-
lusks, 24 starfishes, and 3 barnacles
from worldwide localities (250061) ;
(through L. J. Lancaster) 370 marine

(See Australia,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

mollusks from the Tonga Islands

(251705).
Chamberlin, Mrs. Norman (See Fort
Johnson Marine Biological Laboratory)
Chan, Bill, Aberdeen, Hong Kong: 6

fresh-water fishes from Hong Kong
(251616).
Chandler, Rear Adm. Alfred W.,

Chevy Chase, Md.: Models of the teeth
of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and
Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, and a pair of cal-
ipers made and used by Paul Revere
(2494138).

Chapel Hills Medals, Inc., Chapel
Hill, N.C.: (Through Token and Medal
Society) 2 official commemorative
medals honoring the U.S.S. North
Carolina and its establishment as a me-
morial to all World War II veterans
at Wilmington, N.C. (248732).

Chapelle, Howard I., Washington,
D.C.: Postal cover from Viet-Nam
(253842) ; taffrail log dial, iron spec-
tacle clew, wooden deadeye and sail
hoop, and a 3-blade propeller (254111).
(See also El Museo Maritimo)

Chapnick, Howard, New York, N.Y.:
115 black and white photographs taken
by Kosti Ruohomaa (252971).

Chappalear, James, Chevy Chase,
Md.: 2 first-day covers and 17 first-day
programs (253882).

Charles Zies & Sons Co., Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Theodore Zies) Mergen-
thaler milling machine (254090).

Chase, Emily T. (See National So-
ciety of the Colonial Dames of America)

Chase, Mrs. Jean Ramsay, Holly-
wood, Md.: English bracket clock with
painted dial (252495).

Chase, Philip H., Wynnewood, Pa.:

119 Confederate Treasury notes
(247214).
Checker, L. (See Hill 50 Gold Mine)

Cheek, Dr. Randall P.
U.S. Department of the)

Chemsak, Dr. J. A., Berkeley, Calif. :
26 beetles from California (250608).
Chester B. Stem, Inc., New Albany,

(See Interior,

Ind.: (Through Chester B. Stem) 28
finished boards of various woods
(253086).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Chiavassa, H.
ment of)

Chicago, Ill, City of: (Through
Lewis H. Hill) 3 leaded-glass casement
windows, 1885, panel of armorial stained
glass, 1894, and 1 lot of hardware and
tile fragments (251279).

Chicago, University of, Chicago, IIl.:
Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear
Studies: (Through Dr. Edward Anders)
25 grams of Orgueil meteorite from
France (251081, exchange).

Chicago Natural History Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: 4 phanerogams, 111
grasses, and 273 ferns from Central
America (249327, 249984, 250684, 252899,
252909) ; 222 phanerogams, 38 grasses,
and 3 ferns from Central America, 122
mascerated remains of fossil fishes from
the Lower Devonian of Lucas Co., Ohio
(248656, 252837, 254024, exchanges) ;
(through Dr. Emmet R. Blake) bird
skin (251567, exchange). (See also
Defense, U.S. Department of)

Chilton Club, Boston, Mass.:
(Through Mrs. John O. Stubbs) 2 ear-
toons by Bruce Bairnsfather (253629).

China, Government of the Republic
of: (Through T. Y. Ho) 26 postage
stamps of the Republic of China
(258887).

Chinese Embassy
Hall)

Chirichigno F., Norma (See Minis-
terio de Agricultura)

Chong, Ana Chee, Colon, Republic of
Panama: Upper part of a woman’s
dress of the San Blas Cuna Indians
(252770).

Christensen, Dr. Carlo (See Gitz-
Johansen, Aage)

Christensen, Mrs. Charles, Kamuela,
Hawaii: 3 marine mollusks from Puako,
Hawaii (252002).

Christenson, L. W., Cleveland
Heights, Ohio: Custom-made stamp
viewer with an electrical attachment
(244428) ; 2,963 miscellaneous philatelic
items and publications of Japan and
other foreign countries (252042, 252080,
253874).

Chujo, Dr. M., Takamatsu-shi, Japan:
8 beetles from Japan (251703).

(See Monaco, Govern-

(See Fine Arts

143

Church, Frank P., Lomita, Calif.:
Astronomical clockwork (250512).

Cincinnati, University of, Cincinnati,
Ohio: (Through Dr. Hmerson Kemsies)
6 bird skins (249175, exchange).

_Claiborne-Armstrong, Mrs. Louise,
Apopka, Fla.: Carriage mantle, carriage
dress, and Spanish jacket (252943).

Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 4 Corinthian staters
struck in Corinthian colonies (250466) ;
Roman bronze tessera, 27 B.C.—A.D. 14
(251151) ; 28 foreign patterns and trial
strikings (252077); 3 foreign covers
(2588382).

Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. Vladimir, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Gold bracteate showing
the head of the Romar Emperor, Cara-
calla, A.D. 196-217 (250461) ; quarter
gulden struck in cardboard, 1573
(250462) ; 4 Belgian and French pat-
terns and medalets (250463); 10 an-
cient, medieval, and modern coins in
silver and copper (251152) ; 8 German
and Italian silver medals, 17th—-19th
centuries, and a Chinese dollar
(251180) ; legal documents issued in the
Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, 1792-1822
(252078) ; 19 foreign and U.S. covers
(253841).

Clarey, John, Spur Tree, Jamaica:
(Through Brother Michael Stomber,
C.P.) iron projectile (252385).

Clark, Mrs. Austin H. (See Bessey,
Lenora)

Clark, Clyde A., Salem, Oreg.: Sphere
of jasper from Bruno Canyon, Idaho
(2538653).

Clark, Dr. Eugenie (See Cape Haze
Marine Laboratory)

Clark, Dr. L. G. (See Pennsylvania,
University of)

Clark, Richard C., Springfield, Va.:
Cosmograph motion-picture projector
(250519).

Clark University, Worcester, Mass. :
5 phanerogams and grass from Massa-
chusetts (217980).

Clarke, Dr. Arthur H., Jr.
Canada, Government of)

Clarke, Elizabeth L., Putney, Vt.: 2
phanerogams from Vermont (249838).

(See
144

Clarke, M. Augusta (See Clarke,
Mortimer)

Clarke, Mortimer (deceased) :
(Through M. Augusta Clarke) 78 an-
cient art objects (245919).

Clay, Dr. Theresa (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Clements, D. Thomas (See United
Nations Postal Administration)

Clench, Dr. William J. (See Harvard
University)

Cleveland, Mr. and Mrs. Richard F.,
Baltimore, Md.: 5 items of clothing
worn by President and Mrs. Grover
Cleveland (253358).

Cloos, Dr. Ernst (See Johns Hop-
kins University)

Closs, Dr. Darcy (See Universidade
do Rio Grande do Sul)

Cobban, Dr. W. A. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Cochran, Dr. Doris M. (See Lanzen,
Edward M.)

Cody, Morrill, Washington, D.C.: 2
pieces of Mexican pottery (248275).

Cody, Dr. W. J. (See Canada, Govern-
ment of)

Coghill, Mrs. Muriel A., Bethesda,
Md.: Navaho Indian horsehair rope col-
lected by donor in Albuquerque,
N. Mex., 1898 (240468).

Cohen, Dr. Daniel M.
U.S. Department of the)

Cohen, Dr. Edward I., Waltham,
Mass. : 11 flies from Asia and 81 mosqui-
toes (250588, 253610).

Cohn, Erich, New York, N.Y.: Water-
color, 3 drawings, and 12 etchings by
Paul Kleinschmidt and 4 etchings by
Ludwig Meidner (253741).

Colby, Susan, Washington, D.C.: 5
foreign covers (253849).

Colgate, Adele S. (deceased):
(Through O.K. Myers) 243 Currier &
Ives lithographs (245107, bequest).

Collette, Dr. Bruce B. (See Guinean
Trawling Survey )

Collier, F. J., Sterling, Va.: Common
opal from Sterling Park, Va., (251815).

Collins, Jeremiah A. (See Smithso-
nian Institution)

(See Interior,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Collins, Prof. Samuel C., Cambridge,
Mass.: Collins cryogenic expansion
machine, 1942 (254120).

Colorado, University of, Boulder,
Colo.: (Through Dale L. Denham)
phanerogam from Mexico (249980) ;
(through Prof. Russell M. Honea)
specimen of stutzite, empressite, and
barite from Colorado (2538301, ex-
change). University Museum:
(Through Dr. William A. Weber) iso-
type of a phanerogam (251272); 231
lichens (2514138, 251719, exchanges).

Colorado Schcool of Mines, Golden,
Colo.: (Through Dr. J. J. Finney)
Arapahoe, Colo., meteorite, 422 grams
(252659, exchange).

Colt’s Patent Fire Arms Manufactur-
ing Co., Inc., Hartford, Conn.: (Through
Paul A. Benke) Colt automatic military
rifle, bipod with web scabbard, man-
ual, bayonet with web and metal scab-
bard, and colt .45 125th anniversary
model (252173).

Columbia Broadcasting System and
WTOP-Radio, Washington, D.C.:
(Through Roy Meachum and Granville
Klink) microphone used by President
Franklin D. Roosevelt and presentation
plate given him by the Columbia Broad-
casting System (283610).

Columbia University, New York,
N.Y.: (Through Dr. Paul K. Anderson)
7 amphipods (232926) ; (through Alvin
P. Tramm) 51 pieces of electrical and
physical sciences apparatus (249200).
Lamont Geological Observatory: Pal-
isades, N.Y.: (through Dr. William A.
Cassidy) 66 specimens of the Campo del

Cielo meteorite from Argentina
(252821).
Colvilles, Ltd., Glasgow, Scotland:

(Through W. 8S. Brown) 7 Roman nails
(253939).

Commerce, U.S. Department of,
Washington, D.C.: Bureau of the Cen-
sus: (Through Richard M. Scammon)
Univaec I computer, mercury tank, and
a magnetic tape transport (243210).
Coast and Geodetic Survey: (Through
William D. Harris) aerial camera
(251476) ; (through Dr. Harris B. Stew-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

art, Jr.) sea cucumber (250753). WNa-
tional Bureau of Standards: (Through
Dr. W. T. Sweeney) 38 models of hy-
draulic turbine handpiece with spare
parts and special tools (251480).
Weather Bureau: (Through Christas
Harmantas) 8 radiosondes and radio-
sonde elements (254096); (through
Robert Wright) electromagnetic
counter and a pneumatic instrument
(251558).

Compton, James
land C.)

Conkin, Dr. James E., Louisville, Ky. :
128 Foraminifera, types, from the Mis-
sissippian of Missouri and western Illi-
nois (251097).

Connell, Dr. Walter
University of)

Conrad, Lyle G., Chevy Chase, Md.:
11 crayfishes and a fish (248124,
248765).

Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Cientificas, Madrid, Spain: (Through
Prof. J. L. Amoroés) 3 meteorites from
Spain, and the Cuba meteorite from
the West Indies (252396, exchange).

Conservator of Forests, Office of,
Kuching, Sarawak: (Through L. S. V.
Murthy) 187 wood specimens from
Sarawak (249041, exchange).

Continental Productions Ltd., New
York, N.Y.: (Through Curtis Mayer) 8
political campaign objects relating to

(See Masek, Ro-

(See Delaware,

the 1960 Kennedy-Nixon campaign
(249573).

Conway, John F. (See National Com-
pany, Inc.)

Cook, Grafton H., Dowagiac, Mich.:
Militia full-dress coat, ca. 1880, and
Spanish summer uniform, ca. 1898
(249637).

Cook, Harry L.
Department of the)

Cooley, Austin, College Park, Md.:
Facsimile recorder, 1923, scrapbook
documenting history of photograph
transmission, and Kuntz phototube, ca.
1926, partially restored (252175).
(See also Litton Industries, Inc.)

Coonley, Prentiss L., Washington,

(See Interior, U.S.

145

D.C.: Arm chair, and an opal from
Virgin Valley, Nev. (251075, 252778).

Coons, Dr. D. O., Bedford, Canada:
Set of coins issued by the Canadian
Mint, 1963 (249403).

Coons, Mrs. Isabella M., Baltimore,
Md.: 9 cameras and related equipment
and papers of Frederick W. Mueller
(252486).

Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur, Washington,
D.C.: 216 brachiopods and trilobites
from the Mississippian of Ohio, Ordovi-
cian of North Wales, Great Britain, and
the Paleozoic and Mesozoic of the Brit-
ish Isles (250407, 251763, 251771).

Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur,
Washington, D.C.: Approximately 1,000
fossils from the Middle Ordovician and
Silurian of southern Ontario, collected
by donors (251455).

Cooper, Mrs. Josephine, Washington,
D.C.: Medal issued in 1841 by the Cath-
olic Temperance Society, and a small
pamphlet, Washington’s Farewell Ad-
dress to the People of the United States
(249261).

Cooper, Dr. Kenneth W., Hanover,

N.H.: 215 ants from South America
(251103).

Cooper, Dr. Robert W. (See San
Diego Zoological Garden)

Copeland, Dr. C. W. (See Gray,
Randall)

Copeland, Dr. T. P. (See Durey,
Richard A.)

Copenhagen, University of, Copen-
hagen, Denmark: Botanical Museum:
271 phanerogams and 109 grasses from
Argentina (247777, exchange).

Corby, Mrs. William S., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Double-woven Jacquard coverlet
(252487).

Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. Edward C. Raney) 10
fishes, paratypes, from Illinois and
South Carolina (248028, 250563). De-
partment of Botany: (Through Dr.
Harlan P. Banks) 7 plant specimens
from the Devonian of New York
(251091, exchange).

Corning Glass Works, Corning, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. William H. Dumbaugh,
146

Jr.) synthetic tektite glass, 282 grams
(253072).

Corothie, Harry (See Universidad
de los Andes)

Couacaud, Mrs. Jean, Port Louis,
Mauritius: Mollusk eggs and 3 mollusks
(248142, exchange).

Councilor, Mrs. Harry A., Alexandria,
Va.: Child’s closestool (253794).

Courtenay, Walter R., Durham, N.C.:
201 fishes from Tennessee (251067).

Coutin, Dr. Thomas J. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Cova Garcia, Dr. Pablo, Maracay,
Aragua, Venezuela: (Through Ralph A.
Bram) 5 mosquitoes (2538609).

Covel, Mrs. Thomas (See National
Society of the Colonial Dames of
America)

Cox, Mrs. Mary B.
Home)

Crane, Kent, Falls Church, Va.: 7
mammals and 5 birds from Indonesia
(249641).

Crane, Winthrop M.
George W.)

Crenshaw, Dr. John W., Jr., College
Park, Md.: 4 turtles from Vera Cruz,
Mexico (249122).

Crichton, Dr. M. Ian, Reading, Berks,
England: 112 caddis flies from Eng-
land (252859).

Critchley, Kenneth D., Worcester,
Mass. : Pair of spectacles made in Amer-
ica, ca. 1900 (250656).

Critz, Maj. Gen. Harry H., Fort Camp-
bell, Ky.: U.S. shoulder sleeve insigne,
World War II (250534).

Crocker, Mildred F., Washington,
D.C.: 2 pairs of spectacles (248424).

Croizat, Dr. Leon, Caracas, Vene-
zuela: (Through Dr. D. W. Taylor)
bark hammock from the Guaiko (Wai-
ka) Indians of Venezuela (254015).

Crom, Mr. and Mrs. C. G., Springfield,
Va.: 5 weapons from the Philippines
(253320).

Crosby, Duane F. (See Turtle Moun-
tain Jewel Bearing Plant)

Crosskey, Roger W. (See Great Brit-
ain, Government of)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

(See Louise

(See Crouch,

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Crouch, George W. (deceased) :
(Through Winthrop M. Crane) meer-
schaum pipe (249584, bequest).

Crown Agents, Washington, D.C.:
(Through A. J. HE. Davis) 5,196 mint
postage stamps of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations (253840).

Culberson, Dr. William L. (See Duke
University )

Cunningham, Dr. Hugh B. (See Iili-
nois, State of)
Cunningham, J. Lester (See J. L.

Cunningham & Co.)

Curd, Alan C., London, England: 1
Japanese and 2 North Korean bank
notes (248731).

Curtiss, Gene, Benton, Ky.: 53 min-
erals from various localities (251511,
exchange).

Curtiss-Wright Corp., Buffalo, N.Y.:
(Through Richard D. O’Connor) alloy
steel abstract (253949).

Cutter, Albert R., Santa Barbara,
Calif. : 10 spheres, cut gemstones, and 3
minerals from worldwide localities
(250961, 252272, 254019).

Cypert, Eugene (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Dahle, K. N., Miami, Fla. : Chaleedony
cabochon and pendant from Malheur
Co., Oreg. (248702).

Dale, Mr. and Mrs. W. N., New York,
N.Y.: 42 Turkish pottery specimens
(251756).

Dandy, J. E.
Government of)

Danforth, Dr. Charles G.
dale College)

Daniel, Dr. F. (See Zoologische
Sammlung des Bayerischen Staates)

Dannettel, R. C., Jr. (See Babcock &
Wilcox Co.)

Darling, Thomas, Jr., Alexandria,
Va.: 39 ferns mostly from Florida col-
lected by donor (253817).

Darlington, Dr. P. J.
University )

D’Aubrey, Jeanette D. (See South
African Association for Marine Bio-
logical Research)

Davidson, Edward, Ithaca, N.Y.:
Goethite and pyrite on calcite from
Chihuahua, Mexico (253747).

(See Great Britain,

(See Glen-

(See Harvard
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents)

Davis, A. Brian, Washington, D.C.: 80
flies from North America (250587).

Davis, Mrs. Brooks, Tucson, Ariz.:
Copper from Ajo, Ariz. (251695, ex-
change).

Davis, Dean H., Jr., Charleston, W.
Va.: 49 mining tokens and mining scrip
issued by West Virginia companies
(250465, 251184).

Davis, Dr. James R. See North Caro-
lina, State of)

Davis, Prof. Ray J., Pocatello, Idaho:
26 phanerogams from Idaho (253226).

Davison, Mrs. Allen (See Torrence,
Jane Paull)

Davison, Clinton C., Baltimore, Md.:
Agate cabochon from Mexico (248709).

Dawson, Charles E., Ocean Springs,
Miss.: 4 fishes from the Persian Gulf
(247855). (See also Gulf Coast Re-
search Laboratory)

Dawson, Harris P., Washington, D.C.:
2 marine mollusks from Australia
(251464).

Day, Hon. J. Edward (See Post Of-
fice Department)

Dean, Miles, III, McLean, Va.: Cen-
ter bearing rail, 1875 (249862).

Dearborn, John H., Stanford, Calif. :
110 marine bivalve mollusks from Me-
Murdo Sound, Antarctica (248521).

Deas, Stanley P. (See Southern Pine
Association )

Dedlock, Prof. S., Lille, France: Slide
of a parasitic helminth worm (250741).

de Castro, Dr. Alceu Lemos (See
Museu Nacional)

Deeming, J. C., London, England: Fly
from England (251909).

Defense, U.S. Department of: De-
partment of the Air Force: Air Force
Systems Command: 3 rifle grenades and
a cleaning rod for the AR-15 rifle
(254121). Epidemiological Labora-
tory: 17 phanerogams from Greenland
(250331); (through Dr. Thomas J.
Coutin) 20 fresh-water mollusks from
Greenland (252259). Fifth HEpidemi-
ological Flight: (Through Lt. Richard
HE. Johnsen) 35 fishes from the Philip-
pines (251066). Military Personnel
Center: 8 U.S. Air Force decorations

147

(254056). Navigation and Guidance
Laboratory: Airborne atomichron, 1960
(253253). Department of the Army:
Pair of WAC shoes and hat (250535) ;
1 of 4 drums used in leading the funeral
procession of President Kennedy
(251348, indefinite loan) ; Simplex pro-
jector, KS lamp housing; Simplex LC-3
pedestal with bracket for RCA MI-—9030
sound head ; MI-9010—B magnetic sound
head (252366) ; 2 Dahl 35 mm. motion
picture cameras with 2 supplementary
lenses (252368); 2 U.S. distinctive in-
signia, Ist battalion and 725th mainte-
nance battalion (252846, 25353838) ;
(through L. C. Burden) Soviet grenade
from Korea (250536) ; (through Sidney
D. Haas) World War II shoulder sleeve
insigne (250067) ; (through Col. Robert
Traub) 326 miscellaneous insects from
Malaya and 28 marine invertebrates
(251457). Army Engineer Corps:
(Through Alvin A. Snyder) 2 amphi-
pods (249154). Army Weapons Com-
mand: (Through Budd A. Willetts) 3
U.S. Army weapons (249487). Biologi-
cal Laboratories: 1,240 orchids from
Thailand (2503833). Brooke Army
Medical Center: (Through Maj. Vernon
J. Tipton) 54 lice from Panama
(252375). Third U.S. Army: Engineer
Section: (Through Dr. C. W. Bartholo-
mai) 85 land snails from Fort Rucker,
Ala. (250254). Institute of Heraldry:
(Through Col. Harry D. Temple) dupli-
cate Air Foree Medal of Recognition
awarded to Maj. Gen. Benjamin D.
Foulois, with appurtenances (252484).
Institute of Research: (Through A. R.
Warner) bat from Fort Belvoir, Va.
(252866). Medical Field Service School:
(Through EH. L. Peyton) 56 mosquitoes
from Texas (253512). Preventive Med-
icine Division: 53 mammals from Pan-
ama (254048). Property Disposal Of-
fice: Army truck, 1927 (248206). Quar-
termaster Depot: 13 World War II
Army qualification badges and shoulder
sleeve insignia (250062). 2nd Infantry
Division: U.S. insigne for the 2nd Avia-
tion Battalion, 2nd Infantry Division
(253323). Department of the Navy:
National Naval Medical Center
148

(Through Dr. Ernst Schwarz and J. M.
Amberson) 95 fresh-water mollusks
from Venezuela (248705). Naval Med-
ical Research Units: (Through Chicago
Natural History Museum) 194 mam-
mals from Egypt and Sudan (249476) ;
(through Comdr. Robert H. Kuntz)
2,359 crabs and shrimps (230196,
235533, 242931, 248620, 249011); 88
fishes from Taiwan (248403) ; 301 bird
skins from Formosa (252864) ; (through
Col. Robert Traub) 2 fleas, holotype and
allotype, from Tanganyika (249068) ;
(through Lt. Comdr. William H. Wells)
seyllarid and 2 crabs (239401). Naval
Observatory: Regulator clock (254094).
Naval Oceanographic Office: (Through
William Leapley) 12 fishes from the
Caspian Sea (248692). Naval Weapons
Laboratory: (Through Lt. R. N. Bee-
man) Mader-Ott harmonic analyzer,
1947 (254098).

Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialua, Oahu,
Hawaii: Fungus from Hawaii
(249689) ; 407 phanerogams, 6 grasses,
and 16 ferns from Hawaii (249971,
252334).

DeGurse, John, Jr., Washington, D.C. :
2 foreign postal covers (253862).

Deignan, Herbert G., Pully, prés de
Lausanne (Vaud), Switzerland: 9 bird
skeletons from Europe (254028).

de la Rue, Mr. and Mrs. Sidney, Ches-
tertown, Md.: Needlework picture, ‘The
Sea Beast,” by Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt,
Jr. (252238).

Delaware, University of, Newark,
Del.: (Through Dr. Walter Connell) 17
weevils from Delaware (251282).

Del Noce, Aldo, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 25
percent of a block of four 2-cent “Lake
Shade” Panama Pacific Exposition Is-
sue, 1913 (230499).

Demaree, Dr. Delzie, Hot Springs,
Ark.: Cultivated phanerogam (250245).

de Mattos Filho, Dr. Armando (See
Ministério da Agricultura)

De Mesa, Pedro, Quezon City, Rizal,
Philippines: 88 mollusks from the Phil-
ippines and 2 flatworms (231151).

Denham, Dale L. (See Colorado,
University of)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Denison, Elizabeth Jean, Lennoxville,
Quebec, Canada: 80 lichens from east-
ern Canada (253600).

Denker, Mortimer M., New York,
N.Y.: 697 miscellaneous new and used
foreign stamps and a Confederate Post-
master’s Provisional cover (249260).

Denning, Dr. D. G., Moraga, Calif. :
2 caddis flies from the U.S. (249070).

Dennis, Mr. and Mrs. Robert N.,
Williamsburg, Va.: 53 items of stereo-
scopic equipment (25138038).

Dentry, Gordon, Washington, D.C.:
4-tined wooden fork (252786).

de Oliveira, Dr. Paulo Erichsen (See
Divisao de Geologia e Mineralogia)

Departamento de Zoologia, Sio Paulo,
Brazil: .(Through Dr. Gertrud Rita
Kloss) topotype of a nematode worm
(251336) ; (through Dr. P. E. Vanzo-
lini) 64 frogs from central Brazil
(248421, exchange).

de Porry, John J., Pinole, Calif.:
Cover bearing special “Last Trip”
marking (253417).

DeRocco, Henry, East Islip, N.Y.:
35 mm. motion-picture camera with
tripod and 20 lantern slides (250518).

De Santis, Dr. Luis (See Universidad
Nacional de La Plata)

Despres, Mr. and Mrs. Leon M.,
Chicago, Ill.: Architectural ornaments
from Chicago Stock Exchange Build-
ing, 1893-94 (251280).

Deutch, Michael J., Washington, D.C.:
3 18th-century engravings and an Indo-
nesian Temple rubbing (250792).

Deutsche Bundesbank, Frankfurt
(Main), Germany: 2 5-Deutsche Mark
notes issued in 1963 (248730); 2 10-
Deutsche Mark notes issued in 1960

251175).

Dewey, Hon. and Mrs. Charles S.,
Washington, D.C.: Chinese porcelain
plate (250975).

DeWitt, J. Doyle, Hartford, Conn.: 4
political campaign items (250770).

Dexter, Dr. Ralph W. (See Kent
State University)

De Young, David F., Washington,
D. ©.: Marking gage and a collection
of planes (25382438).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS,

de Zahara, Marquesa, Washington,
D.C.: Ball gown, 1892, baby cap, and
neckpiece, 19th century (253123).

Diaz G., Teodoro, Monterrey, Mexico:
140 invertebrate fossils from the Mis-
sissippian, Permian, and Cretaceous of
Mexico (238332).

Dick, Carl P., Hudson, Ohio: U.S.
Army officer’s full-dress uniform, with
cape, ca. 1902, and a pair of boots and
spurs, post 1912 (249546).

Diem, Nguyen Xuam, Kent, Ohio: 2
pieces of currency presently in use in
South Viet-Nam (249853).

Diemand, John A., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Advice to Young Men and Boys, by
B. B. Comegys (251852).

District of Columbia Public Schools,
Washington, D.C.: Dunbar High
School: (Through Charles Lofton) 40
pieces of electrical, physical, medical,
and engineering apparatus (252354).

Divisao de Geologia e Mineralogia,
Rio de Janerio, Brazil: (Through Dr.
Paulo Erichsen de Oliveira) 296 marine
mollusks from Brazil (2109138, ex-
change).

Dobie, S. N., Whitsett, Tex. : 11 fossil
ferns from Texas (250410).

Dobkin, Sheldon (See Institute of
Marine Science)

Dobrotworsky, Dr. N. V., Victoria,
Australia: 8 mosquitoes from Australia
(249061) ; 56 mosquitoes from Australia
(253908, exchange).

Dodd, Mrs. Jean M., Falls Church,
Va.: Account and letter book (250456).

Dodge, Dr. H. R., Pullman, Wash.:
114 flies and 130 mosquitoes from North
America (253518, 253906).

Dolbear, Benjamin L., Belmont,
Mass.: 2 electrically driven gyroscopes,
ca. 1860 and 1867 (249285).

Domrow, Dr. R. (See Australia,
Government of)

Donahue, Mrs. Ruth, Arlington, Va.:
Cover with special cachet, postmarked
May 16, 1968, aboard U.S.S. Kearsarge,
with Project Mercury Recovery Team
(258890).

Donaldson, Dr. Alan C., Morgantown,
W. Va.: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochel-
son) 3 Ordovician gastropods (248720).

149

Donaldson, John P. (See Loyola
University and Arthur D. Little, Inc.)

Doris, Mrs. James, Webster, N.Y.:
Hydroxy-herderite from Newry, Maine
(252820).

Dosse, Mr. and Mrs. Adolph F.,
Fontana, Calif.: Triphyllite from New
Hampshire (252278); 3 erystals of
tunellite from Boron, Calif. (254018, ex-
change).

Double, Mrs. Joy, Surfside Beach,
S.C.: Jaw containing 2 teeth of pycno-
dont fish from the Cretaceous of South
Carolina (249553).

Douglas, B. M., Washington, D.C.:
Original striking in pewter of the 1796
Castorland piece and a pattern half
dollar of 1916 (252079).

Dowden, Dr. Philip B.
ture, U.S. Department of)

Downey, Maureen E., Washington,
D.C.: 500 shrimps, 6 sea anemones, 2

(See Agricul-

lots of plankton samples, 6 echino-
derms, and 61 mollusks (249156,
258079).

Doyle, David, Usumbura, Burundi: 39
spears from Burundi (248911).

Doyle, Mrs. Thomas J. (See Hunt,
Florence Blanche)

Doze, David, Bozeman, Mont.: 6 al-
bino snails from Wyoming (246271).

Dragon Mine, Titanic District, Utah:
12 halloysite specimens from Dragon
Mine (252261).

Drake, Dr. C. J., Washington, D.C.: 3
U.S. postage stamps and 19 foreign
covers (2538438).

Drayton, Capt. Harry C. (deceased) :
(Through Mrs. Harry C. Drayton) 2
bill hooks (249569).

Drayton, Mrs. Harry C.
ton, Capt. Harry C.)

Drea, Dr. J. J. (See Agriculture, U.S.
Department of)

Dreisbach, R. R., Midland, Mich.:
Chalcid fly from the U.S. (249060).

Dreyfuss, David W., Washington,
D.C.: 6 postal cards and a commercial
cover of Japan (252359).

Drummond, Dr. W. C., Los Angeles,
Calif.: Fragment of cultivated fern
(250213).

(See Dray-
150

Dubose, Lt. William P., Jr., Lackland
A.F.B., Tex.: 9 coleoptera (249204).

Ducommun, J. C. (See American Oil
Co.)

Dufficy, Maurice (See International
Truss Plate Corp.)

Dugand, Dr. Armando, Barranquilla,
Colombia: 114 phanerogams from
Colombia (248518, 250334).

Duggan, Mrs. W. S., Everett, Wash. :
75 marine and land snails from Wash-
ington (249629).

Duhaney, L. S., Kingston, Jamaica:
Carved-wood American eagle (249459).

Duke, Doyle J., Eagle Pass, Tex.: 138
ethnological items from the Kickapoo
tribe of Mexico (242223).

Duke University, Durham, N.C.:
(Through Maximo Cerame-Vivas) 104
sea anemones collected by dredge off
Beaufort, N.C. (252619) ; (through Dr.
William L. Culberson) 64 lichens from
the eastern U.S. (253818, exchange) ;
(through Dr. D. A. Livingstone) 154
microscope slides showing pollen of
African plants (251726, exchange).
Marine Laboratory, Beaufort, N.C.:
(Through Lawrence R. McCloskey) 13
amphipods, 7 isopods, 2 butterflies and
shrimp (249155, 251069, 251635, 252228,
258188); (through Mary E. Potts)
polychaete worm (249127).

Dumbaugh, Dr. William H., Jr. (See
Corning Glass Works)

Dunn, D. L., and Miller, T. H., Hous-
ton, Tex. : 5 slides containing type speci-
mens of chitinozoans (252823).

du Pont, Willis H., Miami, Fla.: 856
silver, copper, and bronze Russian coins
and medals (252180).

Durey, Richard A., Johnson City,
Tenn.: (Through Dr. T. P. Copeland) 5
proturans from North Carolina
(249055).

Durfey, Mrs. Gloria, Miami, Fla.: 3
egg cases of 2 species of mollusks
(248726).

Dutro, J. Thomas, Jr. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Dysart, Richard J., Urbana, Ill.: 20
beetles from Guatemala (252171).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Eadie, Arthur F., Taft, Calif.: 2
gypsum specimens from Soda Lake,
California (250782). (See also Hadie
Engineering Co.)

Eadie Engineering Co., Taft, Calif. :
(Through Arthur F. Eadie) 2 bloedite
specimens from San Luis Obispo Co.,
Calif. (253182, exchange).

Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y.:
(Through Glenn W. Mentch) 4 Kodak
cameras and a collection of photo-
graphic cameras (249564, 252789).

Eastop, Dr. V. F. (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Eaton, Mrs. George, Covington, Ky.:
108 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Iowa, Kentucky, and Ohio (207537, ex-
change).

Edwards, Lt. Col. Corinne E., Miami,
Fla.: 58 marine mollusks from south
Lake Worth Inlet, Florida (221651).

Edwards, Mrs. Llewellyn N., Glen
Echo, Md.: Glass decanter, ca. 1800, pair
of silver teaspoons, and a hound-handled
pitcher (249844); plumb bob, plumb
bob with reel, terrestrial globe map
(252502).

Egleston, Charles, Columbia, S.C.:
1-dollar certificate issued by the Fos-
toria Industrial Corp., redeemed in
1934 (2533863).

Ehmann, Dr. William D.
tucky, University of)

Ehrenreich, J.. New York, N.Y.:
(Through Len Silverman) 35 mm.
Nikonos camera and supplemental view-
finder attachment for underwater pho-
tography (252863).

Eichner, L. C., Clifton, N.J.: Ruling
engine for making scales on reticules
and locating crosshairs, epicycloidal
gear cutters with forming tools and
check gage, 1947, and 5 homemade lathe
tools (250506, 250996, 251000).

Kiten, Dr. George (See Instituto de
Botanica )

Elbel, Dr. Robert E., San Francisco,
Calif.: 17 bird skins and 1,762 mites
and ticks from Mexico and Thailand
(250668, 251592).

Ellis, Mrs. Marion D., Los Angeles,
Calif. ; 218 crayfishes, 39 lots of worms,
and 2 field notebooks (246901).

(See Ken-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

El Museo Maritimo, Barcelona,
Spain: (Through Capt. de Corbeta Jose
M. Martinez-Hidalgo and Howard I.
Chapelle) 6 water colors of 18th-cen-
tury Spanish war vessels (253617).

Emerson, Dr. Alfred E., Chicago, Ill. :
16 termites, including paratypes, from
South America (252861).

Emery, J. K., Watertown, Mass.:
Gauge, ca. 1940 (254084).

Emory University, Atlanta, Ga.:
(Through Dr. W. D. Burbanck) 10 iso-
pods (252227); (through Prof. Robert
H. Rohrer) Roget Spiral and electro-
static rocker engine (253641).

Emperor of Japan, His Majesty,
Tokyo, Japan: (Through Dr. Tohru
Uchida) 4 sea anemones from Japan
(252156).

Emrich, Duncan, Washington, D.C.:
Approximately 1,480 marine mollusks
from Mogadiscio, Somalia (250945).

Enay, R., Lyon, France: 157 plaster
easts of ammonites from the Mesozoic
of France (250860, exchange).

Entel, Mac, Miami, Fla.: (Through
Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod) 7 fishes from
Peru (252022).

Epstein, Ronald, Denver, Colo.: Per-
forated metal strip used for the manu-
facture of zinc-coated steel cents, 1943
(251157).

Erd, Richard C. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Erickson, Mrs. Martha M., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 5 pieces of white-on-white
embroidery, 19th century (253089).

Erie Malleable Iron Co., Erie, Pa.:
(Through Roger W. Griswold) iron air
furnace model (253632).

Ervin, Dennis, Akron, Ohio: 2 gypsum
specimens from Ohio (250048).

Erwitt, Elliott, New York, N.Y.: 128
black and white photographs (252364).

Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Teg-
ucigalpa, Honduras: 1,101 phanero-
gams, 18 grasses, and 7 ferns from
Honduras (249970, 251711, exchanges).

Escuela Nacional de Agricultura,
Chapingo, México: 6 grasses from Mex-
ico (252701).

151

Estrada, Emilio, Guayaquil, Ecuador:
20 pottery and stone objects from vari-
ous sites of coastal Ecuador (252162).

Evans, Capt. Edward J., Arlington,
Va.: Roman third bronze piece struck
in the name of Fausta, wife of Con-
stantine I, A.D. 307-826 (252074).

Evans, Dr. G. Owen, (See Great Brit-
tain, Government of)

Evans, Dr. Howard E., Cambridge,
Mass.: 18 wasps larvae from North
America (252380). (See also Harvard
University )

Evans, Dr. J. W.
Government of)

Everist, Dr. S. L.
Government of)

Evyan Perfumes, Inc., New York,
N.Y.: (Through Dr. W. Langer) aqua-
marine cut stone, 1,000 carats, from
Morambaya, Minas Gerais, Brazil
(284735).

Ewalt, John M., Hyattsville, Md.:
Typewriter (253647).

Explorers Club, New York, N.Y.: 22
photographs made during the Spanish-
American War by official naval photog-
raphers (248188).

Eyer, Dr. John R., University Park,
N. Mex.: 5 caddis flies from New Mexi-
co (249623).

Kyerdam, Dr. Walter J., Seattle,
Wash.: 4 crabs (229751).

Fager, Walter, Jr., South Norfolk,
Va.: Iroquois beaded bag (247963).

Fairchild, Dr. G. B., Balboa Heights,
Canal Zone: 15 horseflies from Central
and South America (252567).

Fairfax County Police Department,
Fairfax, Va.: (Through D. L. Hubbard)
human skeletal material (249810).

Fancher, Patrick, Ouray, Colo.: En-

(See Australia,

(See Australia,

argite from Longfellow Mine, Colo.
(251813).
Fantastic Gardens, Miami, Fla.:

(Through W. M. Billing, Jr.) 6 culti-
vated ferns (249501, 249530).
Farmakes, J. R. (See Argonne Na-
tional Laboratory )
Farnham, Lee P., Washington, D.C.:
Writing slate (251847).
Farr, Dr. Thomas H.
of Jamaica)

(See Institute
152

Farrance, Jeffery E., Springfield, Va.:
Fragment of textile from Lima, Peru
(253595) .

Farrar, Margaret E., Washington,
D.C.: Paisley shawl (253953).

Fasal, Dr. Paul, San Rafael, Calif. : 24
sets of chessmen from different coun-
tries of Asia and Europe (251341).

Fatmi, Ali N. (See Pakistan, Gov-
ernment of)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Faul, Dr. Henry, Dallas, Tex.: 6
moldavites as standards for color
(251797).

Faulkner, Douglas, Summit, N.J.: 13
shrimps, a kodachrome slide, and 1 lot
of mollusks (249190).

Fauntroy, Rev. Walter, Washington,
D.C.: Documents and promotional lit-
erature relating to the ‘““March on Wash-
ington,” Aug. 28, 1968 (251855).

Fechteler, Adm. William M., Wash-
ington, D.C.: 6 Japanese swords and
sheaths, and a leather case (250558).

Feeney, Walter, Irvington, N. J.: 3
airmail postal cards and souvenir pro-
gram with 2 tickets to Society of Phila-
telic Americans convention (253883).

Feinstein, Bernard, San Francisco,
Calif.: 34 mammals from South Viet-
Nam (251383).

Fell, Prof. H. B., Wellington, New
Zealand: 20 modern brachiopods from
New Zealand (250055). (See also Vic-
toria University)

Fenn, William (See Wilmington So-
ciety of the Fine Arts)

Ferguson, Dr. Edward, Jr.
coln University )

Ferguson, Dr. F. F. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Fernald, Fred M., Silver Spring, Md.:
3 wooden tablets with Muslim religious
inseriptions (253255).

Fernald, Dr. Robert L. (See Friday
Harbor Laboratories; and Washington,
University of)

Fersolin Corp., San Francisco, Calif. :
(Through Hldred L. Lane) 2 bags of
loamite soil conditioner made from
wood (250514).

(See Lin-

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Fibron Products, Inc., Buffaio, N.Y.:
(Through Robert C. Oshei) 17 pieces of
compressed wood products (250964).

Field, G. E. (See Hallett Manufac-
turing Co.)

Fiji Department of Agriculture,
Suva, Fiji: (Through John W. Par-
ham) 8 phanerogams from Fiji
(250048).

Filer, Russell (See Filer’s)

Filer’s, Redlands, Calif.: (Through
Russell Filer) 2 orpiment specimens
from Takab, Afschar, Iran, 2 azurite
specimens from Ajo, Ariz., and 28 min-
erals from worldwide localities (252262,
253073, exchanges).

Fine Arts Hall, Taipei, Taiwan:
(Through Chinese Embassy) 4 pieces of
modern embroidered textile, and 4
carved wooden panels for theater ac-
cessories (250779).

Fine Hardwoods Association, Chica-
go, Ill.: (Through E. Howard Gate-
wood) 2 MWinishield step panels
(252324).

Fingerman, Dr. Milton (See Tulane
University )

Finlay, John, Wilmington, Del. ; Para-
type of a marine mollusk from Cuba
(248727).

Finney, Dr. J. J.
School of Mines)

Finucane, John H (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Firby, Dr. James R., Berkeley, Calif. :
gastropods from Mineral Co., Nev.

249227).

Fischer, Dr. Roland L., East Lansing,

Mich.: 159 caddis flies from Japan and

North America (249620, 253085). (See

also Michigan State University)

Fisher, C. C. (See New Mexico Pre-
cancel Club)

Fisher, Dr. D. Jerome, Chicago, Ill:
Loellingite with scorodite from Custer
Mountain Lode, S. Dak. (258764).

Fisher, George G., Detroit, Mich.:
203 used and unused New Zealand
postal fiscal stamps (250472).

Fisher, Mrs. Ray D., Portland, Oreg.:
16 examples of textiles, 19th century
(250985).

(See Colorado

2
(
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Fitch, John E. (See California, State
of)

Fitzpatrick, Joseph, Jr.
ginia, University of)

Fix, Carolyn E., Alexandria, Va.:
Pair of Iroquois snowshoes (250941).

Fleetwood, Raymond J., Alamo, Tex. :
Inch worm (249422).

Flemer, Mr. and Mrs. Carl F., Jr.,
Oak Grove, Va.: Carriage, ca. 1860
(254110).

Fleminger, Dr. Abraham (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Flemming, Elsie, Oriskany, N.Y.:
(Through Valrita Flemming) 7 polit-
ical campaign buttons (251854).

Flemming, Valrita (See Flemming,
Hisie)

Flett, Harold M., Orting, Wash.: 2

(See Vir-

photographs of the SS Beaver (253536).

Flint, Dr. Oliver S., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 6,858 miscellaneous insects from
eastern U.S. (253507).

Florey, Dr. Ernst, Seattle, Wash.:
Centipede from Chile (253522).

Florida, State of : Board of Conserva-
tion: (Through Ronald C. Phillips) 6
marine _ invertebrates (222859) ;
(through Harold W. Sims, Jr.) lobster
(248695) .
(Through Frank W. Mead) 19 psyllids
from Florida (249999, exchange).

Florida, University of, Gainesville,
Fla.: 184 phanerogams, 6 ferns, and 4
grasses (252637, exchange); (through
J. L. Taylor) isopod (248032). College
of Medicine: (Through Dr. John B.
Reeyes) Victor portable G.E. electric
X-ray machine (252888).

Florida State Board of Conservation,
St. Petersburg, Fla.: (Through Dr.
Robert F. Hutton) 2 parasitic copepods
and a parasitic isopod (233341).

Florida State Museum, Gainesville,
Fla.: (Through Wilfred T, Neill) 22
crayfishes from Japan (252138).

Florida State University, Tallahassee,
Fla.: 57 phanerogams, 5 grasses, 2
ferns, and 45 cryptogams (251710, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. Robert K. God-
frey) 3 wood specimens and 3 phanero-
gams (249329, exchange); (through
Dr. Henry M. Stevenson) 38 bird skins

744-993—64——_11

Depariment of Agriculture:

153

(250119, exchange). Canal Zone Pro-
gram: (Through Horace Loftin) 3,000
fresh-water fishes from the Canal Zone
(249234, exchange).

Flory, Dr. Walter S.
Hxperimental Farm)

Fokides, Mrs. Kleon D.
chell, Mrs. Emma Bushong)

Folch Girona, Joaquin, Barcelona,
Spain: 6 minerals from New Mexico,
Mexico, and Spain (253704, exchange).

Folger, Mrs. W. Frank, Washington,
N.C.: 2 brackish-water clams from
North Carolina (249033).

Folinsbee, Dr. R. E.
University of)

Folsom, Dr. Theodore R. (See
Scripps Institution of Oceanography)

Fontana, Dr. M. G. (See Ohio State
University )

Forattini, Dr. Oswaldo P. (See Lane,
Dr. John)

Ford, John J., Jr., New York, N.Y.:
203 American financial documents, 19th
century (252073).

Foreman, Mrs. Helen P., Oberlin,
Ohio: 100 Devonian radiolarian slides
with finding list and a reprint of the
article in which this material wag de-
scribed (251098).

Fort, Tomlinson (See Westinghouse
Electric Corp.)

Fort Johnson Marine Biological Labo-
ratory, Charleston, S.C.: (Through
Mrs. Norman Chamberlin) 31 poly-
chaete worms (250393).

Fort Ticonderoga Museum, Ticonder-
oga, N.Y.: Colonial belt axhead from the
period of the Revolution (250533).

Fortunato, Mrs. Gene, New York,
N.Y.: Death mask and a recumbent
bust of President Woodrow Wilson
(251857).

Fox, Charles J., Denver, Colo.: 100
invertebrate fossils from the Pennsgyl-
vanian of Colorado (252346).

Fox, Mrs. Henry J., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Lithograph, Franklin’s Reception
at the Court of France, 1778, by Hohen-
stein (250977).

Frame, Douglas M., Bethesda, Md.:

(See Blandy

(See Mit-

(See Alberta,

2 German World War II knives and a

combat badge (252388).
154

Frame, Prof. J. S. East Lansing,
Mich.: Trimetrie ruler (252890).

Franceschetti, Alfred P., Boston,
Mass.: 2 gneiss specimens from
Fletcher’s Ice Island (252281).

Franclemont, Dr. J. G., Ithaca, N.Y.:
5 eaddis flies from Africa and 15 moths
from Arizona (249074, 253700).

Francois, Dr. Donald D., Sydney,
Australia, and Springer, Dr. Victor G.,
Washington, D.C.: 281 fishes, a worm,
and an octopus from Australia (248675).

Frank, H. Bromley, Freeport, Fla.:
8 financial documents (249744).

Frank Paxton Lumber Co., Chicago,
Ill.: (Through John Lindsey) 4 pieces
of Mansonia lumber and 2 pieces of
Philippine mahogany (252873).

Frankenberg, Dr. Dirk (See Georgia,
University of)

Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Pa.:
(Through Mrs. Robert N. Yarnall) gas
engine, Otto “Silent,” ca. 1880 (250990).

Franssen, Dr. C. (See Instituut voor
Plantenziektenkundig Onderzoek)

Fraser, Mrs. George B., Washington,
D.C.: 18 land mollusks and 17 miscel-
laneous insects from Greece and Israel
(2505380, 250787).

Frazier, Arthur H., Madison, Wis.:
Model “623” Small Price current meter
(253257).

Frederick County Civil War Centen-
nial Association, Maryland: (Through
Hon. Charles McC. Mathias, Jr.) souve-
nir half-dollar (248693).

Frederich, Leon, Portland, Oreg.: 5
bird skeletons (249828).
Freeman, Dr. T. N.

Government of)

Freer, Dr. Ruskin §S., Lynchburg,
Va.: 57 phanerogams and 3 ferns from
Virginia (251714).

Friday Harbor Laboratories, Seattle,
Wash.: (Through Dr. Robert L. Fer-
nald) 2 sea anemones (250217).

Friderici, Alex A., Oklahoma City,
Okla.: Fish from Colombia, S.A.
(250501).

Friez, Sister M. Pierre, R.S.M., Balti-
more, Md.: Letter book and bronze
plaque (252814).

(See Canada,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Frishmuth, Harriet W., Norwalk,
Conn.: Original plaster model for bust
of President Woodrow Wilson by donor
(2422934).

Frohman, Louis H., Bronxville, N.Y.:
Hammond electrified multiplex type-
writer (249411).

Funkhouser, Karl M., Arlington, Va.:
Diopside from Montgomery Co., Md., 2
weinschenkite specimens from Vesu-
vius, Va., and calcite from Glamorgan-
shire, Wales (248708, 248719, 249647) ;
60 weinschenkite and 2 calcite speci-
mens from Virginia (248952, 249892, ex-
changes).

Furbish, William J., Durham, N.C.: 2
ferrimolybdite specimens from Colorado
and Maine (248915).

Furlong, Rear Adm. William Rea (See
Tyree, Rear Adm. David M.)

Gajdusek, Dr. D. Carleton, Bethesda,
Md.: Salt packet from New Guinea
(248650).

Galindo, Dr. Pedro (See Gorgas Me-
morial Laboratory)

Galun, Dr. Margalit
University )

Gandy, Dr. B. E., Jackson, Miss.: Ap-
proximately 49 land snail eggs from
Jackson (249889).

Garcia-Zorron, Dr. Noemi, Monte-
video, Uruguay: 25 lichens from Uru-
guay (242301).

Gardner <A. Sage Library, New
Brunswick, N.J.: (Through Peter N.
VandenBerge) 11 volumes formerly in
the Comegys Library (249397).

Garfield, Harry, Bronx, N.Y.: 4 black
and white and 4 color photographs
(2455538).

Garvan, Mrs. Francis P., New York,
N.Y.: Pair of silver cans made by
Samuel Edwards, ca. 1750, an oil paint-
ing by Thomas W. Wood, 1823-1903, a
gouache by D. Y. Cameron, 1865-1945,
and 33 old maps (251493).

Gates, Dr. G. E., Bangor, Maine: 18
earthworms (248288).

Gates, Prof. Robert.
University )

Gates, Robert F., Alexandria, Va.:
Cuprite from Bisbee, Ariz. (251084, ex-
change).

(See Tel-Aviv

(See American
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Gatewood, E. Howard
Hardwoods Association)

Gaud, Silverio Medina (See Puerto
Rico, University of)

Gay, Mrs. Ellis, East Rochester, N.Y.:
Letter written by Susan B. Anthony,
1876 (240749).

Gay, George H., Syosset, N.Y.: Flight
jacket, Purple Heart and Navy Cross
Medals, and Presidential Unit Citation

(See Fine

(258618) .
Gelenczei, Dr. Emil F., Madison,
Wis.: (Through Hubert A. Howson)

16-volume, limited-edition set of the
works of Washington Irving (253801).

General Electric Co., Ashland, Mass.:
(Through Alian L. Reagan) 2 General
Hlectric clocks (249638).

General Motors Corp. La Grange,
Iil.: F. T. diesel electric locomotive
model, 1939, and G.P. 30 diesel electric
locomotive model, 1962 (244714).

General Services Administration,
Washington, D.C.: Hlectriec typewriter,
IBM (254085). (See also Treasury,
U.S. Department of the)

General Steel Industries (See Na-
tional Museum of Transport)

Gentry, Dr. Howard Scott, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Pelote bat and mold for
pelote ball from central Sinaloa, Mex-
ico (249967).

Geologisches Institut der Universi-
tat zu Koln, Cologne, Germany:
(Through Dr. U. Jux) 250 mollusks
from the upper Oligocene of Krefeld,
Germany (254023, exchange).

Geophysical Research Corp., Tulsa,
Okla.: (Through Dr. W. T. Born) seis-
mic instrument unit typical of a truck
installation (252301).

George Vanderbilt Foundation, Stan-
ford, Calif.: (Through Dr. Robert R.
Rofen) 19 miscellaneous insects from
Thailand and 1,484 marine inverte-
brates (230087).

Georgia, University of, Athens, Ga.:
(Through Dr. Dirk Frankenberg) 12
isopods, holotype and _ paratypes
(248621) ; (through Prof. William H.
Waggoner) 2 sets of chemical samples
(253256).

155

Georgia Institute of Technology,
Atlanta, Ga.: (Through Dr. W. HE.
Moody) hydroxyapatite from Holly
Springs, Ga. (252696, exchange).

Gerlach, Herbert W., Providence,
R.I.: Shrink rule (253644).

Gerstman, Ewald H., Franklin, N.J.:

Mooreite from Sterling Hill, N.J.
(253329).
Géry, Dr. Jacques R., Dordogne,

France, and Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R.,
Jersey City, N.J.: 11 fishes, holotypes
and a paratype, from South America
(253460).

Gharabegian, Washington, D.C.: 2
five ryals issued by Iran, 1953-59
(248941).

Giacoma, Mrs. J. Pete, Tombstone,
Ariz.: 11 photographs of Christopher
Latham Sholes’ house (252881).

Gibson, Mrs., S. Perth, Western
Australia: 40-gram Australite from
near Gnowangerup, Western Australia
(251079).

Gibson, Dr. Thomas
U.S. Department of the)

Giddings, Elizabeth R., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: 29 lace, needlework, and
costume items (249010).

Giles, Edgar S., New York, N.Y.: 6
Silver spoons, snuff box, spectacles, card
case, cigarette holder, mesh bag, and 5
daguerreotypes (249958).

Gillaspy, Dr. J. E., Mankato, Minn.:
2 wasps, paratypes, from North Amer-
ica (251605).

Gillespie, Prof. James P.
Marshall University )

Gilmartin, Mrs. Amy Jean, Guaya-
quil, Ecuador: 278 phanerogams, grass,
and 21 ferns from Ecuador (242522,
248517).

Gitz-Johansen, Aage, Trgrgd, Den-
mark: (Through Dr. Carlo Christen-
sen) 52 original watercolor paintings
“Birds of Greenland” (251523, deposit).

Glaser, John D., Baltimore, Md. : 1,001
ground beetles from Maryland (248926,
exchange).

Glendale College, Glendale, Calif.:
(Through Dr. Charles G. Danforth) 7
isopods (248616).

(See Interior,

(See
156

Glenn, Jerry L., Corvallis, Oreg.: 300
fresh-water mollusks from the Pleisto-
eene of Willamette Valley, Oreg.
(250865).

Glossbrenner, A. S., (See Youngs-
town Sheet and Tube Co.)

Glover, Charles C., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 626 miscellaneous foreign and
U.S. postal stationery cut squares, enve-
lopes, and ecards (252361).

Glynn, Dr. Peter (See Puerto Rico,
University of)

Godfrey, Dr. Robert K. (See Florida
State University )

Goff, Donald, Rehoboth Beach, Del.:
Shark from Delaware (249232).

Goldblatt Tool Co., Kansas City, Mo. :
(Through Alex A. Levy) complete level
and a machined level blank (249255).

Goldsmith, Edith, Methuen, Mass. :
(Through John T. McRae) Egyptian
eat mummy (251758).

Goodbody, Dr. Ivan M.
sity of the West Indies)

Gooding, Dr. R. U., Boston, Mass. : 20
fishes (251936). (See also Boston Uni-

(See Univer-

versity )

Goodland, R. J. A. (See McGill Uni-
versity )

Goodwin, Jack S. (See Smithsonian
Institution)

Goodwin, Dr. W. J., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. Alan Stone) 17 fairy
shrimps from Libya (231301).

Gordon, Frances, Washington, D.C.:
Postal cover from Pakistan (2538850).

Gordon, Dr. I. (See Great Britain,
Government of)

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Pana-
ma, Republic of Panama: 25 bird skins
and 8 eggs (249228); (through Dr.
Pedro Galindo) approximately 400
mammals from Panama (2538981) ;
(through Mrs. Sarah B. Pipkin) 130
flies from Panama (253519).

Gosline, Dr. William A. (See Hawaii,
University of)

Gottlieb, Nathan (See Normac
Printing and Envelope Corp.)

Gotwald, William H., Jr., University
Park, Pa.: 2 scarab beetles from Penn-
sylvania (250788).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Graham, Garrett R.
ty Hospital)

Graham, John, South Oamaru, New
Zealand: 150 Recent brachiopods from
off South Island and 31 star fishes from
New Zealand (250394, 253177, ex-
changes).

Graham, Maj. Peter J. F., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Ushabti figurine from Hgypt
(254013).

Grant, Gilbert, Holly Ridge, N.C.:
Marine mollusk from Topsail Beach,
N.C. (254051).

Grant, J. A.
Government of)

Graves, Prof. Robert C., Flint, Mich.:
20 scarab beetles from North America
(258084).

Gray, Milton B. (See Sapelo Island
Research Foundation, Inc.)

Gray, Randall, Woodward, Ala.
(Through Dr. C. W. Copeland) favositid
coral from the Middle Silurian of Ala-
bama (251092).

Great Britain, Government of: Brit-
ish Museum (Natural History): 8
thrips, paratypes, 150 phanerogams, 4
grasses, and 50 lichens from Africa and
Hurope (251598, 251717, 2523836, ex-
changes) ; (through Dr. HE. B. Britton)
leaf beetle, paratype, from Central
America (2503875), exchange);
(through Dr. Theresa Clay) 4 slides of
lice from Africa (248491, exchange) ;
(through Roger W. Crosskey) 2 tach-
inid flies from Australia (253905) ;
(through J. EH. Dandy) 7 ferns (250347,
exchange) ; (through Dr. V. F. Hastop)
33 aphids on slides (249993) ; 37 aphids
from Europe and Africa (250848, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. G. Owen Evans)
centipede, paratype, from Australia
(250017) ; (through Dr. I. Gordon) 151
shrimp and 25 crayfishes (250024, ex-
change); (through J. A. Grant) 4
Indian flower bugs (251227, exchange) ;
(through R. W. Ingle) 10 stomatopods
(250214, exchange); (through G. J.
Kerrich) 2 chaleid flies from India
(248550, exchange); (through Dr.
N. A. Mackintosh) 22 copepods, includ-
ing 2 paratypes (249721) ; (through Dr.
G. E. J. Nixon) 12 parasitic wasps from

(See Jay Coun-

(See Great Britain,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Hurope (253081); (through Dr. Ken-
neth P. Oakley) plaster-of-Paris cast of
the vault of a Peruvian skull (248410,
exchange); (through Dr. David R.
Ragge) 7 cockroaches from Africa and
the West Indies (252111); 29 grass-
hoppers from the Old World (253923,
exchange); (through Dr. William J.
Rees) 3 sea anemones (252568, ex-
change); (through EH. R. Speyer) 8
thrips from Australia and Virginia
(251228, exchange). Ministry of Agri-
culture, Fisheries and Food: (Through
H. L. G. Strayan) 68 aphids from Ice-
land and England (253896, exchange).
Royal Botanic Gardens: 521 phanero-
gams, 56 grasses, and 2 ferns (251261,
258222, exchanges). War Office, Army
Medal Office: (Through Maj. Gen.
R. E. T. St. John) 11 World War II
service medals of Great Britain
(254058).

Grebenc, Lucile, Smithville Flats,
N.Y.: Woman’s beaded dress, early
1920 (253143).

Green, Mrs. Jean M.
vania, University of)

Greenough, Mr. and Mrs. William, II,
Washington, D.C.: Federal period side-
board (249568).

Greer, Dr. Creed C., Clarksburg,
W. Va.: Black chloritie schist pipe from
Ritchie Co., W. Va. (253318).

Greeson, Mr. and Mrs. Lewyl E.,
Arlington, Va.: (Through Otis H. Gree-
son) overshot coverlet (254072).

Greeson, Otis H., College Park, Md.:
4 medals of World War II (254061).
(See also Greeson, Mr. and Mrs. Lewyl
E.)

Gregory, N. W. (See Larus & Brother
Co., Inc.)

Gressitt, Dr. J. L.
seum, Bernice P.)

Grice, Dr. George D. (See Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution)

Griffin, David F., Chicago, Ill.: 68
tapes, covers, and parts of covers bear-
ing U.S. and foreign postage meter im-
pressions (251188).

Griswold, Roger W.
leable Iron Co.)

(See Pennsyl-

(See Bishop Mu-

(See Erie Mal-

157

Grondahl, L. O., Pittsburgh, Pa.:
(Through Dr. W. J. King) Grondahl,
copper-cuprous oxide rectifier (252184).

Gronouski, John A. (See Post Office
Department)

_Groslier, Bernard P. (See Cambodia,
Kingdom of)

Gross, Dr. G. F.
ernment of)

Guffey, N., Washington, D.C.: 3 topaz
specimens (253769).

Guimaraes, Mrs. A. S., Dearborn,
Mich. : 22 examples of costume, 1939-56
(249453).

Guinea, Government of: (Through
Permanent Mission of Guinea to the
United Nations) 2 first-day covers of
Guinea (253885).

Guinean Trawling Survey, Lagos,
Nigeria: (Through Frank Williams and
Dr. Bruce B. Collette) 30 fishes
(252023).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory,
Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through Charles
EH. Dawson) 46 copepods (2478938) ;
(through Dr. Gordon Gunter) 5 mud-
puppies from Lamar Co., Miss.
(251294) ; (through M. Roy Hood) 4
crabs (249575).

Gulf Oil Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.:
(Through Dr. R. D. Wyckoff) electro-
magnetic geophone and cutaway electro-
magnetic geophone (250522).

Gunnell, E. Mitchell, Denver, Colo.:
Enargite from Ouray Co., Colo., and
ecyanotrichite from Lemhi Co., Idaho
(251450, exchange).

Gunning, Dr. Gerald E.
University )

Gunter, Dr. Gordon, Ocean Springs,
Miss. : Skull of beaked whale from Flor-
ida (2540384). (See also Gulf Coast
Research Laboratory)

Gurney, Dr. Ashley B., Washington,
D.C.: 436 insects from Texas and Vir-
ginia (250595, 253511, 253926). (See
also Agriculture, U.S. Department of;
and Walker, Dr. Thomas J., Jr.)

Gustafson, J. A. (See New England

(See Australia, Gov-

(See Tulane

Butt Co.)

Haas, Jerry A., Lexington, Ky.:
(Through Sidney D. Haas) 2 World
War II shoulder sleeve insignia
158

(250063); 8 different U.S. Navy
shoulder patch insignia and photograph
of the North Island Naval Air Station
patch (254059).

Haas, Sidney D., Lexington, Ky.: 18
distinctive insignia of Utah National
Guard and 10ist Airborne Division
(250537). (See also Defense, U.S. De-
partment of; Haas, Jerry A.; Scott,
Brig. Gen. James D.; Smith, Brig. Gen.
Edward P.; Taylor, Lt. Ernest; and
Utah National Guard)

Haefner, Richard C., Lancaster, Pa.:
4 minerals from Lancaster Co. (248713,
exchange).

Hagemeyer, Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.,
Washington, D.C.: 19 marine mollusks
from Majuro Atoll, Marshall Islands
(250526).

Haggard, L. R., Lynnwood, Wash.:
Strontianite from La Conner, Wash.
(249686).

Hahn, Richard J. (See Penn Town-
ship Police Department)

Haiti, Government of, Port-au-Prince,
Haiti: (Through Agence Philatélique
Haitienne) first-day cover bearing
“Freedom from Hunger” stamp
(252088).

Hak, Dr. Jaroslav, Kutna Hora,
Czechoslavakia: (Through Dr. G. Kul-
lerud) novakite, type, from Czecho-
slovakia (250959).

Hale, Dr. Mason E., Washington,
D.C.: 1,690 lichens from Minnesota
(2538065).

Hale, William H., Portsmouth, Va.:
Fossil crab from Washington State
(249649).

Hall, Dr. Edward T., Chicago, Ill.: 21
ethnological items from Truk Island,
Micronesia (249806).

Hallett Manufacturing Co., Mobile,
Ala.: (Through G. H. Field) 4 pieces
of cativo lumber (258622).

Halliburton Co. Duncan, Okla.:
(Through Phil Montgomery) model of
marine cementing unit (253952).

Hallman, Edward N., Lakeland, Fla.:
Cultivated fern (247245).

Halsey, Stephen S. (See American
Express Co.)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Halsman, Philippe, New York, N.Y.:
6 photographs (250520).

Hamada, Shoji, Masakocho, Tochigi
Prefecture, Japan: Ceramic vase de-
signed and produced by donor (254070).

Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.: 45
first-day covers from Canada, the U.S.,
and United Nations (253886).

Hamilton, James Ladd, Bowie, Md.:
24 ceramic items (251755).

Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa.:
(Through D. Thomas Reel) gill scale,
master balance, and 9 pieces of watch-
making machinery (248951, 249410).

Hamlin, William H., Palisades, N.Y.:
10 Foraminifera, types, from Quilcene,
Wash. (252232).

Hancock, Kenneth M. (See M. S. Han-
cock, Inc.)

Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr., Falls
Chureh, Va.: 87 mammals from south-
west Virginia (254038).

Handley, Dr. Charles O., Sr., Charles-
ton, W. Va.: Bird skin (252341).

Hanscom, Fred O., Lebanon, Maine:
(Through William J. Hartigan) 2 postal
accounting documents and a Post Office
Department penalty envelope, 1884
(249401).

Hansen, Harold, Washington, D.C.:
1,111 miscellaneous insects from South
America (249424).

Hanson, H. S. (See Arizona, Univer-
sity of)

Hardin,
D.C.: Wisenhower
(250064).

Hardwood Corporation of America,
Asheville, N.C.: (Through John B.
Veach) 8 finished boards of different
woods (251650).

Hardy, Dr. D. Elmo, Honolulu,
Hawaii: 4 holotypes and 2 allotypes of
4 species of flies from Colombia and 140
parasitic flies from Bolivia (248929,
252476).

Seaborn D., Washington,
broadside, 1944

Hardy, Jerry D., Solomons, Md.:
Armadillo from Seotland Co., N.C.
(251922).

Hardy, Dr. John William (See Occi-
dental College)

Harker, Dr. Peter (See Canada, Gov-
ernment of)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Harlow, Prof. H. Gilbert (See Union
College)

Harman, Dr. Walter J. (See Louisiana
State University)

Harman, Wilbur L., Bowie, Md.: Pair
of men’s suspenders, mid-19th century,
and 7 fashion magazines, early 20th
century (252003).

Harman, William E., Jr. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Harmantas, Christas (See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Harmer, Walter J., Darien, Ga.: 10
marine mollusks from Darien (252257).

Harral, Henry D. (See Pennsylvania,
State of)

Harrington, Dr. Eleanor S., Vero
Beach, Fla.: 875 brackish-water snails
from Florida (247125).

Harris, Col. Collas G., Great Falls,
Va.: 25 ethnological specimens from
New Guinea (249367).

Harris, Henry E., Boston, Mass.:
Standard Postage Stamp album
(249259).

Harris, Richard L. (See United States
Lines Co.)

Harris, William D. (See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Harry W. Dietert Co., Detroit, Mich. :
(Through Jess Toth) permmeter and
permeability meter (253951).

Harry Winston, Inc., New York, N.Y.:
Octagon emerald-cut diamond known as
the “Portuguese” diamond (244400, ex-
change).

Harsh, R. H., Hollywood, Md. : 2 meter
impressions of Virginia (249083).

Harshaw Chemical Co., Cleveland,
Ohio: (Through P. R. Pine) electrolytic
cell for the production of elemental
fluorine (249730).

Hart, Arch D. (See Woods
Oceanographic Institution)

Hart, C. W., Philadelphia, Pa.: 60
crayfishes (249837). (See also Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia )

Hartigan, William J. (See Hanscom,
Fred O.)

Hartke, Christian H., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 8 items, consisting of Allen and
Wheelock rifle, accessories, and docu-

Hole

159

ments supporting ownership by John
Brown (245395).

Hartley, Charles F., Royal Oak,
Mich.: 525 miscellaneous flies from
Thailand (250590).

Hartman, Dr. Olga (See Southern
California, University of)

Hartman, Mrs. P. C., Washington,
D.C.: 3 dolls (258331).

Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.: 4 grasses from the Bahamas
(248496); (through Dr. Howard H.
Evans) 16 wasps, including types, from
North America (251059, exchange) ;
(through Dr. I. Mackenzie Lamb) 5
lichens from South America (228643).
Botanical Museum: Phanerogam, iso-
type (253234, exchange). Gray Her-
barium: 109 phanerogams, 3 grasses,
and 10 ferns (251259, exchange); 7
fragments and photographs of fern
types from New Guinea (253235, ex-
change) ; (through Dr. Rolla M. Tryon)
174 miscellaneous ferns (249976, ex-
change). Museum of Comparative Zo-
ology: (Through Dr. William J. Clench)
5,623 miscellaneous fresh-water and
marine mollusks mostly from New Eng-
land (249431, 249523, exchanges) ;
(through Dr. P. J. Darlington) caddis
fly from Panama (249427, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Howard EH. Evans) 96
wasps from North and South America
(248973) ; (through Drs. Giles W. Mead
and Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 2 fishes from
French Guiana (249468).

Harvard University, President and
Fellows of, Cambridge, Mass. :
(Through Dr. L. Gard Wiggins) 16
components of the Harvard-IBM Mark
I automatic sequence controlled calcu-
lator (248831).

Harvey, Dr. O. L., Silver Spring, Md.:
7,080 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign
postage stamps, covers, and related
philatelie items (249855).

Hashimoto, Dr. Hiroshi, Shimoda,
Shizuoka Pref., Japan: 10 flies from
Japan (250008, exchange).

Hasse, William F., Jr., New Haven,
Conn.: 132 stock certificates, bonds,
checks, and other financial papers
(253095).
160

Hatch, John Davis, Lenox, Mass.:
(Through Dr. Richard H. Howland) 39
political campaign items relating to
Wendell L. Willkie and Franklin D.
Roosevelt (253828).

Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Pa-
rani, Brazil: 205 phanerogams and 10
grasses from Brazil (248359, 248655,
249981, 2503835, 252661).

Hattenschwiler, Peter, Greenville,
S.C.: 5 bagworm moths from North
America (251571, exchange) ; 8 moths
from North America (253080).

Hattin, Dr. Donald, Bloomington,
Ind.: (Through Dr. Erle G. Kauffman)
4 invertebrate fossils from Graneras
shale near Beloit, Kans. (249052).

Hattori, Dr. Sinske (See Hattori
Botanical Laboratory)

Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Obi,
Nichinan, Miyazaki Pref., Japan:
(Through Dr. Sinske Hattori) 101
mosses from Japan (253228, exchange).

Hauck, Richard, Bloomfield, N.J.:

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Jamesonite from Ontario, Canada

(251816).

Havas, George D. (See Library of
Congress)

Hawaii, University of, Honolulu,
Hawaii: (Through Dr. William A.
Gosline) 11 fishes from Hawaii
(248608).

Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Assoc.,
Honolulu, Hawaii: (Through John W.
Beardsley) 20 small moths from Hawaii
(248932).

Hayashi, Dr. S.
Kinichi)

Hays, Raymond, Jr., Hyattsville, Md. :
10 Japanese wooden rulers (249215).
(See also Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, U.S. Department of)

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of, Washington, D.C.: Food
and Drug Administration: (Through
Raymond Hays, Jr.) 8 bottles of
thalidomide drug samples (251482) ;
(through L. Shelton) 5 fishes from Ice-
land (249233) ; (through Robert Thomp-
son) fish from Argentina (247901).
National Institutes of Health: 2
steppe lemmings (254037). Public

(See Sakurai, Dr.

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964.

Health Service: (Through Dr. F. F.
Ferguson) 50 fresh-water and land
snails from Puerto Rico and Surinam
(218395); (through Dr. William L.
Jellison) 12,780 fleas and a raccoon
from North America (253895, 254041) ;
(through Dr. Robert L. Rausch) skulls
of 2 polar bears from St. Lawrence Is-
land (254036) ; (through Dr. Conrad E.
Yunker). 565 lice from Panama and a
erab (249018, 252856); (through Dr.
Conrad E. Yunker and Dr. Alexander
Wetmore) bird skin (252471).

Hean, Mrs. Mary, Hyattsville, Md.:
Collar, gloves, and comb, early 1920
(252447).

Heatwole, Dr. Harold, Rio Piedras,
Puerto Rico: 4 water scavenger beetles
from Venezuela (252413).

Heefner, Dr. Mark L., Treasure Is-
land, Fla.: (Through Mrs. Mark L.
Heefner) dentures carved of ivory
(253642).

Heefner, Mrs. Mark L. (See Heefner,
Dr. Mark L.)

Heilman, Robert A., Lebanon, Pa.:
134 mosses, 2 phanerogams, 76 ferns,
and 38 cryptogams from Pennsylvania
(253067, 253812).

Heim, Prof. Roger, Paris, France:
Bronze medal (252083).

Heller, Friedrich (See Staatliches
Museum fiir Naturkunde in Stuttgart-
Zweigstelle)

Helsinki, University of, Helsinki, Fin-
land: (Through Dr. Teuvo Ahti) 450
lichens (253068, exchange).

Hendersen, Dr. Edward P., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 1,017 grams of the Bendegé
meteorite from Brazil (253929).

Hendricks, Roy (See Thomsen, Mrs.
C. N.)

Henry, Dr. Robert L. (See Wabash
College)

Heraldic Art, Cleveland, Ohio:
commemorative medallions (25386387).

Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Ita-
jai, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 721
phanerogams and 211 grasses from
Brazil (248248, 251298, 253804) ;
(through Father Raulino Reitz) 210
mosses from Santa Catarina (248242).

8
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indo-
nesia: 2,880 phanerogams, 6 grasses,
and 2 ferns from Indonesia (250808,
exchange).

Herbarium Bradeanum, Guanabara,
Brazil: 322 phanerogams from Brazil
(248080).

Herber, Dr. E. C., Carlisle, Pa.: 12
fresh-water snails from North Carolina
and Tennessee (248878).

Herman, Dr. Sidney S. (See Lehigh
University )

Hermann, Dr. Frederick J., Adelphi,
Md.: 92 phanerogams, 945 cryptogams,
278 bryophytes, and a fern (249332,
252833, 253066).

Herreid, Dr. Clyde F.,
Alaska, University of)

Hewitt, Dr. R. E. (See Carnegie
Institution of Washington)

Heyamoto, H. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Hibbard, Dr. Claude W.
gan, University of)

Hicks, Steacy D.
University of)

Higbee, Richard C.
Instrument Co.)

Higgins, Dr. Robert P.
Forest College)

Higham, Dr. Robin, Chapel Hill, N.C. :
Pair of British flying boots and goggles
and an MK IV first-aid outfit, World
War II (248382).

Hill, A.C., North Oxford, England:
Marconi television receiver, 1937-38
(2463849).

Hill, Lewis H. (See Chicago, City of)

Hill 50 Gold Mine, Mount Magnet,
Western Australia: (Through UL.
Checker) gold ore from Mount Magnet
(251078).

Hill School, Pottstown, Pa. (Through
Charles C. Whiteley) slice of the
Canyon Diablo meteorite from Arizona
(254021).

Hilton, Omar (See Potlatch Forest,
Inc.)

Hiltunen, Jarl K.
Department of the)

Hinckley, Dr. Alden D., Nausori, Fiji:
5 earwigs from Fiji (248923).

II (See

(See Michi-
(See Rhode Island,
(See Belfort

(See Wake

(See Interior, U.S.

161

Hinton, Dr. H. E., Bristol, England:
4 beetles, paratypes, from Mexico
(252873).

Historical Documents Co., Phila-
delphia, Pa.: (Through Charles Pro-
mislo) 89 modern antiqued reproduc-
tions of Colonial and Revolutionary
currency, early New York notes, Re-
public of Texas currency, and Confed-
erate notes (253097).

Ho, T. Y. (See China, Government
of the Republic of)

Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Washing-

ton, D.C.: 22 crayfishes (248882,
250211). (See also Johnson, Dr. Rose
Mary)

Hodges, Dr. R. W.
U.S. Department of)

Hodgkin, Dr. W. H.
Mrs. Walter V.)

Hodson, Frank A., Washington, D.C.:
Wellington #2 typewriter (249566).

Hoese, H. D. (See Texas, Univer-
sity of)

Hoffer, Dr. A., Prague, Czechoslo-
vakia: 100 chaleid flies from Europe
(253505, exchange).

Hoffman, Dr. Richard L., Blacksburg,
Va.: 230 miscellaneous insects, includ-
ing holotypes and paratypes, from
North America (250597, 252477, 253521,
253920, 253922). (See also Radford
College)

Hoffman, Victor J., Tucson, Ariz.: 5
natrolite specimens from San Benito
Co., Calif., and approximately 80 mis-
cellaneous minerals from Tiger, Ariz.
(251882, exchange).

Hoffman, Mrs. Wyn, Juneau, Alaska:
(Through Dr. Robert B. Short) 4 slides
of fossils, including syntypes and para-
types, from the Mesozoic of Washing-
ton (249942).

Hoffmeister, J. Edward (See Roches-
ter, University of)

Hoffstatter, Ferdinand, Beuel-Lim-
perich bei Bonn, Germany : 7 contempo-
rary bronze and silver medals and
plaquettes manufactured by donor’s
establishment (249849).

Hogans, Mrs. Henry, Evansville,
Wis.: Paisley shawl, 1868 (249936).

(See Agriculture,

(See Bingham,
162

Holloway, George, Northridge, Calif. :
Beryl from Brazil (246603, exchange).

Holmes, James S., Washington, D.C.:
Pair of stirrups from Japan and 2
bronze handles (249808).

Holmgren, Dr. Arthur H.
State University )

Holsinger, John R.
University of)

Holt, Dr. Perry C.
Polytechnic Institute)

Holtzclaw, Henry J.
U.S. Department of the)

Homan, Bill H., New York, N.Y.:
21,743 philatelic specimens of Paraguay,
including stamps, proofs, essays, and
drawings (2520386).

Honduras, Government of: Armed
Forces: (Through Maj. Cecilio B.
Castro) Gatling gun (254053).

Honea, Prof. Russell M. (See Colo-
rado, University of)

Hood, M. Roy (See Gulf Coast Re-
search Laboratory; and William Carey
College)

Hoogland, Dr. R. D. (See Australia,
Government of)

Hoolbaans, A. (See Netherlands, Gov-
ernment of the)

Hooper, Mrs. Curtis J., Fairfield,
Conn.: Handwoven coverlet (250524).

Hoover, Edna (See Agriculture, U.S.
Department of)

Hopkins, Mr. and Mrs. Robert O. D.,
Contoocook, N.H.: 5 pieces of Chinese
currency issued during the 20th century
(248938) ; 161 engravings, collection of
proofs, and 3 essays, mostly from China
(249157, 249164, 251474).

Hoppin, Mrs. William W., New York,

(See Utah
(See Kentucky,
(See Virginia

(See Treasury,

N.Y.: Group of early embroideries,
yarns, skeins of silk and canvas
(252370).

Hornick, Rose Mary, Arlington, Va.:
2 used stamps of Poland (2533855).

Horowitz, Dr. Alan, Littleton, Colo.:
500 invertebrate fossils from the Upper
Devonian of the Northwest Territories,
Canada, and 500 brachiopods from the
Mississippian of Lake Valley, N. Mex.
(253927).

Hostrup, C. C., Wood Acres, Md.:
Telescope, late 19th century, binoculars,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

ca. 1880, and drawing instruments, ca.
1860 (251004).

Hough, Helen Y., Washington, D.C.:
2 fragments from the Star Spangled
Banner which flew over Fort McHenry
(249545).

Houston, Walter S, Middletown,
Conn.: 49 grams of Seguin, Kans.,
meteorite (251082).

Howard, Mrs. Faye B. (See Santa
Barbara Museum of Natural History)

Howe, D. F., Chula Vista, Calif.:
Grass from California (251723).

Howell, John Thomas (See California
Academy of Sciences)

Howland, Dr. Richard H., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Forgery of “Minoan” seal-
stone from Crete (249962) ; 2 receipted
bills of 1863 and 1865 (250458) ; ancient
bronze coin and modern silver coin
(251155) ; 2 overshot coverlet fragments
(251665) ; 103 covers, foreign postage
stamps, and foreign covers (253878).
(See also Hatch, John Davis)

Howland, W. O. (See Wayne Pump
Co.)

Howson, Hubert A., New York, N.Y.:
Minute book of the Jorum Club and A
Jorum Idyl, book privately printed in
Philadelphia, 1884 (253800). (See also
Gelenezei, Dr. Emil F.)

Hubbard, D. L. (See Fairfax County
Police Department)

Hubbs, Dr. Carl L. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography )

Hubricht, Leslie, Meridian, Miss. : 446
marine invertebrates, 11 reptiles, 9
fishes, 188 fresh-water mollusks, and a
mammal from Louisiana and Missis-
sippi (248035, 251024).

Huddle, John (See Interior, U.S. De-
partment of the)

Hudson, Dr. George E., Pullman,
Wash.: 15 alcoholic birds (245242, ex-
change).

Hueber, Dr. Francis M. (See Case,
Mr. and Mrs. Jean)

Hughes, Mrs. Henry J., Schuylerville,
N.Y.: (Through Old Saratoga His-
torical Association of Schuylerville,
New York, Inc.) length of printed cot-
ton fabrie (251661).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Hull, George, Washington, D.C.:
Token issued in the name of George III,
1788 (251165).

Hull, Mary Ann (See Rigsby, Kathee)

Hulm, Dr. John K. (See Westinghouse
Electric Corp.)

Humboldt State College, Arcata,
Calif.: (Through Dr. Fred Telonicher)
gorgonian (231137).

Humes, Dr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass. :
2 fishes from Madagascar (250814).
(See also Boston University; and In-
stitut de Recherche Scientifique 4
Madagascar)

Hummelinck, Dr. P. Wagenaar (See
Zoologisch Laboratorium )

Humphrey, Dr. Philip S., Washington,
D.C.: 3 miscellaneous insects from
Brazil (250582). (See also Smith-
sonian Institution)

Hunt, Florence Blanche (deceased) :
(Through Mrs. Thomas J. Doyle)
double-woven Jacquard coverlet
(251662).

Hunter, Dr. George W., III, Gaines-
ville, Fla.: 220 land and fresh-water
mollusks from Costa Rica (248423).

Huntzinger, David H., American Fork,
Utah: 77 caddis flies, ant lions, stone-
flies, and dragonflies from Utah
(250596, 251239).

Hurd, Dr. Paul D., Jr. (See Califor-
nia, University of)

Husband, Dr. Robert W., East Lan-
sing, Mich.: 4 land snails from Hono-
lulu, Hawaii (244509).

Husseini, Mohammed Adbullah, Ka-
rachi, Pakistan: 104 marine and fresh-
water mollusks, 36 specimens and 7 lots
of marine invertebrates, 3 brachiopods,
28 specimens and 4 lots of reptiles and
amphibians, 5 lots of fishes, mammals,
geological specimens from the vicinity
of Karachi, and 12 miscellaneous insects
from Asia (246660, 249776, 251074,
251602).

Hutcheson, Jack, Selma, Ala.: Tooth
of shark from the Upper Cretaceous of
Alabama (250896).

Hutchins, Dr. R. E. (See Mississippi,
University of)

Hutton, Dr. Robert F. (See Florida
State Board of Conservation)

163

Hynd, W. R. B., Surrey, England: 9
lacewings from England (251241, ex-
change).

Iliff, Dr. and Mrs. Charles, Balti-
more, Md.: Stained-glass window
(251654).

Illinois Natural History Survey:
Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr. Hugh B.
Cunningham) 23 phanerogams and 6
grasses from Colombia (251998).

Improvement of Insect Collection
Fund, Smithsonian Institution: 218
miscellaneous beetles from Brazil
(251618).

Imshaug, Dr. Henry (See Michigan
State University)

India, Government of: Agricultural
Research Institute, New Delhi:
(Through Dr. S. Pradhan) 21 miscel-
laneous insects from India (252716, ex-
change). Forest Research Institute:
(Through K. Ramesh Rao) 101 wood
specimens from India (249834, ex-
change).

Ingle, R. W.
Government of)

Institut de Recherche Scientifique a
Madagascar, Tananarive, Madagascar:
(Through Dr. Arthur G. Humes) 54
copepods, types (250392).

Institute of the Biology of Inland
Waters, Jaroslavl, U.S.S.R.: (Through
Dr. Mordukhai-Boltovskoi) 52 poly-
chaete worms from the _ U.S.S.R.
(248899, exchange).

Institute of Jamaica, Kingston, Ja-
maica: 259 phanerogams, 27 grasses,
and 2 ferns from the Lesser Antilles
and Jamaica (249812, 251718, ex-
changes); (through Dr. Thomas H.
Farr) 40 flies and 7 lacewings from
Jamaica (250099, 252857).

Institute of Marine Science, Miami,
Fla.: (Through Sheldon Dobkin) 5
shrimps from Florida (251879);
(through Dr. E. 8. Iversen) photozoan,
type (249012); (through Walter A.
Starck II) 2 shrimps and an axiid
(251443).

Instituto de Botanica, Sio Paulo,
Brazil: 5 phanerogams (248668); 138
phanerogams from Brazil (250340, ex-
change); (through Dr. George Hiten)

(See Great Britain,
164

88 phanerogams, 309 grasses, and 10
ferns from Brazil (251676).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bo-
gati, Colombia: 6 ferns from Colombia
(249782).

Instituto de Investigacion de Zonas
Desérticas, San Luis Potosi, Mexico:
2 phanerogams, isotype and paratype
(251725).

Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da
Amazonia, Manaus, Brazil: 282 plants
from Brazil (250109).

Instituto Oceanografico, Cumana,
Venezuela: (Through Dr. Pedro Roa
Morales) 6 parasitic isopods (232925).

Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Ja-
neiro, Brazil: 6 phanerogams from Bra-
wil (251268).

Instituto Politecnico Nacional, Mex-

ico, D.F.: 3 grasses from Mexico
(251483); 266 phanerogams, 24
grasses, and a fern from Mexico

(252777, exchange).

Instituut voor Plantenziektenkundig
Onderzoek, Wageningen, Netherlands:
(Through Dr. C. Franssen) 19 thrips
from the Netherlands (252917, ex-
change).

Insular Lumber Sales Corp., Phila-
delphia, Pa.: (Through J. L. Stearns)
6 pieces of dark red Philippine mahog-
any (253956).

Inter-American Tropical Tuna Com-
mission, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through
Drs. W. L. Klawe and Gilbert L. Voss)
29 cephalopods from Alaska (251921).

Inter-Governmental Philatelic Corp.,
New York, N.Y.: 2 mint stamps of
Nigeria (252041).

Interior, U.S. Department of the,
Washington, D.C.: Fish and Wildlife
Service: 15 phanerogams and grass from
the Northwest Territories collected by
H. W. Murdy (253225) ; 791 bird skins,
85 skeletons, and a nest (258986) ;
(through F. H. Berry) 10 fishes from
Baja California, Mexico (248574) ;
(through Harvey R. Bullis, Jr.) 3 ma-
rine mollusks from the Gulf of Mexico
and 97 miscellaneous marine inverte-
brates (249253, 250496); (through
Harvey R. Bullis, Jr., and Dr. Daniel
M. Cohen) 5,761 fishes from various

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

localities, 4 lots of sea anemones, 1 lot
of crabs, and 1 lot of amphipods
(247715) ; (through Dr. Randall P.
Cheek) fish (252202) ; (through Hugene
Cypert) 2 spotted turtles from Way-
cross, Ga., a spotted sucker from
Okefenokee, and 77 fishes from various
localities (249510, 250199); (through
Join H. Finucane) 6 fishes from the
Gulf of Mexico (251354); (through H.
Heyamoto) 10 sharks from the North
Pacifie (252189); (through Jarl K.
Hiltunen) 50 polychaete worms
(251357) ; (through Susumu Kato)
shark jaw from the eastern Pacific
(249124) ; (through Harry D. Kennedy)
31 water beetles from California
(252474) ; (through Willis King) fish
from Green River, Echo Park, Utah
(249485) ; (through Dr. Joseph Kut-
kuhn and Harry L. Cook) 3 shrimps
(237518) ; (through Dr. Richard H.
Manville) 2,382 bats, mostly from
northeastern South America, from the
Arthur M. Greenhall collection and 251
mammals from North America (254042,
254045); (through Dr. George C.
Miller) 3 crayfishes (250884) ; (through
Clarence F. Pautzke) sheet of Migra-
tory Bird Hunting stamps, 1963-64, and
die proof (251187); (through Dr.
Walter T. Pereyra) 7 deep-sea marine
mollusks from Oregon (249829) ;
(through Dr. Dale W. Rice) whale ver-
tebra from the Marshall Islands
(254033); (through Dr. George B.
Saunders) 48 marine invertebrates, and
a vial of frog eggs (232144); (through
Paul J. Struhsaker) fish (2538129) ;
(through John R. Thompson) 5 mud
shrimps (2338245). Geological Survey:
10 fossil specimens from the Eocene of
Montana (203629); 3 metamorphic
aragonite-bearing rocks (250404) ; fossil
teeth from the Upper Devonian to
Pennsylvanian and Permian of Fre-
mont Co., Wyo. (250808, 254026); 3
dermal tesserae of fishes (280805) ; 14
fish remains from the Permian of
Wyoming (254027); (through Dr.
Arthur A. Baker) fragmentary shark
tooth and 2 minute dental caps from
Dona Ana Co., N. Mex. (246961) ; head
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

and anterior body part of pirate perch
and scales of sucker from the Miocene
of Washington (246963) ; 10 killifishes
from the late Pliocene of Nevada
(246964) ; 1,207 minerals from world-
wide localities (247298, 248193); 7
vertebrate fossils from the Humboldt
Range, Nev. (248037) ; approximately
150 kimseyite specimens from Magnet
Cove, Ark. (251777); (through Dr.
W. A. Cobban) 46 type specimens of
Upper Cretaceous fossils (252822) ;
(through J. Thomas Dutro, Jr.) 29
slabs and specimens of invertebrate fos-
sils from southwest Virginia and the
Mesozoic of New Mexico (248722,
248723); (through Richard C. Erd)
buddingtonite, type, from California
(250047) ; (through Dr. Thomas Gib-
son) 45 invertebrate fossils and 3 hard
eorals collected by Gosnold Cruise 29
(250409, 250498) ; (through William E.
Harman, Jr.) Zeiss horizon aerial
camera and related equipment
(250978) ; (through John Huddle) 114
conodonts from the Upper Devonian of
the Great Basin (250057); (through
Dr. Harry S. Ladd) 13 corals from the
Fiji Islands and Hawaii (251767,
252987); (through Dr. Thomas B.
Nolan) 11 minerals from near Lake
George, Park Co., Colo. (249728) ;
(through W. A. Oliver, Jr.) 6 corals
from the Ordovician of Alaska
(252353) ; (through Dr. A. R. Palmer)
310 trilobites, types and figured, from
Alabama to Nevada (249226, 249451) ;
(through R. J. Ross, Jr.) 16 trilobites,
type and paratype, from the Seward
Peninsula (252348); (through Dr.
William J. Sando) 14 corals from Ari-
zona and 17 fossil specimens (251769,
253531) ; (through Dr. Robert S. Siga-
foos) 8,256 phanerogams, 822 grasses,
and 276 ferns from Alaska (253058) ;
(through Norman Sohl) 8 pelecypods
(250060) ; (through Dr. I. G. Sohn) 28
slides containing ostracodes, including
types (252349, 252352); (through Dr.
Dwight W. Taylor), 3,800 fresh-water
mussels from northwest U.S. (255867) ;
(through Ruth Todd) 119 Foraminif-

165

era, including 18 slides, metatypes, from
the Central Pacific, Martha’s Vineyard
Island, Mass., Upper Cretaceous, lower
to middle Hocene and lower Miocene
near Port-Gentil, Gabon (249448,
249449, 249450); (through George D.
Whitmore) 6 projectors, Zeiss tracing
table, multiplex table and support
frames, and Wilson photoalidade
(249407) ; (through Dr. Druid Wilson)
3 Tertiary barnacles (252347) ;
(through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson) in-
vertebrate fossil from Eureka Co., Nev.,
and paratype of a gastropod (249651,
253532). National Park Service:
(Through William C. Bullard) 7 fresh-
water mollusks from Death Valley,
Calif. (246939); (through L. Kay
Thomas) phanerogam (248666).

International Business Machines
Corp., New York, N.Y.: (Through D. R.
McKay) replica of Charles Babbage’s
Difference Engine (252309).

International Truss Plate Corp., Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla.: (Through Maurice
Dufficy) 2 Pow-R-Lock plates, 2 Den-
wood truss connectors, and gang nails
(252871).

Ireton, Patricia (See Rhode Island,
University of)

Irwin, Dr. Howard S., New York,
N.Y.: 28 phanerogams and grass from
Mexico (251262).

Isham, Lawrence B., Washington,
D.C.: Postal cover from Germany
(253891).

Israel, Bank of, Jerusalem, Israel:
(Through E. Kaplansky) 10 printings of
notes issued by donor from 1955-60
(250076).

Israel, Government of: (Through Dr.
Y. Lavi) 6 plaster casts of Hebrew
weights (250511). Ministry of Post: 28
mint stamps and 24 first-day covers
(253855).

Istituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale
Galileo Ferraris (See Associazione
Blettroteenica ed Elettronica Italiana)

Iversen, Dr. E. S. (See Institute of
Marine Science)

Iverson, Suzanne, Cajamarca, Peru:
19 ferns from Peru (251884).
166 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Ives, Mrs. Herbert Eugene, Upper
Montclair, N.J.: Photographic mate-
rial of Frederic H. and Herbert E. Ives
(251656) .

J. L. Cunningham & Co., Chicago,
Tll.: (Through J. Lester Cunningham)
24 snails from the Pennsylvanian of
Farmington, Ill. (236301, exchange).

Jackson, Mrs. John Early, Arlington,
Va.: Printed wall hanging from Iran

(249966).

Jackson, Robert D., Washington,
D.C.: 7 meadow mice from Maryland
(254039) .

Jacobs, Madelyn E., Washington,

D.C.: 263 miscellaneous used and un-
used foreign postage stamps (252035,
252356).

Jago, John B., San Francisco, Calif. :
Roquesite from France and calumetite

from Houghton Co., Mich. (250450,
254017, exchanges); scapolite from
Madagascar (253524).

James, Edward O., Charleston,

W. Va.: 740 pieces of mining scrip and
related items (251147).

James, Dr. Maurice T., Pullman,
Wash.: 2 snipe flies from North Ameri-
ca (252851).

Japan, Government of: Geological
Survey of Japan: (Through Dr. Masat-
sugu Saitoh) 4 minerals from various
localities (253768, exchange). Ministry
of Foreign Affairs: 8 ethnological items
from Japan (251039). Ministry of
Posts and _  Telecommunications:
(Through Shoichi Sato) colored prints,
Japan’s First Post Office Department
and Nihonbashi Telegraph Office
(253869).

‘Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 9 sheets of phanerogams from
Brazil (225395).

Jardin Botanico, Madrid, Spain: 58
phanerogams, 6 grasses, and a fern
from Spain (249322, exchange).

Jay County Hospital, Portland, Ind.:
(Through Garrett R. Graham) Victor
X-ray machine (251549).

Jeanell, Dr. Rene, Paris, France: 63
ground beetles from Africa (249054,
exchange).

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Jellison, Dr. William L., Hamilton,
Mont. : 16 bat flies (251222). (See also
Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of)

Jennings, A., Nadi Airport, Fiji Is-
lands: 40 marine mollusks from the Fiji
Islands (248214).

Jersey Production Research Co., Tul-
sa, Okla.: (Through R. EH. Rohn) 36
slides containing type specimens of fos-
sil spores and pollen from West Africa
(248285).

Jewett, Kenneth E., Peterborough,
N.H.: Jewett collection of tinware
(251349).

Jewett, Dr. Stanley G., Jr., Portland,
Oreg.: 632 miscellaneous moths and
2,421 caddis flies and stoneflies from
North America (287811, 249626,
250685).

Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de
los Caballeros, Dominican Republic: 18
phanerogams, 2 grasses, and a fern
(251256).

Johansson, Edward, Birmingham,
Mich.: Set of Johansson gauge blocks
(254088) .

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Dr. Ernst Cloos) ap-
proximately 3,700 fossils from the Cam-
bro-Ordovician through Cretaceous of
Maryland (210512, exchange).

Johnsen, Lt. Richard E. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Johnson, Charles E., Washington,
D.C.: Bronze paperweight and auto-
graph book containing interesting auto-
graphs and memory verses (250460) ;
tile bearing likeness of William Jen-
nings Bryan, William H. MHarrison
medal, and program of ceremonies
“1789 The Washington Inauguration
1889”’ (258357) ; book, The Roosevelé
Bears and Their Travels and Adven-
tures, and stick pin with teddy bear
(258826).

Johnson, Dr. D. S.
versity of)

Johnson, Dr. David H., Washington,
D.C.: 7 mammals and a bird from yva-
rious localities (254040).

(See Malaya, Uni-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Johnson, Letitia Gillespie, Rome,
Ga.: Menu from a dinner given in
honor of President and Mrs. Grover
Cleveland (249264).

Johnson, Dr. Martin W. (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography)

Johnson, Mrs. R. C., Jr., San Fran-
cisco, Calif.: 2 ladies’ collars (242440).

Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. L.,
(address unknown): Pair of English
side chairs (249394).

Johnson, Dr. Rose Mary, Fredericks-
burg, Va.: (Through Dr. Horton H.
Hobbs, Jr.) 7 crayfishes (249120).

Johnson, Roy, Jr., Monterey, Calif. :
2 centipedes from California (253142).

Joint Committee on the Preservation
of the Garrick Building Ornament and
World Book Encyclopedia, Chicago,
Tll.: (Through Joseph Benson) 7 lots
of architectural ornaments (245916).

Jondahl, Alfred, Fort Lee, N.J.: 2
first-day covers bearing stamps of
Argentina honoring President John F.
Kennedy (253639).

Jones, James R., New York, N.Y.:
Libyan camel saddlebag and 13 stone
tools (249458).

Jones, Dr. Meredith L. (See Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History)

Jones, Richard L., Casa Grande,
Ariz.: 8 brochantite and 3 azurite speci-
mens from Silver Hill, Ariz. (2538743).

Josiah Wedgwood & Sons, Ltd., Stoke-
on-Trent, England: (Through Sir John
Hamilton Wedgwood) creamware din-
ner plate (253624).

Joy Manufacturing Co., Pittsburgh,
Pa.: (Through J.D.A. Morrow) 2 pro-
pellers from the first axial flow coal-
mine fan (252790).

Julian, Mrs. Richard S., Pell Lake,
Wis.: 53 U.S. Naval items (253327).

Justice, U.S. Department of, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation: Partial skeleton, with skull,
of an Indian from Nevada (252465).

Jux, Dr. U. (See Geologisches Institut
der Universitat zu K6ln)

Kabata, Dr. Z. (See Marine Labo-
ratory)

Kale, Dr. Herbert W., II, Athens, Ga.:
27 brackish-water mollusks recovered

167

from the stomach of a bird from North
Carolina (251627).

Kamijo, Dr. K., Bibai, Hokkaido,
Japan: 3 chalcid flies from Japan
(248931, exchange).

Kano, Dr. Rokuro, Tokyo, Japan: 31
flies (250710).

Kanouse, Essie (deceased);
(Through Mrs. Addie Niswanner)
black-lace shawl, 1849 (250312).

Kansas, University of, Lawrence,
Kans.: Phanerogam, isotype (248678) ;
197 phanerogams, 348 grasses, and 2
ferns (252841, exchange); (through
Dr. C. D. Michener) 11 bees, paratypes,
from Australia and 6 bees from North
America (231991, exchange).

Kaplansky, E. (See Israel, Bank of)

Kappel. F. R. (See American Tele-
phone and Telegraph Co.)

Kato, Susumu (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Kauffman, Dr. Erle G. (See Hattin,
Dr. Donald; and Shuler, Jay)

Kay, Dr. Alison, Honolulu, Hawaii:
Paratype of a marine mollusk from
Kauai (252260).

Keally, Mrs. Mildred Tabor, New
York, N.Y.: Jade bowl and cover
(248671).

Keck, Darvin W., Oklahoma City,
Okla.: 74 lichens from Oklahoma
(249978, exchange).

Keeton, Dr. William T., Ithaca, N.Y.:
86 centipedes from Mexico and the U.S.
(249248).

Kehr, Dr. Karl H., Bogoté, Colombia :
Phanerogam from Colombia (253232).

Kelly, Kenneth L., Bethesda, Md.:
305 miscellaneous used and unused U.S.
and foreign postage stamps and 5 cov-
ers (249399, 250078); assortment of
personal memorabilia of Drs. H. F.
Kelly and Ida Johanna MHeiberger
(249415).

Kelso, Dr. James L., Pittsburgh, Pa.:
Plaster cast of South Arabian stamp
(251754).

Kemsies, Dr. Emerson (See Cincin-
nati, University of)

Kennedy, Daniel B., Washington,
D.C.: Hel pot from Potomac Indians
and 7 photographs (249634).
168

Kennedy, Harry D., Bishop, Calif.:
214 caddis flies from California (251238,
251240). (See also Interior, U.S. De-
partment of the)

Kent State University, Kent Ohio,:
(Through Dr. Ralph W. Dexter) 2,113
miscellaneous invertebrates, sea anem-
one, and a hermit crab (220289, 246976).

Kentucky, University of, Lexington,
Ky.: (Through Dr. William D. Eh-
mann) 38.7 grams and a thin polished
section of the Walltown meteorite
(251080, exchange) ; (through John R.
Holsinger) 10 crayfishes (250139).

Kerckhoff Marine Laboratory, Corona
Del Mar, Calif.: (Through Dr. Willis
EH. Pequegnat) 95 sea anemones
(227178).

Kerrich, G. J.
Government of)

Kerr-McGee Oil Industries, Ine.,
Oklahoma City, Okla.: (Through A. T.
F. Seale) Kerr-McGee offshore drilling
rig 54 (253823).

Kerzhner, Dr. I. M., Leningrad,
U.S.S.R.: 4 water striders from China
and Viet-Nam (249624).

Kessler, Seymour, Levittown, N.Y.:
6 philatelic specimens (252362).

Keyes, Ian (See New Zealand, Gov-
ernment of)

Kielan-Jaworowska, Dr. Zofia
Polska Akademia
o0zoologi)

Kier, Dr. Porter M., Washington,
D.C.: 40 echinoderms from South Caro-
lina (252575).

Kimball, C. P., West Barnstable,
Mass.: 81 moths from North America
(2538518).

King, Elbert A., Jr. (See National
Aeronautics and Space Administration )

King, George, Fairfax, Va.: 7 first-
day covers and programs (253863).

King, Mrs. M. E., Honolulu, Hawaii:
18 marine mollusks from the Philip-
pines and 3 from western Australia
(234219, 244542).

King, Col. Norman D.
Islands)

King, Dr. Robert M., Frederick, Md.:
8 reptiles and 19 land snails from Thai-

(See Great Britain,

(See
Nauk Zaklad Pale-

(See Ryukyu

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964!

land (248975, 251465) ; 11 Hong Kong

and Malaya contemporary coins
(250467).

King, Dr. W. J. (See Grondahl,
L. O.)

King, Willis
partment of the)

Kingsolver, Dr. John M., Washington,
D.C.: 5,562 miscellaneous beetles from
Central and North America (249063,
251233).

Kinley, Mrs. Clara, Arlington, Va.:
Jacquard woven bookmark and picture
(253955) .

Kirkby, Mrs. Ruth A., Bloomington,
Calif. : 250 invertebrate fossils from the
Pleistocene and Tertiary of California
(251453, 251924).

Kirov Order Lenin Forest Academy,
Leningrad, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr.
A. A. Yatsenko-Khmelevsky) 17 wood
specimens from the U.S.S.R. (249088,
exchange).

Kissinger, Dr. D. G., South Lancaster,
Mass.: 33 £4beetles from Florida
(250609) ; 38 weevils from the U.S.
(253915, exchange).

Klaben, Mrs. Tillye Braun, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Pair of shoes, 1887 (253266).

Klawe, Dr. W. L., La Jolla, Calif.: 2
heads of porpoise from the eastern
Pacific (248218). (See also Inter-
American Tropical Tuna Commission)

Klein, Gershon, Bronx, N.Y.: 2/3
taler struck in 1765 in the name of
Charles of Brunswick-Wolfenbuettel,
1735-80 (249847).

Klein, Marvin, Islamorada, Fla. : 19th-
century brass spike recovered by donor
from Alligator Reef, Fla. (249547).

Klement, Dr. Oscar, Leutkirch, Ger-
many: 3 cryptogams (251775).

Klinger, J. (See Klinger Scientific
Apparatus Corp.)

Klinger Scientific Apparatus Corp.,
Jamaica, N.Y.: (Through J. Klinger)
4 models of crystalline forms of ele-
ment “iron” (249256).

Klink, Granville
Broadeasting System
Radio)

Kloss, Dr. Gertrud Rita
partmento de Zoologia)

(See Iuterior, U.S. De-

(See Columbia
and WtTOP-

(See De-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

169

Knerer, Gerd, College Park, Md.: 16| and 19 phanerogams from western U.S.

sawflies from Hurope (249057).

Knez, Mrs. Eugene I., Washington,
D.C.: Chinese ink bottle (253321).

Knobloch, Dr. Irving (See Michigan
State University )

Knutson, Dr. L. V., Ithaca, N.Y.: 5
caddis flies from Crete (249077).

Kobayashi, Dr. Keisuke, Nada-Ku
(Rokko), Kobe, Japan: Bird skin
(249455, exchange).

Kohn, Dr. Alan J., Seattle, Wash.:
Marine mollusk from Alligator Har-
bor, Fla. (248933).

Koney, E. J., Burlingame, Calif, : Rus-
sian post card picturing home of Anton
Chekhov and bearing 2 stamps (252357).

Kono, Tokuwo (See California, State
of)

Kopf, Irving, Brooklyn, N.Y.: 18
used stamps of Cambodia, 3 used and
8 mint stamps of Thailand (253640).

Korea, Government of: Forest Ea-
periment Station, Seoul, Korea:
(Through Sung Yun Lee) 56 wood speci-
mens from Korea (249221, exchange).

Kormann, Kurt, Karlsruhe, Ger-
many: 153 dragonflies and caddis flies
from Europe (250664, exchange).

Kornicker, Dr. Louis S. (See Agri-
cultural and Mechanical College of
Texas)

Kosztarab, Dr. Michael, Blacksburg,
Va.: 6 scale insects from Ohio and
Indiana (253497).

Kotler, Joseph Mark (See North
Shore Coin Club of Illinois)

Koyama, Dr. Tetsuo, Hongo, Tokyo,
Japan: 20 phanerogams and 3 grasses
from Japan (241474).

Kramer, Wilhelm, Friedrich-Ebert-
strasse, West Germany: Commemora-
tive cover (252037); (through Frank
A. Taylor) post card bearing a special
eancellation observing President Ken-
nedy’s visit to Germany, June 23, 1963
(249572).

Krandall, Sidney
Dressing Tool Co.)

Krauss, Dr. N. L. H., Honolulu,
Hawaii: 579 miscellaneous insects and
other arthropods from North America,

744-993 64—_12,

(See Abrasive

(248924, 248927, 249982, 253498).

Kriger, S., Washington, D.C.: Cere-
monial bone apron from Tibet and a
Koran holder from India (248527, ex-
change).

Krogstad, Dr. Blanchard O., Cha-
pingo, Mexico: 20 tiger beetles from
Mexico (252785).

Krombein, Dr. Karl V., Washington,
D.C.: 486 bees and wasps from North
America (251608).

Krotki, Carl, New York, N.Y.: Gros-
sularite from Quebec, Canada (252268).

Kithn, Dr. Robert, Hannover, Ger-
many: Koenenite with sylvite from
Bergmannssegen, Germany (250406).

Kulkarni, Dr. C. V., Bombay, India:
(Through Dr. Ernest A. Lachner) 6
fishes from Bombay (251888).

Kullerud, Dr. G. (See Hak, Dr. Jaro-
slav)

Kummel, Dr. Bernhard, Cambridge,
Mass.: (Through Dr. H. L. Yochelson)
10 bellerophon gastropods from the
Triassic of Salt Range, West Pakistan
(248918).

Kuntz, Comdr. Robert E.
fense, U.S. Department of)

Kuroko, Dr. H., Fukuoka, Japan:
Moth from Asia (249071, exchange) ;
102 moths from Japan (251460).

Kutkuhn, Dr. Joseph (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Kyoto, University of, Kyoto, Japan:
(Through Dr. M. Tagawa) 960 ferns
from Japan and the Ryukyu Islands
(251449, exchange).

Laborel, Dr. Jacques (See Muséum
National d’Histoire Naturelle)

Lachner, Dr. Ernest A. (See Kul-
karni, Dr. C. V.)

Ladd, Dr. Harry S. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Laffoon, Dr. Jean L., Ames, Iowa: 8
scarab beetles from Iowa (251615).

Lakela, Dr. Olga, Tampa, Fla.: 29
phanerogams from Florida (249219,
249979).

Lalemand, J., Brussels, Belgium: 12
uncirculated coins of Belgium and
Luxembourg (250075).

(See De-
170

Laliberte, Dr. Firmin, Quebec, Can-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ada: 5 beetles from North America
(250228).

Lamarsh, Dr. John R. (See New York
University )

Lamb, Dr. I. Mackenzie (See Harvard
University )

Lambrecht, Dr. E. D. (deceased) :
(Through Mrs. Paul C. Reid) light bulb
(253285).

Lancaster, L. J.
Fund, Frances Lea)

Lane, Eldred L. (See Fersolin Corp.)

Lane, Dr. John (deceased) : (Through
Dr. Oswaldo P. Forattini) 82 flies
(250419, exchange).

Lange, Dr. W. Harry, Davis, Calif.:
8 aphids from California (253504).

Langer, Dr. W. (See Evyan Perfumes,
Inc.)

Langley, Harry P., Washington, D.C.:
32 agate specimens from Yemen
(249645).

Langridge, H. P., Lantana, Fla.: Bird
skin (249053).

Lanzen, Edward M., Minneapolis,
Minn.: (Through Dr. Doris M. Coch-
ran) 2 telescoping fishing poles from
Japan (249635).

Larrimore, Mr. and Mrs. F. C., Balti-
more, Md.: Cabochon of chiastolite in
matrix from Lancaster, Mass. (251817).

Larsen, Mrs. Ellouise Baker, Lima,
Ohio: 868 pieces of Staffordshire china
(171126).

Larson, Mrs. Helen R., Bethesda,
Md.: Eskimo woman’s costume from
Greenland (249366).

Larson, Omer R., Minneapolis, Minn. :
4 snails from Minnesota (248960).

Larus & Brother Co., Inc., Richmond,
Va.: (Through N. W. Gregory) replica
of tobacco hogshead (249254).

Lassiter, Mrs. Dillard B., Washington,
D.C.: 2 bronze commemorative medals
(248068).

Lau, Dr. Alfred B. (See Mexican In-
dian Training Center, Inc.; and Salud,
Gilberto)

Laughlin, Kendall,
Phanerogam (248664).

Lavi, Dr. Y. (See Israel, Government
of)

(See Chamberlain

Chicago, MIIl.:

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Lawless, Dr. Kenneth R. (See Vir-
ginia, University of)

Lawrence, Donald A. (See Southern
Illinois University)

Lazarian, Edward, Cochituate, Mass. :
Wax impression of Colonial Postmas-
ter’s seal (253878).

Leapley, William (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)

Leatherman, Mrs. Sylvia B., South
Bl Monte, Calif.: Fern (251956).

Leaveil, Lutie C., Bala-Cynwyd, Pa.:
Carte-de-visite photograph of Abraham
Lineoln (251477).

Lee, David J., Sydney, N.S.W., Aus-
tralia: 8 biting midges, paratypes, from
Australia (250589).

Lee, Sung Yun (See Korea, Govern-
ment of)

Lee, Dr. Yong No (See Tokyo, Uni-
versity of)

Lee C. Moore Corp., Tulsa, Okla.:
(Through J. R. Woolslayer) 3 scale
models of drilling rigs (253630).

Leech, Dr. Hugh B. (See California
Academy of Sciences)

Leech, Robin (See Alberta, Univer-
sity of)

Leer, Mrs. Sophia E., Washington,
D.C.: 5 U.S. Army documents that be-
longed to donor’s father, Blacksmith
Wilhelm Achterkirch (252389).

Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.:
(Through Dr. Sidney 8S. Herman) 22
polychaete larvae from Chesapeake
Bay, polychaete tubes and 17 copepods
from Bermuda (252226, 253134).

Lehman, Dr. H. E. (See North Caro-
lina, University of)

Lehmann, Richard W., and Lewis, D.
Eric, Keesler AFB, Miss.: (Through
William L. Witt) 60 ecrayfishes from
Mississippi (253196).

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 6 marine mollusks from the Red
Sea (250528).

Lellinger, David, Washington, D.C.:
40 ferns from Oklahoma collected by
donor (249975).

Lemaire, Robert J., Grand Island,
Nebr.: 29 phanerogams, 7 grasses, and
a fern from Kansas, Louisiana and
Nebraska (249969).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Le Menager, H. V., Washington,
D.C.: Jacquard coverlet sample, 1853
(249565).

Leonard, Mrs. F. Morton, Washing-

ton, D.C.: Coverlet and 2 quilts
(250982).

Leonard, G. S. (See Cameron Iron
Works, Inc.)

Leonardi, M., Trona, Calif.: Northu-
pite from California (253745, ex-
change).

Levin, Dr. H. L., St. Louis, Mo.: Tril-
obite from Kimmswick limestone near
St. Louis (251765).

Levorson, Calvin O., Riceville, Iowa:
300 fossils from the Devonian of Rock-
ford, Iowa (248614).

Levy, Alex A. (See Goldblatt Tool
Co.)

Lewis, Dr. Alan G.
shire, University of)

Lewis, Mrs. Bertha M., Newark, N.J.:
Engraving of President Lincoln and his
family, 1866 (252183).

Lewis, D. Eric (See Lehmann, Rich-
ard W.)

Lewis, Mrs. Frank A., Hempstead,
N.Y.: Opal cabochon from Mexico and
rhodonite from New Jersey (250396).

Lewis, Dr. John B. (See McGill Uni-
versity )

Leyden, T. T., Fresno, Calif.: 2 bees-
wax phonograph cylinders which record
speeches by William Jennings Bryan
(249785).

Libby, Mrs. Paul, Alexandria, Va.:
Lace-trimmed and embroidered cap
(252614).

Library of Congress, Washington,
D.C.: 18 political campaign posters,
1900 (251192); (through L. Quincy
Mumford) 6,613 pieces of obsolete cur-
rency (248278) ; 3,495 U.S. and foreign
philatelic covers and postal stationery
(248949, 249654, 252880); (through
Jennings Wood) 2 portrait plaques of
Harriet Beecher Stowe and Walt Whit-
man, by Sidney Morse (242293-3).
Stamp Club: (Through George D.
Havas) 2,849 miscellaneous used for-
eign postage stamps (252181, 252491).

(See New Hamp-

171

Licharev, Prof. Boris, Leningrad,
U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. Ellis L. Yochel-
son) 11 gastropods and 2 brachiopods
from the Permian of the U.S.S.R.
(248816, exchange).

Lieber, Dr. Werner, Heidelberg, Ger-
many: 8 minerals from Germany
(251487, exchange) ; 7 minerals and a
publication, Die Phosphat-Paragenese in
Hagendorfer Pegmatit, by H. Strunz
(258732).

Limbaugh, Dr. Conrad (See Scripps
Institution of Oceanography )

Lincoln, Mrs. Evelyn N., Washington,
D.C.: Bound copy of President John F.
Kennedy’s Inaugural Address (252798).

LincoiIn University, Jefferson City,
Mo.: (Through Dr. Edward Ferguson,
Jr.) 3 slides of ostracods, holotype and
paratypes (248634).

Lindberg, David, Concord, Calif.: 4
fresh-water and land snails from Cali-
fornia (248148).

Lindley, K. C.
sion Co.)

Lindquist, H. L., New York, N.Y.:
2,041 miscellaneous U.S. and foreign
first-day and souvenir covers (252029).

Lindsey, Dr. C. C. (See British
Columbia, University of)

Lindsey, John. (See Frank Paxton
Lumber Co.)

Link, Edwin A., Binghamton, N.Y.: 2
glass bottles, ca. 1650-1700, and an iron
breechblock, ca. 1692, recovered from
the sea at Port Royal, Jamaica
(250068) ; 3 green-glass fragments and
brass spike from Caesarea, and bundle
of cemented spoons from EH] Matancero
(252371).

Lipps, Prof. Lewis
College)

Litton Industries, Inc., Beverly Hills,
Calif.: (Through Austin Cooley) photo-
graph transmission equipment manu-
factured by Dr. Arthur Korn, ca. 1937
(252176).

Livingstone, Dr. D. A.
University )

Lloyd, Mrs. Charles, Sandwich, Mass. :
4 sheets of decorative transfer prints
(250978).

(See Wood Conver-

(See Shorter

(See Duke
172

Loesch, Dr. Harold (See National
Fisheries Institute of Ecuador)

Loftin, Horace (See Florida State
University)

Lofton, Charles (See District of
Columbia Public Schools)

Logan Museum of Anthropology,
Beloit, Wis. : 96 ethnological items from
Java and Bali (253494, exchange).

Lohmire, Stella, Barnsville, Ohio:
Hair wreath (251548).

Lollis, Edward W., II, Kigali,
Rwanda, Africa: 7 minerals from Africa
(252816).

Long Beach State College, Long

Beach, Calif.: (Through Dr. Donald J.
Reish) 2,216 polychaete worms from
the Bering Sea (249107); 347 marine
invertebrates from Eniwetok Atoll
(250206).

Longwood Gardens, Kennett Square,
Pa.: 11 phanerogams and 11 ferns
(252829).

Loomis, H. F., Miami, Fla.: 148 milli-
pedes from Central America and 10
types (250790, 251234, 253921).

Loria, Dr. Ing. Mario (See Associa-
zione Elettrotecnica ed Hlettronica
Italiana )

Los Angeles County Museum, Los
Angeles, Calif.: (Through Roy Snel-
ling) 50 ants from California (250605).

Los Angeles State and County Ar-
boretum, Arcadia, Calif.: 25 phanero-
gams, 3 grasses, and 3 ferns (248836).

Louise Home, Washington, D.C.:
(Through Mrs. Mary B. Cox) silk quilt,
1883 (251664).

Louisiana, State of: Forest Insect
Laboratory: (Through Dr. John GC.
Moser) 3 beetles from North America
(253916).

Louisiana, University of Southwest-
ern, Lafayette, La.: 19 phanerogams
and 62 grasses from Canada and
Louisiana (248203).

Louisiana State University, New Or-
leans and Baton Rouge, La.: 29 phaner-
ogams and 8 grasses from British Hon-
duras (250728); (through F. D. Bar-
low) 54 grasses from Mexico (252617) ;
(through Dr. Walter J. Harman) 15

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

polychaete and 5 oligochaete worms
(250210, 250683).

Louisville, University of, Louisville,
Ky.: (Through Rudolph Prins) 7 cray-
fishes (248895).

Loveridge, Dr. Arthur, St. Helena
Island, South Atlantic: 8 marine mol-
lusks, lacewing, and silverfish from St.
Helena Island (249078, 251591).

Lovi, Arthur, Pensacola, Fla.: 13
stamps issued by Tonga, commemorat-
ing the first gold coinage of Polynesia,
1962 (251472).

Lowery, Dr. B. B., Sydney, Australia:
Approximately 500 ants (250606).

Loyola University, New Orleans, La.,
and Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge,
Mass.: (Through John P. Donaldson)
Collins helium cryostat (252803).

Lucas, Mrs. Stephen B., Rockford,
Ill. : 13-star U.S. National flag (246661).

Ludington, M. H., Silver Spring, Md.:
5 postage stamps and 15 forgeries of
postage stamps of British possessions in
North America (249082).

Lunz, Dr. G. Robert (See Bears Bluff
Laboratories)

Lutz, Dr. Bertha, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 41 frogs belonging to 12 spe-
cies from Brazil (253457, exchange).

Lyko Mineral & Gem, Inc., Hl Paso,
Tex.: 3 wernerites and a zircon from
Oaxaca, Mexico (249448); (through
William J. Lyons) sklodowskite from
Chihuahua, Mexico (252480) ; (through
Jack R. Young) 10 minerals from Mex-
ico (252271, 253750) ; wulfenite from
Los Lamentos, Chihuahua, Mexico
(253763, exchange).

Lyman, Frank, Dozier, Ala.: 12 land
and fresh-water snails from Alabama
and Hong Kong (250327).

Lynch, Dr. James E., Seattle, Wash. :
4 fishes from California (250220).

Lyon, Prof. R. J., Los Angeles, Calif. :
24 gall wasps from California (249072).

Lyons, William J. (See Lyko Mineral
& Gem, Inc.)

M. S. Hancock, Inc., Casco, Maine:
(Through Kenneth M. Hancock) 1 each
of pine and hemlock boards (252872).

Maa, Dr. Tsing C. (See Bishop Mu-
seum, Bernice P.)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Maass, Dr. W. S. G.
Government of)

Mack, Mrs. C. Floyd, Sr., San Antonio,
Tex.: U.S. Navy uniform (253614).

MacKeever, Frank C., New York,
N.Y.: 22 grasses from Martha’s Vine-
yard and Nantucket (253803).

Mackerras, Dr. I. M., Canberra, Aus-
tralia: 25 flies (251607).

Mackintosh, Dr. N. A.
Britain, Government of)

MacLeod, Ellis G., Cambridge, Mass. :
69 lacewings and caddis flies from
North America (249069).

Macomber, Alvin Z. (See Tariff Com-
mission, U.S.)

MacVeagh, Mrs. Katharine, Santa
Barbara, Calif.: 2 pieces of jewelry
(251809).

MacVean, Mrs. D. A.
J. B.)

Magner, Daniel F., Washington, D.C.:
12 items of contemporary clothing from
India and Iran (249214).

Maiden, R. G., Saltville, Va.: Human
skull without lower jaw (221893).

Maine, State of: Forest Service:
(Through Dr. A. E. Brower) 4,296
caddis flies from Maine (251242).

Major, Prof. John K. (See Western
Reserve University)

Makino Herbarium, Tokyo, Japan: 16
phanerogams and 2 ferns from Japan
(242289, exchange).

Malaya, Federation of: Forest Re-
search Institute: 289 phanerogams from
Malaya (249533, 252335, exchanges).
National Museum: (Through Haji A.
Mubin Sheppard) 9 items of clothing for
a puppeteer and theatre lamp and stand
from Kelantan, Malaya (249559).

Malaya, University of, Singapore,
Malaya: (Through Dr. D. S. Johnson)
7 horseshoe crabs (248033).

Maldonado-Capriles, Dr. J., Maya-
guez, Puerto Rico: 2,491 miscellaneous
insects from Nepal and Pakistan
(252383) ; assassin bug from tropical
America (253495).

Manca, Albino, New York, N.Y.: East
coast memorial medal in bronze, 1963
(252084).

(See Canada,

(See Great

(See Webster,

173

Mangan, James Thomas, Oak Lawn,
Ill.: 9 gold “celeston” pieces and a silver
“joule” (251149).

Mangor, Elovius (See Norway, Gov-
vernment of)

‘Manning, Dr. Raymond B.
ami, University of)

Manson, D. C. M., Levin, New Zea-
land: 26 weevils from New Zealand
(244032, exchange).

Manton, Dr. S. M., London, England:
5 centipedes from Tasmania (252782).

Manville, Dr. R. H. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Margolis, Dr Leo (See Canada, Govy-
ernment of)

Marine Laboratory, Aberdeen, Scot-
land: (Through Dr. Z. Kabata) 5 cope-
pods (250205).

Marquette University, Milwaukee,
Wis.: Distinctive insigne of donor’s
Army Reserve Officers Training Corps
(254054).

Marsh, Dr. Frank L., Berrien Springs,
Mich.: 2 parasitic flies from Illinois
(252878).

Marshall, Byron C., Hot Springs Na-
tional Park, Ark.: 19 isopods, 14 fishes,
3 fish flies, 108 amphipods, 22 caddis
flies and lacewings, and a lubber grass-
hopper, mostly from Arkansas (247710,
248234, 249622, 249747, 249749, 252234,
252858).

Marshall, Mrs. George Catlett, South-
ern Pines, N.C.: Collection of Gen.
George Catlett Marshall’s Army uni-
forms (252848).

Marshall, Prof. H. P.
Polytechnic Institute)

Marshall, Mrs. John Cameron, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 8 pieces of 20th-century
women’s apparel (249151).

Marshall University, Huntington,
W. Va.: (Through Prof. James P. Gil-
lespie) fern from West Virginia
(251722).

Marston, Norman, Manhattan, Kans.:
2 bee flies from Colorado (251608).

Martin, Mrs. Wade, Woodstock, Vt.:
5-dollar note issued by the Continental
Congress, Feb. 17, 1776 (249085).

(See Mi-

(See Virginia
174

Martin L. Ehrmann Co., Beverly Hills,
Calif.: 100 minerals and gems from
worldwide localities (246090, 249989, ex-
changes); golden-green beryl from
Brazil, 1,363 carats (251617, exchange).

Martinez, Prof. Maximino (See Uni-
versidad Nacional Auténoma de
México)

Martinez-Hidalgo, Capitan de Cor-
beta Jose M. (See El Museo Maritimo)

Maryland, University of, Baltimore,
Md.: School of Medicine: (Through Dr.
Robert Traub) 260 mammals and 12
birds from West Pakistan and 2 fishes
from Mexico ( 251940, 254030).

Masek, Roland C., and Compton,
James, Sykesville, Md.: 3 _ bottles
(251848).

Mason, Dr. Herbert L. (See Califor-
nia, University of)

Mason, Dr. John F., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. A. R. Palmer) trilobite
(250968).

Mason, Kenneth R. (See Tariff Com-
mission, U.S.)

Mason, Mrs. Martha Johnson,
Somers Point, N.J.: 4 silver and bronze
prize medals (252065).

Mason, Thomas H., Sussex, England:
Denier struck in the name of Bohemund
III, Principality of Antioch, 1140-1201
(2538773).

Masonic and Eastern Star Home of
the District of Columbia, Washington,
D.C.: (Through George F. Worth) piece
of silk printed with Thomas Jefferson’s
address, Mar. 4, 1801, and newspaper
‘containing his second inaugural ad-
dress, Mar. 12, 1805 (253827).

Massachusetts, University of, Am-
herst, Mass.: (Through Hugh Mont-
gomery) 8 books formerly in the Ben-
jamin B. Comegys’ library (241214).

Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through
Prof. John A. Tucker) 142 specimens
of electrical apparatus (244197);
(through Dr. J. R. Zacharias) atomic
clock (254080).

Masse, Chester, Middleton, Mass.:
Political-campaign glass (248948).

Massey, Prof. A. B. (See Virginia
Polytechnic Institute)

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Matejka, James J., Jr., M.D., Chicago,
Tll.;: Used airmail stamp of France
and 3 used and unused airmail stamps
of Syria (252031).

Mather, Bryant, Jackson, Miss.: 116
caddis flies and lacewings from Missis-
sippi (249617, 251244).

Mathias, Hon. Charles McC., Jr.
(See Frederick County Civil War Cen-
tennial Association)

Mathieu, Jean M., Urbana, IIL:
Scarab beetle from Mexico (253914).

Matthews, Benjamin A., New York,
N.Y.: U.S. paid reply postal card issued
in 1892 (250079).

Matthews, Dr. Erie G., Rio Piedras,
Puerto Rico: 418 scarab beetles from
Florida and India, and 3 from Puerto
Rico (252881, 252382).

Matthews, Mary P., Washington,
D.C.: 7 pamphlets and programs relat-
ing to American politics and social re-
form (248734).

Maxfield, Bruce (See Carl Zeiss, Inc.)

Max-Planck Institut fiir Chemte,
Mainz, Germany: (Through Dr. H.
Wiinke) Beddgelert, Wales, England,
meteorite, 10.5 grams (252166, ex-
change).

Maxson, Dr. Asa C., Longmont, Colo. :
300 aphids and 20 hymenoptera para-
sites from the U.S. (249251).

May, Mrs. Herbert A., Washington,
D.C.: Cape made from breast of swan
and 10 fur pieces (248125, 253124).

May, Maj. Marjorie D., Arlington,

Va.: Uniform of the Army Nurse Corps

(252887).

Mayer, Curtis (See Continental Pro-
ductions Ltd.)

Mayfield, C. Virginia and Dorothy T.,
Washington, D.C. : 20 pieces of flatware,
1 lot of towels, flatiron, 2 albums, shawl,
and glue pot (250078, 2518438).

Mayfield, Dorothy T. (See Mayfield,
©. Virginia).

Mayo, Mrs. Edith P., Washington,
D.C.: Lapel button, handbill, and
mimeographed circular relating to the
Student Filibuster for Civil Rights,
1964 (2538825).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Maytag, Robert E. Estate of:
(Through Francis C. Miller) Oldsmo-
bile, 1918 (241988, bequest).

McBride, Robert, Bethesda, Md.: 6
garnets with thin section from Madison
Co., Mont. (252279).

McCabe, Charles (See New York
Daily Mirror).

McCain, John C. (See Virginia In-
stitute of Marine Science).

McCall, Francis J. (deceased) :
Papyrus fragment with hieratic char-
acters, ca. 7th century B.C. (249398) ;
30 U.S. first-day covers, 11 foreign
eovers, and 35 first-day ceremony and
philatelic event programs (2538865).

McCarthy, Mrs. Hileen (See Smith-
sonian Institution).

McCauley, Prof. James E., Corvallis,
Oreg.: 5 parasitic helminth worms, holo-
type and paratypes, from Newport,
Oreg. (251524).

McCauley, Robert H., Hagerstown,
Md.: 26 pitchers and 4 bowls, all trans-
fer-decorated Liverpool earthenware
(248881) ; 35 items of Liverpool pottery
(252565).

McCloskey, Lawrence R. (See Duke
University).

McCoid, Mr. and Mrs. W. J., Shelton,
Wash. : Food chopper (251042).

McCombs, Mrs. Tempie, Surfside
Beach, 8.C.: Part of the symphysis of
lower jaw of a crocodilian from the
Cretaceous of South Carolina (248074).

McConihay, John J. and Lucille, South
Charleston, W. Va.: Mining scrip issued
by Dell Coal Co. (251183).

McConihay, Lucille (See McConihay,
John J.).

McConnaughey, Dr. Bayard H. (See
Oregon, University of).

McCoy, Earl W., Silver Spring, Md.:
2 mid-19th-century felloe saws (252799).

McDaniel, Sidney, State College,
Miss.: 88 lichens from Arkansas and
Mississippi (248181).

McDonald, Ian C., Dallas, Tex.: 45
wasps and bees from North America
(252577).

McFarland, Dr. Frank T., Berea, Ky.:
Phanerogam (249835).

175

McFarland, Noel, Valyermo, Calif.:
18 miscellaneous moth larvae and pupae
from North America (251221).

McGill University, Montreal, Canada:
(Through R. J. A. Goodland) 1,380
phanerogams, 388 grasses, 46 ferns, and
3 eryptogams from British Guiana col-
lected by R. J. A. Goodland (252340).
Bellairs Research Institute: (Through
Dr. John B. Lewis) 4 shrimps, 6 crabs,
a hermit crab, and 1 lot of plankton
samples (238527, 251820); (through
Dorothy Pocock) 15 shrimps (238514).

McGugan, Prof. A., Calgary, Alberta,
Canada: 21 Mississippian brachiopods
from Flathead Pass, Alberta, Canada
(250408).

McGuinness, Al, Eugene, Oreg.: 14
minerals from Idaho and Oregon
(249644, 252231, exchanges).

McHenry, G. Ruth, Savannah, Ga.:
2 pairs of forceps and a rectal speculum
(251003).

McKaig, W. Wallace, Cumberland,
Md.: Letter signed by Washington
Irving, 1852, and 3 bills, 2 with signa-
ture of George Washington, 1786-87
(247092).

McKay, D. R. (See International
Business Machines Corp.)

McKay, Mrs. Robert, Monticello, Fla. :
Dress worn by donor’s mother in 1913
(251816).

McKean, Herbert B.
Forests, Inc.)

McKee, H. S.
ernment of)

McKenzie, Dr. K. G.
sota, University of)

McKinney, J. V. C., Rockfall, Conn.:
Box vise (248950).

McLean, James D., Alexandria, Va.:
32 Foraminifera from the lower Ter-
tiary of the Gulf Coast (251100).

McMacken, Elbert H., Ramona,
Calif.: 3 hambergite specimens from
San Diego Co., Calif. (252273).

McMichael, Dr. Donald F. (See Aus-
tralia, Government of)

McPherson, Archie, Sewickley, Pa.:
Oil lamp (253945).

McRae, John T.
Edith)

(See Potlatch
(See Australia, Gov-

(See Minne-

(See Goldsmith,
176

McVaugh, Dr. Rogers (See Michigan,
University of)

Meachum, Roy (See Columbia Broad-
casting System and WTOP-Radio)

Mead, Frank W. (See Florida, State
of)

Mead, Dr. Giles W.
University )

Medway, Lord, Kuala Lampur, Ma-
laya: Shrew, paratype of a new sub-
species, from Sarawak (249640).

Meehan, Ruth L., Washington, D.C.:
Woman’s comb, late 19th century
(2493388).

Meem, Mrs. Harry G., and Rogers,
Mrs. Ann Carroll Meem, Washington,
D.C.: 91 examples of 19th- and 20th-
century textiles, clothing, and accesso-
ries (250072).

’ Mehring, Dr. Arnon L., Adelphi, Md.:

Approximately 23,917 mollusks and 6
lots of brachiopods, from the Cenozoic
of Florida to Maryland (251680).

Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India:
8 mint stamps and 7 first-day covers of
India (2538857).

Meigs, Mr. and Mrs. Fielding Pope,
Jr., Rosemont, Pa.: 223 family heir-
looms and memorabilia (248268).

Mekkelsen, Martin (See Waltham,
City of)

Mellon Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
(Through Frederick R. Park) slice of
Vera meteorite from Sante Fe prov-
ince, Argentina (251451).

Melville, M. L. (See National Cash
Register Co.)

Mencken, August, Baltimore, Md.: 7
toy steam engines and motors (220719).

Menendez, Raoul J. (See Carl Zeiss,

(See Harvard

Inc.)
Mentch, Glenn W. (See Eastman
Kodak Co.)

Merrill, Dr. Arthur S., Woods Hole,
Mass.: 81 fossils from the Recent off
South Carolina (251454).

Merrill, Ralph, Berkeley, Calif.: 2
epistilbite erystals from Connecticut
(9R99RR) y :

Merrill, Ralph, Berkeley, Calif.: 2
epistilbite erystals from Connecticut
(9R99RR)

Ralph, Berkeley, Calif.: 2
erystals from Connecticut

Merrill,
epistilbite
(9R99RAY

Merrill,
epistilbite
(9R99RAY

Ralph, Berkeley, Calif.: 2
erystals from Connecticut

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1964

Meshorer, Jaakov, Jerusalem, Israel :
5 ancient bronze coins from Caesarea,
bronze coin from Gadara, and an Arab
coin weight (251173).

Meves, Mrs. Clara E., Washington,
D.C.: Lamp (253636).

Mexican Indian Training Center, Inc.,
Corboda, Veracruz, Mexico: (Through
Dr. Alfred B. Lau) 1,318 miscellaneous
insects from Mexico (251456).

Meyer, Edwin H., Scottsdale, Ariz. : 9
trial run Ohio State sales-tax stamps
(245507).

Meyer, Dr. Fred G. (See Agricul-
ture, U.S. Department of)

Meyers, Bernard F., Washington,
D.C.: U.S. Army uniform and acces-
sories (249544).

Miami, University of, Miami, Fla.:
Institute of Marine Science: (Through
Dr. Frederick M. Bayer) 25 copepods,
marine mollusk, holotype, from off
southeastern Florida, and 14 shrimps
from Panama (251070, 252900, 254050) ;
(through Dr. Raymond B. Manning)
578 crabs (247230) ; 5 stomatopods from
Tahiti (247272) ; (through Dr. Harding
B. Owre) 8 chaetognaths, holotype and
7 paratypes (249341) ; (through Lowell
Thomas) 373 miscellaneous marine ani-
mals from Chile and echinoderms from
New Zealand, also 275 mollusks and
8 fishes (251835).

Miami University, Oxford, Ohio:
(Through Fred R. Rickson) 6 micro-
scope slides of woods (249040, ex-
change).

Michener, Dr. C. D.
University of)

Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 542 grasses from Mexico
(247269) ; 760 grasses from Assam
(2538069, exchange); (through J. B.
Bureh) 11 mollusks from Eniwetok
Atoll, Marshall Islands, Liberia, and
Monrovia (253270, exchange) ; (through
Dr. Claude W. Hibbard) 1,278 branchio-
pods from Kansas (250635); (through
Dr. Rogers MeVaugh) 2,629 wood speci-
wone fram wrrldsida In-alitiosg (220710
pods from Kansas (250635); (through
Dr. Rogers MeVaugh) 2,629 wood speci-
wone fram wrrldsida In-alitiosg (220710
pods from Kansas (250635); (through
Dr. Rogers MeVaugh) 2,629 wood speci-
wone fram wrrldsida In-alitiosg (220710
pods from Kansas (250635); (through

Dr. Rogers MeVaugh) 2,629 wood speci-
wone fram wrrldsida In-alitiosg (220710

(See Kansas,
