ar

Ser ages
Wee PS a
es

The United States

National Museum

Annual Report for the Year Ended
June 30, 1959

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Unitep Srates Nationat Muservum,
Unpir Direction oF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D.C., August 15, 1959.
Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1959.
Very respectfully,
Reminaton KExLLoaa,
Director, US. National Museum.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
I
Contents

TEND O DIU CTRIONIMM NH aha Wench eos ay oR ite ete Eaten eine Pee ah apt 2
ESETEB PLS Ue ENT Ea ene yet at ean ROR NA eco eh Mntne® ype MEN BEEN Somber ck 13
ACCESSIONS .. . DL Seve Rea asta jor cmon uIN A, Goel athe act Ue Ser oectts etme tat aVeay A 43
CARE OF Connacations Taco ON aR oe crue ho aac ey NA eee een ae ie a US 61
IN WDSRTEATTION AID IRIDSIINRGIEL 6 6 o 6 6 6 6 0 6 4 66 560 0 ad oO Oo 72
ANTOYU] DUROY OLOILOEA YE paris ie leemaiess (5, Fa, Nisa Aaa Ral eet As eae Ste ae la ie eer 72
DOOR Vg ae eh ea NG Ie LO LIS MN ch cere eto ee nay eat o sk ae tee 78
BO taTyae we HON al yh Eb beg Uegige ce cee Wun Ee mine ae eae cm, oa dat be eablees Uh 86
Geology... . BALGS ERE AN Deu ok on TERT EPR, Saeed wohr mrote Ae norte ettra airs: |S 89
Science and mecnmolonee Dates eee hee 2 viet Fare Sonal Geen hans Weta comer AINA A 94
Artisans ViamuiactUubesing Gimeusurie, acy ee a se eat cael enue ae 96
Crivall Jebigwory 5 o 6 Peet ee Ore cessed sites © cay athe dha pectic OU loge 97
Armed Forces ERECOn eet eae wie ee LAN Tune t a mde tere Macha mba bent mamta A 101
PUBLICATIONS .. . SSE Rk CHEE ee Rm Or OT ere Teh 102
DONORS TO THE Rammstein Comemone PAST eG Stak EGS Ce ION Lic ee an Tease aes 115

Tir
June 30, 1959 -

United States National Museum

Director: Remington Kellogg

Registrar: Helena M. Weiss

Museum or Naturat Htsrory
Director: A. C. Smith

Department of Anthropology: Frank M. Setzler, head curator
A. Joseph Andrews, exhibits specialist

ARCHEOLOGY: Waldo R. Wedel, curator Eugene I. Knez, associate curator
Clifford Evans, Jr., associate curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator

Ralph 8. Solecki, associate curator PuystcaL ANTHROPOLOGY: de eDale
ErHnotoey: Saul H. Riesenberg, cura- Stewart, curator
tor Marshall T. Newman, associate curator

Gordon C. Gibson, associate curator
Department of Zoology: Herbert Friedmann, head curator

Mammats: David H. Johnson, curator Ralph EF. Crabill, Jr., associate curator

Henry W. Setzer, associate curator William D. Field, associate curator
Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate Sophy Parfin, assistant curator
curator MarINeE INVERTEBRATES: Fenner A.
Birps: Herbert Friedmann, acting curator Chace, Jr., curator
Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator
REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS: Doris M. Thomas E. Bowman, associate cura-
Cochran, curator tor
Fisues: Leonard P. Schultz, curator Charles E. Cutress, Jr., associate cu-
Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator rator

William R. Taylor, associate curator Mo.tiusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator
Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator Joseph P. I. Morrison, associate cu-
Oscar L. Cartwright, associate curator rator

Department of Botany: Jason R. Swallen, head curator

PHANEROGAMS: Lyman  B. Smith, Ferns: Conrad V. Morton, curator

curator Grasses: Jason R. Swallen, acting curator
Emery C. Leonard, associate curator CryprocgamMs: Mason E. Hale, acting
Egbert H. Walker, associate curator curator
Richard $. Cowan, associate curator Paul §. Conger, associate curator
Velva I. Rudd, associate curator Robert R. Ireland, assistant curator

Department of Geology: Gustay A. Cooper, head curator

MINERALOGY AND PrrroLoGcy: George Richard $8. Boardman, associate cu-

5. Switzer, curator rator
Edward P. Henderson associate cu- Porter M. Wier, associate curator
rator VERTEBRATE PaLEoNToLoay: C. Lewis
Paul E. Desautels, associate curator Gazin, curator
Roy S$. Clarke, Jr., chemist David H. Dunkle, associate curator
INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY AND Pa- Nicholas Hotton III, associate curator
LEOBOTANY: Gustav <A. Cooper, Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits specialist

acting curator

IV
Museum or History AND TECHNOLOGY

Director: Frank A. Taylor

Assistant Director: John C. Ewers

Department of Science and Technology: Robert P. Multhauf, head curator

PuystcaL Scrences: Robert P. Mul-
thauf, acting curator

MECHANICAL AND Civit WNGINEERING:
Eugene §. Ferguson, curator; in
charge of Section of Tools

Edwin A. Battison, associate curator,
Sections of Light Machinery and
Horology

Robert M. Vogel, assistant curator,
Sections of Heavy Machinery and
Civil Engineering

TRANSPORTATION: Howard I. Chapelle,
curator; in charge of Sections of
Marine Transportation and Land
Transportation

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator
John H. White, assistant curator
AGRICULTURE AND Woop PrRopwcts:
William N. Watkins, curator; in
charge of Section of Wood Products
Edward C. Kendall, associate curator,
Section of Agricultural Industries
Enecrriciry: W. James King, acting
curator
Mepicau ScrencEs: George B. Griffen-
hagen, curator; in charge of Sections
of Pharmaceutical History and
Health
John B. Blake, associate curator,
Section of Medical and Dental
History

Department of Arts and Manufactures: Philip W. Bishop, head curator

TextTiues: Grace lL.
curator
CERAMICS AND Grass: Paul V. Gardner,
acting curator
GrapHic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator
Alexander J. Wedderburn, Jr., asso-

Rogers, acting

ciate curator, Section of Photog-
raphy
Fuller O. Griffith, assistant curator
INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION: Philip
Bishop, acting curator

W.

Department of Civil History: Anthony N. B. Garvan, head curator

Peter C. Welsh, associate curator, Arlene P. Krimgold, junior curator

PouirrcaL History: Wileomb E. Wash-
burn, curator
Mrs. Margaret Brown
associate curator
Charles G. Dorman, assistant curator
Mrs. Anne W. Murray,
curator
CuLruraL History: C. Maleolm Wat-
kins, acting curator
G. Carroll Lindsay, associate curator

Klapthor,

assistant

John D. Shortridge, associate curator
Rodris C. Roth, assistant curator
PHILATELY AND -PostTaL HISTORY:
George T. Turner, acting curator
Francis J. McCall, associate curator
Numismatics: Vladimir Clain-Stefa-
nelli, acting curator
Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, assistant
curator

Department of Armed Forces History: Mendel L. Peterson, head curator

Minirary History: Edgar M. Howell,
acting curator
Craddock R. Goins,

curator

MiP op

assistant

Navat History: Mendel L. Peterson,
acting curator
Philip K. Lundeberg, associate curator

Vv
Office of Exhibits: John E. Anglim, Chief

Rolland O. Hower, assistant chief Benjamin W. Lawless, assistant chief

William L. Brown, chief zoological exhibits specialist

Honorary Smithsonian Fellows, Collaborators, Associates,
Custodians of Collections, and Honorary Curators

Anthropology
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Anthro- Betty J. Meggers, Archeology
pology H. Morgan Smith, Archeology
Neil M. Judd, Anthropology W. W. Taylor, Jr., Anthropology
Herbert W. Krieger, Anthropology W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology
Zoology
Paul Bartsch, Mollusks Allen McIntosh, Mollusks
M. A. Carriker, Jr., Insects J. Perey Moore, Marine Invertebrates
Carl J. Drake, Insects Carl F. W. Muesebeck, Insects
Isaac Ginsberg, Fishes Waldo L. Schmitt, Marine Invertebrates
D. C. Graham, Biology Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Crayfishes R. E. Snodgrass, Insects
A. Brazier Howell, Mammals Thomas E. Snyder, Isoptera
Laurence Irving, Birds Alexander Wetmore, Birds
W. L. Jellison, Insects Mrs. Mildred Stratton Wilson, Copepod
W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera Crustacea
Botany
Agnes Chase, Grasses Floyd A. McClure, Grasses
Ellsworth P. Killip, Phanerogams John A. Stevenson, Fungi
Geology
Ray 8. Bassler, Paleontology J. Brookes Knight, Invertebrate Pale-
Roland W. Brown, Paleobotany ontology

Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon- W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy
tology
C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate Pale-
ontology
History
Elmer C. Herber, History F. W. McKay, Numismatics
Ivor Noel Hume, Cultural History

VI
Annual Report of
the Director

United States National Museum
Introduction

Ground was broken for the building for the Museum of History and
Technology on August 22,1958. Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Chair-
man of the Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a
Building for a Museum of History and Technology for the Smithsonian
Institution, turned the first shovelful of earth. Excavation began
immediately, and at the close of the fiscal year the excavation and
driving of piles had been accomplished. The working drawings and
specifications for the building were completed by the contract archi-
tects and reviewed by the Smithsonian Institution and the General
Services Administration. The construction of the superstructure was
advertised for bids on June 23, 1959.

The progress made and the plans for the building were described
in the second report to the Congress from the Joint Committee
(Senate Report No. 301, 86th Cong., Ist sess., May 20, 1959) as
follows:

BUILDING FOR MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

The Joint Congressional Committee on Construction of a Building for a Museum
of History and Technology for the Smithsonian Institution submits this report
on the progress of the planning and construction of the building, pursuant to
section 4 of Public Law 106 (84th Cong., 69 Stat. 189).

The following has been accomplished since the report submitted by the joint
committee, April 16, 1958.

The temporary buildings formerly occupying the site of the building were
demolished and removed, with the exception of a small wing retained for a con-
struction office.

Ground was broken for the start of construction on August 22, 1958, at a
ceremony in which Senator Clinton P. Anderson, chairman, and the Honorable
John M. Vorys, the then secretary of the joint committee, participated with
Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Senator
Anderson turned the first shovelful of earth.

Excavation of the site has been completed, and the piles for the foundation of
the building are being driven. The original estimate that the building will be
opened to the public in 1962 can still be confirmed.

At a meeting of the joint committee on March 9, 1959, the internal planning
within the previously approved external form of the building was discussed.

The following review of the purpose of the building and the plans for its con-
struction and use were presented to the joint committee by the Smithsonian
Institution at this meeting:

The purpose of the building as described to the Congress, at the time that the
appropriation for its construction was being considered, is:

»)
On this site, on the Mall near the Washington
Monument, will rise the Museum of History and
Technology. Excavation and driving of piles,
here in progress, were completed this year.

To illustrate by means of these [the Smithsonian’s] historic collections the
cultural and technological development of our Nation from colonial times.
To place before the millions who visit the Nation’s Capital each year a stimu-
lating permanent exposition that commemorates our heritage of freedom
and highlights the basic elements of our way of life.

As indicated in the hearings on the new buildings before the appropriation for
its construction was made, thousands of items are to be shown, such as many ob-
jects belonging to George Washington, including his sword, uniform, and field
kit; Thomas Jefferson’s desk at which the Declaration of Independence was
drafted; objects used by Lincoln; and numerous other similarly significant items
related to great Americans of the past.

It was indicated at that time that the original Star-Spangled Banner, the flag
that was flying over Fort McHenry at the time the national anthem was written,
would be most impressively displayed in the central hall of the building. This
ereat flag originally measured 30 by 42 feet, and experts feel it requires a wall
space 40 by 55 feet for its proper display. This magnificent patriotic symbol has
been called by museum experts the greatest historical museum item in America.

Among other objects mentioned at the hearings, as requiring display, were
hundreds of unique Patent Office models; great collections of stamps, coins, and
costumes; examples of steam, internal combustion, and electrical power machines;
land transportation vehicles; surgical and dental implements; ship models; swords;
small arms; agricultural implements; woods and wood products; lithographs;
4 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Models of projected halls for the Museum of
History and Technology help curators and
designers solve problems involving arrangement,
spacing, and traffic patterns.

etchings; china; glass; prints; timepieces; handtools; flags; uniforms; textiles;
cameras; sewing machines; typewriters; machine tools and many other objects.
Exhibits will also include significant inventions associated with the rise of the oil,
steel, power, printing, lumber, plastics, textile, electrical communications, mining,
and other industries.

It was also said in describing the building for which the appropriation was
requested that it would show pioneer locomotives from our existing collections and
also a great modern steam locomotive that had recently been given to the museum
and which would need a hall 100 feet long for its display. The proposals pre-
sented in the testimony indicated that the building would have reproductions of
home interiors and of old workships characteristic of different periods in U.S.
history. Many items from Smithsonian collections would be shown in these
settings.
INTRODUCTION 5

It was also pointed out that the building would display ship and battleship
models as well as full-scale examples of the American machines that played key
parts in our Nation’s phase of the industrial revolution.

In this same testimony, it was pointed out that the new building not only should
have space for these great exhibits but also should make adequate provision for
reference collections, laboratories, workrooms, and public service programs.

It was emphasized that hundreds of research historians and technologists from
all over the country, and indeed from all over the world, have come and will more
and more need to come to the Smithsonian to do scholarly work. Therefore it
is necessary to provide facilities for such individuals who come to clear up numer-
ous matters requiring research in the course of preparing books or articles for
publication. The unique reference collections of the Smithsonian must be made
available to research workers in an effective way in the new building.

On February 5, 1957, this joint committee approved the external design of the
museum and recommended to the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution that
the building be constructed in the form indicated. The Regents subsequently
approved this design.

eet

Exhibit being prepared for the new museum. Silk screening a label on a
large panel requires great care and precision. The retoucher (right) makes
certain each individual letter is perfect.

The firm of McKim, Mead & White, the architects of the building, prepared
this approved design. Since the approval of the external structure of the museum,
the staff of the Smithsonian and this same firm of architects have been working in
close association to fit into the approved external structure the internal halls and
exhibits which were indicated as needed when the Congress appropriated
funds for the erection of the building.

The requirements which were presented as basic when the appropriation was
made have been met by the staff of the Smithsonian Institution and by the archi-
tects working closely together. Halls for the exhibition of 38 major areas of
presentation are planned. These have been coherently related in a manner that
will present a logical sequence of exhibits.

At all times the needs of the individual museum visitor have been kept in mind
in planning the building. It has been conservatively estimated that some 5 mil-
lion individuals will come to this building each year, and the comfort and con-
6 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL’ REPORT, 1959

venience of this large number of people are very important and present many
novel problems.

The Smithsonian has had experience with crowds of people, old and young, in
its present buildings. On 1 day last year 42,524 persons came to the old Natural
History Building alone. When people come in such numbers, they must now at
times line up and wait before seeing an exhibit. This points out that in planning
the new building, it has seemed especially important to remember its scale and
to consider the need to provide as well as possible for the free flow of visitors from
hall to hall and from floor to floor.

After weighing the great need for workrooms and special study rooms in the
new building, it has been decided not to move to this building the general admin-
istrative offices of the Smithsonian from their present location in the old Smith-
sonian building. Thus, in spite of the character of this new structure, the offices
of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and his immediate associates will
continue to be housed in the quaint, but still satisfactory, section of the Smith-
sonian Building which was originally constructed for the personal living quarters
of the first Smithsonian Secretary, the great Joseph Henry.

The importance of providing proper lighting for exhibitions, adequate air con-
ditioning for the protection of objects as well as for the comfort of visitors, needed
circuits for television and for museum electronic guide devices, and other electrical
and plumbing facilities has revealed that this building is truly being planned for
the construction of a great modern display machine. For some months over 90
architects and draftsmen have been working full time on the required drawings
for the building.

The success with which the Smithsonian and the architects are providing the
facilities to accomplish the purposes authorized by the Congress may be illustrated
by explaining each floor of the building.

pe | /

Models are often required to demonstrate the principles of power, physics,
biology, etc. Others are used to show the appearance of items too large
to be included in the halls.
INTRODUCTION 7

The visitor approaching the building from Constitution Avenue will enter
the first floor at street level. Here he will pass the information desk and rooms
for checking coats and umbrellas and will encounter directory devices to guide
him to special exhibits. Grouped at this entrance is a room for temporary
exhibits, and a small auditorium where special events may be held even in the
evening without opening more than a limited part of the building. This great
exhibition floor is devoted to the collections relating to the history of science
and technology. The visitor will be introduced to these by exhibits which demon-
strate advances in pure science and their applications to engineering and industry.
Here also a Foucault pendulum, suspended from a wire reaching to the upper
floors of the building, will illustrate the rotation of the earth. Through the
pendulum well in the ceiling of the first floor the visitor will have a glimpse of
the flag hall above. The first floor has been designed to display Smithsonian
collections totaling thousands of original objects including agricultural imple-
ments and machines, woods and wood products, watercraft, automobiles and
coaches, railroad locomotives and equipment, models of bridge and tunnel con-
struction, power machines and engines, electrical and electronics machines and
instruments, early typewriters, clocks and watches, hand and machine tools,
physical and astronomical instruments, chemical apparatus, medical, pharma-
ceutical and dental instruments, textiles and textile machines, equipment asso-
ciated with the development of nuclear physics, simulated atomic reactors and

ae
— SES,

4

Original decorations are carefully restored on old agricultural implements
being reconditioned for the forthcoming hall of farm machinery. This is a
horse-drawn mower.
8 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Remodeled natural history halls showing animals and birds in their natural
habitat require the manufacture of tens of thousands of leaves, grasses,
blossoms, and other accessories. Formerly made by tediously cutting
them from paper or by modeling them in wax, these are now more accurately

the uses of atomic energy; machines and processes of petroleum production, and
changing exhibits of metalworking and other industrial processes. These
exhibits have been grouped into coordinated combinations to present broad
subject fields such as transportation or the production, distribution, and applica-
tions of power, elements of which appear in several halls. The first floor has a
bus entrance on the south side at the same level which is entirely sheltered and
is designed to accommodate the many elementary and high school classes which
will arrive from all parts of the country. Large windows looking into the loco-
motive hall on the east and into the atomic energy and agricultural implements
halls in the north will permit some sections of the museum to be viewed even
when the building is closed.

The second floor is also entered at street level, in this instance, from Madison
Drive on the Mall. Thus, the museum will have the distinct advantage of
having two of its three great general exhibition floors at street level, entered
without steps. The visitor who enters this floor from Madison Drive or who
comes up directly from the first floor entrances will start his tour in the imposing
flag hall in which the Star-Spangled Banner will be enshrined. This great flag,
dramatically lighted and unobstructed, will introduce the museum’s thousands
of daily visitors to the historical exhibits.

On this floor the history of the United States will be illustrated in a series of
halls, chronologically arranged. These will exhibit outstanding and selected
objects such as weapons, tools, utensils, clothing, architectural elements, con-
temporary pictures, personal memorabilia, home and craft equipment, agricultural
implements, machines and vehicles, all combined to illustrate important periods
in the development of our country. Another series of halls will exhibit home
INTRODUCTION 9

| a
reproduced in half the time by molding sheets of plastic under heat and

extreme pressure (left), and then cutting them out on a band saw, 20 to 30
sheets at a time. Color is applied by airbrush (above).

interiors showing the furnishings and objects of the decorative arts of many
periods as they were originally employed in the United States. The evolution
of American costume and dress will be illustrated and the original gowns worn
by the First Ladies will be exhibited in settings constructed of original woodwork,
mantels, furniture, and other furnishings preserved from a number of White
House renovations. Memorabilia and personal objects owned and used by
historical American figures such as Washington, Lincoln, and others will be
exhibited in appropriate settings.

On the third floor a large area will be devoted to the Smithsonian’s outstanding
collections of weapons, flags, uniforms, insignia, warship models, prints, maps,
and other objects illustrating the history of the Armed Forces of the United
States. These military exhibits are essential for the complete portrayal of the
history of the United States and they will gain effectiveness and perspective by
being closely associated with the other exhibits within the museum depicting
historical events and the evolution of the sciences and the machines which the
military services have employed in all periods. It is evident that these military
exhibits are required to show the Armed Forces in their traditional context with
other elements of our national life. These exhibits will provide a well selected
military display convenient to the visitors in the Mall area.

Also on this floor are a group of exhibits related to the arts, including the collec-
tions of musical instruments, printing equipment and prints, photography, ceramics,
and glass. The hall for musical instruments is designed to suggest an early
music room. In it many instruments from the Smithsonian’s great collections
will be maintained in playable condition so that at times music may be demon-
strated on instruments of the periods in which the music was composed. In the
exhibits of printmaking, ceramics, and glass, the processes and the technical
10 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL: REPORT, 1959

terms of the processes and products are to be explained. The Smithsonian’s
excellent collection of early still cameras, motion-picture cameras and projectors,
lenses, shutters, prints, and studio equipment will be well displayed for the first
time. A small changing exhibits gallery and the connecting corridors will be
equipped and lighted for periodic exhibits of prints and photographs related to
the Smithsonian exhibitions.

The Smithsonian’s notable collections of coins and postage stamps will be
displayed on this floor. Early stamp-engraving processes will be shown with
original machines and the history of the mails will be illustrated with models of
mail coaches and original letters sent by early post. The numismatics section
will exhibit thousands of coins in a comprehensive history of money and will
illustrate the significance of the designs carried by the coins, some of which are
outstanding works of sculpture and medallic art.

On the fourth and fifth floors will be preserved the reserve collections of all of
these classes of objects to which the collector, the student and the visitors with
special interests will have access. Here will be the detailed collections, not else-
where shown, of textiles, silver, coins, clocks, watches, patent models, glass,
scientific instruments, ceramics, tools, stamps, and other collections organized for
efficient reference for the use of historians, writers, and serious hobbyists. Also
on these floors will be the workrooms for the staff engaged in the examination,
accessioning, and documentation of the collections, staff and students meeting
rooms, and study rooms for visiting inventors, scientists, engineers, and historians.

The basement has a public area in which is located a cafeteria provided for the
convenience of the visitor. Here also are presented exhibits of the mining indus-
try. Frequently museum visitors wishing to remain as long as possible on what
may be their only visit to the Smithsonian ask if there is a place to have lunch
within the buildings. The cafeteria is a great convenience for all who wish to
spend a number of hours in the museum. The dining room will have a window-
wall view from a sunken terrace. For the school groups and others who wish less
expensive and quicker service there will be a snack bar. For children who come
in classes and bring their lunches there will be rooms with milk and soft drink
machines.

Windows into heavy machinery rooms will give the visitor on this floor a view
of some of the equipment required to make this huge exhibition machine itself
function.

Much of the basement is devoted to laboratories for the examination and
preservation of collections and the laboratory required to service the exhibits and
to keep the halls up to date. Heavy mechanical equipment required to operate
and maintain the building, shipping and receiving facilities is also in the basement.
Storage space for large objects in the collections is also provided here.

The increasing interest in educational applications of television and radio and
the Smithsonian’s experience in these fields have indicated the need for built-in
television wiring. This has been provided so that no point on the exhibition
floors is more than 150 feet from a panel providing connections for television
cameras and for heavy lighting circuits. These connect to a monitoring room in
the basement from which equipment brought in may be connected by the broad-
casting system for particular events and will allow the transmission of programs
by telephone lines to established broadcasting stations. The electronic lecture
system and other audio requirements associated with the exhibits can be controlled
from this area. All exhibits areas are provided with underfloor ducts for electrical
power and electronic circuits.

Parking for visitors is provided by the curb space along the Mall drives.  Visi-
tors will find over a thousand 1- and 2-hour parking spaces within a short distance
from the building. The building will open about the time that morning rush-
INTRODUCTION leit

Exposure to light over many years has faded the colors of many valuable
mounted animal specimens in the Museum of Natural History, rendering
them unfit for further exhibition. Skillful use of hair dyes and colors is ac-
curately restoring them to their former beauty. The exhibit technician
here uses an unfaded study skin as a guide in restoring stripes on the head
of a zebra destined for the nearly completed World of Mammals hall.

hour parking restrictions end and, as traffic on the drives is not heavy outside of
rush hours, even strangers will find it relatively easy to orient themselves and
safely locate parking spaces. The building closes before the evening rush traftic
begins. As much parking as possible will be provided in screened and concealed
areas on the south side of the site below the Madison Drive grade level.

SUMMARY

Detailed planning for the building and its specialized exhibits has been com-
pleted and final working drawings and specifications are expected to be completed
by March 30.

The plans indicate that the new structure will provide a museum building that
will for the first time allow the unique collections of the Smithsonian to be seen
in an adequate way now and in the future by countless millions of Americans.

524592—59

9
~

12 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Working drawings for the construction of additions to the Natural
History Building were completed by the contract architects. These
were reviewed in detail by the staff of the Smithsonian Institution.
This completes the architectural planning for these additions, which
are required to accommodate the growing scientific collections and to
provide efficient working facilities for the scientific staff. The Con-
eress recognized the urgent need for these additions when it appro-
priated the funds for the architectural services to prepare the working
drawings. The Smithsonian Institution is now prepared to contract
for the construction of the additions immediately upon the appro-
priation of funds for this purpose.

John E. Cudd, architect of the Public Buildings Service assigned
to the Smithsonian Institution, continued to advise on both building
projects, assisting in the transmittal of requirements to the architects
and in the review of the drawings and specifications. Many indi-
viduals and sections of the Public Building Service contributed counsel
and advice.

Funds Allotted

From the funds appropriated by Congress to carry on the operations
of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus during the fiscal year
1959, the sum of $3,721,458 was obligated by the United States
National Museum for the preservation, increase, and study of the
national collections of anthropological, zoological, botanical, and geo-
logical materials, as well as materials illustrative of engineering,
technology, industry, graphic arts, and history (this amount includes
sums expended for the program of exhibits modernization).
Exhibits

During this sixth year of the continuing modernization program
exhibits work moved steadily forward on three fronts—the renovation
of permanent exhibition halls in existing buildings, the planning and
development of exhibits for the new Museum of History and Tech-
nology now under construction, and assistance to other branches of the
Smithsonian Institution in the planning and presentation of exhibits.

In the renovation program three large halls were reopened to the
public—the hall of gems and minerals, the hall of graphic arts hand
processes, and the hall of textiles. Two smaller areas, the jade room
and tile room, were also opened. Sixteen galleries of modernized
exhibits are now available to the public, and another will be opened
early in the next fiscal year. Dr. Herbert Friedmann continued to
serve as chairman of the committee coordinating and supervising the
renovation program. Kugene EK. Witherell, director of the architec-
tural and structural division of the Public Buildings Service, General
Services Administration, and Harry T. Wooley and Henry E. Kerr,
design architects of that agency, contributed substantially to the de-
sign of renovated exhibition halls.

John E. Anglim continued in charge of the planning and preparation
of all exhibits, and Rolland O. Hower was in charge of renovating
exhibition halls in the Museum of Natural History.

Editing of all label drafts prepared by the curators has continued
under Joseph G. Weiner, with the assistance of David M. Davidson.

The exhibits program for the Museum of History and Technology,
being coordinated by John C. Ewers, assistant director, advanced from
the planning to the beginning of the production stage during the year.
Under the supervision of exhibits specialist Benjamin W. Lawless,
architectural designs were completed for all of the 47 exhibition halls
to be included in the new building. These drawings and specifications
were furnished the architects who followed them in preparing their
working drawings for the construction of the building. Carroll
Lusk, museum lighting specialist, of Syracuse, N.Y., greatly aided the
hall designers in his role of lighting consultant. Eugene Kingman,
director of the Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebr., aided both cura-
tors and designers as exhibits planning consultant.

The curatorial staff prepared exhibit unit scripts providing detailed
lists of the objects and graphic devices, as well as the label copy, for all

13
14 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

the exhibits in 12 halls. Partial scripts for an additional 8 halls were
prepared during the year. Guided by these written instructions,
graphic designers proceeded to detail the internal layout of indi-
vidual exhibits. In March 1959 a considerable portion of the exhibits
laboratory was moved to more adequate quarters at 1242 24th Street
NW., where exhibits for the Museum of History and Technology will
continue to be designed and produced until the laboratory is available
in the new building. Some of these exhibits will be placed on tem-
porary display in the Arts and Industries Building; others will be
stored until the exhibit halls in the Museum of History and Tech-
nology are ready for occupancy. In May production of exhibits for
two halls was begun under the direction of Bela S. Bory.

During the year members of the exhibits staff cooperated with
other branches of the Smithsonian Institution in the design and pres-
entation of exhibits. Exhibits designers James Mahoney and William
Pennock, working in close cooperation with Director Philip S. Hopkins
and the curatorial staff of the National Air Museum, prepared an
architectural layout for the renovation of exhibits in the National Air
Museum’s Aircraft building. For the Smithsonian Traveling Exhi-
bition Service, John EK. Anglim and Rolland O. Hower designed and
supervised the installation of two large temporary exhibitions in the
foyer of the Natural History Building—the presentation of “British
Artists-Craftsmen” in January, and of the “Fulbright Painters and
Designers” in March 1959.

On June 1, 1959, a special exhibit on the satellite tracking program
of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory was installed in the
rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building. Designed by William
Eddy and Ronald Tavares in cooperation with Dr. John White,
information officer of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory,
this exhibit includes an enlargement of the first photograph of the
first American earth satellite, taken by a satellite tracking camera
at Arequipa, Peru, July 12, 1958.

Anthropology

The renovation program for the two halls interpreting North
American archeology progressed satisfactorily during the year.
Construction of exhibit fixtures in hall 21 was begun and was well
advanced toward completion by year’s end. All exhibits in hall 22
were dismantled, the architectural drawings for renovation of the
hall were completed, and the construction contract was awarded in
June 1959. Curator Waldo R. Wedel worked closely with exhibits
designer Peter De Anna in planning the layout of these halls. Dr.
Wedel completed 18 exhibit unit scripts for hall 21 and continued
work on additional units. This hall will be devoted to the archeology
EXHIBITS 15

For the exhibition ‘British
Artists-Craftsmen’’ was de-
signed a modular system of
polished walnut and lac-
quered white panels, and a
series of walnut bases, all
re-usable in various com-
binations.

of the southwestern United States, the Pacific coast and Columbia
Valley, and arctic America; and to a series of general topics, including
native mines and quarries, Indian stone-working methods and prod-
ucts, Euroamerican trade items from Indian sites, native smoking
devices, and the diffusion of tobacco.

Curator of ethnology Saul Riesenberg and exhibits designer Dorothy
Guthrie developed a preliminary layout of exhibits for renovated
hall 8. When this hall, which will interpret peoples of the Pacific,
and the adjoining hall, which will interpret the African peoples, are
renovated, all four of the large ethnological halls will be completely
modernized. Tentative plans were outlined for the renovation of the
old world archeology hall. Associate curator Ralph 8S. Solecki selected
16 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

specimens from the Shanidar Valley archeological excavations and
marked them for use in the future modernization.

Important additions were made in the highlights of Latin American
archeology hall during the year. The panel of photographs at the
south end was removed and a large, full-scale plaster cast of a colossal
stone head of the Olmee culture was installed in February 1959. This
cast of San Lorenzo Monument No. 1 from southern Vera Cruz
arrived in 31 sections and was assembled by Mr. Paul Willis of the
cabinet shop. Art work and final painting were executed by Mr. A.
Joseph Andrews, chief exhibits specialist of the department of anthro-
pology. An exhibit of Olmec jade, installed near the head, displays
for the first time in the United States three of the magnificently
carved Olmec jade figures from La Venta in Tabasco, Mexico, as
well as such other Olmec jade objects as beads, ceremonial axes,
pendants, and ear ornaments. This exhibit also shows aboriginal
methods of working jade by drilling, sawing, pecking, and polishing.
A gold Chimu mask from Peru was installed in the exhibit of Andean
arts and crafts.

Associate curator Clifford Evans, in cooperation with Assistant
Director John C. Ewers, Howard Cline of the Hispanic Foundation
of the Library of Congress, and John Corbett of the National Park
Service, planned a special exhibition, “Anthropology and the Nation’s

The special exhibition ‘‘An-
thropology and the Nation's
Capital’ was part of the
Museum's contribution to
the series of scientific meet-
ings held in Washington in
the fall of 1959.

| BatHropotocy
Baro THE NATION'S

| | CAPITAL

ORRONED FF LereROmn HD Tire row

Aa eRNOR AL SOLENT OF Yasmmeron

EXHIBITS ily

PHYSICAL ANTHROPOLOGY

IN THE US. NATIONAL MUSEUM

The Division of Physical Anthropelogy was founded

ALES HRDLICK A £85 = 1203 enser the direction of Ales Hralicko. is

pioneer efforts made an impact on the entire anthro

pological profession

Hrdlicka:

Tt FAST MHTSCAL AnTIBOPOLOOE AL STUCy

wf emt Lecepeee lnmaeaes Nemiiey = Aerie its mate

Panels with 3-dimensional displays illustrated the role of the museum and
other institutions and government agencies in the development of anthro-

pology.

Capital,” which was shown in the foyer of the Natural History Build-
ing for a period of 2 months, during which the American Anthro-
pological Association and the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science held their annual meetings in Washington. These
exhibits, designed by exhibits specialists John E. Anglim and Rolland
O. Hower, traced the important role of early government officials, of
governmental agencies, and of educational and scientific institutions
in the Washington area in the development of anthropology during
the past century and a half. Some of the unusual techniques for the
rapid preparation and installation of layouts containing both 3-
dimensional and flat objects, perfected by the exhibits staff for this
18 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

exhibition, have been useful to them in developing subsequent
exhibits.

The division of physical anthropology prepared a display of the
45,000-year-old Shanidar I skull from Iraq for a special exhibition
at the annual meeting of the National Academy of Sciences in
April 1959.

Zoology

The unveiling of the Fénykévi elephant on the evening of March 6,
1959, was a highhght of the year’s exhibition program in zoology.
This record specimen of African bush elephant, standing 13 feet 2
inches at the shoulder, is the largest modern land animal ever to be
exhibited. Mr. J. J. Fénykoévi, Hungarian-born engineer and _ big-
game hunter who tracked down and shot this elephant in the largely
unexplored Cuando River region of southeastern Angola on November
13, 1955, and who presented the skin to the Smithsonian Institution,
came to Washington from Madrid to participate in the ceremonies.
The mounted elephant now stands in a prominent position in the
rotunda of the Natural History building. The specimen, which was
prepared for exhibition by William L. Brown and Norman N. Deaton
of the museum staff, is a masterpiece of taxidermy.

AF ek

Standing in the great rotunda of the Natural History Museum, this record-
size African bush elephant, gift of Mr. J. J. Féenykévi, is the largest land
animal ever prepared for exhibition.
EXHIBITS 19

Preparation and installation of exhibits in the two halls designed
to illustrate “The World of Mammals” was nearing completion at
year’s end. Nearly all the topical exhibits were installed, and much
of the work on the habitat groups was completed. The hall is being
developed under the scientific supervision of Dr. Henry W. Setzer,
associate curator of mammals. Architectural design was by Thomas
Baker. The exhibits have been designed and installed under the
supervison of Rolland O. Hower.

A committee of staff zoologists under the chairmanship of head
curator Herbert Friedmann continued to develop plans for the content
of the hall of oceanic life. Meanwhile, members of the exhibit staff
made considerable progress on the construction of the life-size model of
a blue whale which will be a feature exhibit in this hall.

Geology

On the evening of July 31, 1958, Mrs. W. F. Foshag, wife of the late
head curator of geology, cut a ribbon to open the modernized hall of
gems and minerals to the public. Exhibits in this hall include the most
extensive collection of gems on display in this country, and a large and
representative sampling of specimens from the Nation’s mineral col-
lection. Nearly every variety of gem is represented. Among them

THE CAVE OF SWORDS

These spectacular gypsum crystals, long a feature of the old mineral hall,
flank the entrance of the new hall, opened this year.
20 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Zinc Carbonate

This mineral was named in honor of its
discoverer, James Smithson, distinguished English
chemist and mineralogist and founder of the
Smithsonian Institution.

Despite the primitive chemical apparatus
ond crude reagents which Smithson had to use, he
was able to achieve analytical results of the most
creditable character and to enlarge our knowledge
of many mineral species. “

Before his time zinc carbonate and zinc
silicate were confused as a single mineral species
under the name “caolamine”, but his researches
distinguished between the two minerals which are

now known as smithsonite and hemimorphite.

A display of Smithsonite introduces the visitor
to the remodeled exhibit of gems and minerals.

are: a 316-carat star sapphire, an 18.3-carat canary-yellow diamond,
a 66-carat alexandrite, and a 310-carat peridot. The last two are the
largest gems ever cut from these stones. Also shown in the gem room
is a set of pearls consisting of a necklace, choker, and earrings given by
the Iman of Muscat to the U.S. Government; and the world’s largest
flawless crystal ball, a sphere almost 13 inches in diameter and weighing
106%; pounds. Of unusual historical interest is the original gold
nugget, discovered by James Marshall at Sutter’s Mill in 1848, which
set off the California gold rush.

In the mineral section of the new hall are examples of all the principal
mineral species, arranged according to a chemical classification,
selected and lighted to make a vivid display of their natural beauty and
color. Featured among them is a fine, large specimen of smithsonite,
a carbonate of zinc named for its discoverer James Smithson, founder
EXHIBITS Dal

A geiger counter demonstrates the radioactivity of uranium ore.

of the Smithsonian Institution. Other features of this section of the
hall include a spectacular display of fluorescent minerals, a cave con-
taining yard-long gypsum crystals, and a cluster of amethyst crystals
weighing several hundred pounds.

This hall was planned under the scientific direction of curator
George Switzer, ably assisted by associate curator Paul E. Desautels.
The exhibits were designed and prepared by members of the exhibits
staff under the supervision of Rolland O. Hower.

On November 10, 1958, the Hope diamond, largest and most notable
of all blue diamonds, was placed on exhibition in the gem section.
Spotlighted against a dark red velvet background in a centrally
located, specially designed case, this diamond has become an exceed-
ingly popular feature exhibit. This rare specimen was the gift of Mr.
Harry Winston, world-famous gem merchant of New York.

On the evening of February 5, 1959, Edmund C. Monell formally
opened the Maude Monell Vetlesen collection of Chinese jade carvings
DD, U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

= SOL hata ef
SS Se ee

| How minerals ore formed:

+ By cooling and solidification
of molten rock, or magma.

« By crystallization from
solutions or goses.

+ By metamorphism,or change,
of pre-existing rocks

¢  @ MOLTEN ROCK FORCED UPWARD.
eenehy produces
this pegmatite

Topical cases such as this on the formation of minerals illustrate the basic
principles of mineralogy.

of the 16th to the 19th centuries. The dedication ceremony, held in
the rotunda of the Natural History building, was attended by Richard
M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States and Regent of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and many other notables. This collection of 130
pieces of exquisitely carved jade, each an outstanding example of
craftsmanship, is housed in a beautifully appointed room, especially
designed and built for it, adjoming the gems and minerals hall. Some
of the outstanding pieces include a chrysanthemum dish of exceptional
size (nearly 1144 inches in diameter) and carved to extreme thinness, in
translucent apple-green jade; a massive imperial-altar incense burner
and cover of classic design, carved in white jade; a pair of altar boxes
in the shape of the divine tortoise, each piece more than 13 inches
long, carved in deep spinach-green jade; and two imperial Ju’i, or
scepters, made of gold filigree and each inset with three large carved
jade plaques.

This new jade room was planned under the direction of curator
George Switzer. The design was by Mrs. Dorothy Guthrie and the
EXHIBITS ae

Some elements are found uncombined in nature. The case includes a 210-
pound piece of native silver.

construction was by the buildings management service.

Renovation of the hall of fossil invertebrates and plants progressed
during the year through the completion of contract construction in
the hall and the initiation of script preparation for individual exhibit
units by and under the direction of head curator G. A. Cooper. Two
of the habitat groups, portraying Cretaceous and Ordovician scenes,
were completed and two additional groups were being prepared by
George Marchand, of Ann Arbor, Mich., at vear’s end. Design of
wall case exhibits for this hall was begun under the project supervision
of Gorman Bond.

Contract construction in the hall of fossil fishes and primitive
tetrapods also was completed, and a beginning was made in the instal-
lation of fossil materials with the installation of the giant fish
AXiphactinus and the slab displaying remains of the Triassic amphibian
Eupelor fraasi. Associate curator David H. Dunkle, who is respon-
sible for the scientific supervision of the development of this hall,
completed a number of the exhibit unit scripts which are being followed
24. U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Representative specimens of all the important chemical groups of minerals
are displayed. Here are seen the various forms in which are found gypsum,
barite, and other oxysalts.

by the exhibits staff in the design and production of the hall exhibits.
Architectural design of this hall was by William Crockett.

Design of the layout of a third paleontology hall, ““The Age of
Mammals,” which will interpret the Tertiary mammals, was completed
by Mrs. Ann Karras, exhibits designer, under the scientific super-
vision of curator C. Lewis Gazin. All exhibits were removed from
this hall and the construction contract was awarded.

The exhibits in the hall of Pleistocene mammals (formerly the
meteorite hall) were rearranged, some of the geological specimens
were retired, and the Tertiary mammal skeletons removed from hall
5 were temporarily placed in the Pleistocene hall. The dinosaur hall
has not been disturbed except to introduce a small number of the
EXHIBITS 25

er acre

A new case design places many well illuminated specimens within close
view of the visitor.

Individual cases display specimens from four famous collecting localities:
Franklin, N.J.; Brisbee, Ariz.; Tsumeb, South West Africa, and the Tri-State

district (where Missouri, Kansas, and Oklahoma meet).

The great zinc-manganese deposits of
since

The principal ore minerals ore franklin,
willemite, ond xincite, but over 100 minerals
have been found there many of them very rare
and found nowhere alse

26 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Junior League docent Mrs. James W. Sears discusses an exhibit in the
hall with a group of elementary school pupils from the Washington metro-
politan area.

Walnut paneling provides an appropriate setting for the national gem
collection. Behind the round window the Hope diamond rests in a special
safe.

_—

EXHIBITS D7

Wall cases in the gem room emphasize the beauty of the gems and of the
natural crystals from which they are cut.

The Maude Monell Vetlesen collection of Chinese jade is exhibited ina
special room adjoining the gem collection.

28 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

exhibits from other paleontology halls while those halls are in the
process of renovation.

Preparators in the paleontology laboratory essentially completed
their work on materials for exhibition in the hall of primitive tetrapods
and fossil fishes and began preparation and mounting of mammalian
skeletons for display in the age of mammals hall. Franklin L. Pearce
completed restoration of the composite arthrodire skull and is well
advanced in the preparation for mounting a skeleton of the Eocene
horse Orohippus. A second and younger individual of Orohippus is
being prepared in relief by G. B. Sullivan. This will be displayed
in a slab showing the skeleton in the matrix as it is uncovered. John
EK. Ott completed the Oligocene horse Mesohippus and progressed well
with the mounting of the skeleton of the Miocene horse Parahippus.
The skeleton of the Cretaceous fish Xiphactinus which G. D. Guadagni
assembled and prepared has been restored and the finishing touches
applied by Kurt F. Hauschildt. Mr. Guadagni repaired an exhibit
of Hoplophoneus and made a cast of the large Brachiosaurus humerus
so that a duplicate may be returned to the donor. Mr. Hauschildt
worked over a number of smaller slabs of fossil fish and made a series
of life-size restorations of Coccosteus.

Science and Technology

Production of exhibits for the renovated hall of farm machinery
was begun in the exhibits laboratory on May 1. These exhibits will
trace the growth of labor-saving farm machines in America, with
particular emphasis on the 19th century, during which a variety of
machinery was developed to more efficiently plant, cultivate, and
harvest the Nation’s rapidly expanding farm acreage. Associate
curator Edward C. Kendall continued his efforts to fill gaps in the
museum’s collections of full-size implements and scale models to
provide for the needs of this exhibition. He prepared a script which
has been followed by Mr. Ronald Elbert in designing exhibits for the
hall. These exhibits will be transferred to the Museum of History
and Technology where they will form the nucleus of a larger agricul-
tural exhibit.

On June 24 a contract was awarded for the renovation of the east
hall gallery on which will be installed a series of new exhibits inter-
preting the history of medicine and pharmacy. Scripts for these
exhibits were prepared by curator George B. Griffenhagen and asso-
ciate curator John B. Blake, and exhibits design was initiated by
Ronald Elbert and Frederick L. Craig. These 33 exhibits will be
moved to the Museum of History and Technology, where they will
EXHIBITS 29

comprise portions of the more extensive series of exhibits in the fields
of medical, dental, and pharmaceutical history.

During the year an exhibit prepared and contributed by the Na-
tional Foundation for Infantile Paralysis interpreting the discovery
and development of the Salk poliomyelitis vaccine was installed in
the pharmaceutical section of the museum. ‘Temporary exhibits in
the hall of health included a unit prepared by the American Dietetic
Association of Chicago, Ill., comparing hospital diets of 1799 with
modern hospital diets: and an exhibit presenting the body sites where
cancer is found, prepared for the National Cancer Institute of the
National Institutes of Health.

An exhibit of “World Ebonies” selected from the Rudolph Block
collection of walking sticks was placed on display in the corridor
through the hall of wood products; and four exhibits on American
oaks, other important American hardwoods, fruitwoods, and foreign
cabinet woods were renovated.

The 1893 Duryea automobile was completely renovated by Donald
Berkebile of the exhibits staff and was returned to exhibition. The
Cornell-Liberty Mutual survival car was placed on temporary ex-
hibition in the automobile hall.

Additions to the horological exhibits included a large operating
model of the Hamilton electric watch, constructed on a scale of 8 to 1,
and a group of Japanese clocks, recently cleaned and restlored by
Charlie G. Smith.~ Other exhibitions during the year incuded a
number of New England watches placed on display during the annual
meeting of the National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors in
May; and an exhibit commemorating the one hundredth anniversary
of the birth of Wiliam Stanley, who designed the first practical
electrical transformer and first demonstrated an alternating-current
power distribution system in the United States.

A full-scale period interior portraying the shop of Henry Fitz, tele-
scope maker of New York City in 1850-63, was being installed
at year’s end. This instructive exhibit, designed by Ronald J.
Tavares from specifications furnished by head curator Robert Mul-
thauf, will be a part of the hall of physics in the new building. Assist-
ant curator Robert M. Vogel completed the unit scripts for the hall of
civil engineering in the Museum of History and Technology; these
guided John Brown in designing exhibits for this hall. Production of
exhibits for the section on bridge construction was begun in the exhibits
laboratory on May 1. Further noteworthy progress in the develop-
ment of the Museum of History and Technology exhibits program in
science and technology included the preparation of unit scripts for
the hall of pharmacy by curator George B. Griffenhagen, for the hall
of water transportation by curator Howard I. Chapelle, and for the hall
30 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

of light machinery by associate curator Edwin A. Battison. Dr.
Robert A. Chipman of the University of Toledo is acting as consultant
to acting curator W. James King in planning exhibits for a portion of
the hall of electricity, and Dr. Julian A. Bigelow is serving as a con-
sultant to Dr. Robert Multhauf in specifying exhibits on mathematics
for the hall of physics.

Arts and Manufactures

On July 11, 1958, the completely renovated hall of graphic arts in
the connecting range of the Smithsonian building was opened to the

Exhibits in renovated graphic arts hall, in Smithsonian Building, are part of
the display planned for Museum of History and Technology. These
illustrate basic hand processes.

public. The exhibits in this hall portray the hand processes used to
produce etchings, wood engravings, lithographs, and silk screen prints,
and they interpret the history of the development of these processes.
Fine and rare prints illustrate achievements in these various tech-
niques. Among the prints displayed are works by Rembrandt,
Diirer, Delacroix, Picasso, and Matisse.

This hall also traces the history of printing from the invention of the
alphabet to the era of the printed book. Examples of the typog-
rapher’s art include an original woodcut for a page of an ancient
EXHIBITS 31

Chinese block book, a reproduction of some early Korean movable
type, a page from the original Gutenberg Bible of about 1454, and a
book from the press of Aldus Manutius dated 1505. Curator of
graphic arts Jacob Kainen and exhibits specialist Benjamin Lawless
supervised the hall renovation. Bright Springman designed the hall
layout and special exhibit cases, and Mrs. Judith Borgogni designed
the individual exhibits.

The renovated textile exhibit in the south hall of the Artsand Indus-
tries building was opened on January 20, 1959. The new exhibits in
this hall trace the history of the fibers and fabrics used by man in the
context of the implements and machines that produced them. Em-
phasis is placed upon developments in America from Colonial times
onward. Working schematic models explain various inventions in
spinning and weaving. Uncased fabric samples show the wide range
of fabrics and textures that can be produced from a single fiber
group. Eli Whitney’s cotton gin and the Samuel Slater machinery
from the Pawtucket Mill of 1790, both unique examples of the work
of these famous mechanics, are supplemented by many other historic

Specially designed free-standing cases
(left) contain tools and type-making
equipment. Below: Steps in making a
woodcut are illustrated.

a
50.
(Ge
| WOON.

In the renovated textile hall, full-size machines
are exhibited on center platforms, with a case
and panel series around the perimeter of the hall.
Scholfield wool carding machine is in foreground,
Slater spinning frame and 1790 carding machine
are in center. At entrance to hall (background)
stand several looms.

items. Among the many weaving devices displayed is a fine Jacquard
loom from Lyons, France, presented by A. E. Wullschleger of New
York. A single repeat of 3 inches of the pattern on this loom required
628 hand-punched cards. No more than 4 or 5 inches of fabric could
be woven on this loom in a day. Another feature exhibit in the hall
is an 18th-century Don Quixote tapestry presented by Mrs. Kermit
Roosevelt. Fabrics from ancient Egypt, Peru, and colonial America,
and hand- and power-woven fabrics of more recent times show develop-
ments in the art of weaving.
xt at ok ok eet

This old French loom, with a Jacquard overhead shedding device that was
added in the second quarter of the 19th century, illustrates the mechanical
progress made in producing a woven design. Itis a giftof A. E. Wullschleger

of New York.
34 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

ane

Flax implements here include spinning wheels and brake on platform,
swingling knife and hatchels on panel (center).

Thaddeus McDowell developed the structural design and Paul
Batto the graphic design of the hall to accommodate the selection of
subject matter and specimens specified by curator of textiles Grace L.
Rogers.

Miss Rogers and the foregoing designers are collaborating in the
development of exhibits for the south hall gallery, where will be housed

Mrs. Harriet Lynn of the Potomac Craftsmen guild demonstrates the tech-
nique of weaving on an old Finnish loom for the formal opening of the hall.
EXHIBITS Sy)

EARLY 190-CRNPURY COTTON GINNING Milt

Model in wall panel case illustrates operations of early 19th-century
ginning mill.

displays on dyeing and printing of fabrics, needlework and laces, and
the development of the sewing machine. Construction in this hall is
completed and the design of the exhibit units well advanced. The
gallery exhibits will be opened to the public early in 1960. All the
textile exhibits and fixtures, as well as those in the renovated hall of
eraphic arts, were designed to be moved and reinstalled in the Museum
of History and Technology when that building is ready to receive
them.

Head curator Philip W. Bishop, with the cooperation of a number of
important concerns in the petroleum industry, developed plans for a

A 2-case unit with push-button schematics and models from the museum
collections illustrates 18th-century English and early 19th-century American
inventions for spinning by machine.
36 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

ome

Early 19th

-century Saxon wheel (left) and colonial woolwheel (right).
small hall of petroleum, which will be installed in the Arts and Indus-
tries building next year. Thaddeus McDowell prepared the archi-
tectural and case designs, and Benjamin Lawless the exhibit unit
designs for this hall. The exhibits later will be transferred to the
Museum of History and Technology, where they will comprise portions
of an enlarged series of exhibits on the history of this important
industry.

Important steps in preparation for the planning of other new halls
in the Museum of History and Technology were undertaken by head
curator Bishop through consultation with representatives of industries
in the fields of nuclear energy, mining, iron and steel, and metal
processing. Two consultants were appointed to advise the curator
in planning the hall of nuclear energy. Dr. George L. Weil, consultant
in nuclear energy, now in private practice in Washington, was formerly
an associate of Enrico Fermi and in 1955 was technical director of
EXHIBITS ay

the United States exhibit at the International Conference on the
Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy at Geneva, Switzerland. Dr. Clyde
L. Cowan, professor of physics at the Catholic University of America,
was technical director of the United States exhibit at the 1958 Geneva
conference and is a pioneer in research into the nature of neutrons.
The collaboration of these distinguished physicists should result in
the development of an outstanding exhibition in the field of nuclear
energy. In the field of general manufacturing, the museum was able
to secure as a consultant William C. Cleveland, who recently retired
after more than 40 years’ service with the Scovill Manufacturing
Company of Waterbury, Conn., as chief mechanical engineer (manu-
facturing).

Marked progress was made in the planning of exhibits for four halls
in the Museum of History and Technology during the year. Paul
V. Gardner, acting curator of ceramics and glass, completed exhibit
unit scripts for both the hall of ceramics and the hall of glass. Cases
for these halls were designed, and Mrs. Dorothy Guthrie nearly
completed the design of all exhibits for the ceramics hall.

Curator of graphic arts, Jacob Kainen, completed the exhibit unit
script for the second portion of the graphic arts hall, dealing with
photomechanical processes, and exhibit design for this hall was well
advanced by Harry Hart. Associate curator Alexander J. Wed-
derburn, Jr., completed unit scripts for 62 exhibits for the hall of
photography; these included measurements and photographs of the
photographic equipment specified for display in this hall. Cases were
designed for this hall by James Mahoney and exhibit unit design
was initiated by Mahoney and Warren Bakely.

During March and April 1959 the Atomic Energy Commission’s
traveling exhibition ‘“You and the Atom” was presented to the public
in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries building. Demonstrators
recruited from local high schools contributed to the popular appeal
of this exhibition.

Paul V. Gardner, acting curator of ceramics and glass, assisted with
the selection of objects and the preparation of descriptive texts for
the display of the E. Stanley Wires collection of decorative tiles and
the collection of historic pottery from Holland presented by the
Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan and Mrs. Buchanan. These exhibits
are described under the report of the department of civil history,
below. Improvements in existing exhibits in the field of glass were
made through the installation of a representative selection from
Mrs. Clara Berwick’s collection in three cases in the Pell gallery of
the Natural History building and of two cases of paperweights from
the Bushee collection in the adjacent corridor.

The Third Biennial Creative Crafts Exhibition, held from August 27
to September 26, 1958, in the foyer of the Natural History building, was
38

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

organized and installed by local craft organizations and sponsored by
the division of ceramics and glass. Contemporary examples of
ceramics, textiles, jewelry, and woodworking were displayed and daily
demonstrations of pottery making, weaving, and other craftwork were
conducted.

Two cameras illustrating significant changes in camera design were
placed on exhibition in the hall of photography—a Bell & Howell
electric-eye-turret, S-mm motion-picture camera and an Anscoflex II
camera. Montily exhibitions of pictorial photography were con-
tinued during the year, and five special exhibitions in graphic arts

were shown:

SPECIAL EXHIBITS—DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS

Contemporary prints from
the collection

Etchings by Mariano
Fortuny

19th-century French litho-
graphs

Work by Peter Takal

Recent additions to the
collection

National Print Collection
A. Aubrey Bodine

National Photographie So-
ciety

Walter Chappell

Paul Outerbridge

12th Annual Exhibition of
Marine Photography, In-
ternational

GrRapuHic ARTS

18 prints in all media
from the collection

20 prints from the col-
lection

14 prints from the col-
lection

26 prints and drawings

21 prints in all media
from the collection

PHOTOGRAPHY

50 pictorial photographs
61 pictorial photographs

62 monochrome prints
72 color transparencies
40 pictorial photographs
29 color prints

23 monochrome prints
50 pictorial photographs

Civil History

June 10, 1958—January
4, 1959

January 5—February 28,
1959

March
1959

April 1—April 26, 1959

May 6-June 30, 1959

1—March 31,

July-August 1958
September—October
1958
November — December
1958
January—February 1959
March-April 1959

May 1959

On December 11, 1958, the new tile room was opened on the first

floor of the Natural History building to display selected specimens
from the collection of decorative tiles presented to the museum by
Mr. E. Stanley Wires of Wellesley Hills, Mass. Exhibits include fine
examples of 17th- and 18th-century Dutch tiles, 18th-century British
and Liverpool delft tiles, and Liverpool tiles with transfer-printed
designs by the 18th-century firm of Sadler and Green. American tiles
EXHIBITS 39

English decorative tiles, late 19th century, part of a collection given by E.
Stanley Wires, and installed in the new tile room.

of the late 19th century include the sculptured relief tiles made by
the Low Art Tile Company of Chelsea, Mass. The installation was
designed by exhibits specialist Rolland O. Hower and _ exhibits
designer Mrs. Sigrid Dvorak. It employs overhead flat, square
panels of differmg sizes and colors to reflect the shapes of the
tiles themselves and break the height of the high-ceilinged room.

On January 5, 1959, a new exhibit, “Historic Pottery from Holland,”
was opened to the public in a room adjoining the hall of everyday
life in early America, in the Natural History building. This exhibit
comprises selected materials from the collection of more than 600
examples of Dutch and Rhenish ceramics presented to the Smith-
sonian Institution by the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr., Chief
of Protocol, and Mrs. Buchanan. All the materials were excavated
at Dutch sites and assembled by P. Weers of Vooburg, Holland.
This exhibit illustrates the range of household ceramics used in
Holland from the Roman and Merovingian periods to the beginning
of the 19th century. It is especially rich in the common Dutch earthen-
wares of the 17th-century kitchens and courtyards, such as those
depicted in the great paintings of Jan Steen and Pieter de Hooch.
The exhibit also illustrates some of the origins of ceramics exported
to America during the period of early settlement and which influenced
American ceramics of the 17th century. The installation was designed
by Rolland O. Hower and exhibits designer Constance Costigan under
the technical supervision of acting curator C. Malcolm Watkins in
40 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

collaboration with Paul V. Gardner, acting curator of ceramics and
glass.

A special exhibition commemorating the 150th anniversary of the
birth of Abraham Lincoln was opened in the west hall of the Arts and
Industries building on February 11, 1959, and has remained on dis-
play there. This exhibition shows selected items from the museum’s
collection of Lincoln memorabilia. The central feature of this pre-
sentation is a life-size Lincoln figure on which is displayed the office
suit worn by President Lincoln on the morning of his assassination.

oe RS _——

Among the memorabilia exhibited to commemorate the 150th anniversary
of Abraham Lincoln’s birth was this tea service, presented to Mrs. Lincoln
by the citizens of New York and used at the White House. It is the gift
of Mr. Lincoln Isham, great-grandson of the President.

A stylized head seulptured by Mrs. Susan Wallace, exhibits tech-
nician, helps to convey the impression of the President without sensa-
tionalism or sentimentality. The success of this dignified figure may
lead to a similar treatment of other presidents in future exhibits.
Robert Widder, exhibits specialist, designed the exhibition under the
supervision of Dr. Wileomb E. Washburn, acting curator of political
history. <A special showing of Lincoln campaign memorabilia based
on materials loaned by Mrs. Ralph E. Becker of Washington, D.C.,
was added to this exhibition in May.

At the same time, the division of philately offered a special exhibit,
“Lincoln on Stamps,” including free franked covers of Mrs. Lincoln
EXHIBITS 4]

loaned through the assistance of Mrs. Morton Dean Joyce of New
York, and the division of numismatics arranged Lincoln medals in
significant groups to portray Lincoln’s life and his impact on history.

Other special exhibitions in the division of civil history included
one held during October 1958 to commemorate the centennial of the
laying of the Atlantic cable by Cyrus W. Field. In it was shown the
museum’s fine collection of watercolors of the enterprise by Robert
Dudley, along with manuscripts and other objects associated with
Field and the event; a display of Monaco philatelic material loaned
by the Cardinal Spellman Philatelic Collection, Regis College, Weston,
Mass.; an exhibit of philatelic memorabilia from the U.S. submarine
Nautilus used during its historic explorations in the north polar
region; and a special exhibit arranged for the visit of King Baudouin
of Belgium, consisting of decorations, medals, and rare gold coins
from Belgium and a display honoring the achievements of Brand
Whitlock as Ambassador to Belgium during World War I.

The division of numismatics prepared a large exhibit of United
States commemorative coins, Presidential medals, and American
medallic art for the first Ibero-American Numismatic Exhibition in
Barcelona, Spain, which opened November 24, 1958.

The division of philately made special displays available to the
First Day Cover Society, Philadelphia; American Stamp Dealers
Association, New York; Post Office Department, Washington;
Vatican Stamp Exhibition, New York; and the Association of Bergen
County Philatelists, Paramus, N.J.

The chairs from the set of handsome Belter furniture given to the
museum by Mrs. Robert Woods Bliss in 1955 have been upholstered
and installed in the Victorian room of the first ladies hall. New
labels, silk-screened on clear plastic, were prepared for the display of
White House china in this hall.

A private viewing of the national collection of presidential memora-
bilia and gowns of the First Ladies was held on April 30, 1959, for
children and descendants of past occupants of the White House,
following a reception for the group by Mrs. Eisenhower in the White
House. A special showing of presidential clothing arranged for the
occasion included coats belonging to Presidents Tyler, Grant, Garfield,
Benjamin Harrison, and McKinley.

Progress was made on the detailed planning of four halls for the
Museum of History and Technology during the year. Curator
Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli and assistant curator, Mrs. Elvira Clain-
Stefanelli, completed the exhibit unit script for the numismatics hall,
and exhibits designer William Pennock designed a special case for the
exhibition of coins and medals. A number of the exhibits destined
for later display in the new building will be installed in the Arts and
42 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Industries building during the coming year. Mrs. Anne W. Murray,
assistant curator, prepared for the costume hall exhibit scripts which
are being followed by exhibits designer Judith Borgogni in the design
of exhibits for that hall. Dr. Wilecomb E. Washburn completed the
exhibit unit specifications for the hall devoted to political history.
C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of cultural history, prepared
several unit scripts for the hall of everyday life in early America,
for the Museum of History and Technology, and supervised the
renovation of the newly acquired Delaware log cabin and the Stohlman
confectionery shop interior being done by Mr. George Watson. These
will be two of the feature exhibits in the enlarged hall.

Armed Forces History

Major emphasis during the year was placed on the detailed planning
of the contents of exhibit units for the several halls assigned to this
department in the Museum of History and Technology. Head
curator Mendel L. Peterson and acting curator of military history
Edgar M. Howell collaborated in preparing exhibit unit scripts for
the extended series of displays which will interpret the history of our
Armed Forces. Complete scripts for two thirds of this series were
submitted and scripts for the final third were nearing completion at
year’s end. Exhibits designer William B. Eddy designed the special
cases required for the exhibition of uniforms, ship models, and other
materials in these halls. Exhibits designer James Mahoney designed
the cases and panels and created the graphic designs for exhibits in
the hall of underwater exploration, following the specifications in the
script prepared by Mr. Peterson. The writing of detailed scripts has
been completed for the majority of the exhibits which will be shown
by this department in the Museum of History and Technology.

During the year the appearance of the uniforms exhibited on the
west gallery of the Arts and Industries building was materially
improved by mounting them on adjustable mannequins. ‘These
uniforms will be outfitted with the proper accouterments and arms.
Plans are being developed in consultation with exhibits specialists for
the preparation of appropriate heads for the mannequins.

Two special exhibitions were presented in the rotunda of the Arts
and Industries building during the year. From July through Sep-
tember 1958 a special showing of the Tole paintings of Mrs. Irving
Olds and naval prints from the collection of Mr. Olds was displayed
under the joint sponsorship of the United States Marine Corps and
the division of naval history. <A special exhibition relating to the
submarines Nautilus and Holland was on view during May 1959.
Accessions
During the Fiscal Year 1959

During the past year accessions added 1,144,445 specimens to the
national collections. These materials were distributed among the
eight departments as follows: anthropology, 14,497; zoology, 452,163;
botany, 50,641; geology, 189,070; science and technology, 4,829; arts
and manufactures, 12,699; civil history, 469,612; and armed forces
history, 934. This total includes 311,850 insects and 437,948 stamps.
The accessions for the most part were received as gifts from individuals
or as transfers from government departments and agencies. A full
list of the donors is to be found on page 115.

Anthropology

Prince Norodom Sihanouk, former King of Cambodia and now
Prime Minister of that country, presented to the people of the United
States through President Dwight D. Eisenhower a fine example of a
stone Buddha seated on a coiled serpent (the Naga King Muchilinda)
and protected by a crown of seven heads of the serpent. The Buddha
was made in the Cambodian city of Angkor Thom during the reign of
King Jayavarmon vir, A.D. 1181-1215.

Received in the division of ethnology also was a “thumb painting,”
presented by M. Maurice Alhadeff of Leopoldville, Belgian Congo.
Such paintings, of which only a few exist, are considered rare col-
lectors’ items.

The northern environment is represented by a fine example of an
Eskimo drum, with an ivory handle carved to represent a human head
with walrus tusks. This drum, approximately 100 years old, was given
by Dr. John A. Dickinson of the National Bureau of Standards.
Three beautiful pure gold saki cups from Japan, with a Naito family
crest, were transferred to the national collections by the Bureau of
Customs in Honolulu. A collection of 20 Nubian weapons, taken in
the capture of Omdurman and Khartoum in the British campaign
against the Mahdist Government of the Sudan in 1898, were presented
by Colonel Stuart A. Morgan.

Several archeological accessions are of especial interest. One is a
plaster cast of a colossal stone head of the Olmee culture (ca. 500 B.C.),

43
524592594
44 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1959

the original of which was found by a Smithsonian-National Geographic
Expedition near San Lorenzo in southern Vera Cruz, Mexico. The
cast was received in 31 pieces, which were assembled, painted, and
placed on exhibit in the hall of highhghts of Latin American archeology.
A collection of primitive stone implements from northern Australia,

SPECIMENS IN THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS MAY 31, 1959

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
Archeology
Ethnology . :
Physical atiaooolocy
DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY
Mammals
Birds .
Reptiles .
Fishes .
Insects eine 5
Marine Invertebrates j
Mollusks
Helminths .
DEPARTMENT OF Borany
Phanerogams.
Ferns .
Grasses
Cryptogams ;
DEPARTMENT OF Gasser:
Mineralogy and Petrology . 3
Invertebrate Paleontology and Ballanbetan
Vertebrate Paleontology . aegis aan:
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY .
Physical Sciences . AO Sm
Mechanical and Civil Engineering
Electricity .
Transportation .
Agriculture and Wood eroaucte)
Medical Sciences . wee
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND NO RACERS s
Textiles . :
Ceramics and G Tass :
Graphic Arts
Industrial Cooper aitiom
DrPARTMENT or Civit History
Political History
Cultural History
Philately
Numismatics . Bier ven PRE gor enone
DrpARTMENT oF ARMED Forces History.
Military History
Naval History

Total Museum Collections .

62
18

37,

Il, €

Ii,

840, 194

27, 887, 427

12, 658, 535

88, 042

S) ~I
OO nT on
(Sr (oy

~J
op)

39, 016

52, 022, 520
ACCESSIONS 45

collected by F. D. McCarthy of the Australian Museum and Frank M.
Setzler, during the Smithsonian-National Geographic Society Arnhem
Land Expedition in 1948, constitutes an unusual accession.

New accessions in the division of physical anthropology include a
plaster cast of the Ganovee Neanderthal skull found in 1926 in a
travertine quarry in northern Slovakia. The original is a travertine
cast of the endocranial cavity with only a little adherent cranial bone
still in place. So far as is known, no other copy of this important

M. W. Stirling, former director of Bureau of
American Ethnology, inspects recently acquired
cast of an Olmec head he discovered in Southern
Mexico. Original stone head was excavated
by Smithsonian-National Geographic Expe-
dition led by him to Vera Cruz, Mexico, in 1946.

:

46 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

specimen has reached the United States. A skull (with parts of the
skeleton), exhibiting filed teeth, was found in January 1954 by Dr.
Preston Holder in a burial pit at the great Cahokia Mound site in
East St. Louis, Ill. Although the burial pit contained the skeletal
remains of a number of individuals, the fact that only the skeleton
with filed teeth was articulated suggests that filed teeth were a sign of
distinction.

Zoology

The largest accession and the largest single collection to be received
in the division of mammals in several years includes more than 1,600
specimens from Panama collected by C. O. Handley, Jr., and Bernard
Feinstein in cooperation with the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory. More
than a hundred mammals, including a specimen of the rare sunt
antelope were collected in East Africa and presented by Judge Russell
E. Train. Antarctic explorations connected with the International
Geophysical Year, under the auspices of the National Academy of
Sciences, brought a specimen of the rare Ross seal. Individual speci-
mens of unusual interest are the skin of a snow leopard collected in the
Himalayas by Major General M. Hayaud Din and presented by the
Embassy of Pakistan, and the unique type specimen of a new race of
the large spiny rat Hoplomys gymnurus collected by Dr. A. Wetmore
on the tiny island of Escudo de Veraguas, Panama.

The division of birds received an important accession in the 572
bird skins amassed in Panama by Dr. A. Wetmore. Another large
accession of 591 skins of birds and other ornithological material from
North America was transferred from the Fish and Wildlife Service,
Department of the Interior. The Public Health Service, Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare, also transferred 75 bird skins from
Arctic America. The rarest single specimen received was a lyre-tailed
honey-guide, Melichneutes robustus, from Cameroons, a gift from the
Zoological Society of London. This is the second known example of
this bird to come to an American museum.

In the division of reptiles and amphibians a number of types and
paratypes of recently described species were received, among them
172 specimens from Haiti, Cuba, and Trinidad, from Dr. W. G. Lynn.

Two large collections of freshwater fishes from the eastern United
States were received in the division of fishes. One of these, comprising
25,057 specimens, is an exchange from the University of South
Carolina, through Dr. Harry Freeman; the other, consisting of
25,000 fishes, was donated by the University of Maryland through
Dr. G. W. Wharton. The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution
cave 852 fishes from Labrador through Dr. Richard H. Backus. <A
ACCESSIONS AT

Removing tissue samples from a mummified crabeater seal, one of several
brought back from the McMurdo Sound region of Antarctica by a recent
IGY expedition. Carbon-14 tests showed the age of one specimen in the
lot to be between 1600 and 2800 years. The specimens came from ice-
free areas up to 30 miles inland and at elevations up to 3000 feet.

fine collection totaling 2,449 fishes from the eastern Pacific was
presented by the University of California through Wayne J. Baldwin.
This group includes numerous species not otherwise represented in
the national collections.

The division of insects obtained several outstanding accessions:
the Monros collection of 54,245 Chrysomelid beetles, transferred by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture; 30,507 insects collected in El
Salvador by O. L. Cartwright; 26,385 specimens of beetles from
Europe, Asia, and the Americas, collected and donated by Paul J.
Spangler; 33,063 miscellaneous New World insects transferred from
the Fish and Wildlife Service through Dr. Daniel L. Leedy; 6,924
insects from Asia, presented by N. L. H. Krauss, from many localities
48 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

not previously represented in the national collections. Other im-
portant accessions are: from Dr. W. B. Muchmore some 800 New
York State centipedes, providing valuable records being incorporated
into a statewide survey now in preparation; from Dr. Thomas C. Barr,
Jr., a number of cave collections of centipedes, giving information
about hitherto unexplored fauna; and from Dr. George E. Ball, some
1,000 centipedes, comprising the largest chilopod collection known
to date from Alaska and adjacent islands.

The outstanding accession of mollusks was a gift from Dr. R. L.
Alsaker of some 280 specimens of marine species of the family Volu-
tidae, including many rare and beautiful forms. Other notable
accessions include 900 lots, 3,100 specimens of mollusks from the
British Virgin Islands and the Leeward Islands, collected by the
Bredin-Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition; 178 lots, 1,225 specimens
of marine, freshwater, and land mollusks from Chile, a gift of Dr.
Walter Biese; and 279 lots, 512 specimens of marine mollusks from
Mozambique, purchased through the Frances Lea Chamberlain Fund.

The division of marine invertebrates acquired 7,685 specimens
collected by the Bredin-Smithsonian Caribbean Expedition. Dr.
R. E. Coker donated over 3,400 crustaceans, largely copepods, and
Dr. T. E. Bowman donated his collection of 7,154 miscellaneous in-
vertebrates. Type material was included in the following gifts: 397
copepod crustaceans from Dr. Arthur G. Humes; 8 hermit crabs,
including 3 paratypes of three species, from Anthony J. Provenzano;
and 3 paratypes of a species of an ostracod crustacean from Dr.
Kugene W. Kozloff. One small accession, a gift from R. P. Higgins,
of the holotype and two paratypes of a species of Echinodera added
the first representatives of this little-known phylum of the animal
kingdom to the national collections.

Botany

Significant gifts to the department of botany were 130 slides of
diatoms, presented by Mrs. Eloise Stump, Oak Park, IIl.; 6,133
specimens given by Goucher College, Baltimore, Md., consisting of
their entire herbarium, including a large number of cryptogams;
388 plants of Australia from Dr. C. L. Wilson, Hanover, N.H.; and
1,749 mosses contributed by E. C. Leonard from his personal collection.

Among the numerous exchanges were 4,875 Sumatran and East
Indian specimens, from the University of Michigan; 1,152 specimens
of Canadian and Arctic plants, received from the Canada Department
of Agriculture, Ottawa, Canada; 1,403 specimens from Cuba, re-
ceived from the Colegio de la Salle, Havana; 921 specimens collected
in Argentina by T. M. Pedersen, from the Botanical Museum, Univer-
ACCESSIONS 49

sity of Copenhagen; 1,002 specimens from New Guinea and Australia,
from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organ-
ization, Canberra, Australia; 352 plants collected by Dr. Bassett
Maguire in the “Lost World” region of Venezuela, from the New
York Botanical Garden; and 282 plants from the V. L. Komarov
Botanical Institute, Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Leningrad,
consisting of issues 81-84 of their “Herbarium of the flora of the
USSR” and ‘‘Decas I-V Hepaticae and Musci USSR exsiccati.”’

Several large collections were received with identifications requested,
including 490 specimens collected in Colombia by Jean Langenheim,
from the University of California, Berkeley; 943 plants of Santa
Catarina, Brazil, from the Herbdério “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajai,
Santa Catarina, Brazil; 268 miscellaneous South American specimens
from the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris.

Dr. Mason E. Hale and Robert R. Ireland collected 4,295 lichens
and 1,491 mosses on field trips in Virginia in connection with their
research projects. Transferred from the Department of the Interior
were 1,851 plants of Polynesia collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg. There
were obtained from the Archbold Expeditions 1,902 specimens col-
lected by L. J. Brass on the Fifth Archbold Expedition to New
Guinea; from Paul Aellen, Basel, Switzerland, 1,140 specimens
collected by Dr. K. Rechinger in Ivan and Greece; and from Winifred
M. A. Brooke, Liss, England, 830 plants she collected in Sarawak.

Geology

The legendary Hope diamond, largest and most notable of all blue
diamonds, was presented on November 10, 1958, by Mr. Harry
Winston, world-famous gem merchant and connoisseur, of New York
City. The Hope diamond ranks in importance with such other
famous gems as the Kohinoor, Cullinan, and Regent, found only in
the crown jewels of Europe. Because of its long and dramatic
history, the legends built around it, and its rare, deep blue color,
the Hope diamond is probably the best known diamond in the world.
Mr. Winston acquired it in 1949 from the estate of the late Evalyn
Walsh McLean, of Washington, who received it from her husband,
Edward B. McLean, in 1911. Its known history, prior to the McLean
purchase, dates from 1830, when David Eliason, a noted gem dealer,
sold the stone to Henry Thomas Hope, an Irish squire and banker.
The stone was shown at the London Exposition in 1851. In 1867 it
was sold at Christie’s in London. It was acquired in 1908 by the
Sultan Habib Bey, but after the Young Turks Revolt, the gem was
again placed on the market and purchased by Mr. McLean in 1911.

A collection of Chinese jade carvings, one of the finest in the world,
was presented by the estate of Mrs. Maude Monell Vetlesen through
50 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

her son, Edmund ©. Monell. The collection consists of 130 pieces,
carved in one or the other of the two jade minerals, nephrite or
jadeite. Some of the specimens date from the Ming Dynasty; most
are from the Ching Dynasty (1644-1912). Among the more impor-
tant minerals received as gifts from individuals are: genthelvite,
Colorado, from Glenn R. Scott; opal, Nevada, from Mark Bandy;
jade, Burma, from Martin L. Ehrmann; milky quartz crystals,
Colorado, from E. M. Gunnell; gorceixite, French Equatorial Africa,
from Mahlon Miller; spangolite, Arizona, from Arch Oboler; and
clinohedrite and roeblingite, New Jersey, from John 8. Albanese.

Outstanding mineral specimens were received in exchange as follows:
a group of huebnerite crystals from Colorado; rhodochrosite from
Montana; exceptionally fine crystals of the rare mineral phosphophyl-
lite from Bolivia; datolite from Connecticut; and a large sphalerite
crystal from Missouri.

Important additions to the Roebling collection by purchase and
exchange include a collection of 249 specimens of exceptional rarity
and quality; a fine large crystal of phosphophyllite from Bolivia; a
crystal of beryl, variety aquamarine, from Brazil; bikitaite from
Southern Rhodesia; an unusually large mass of thorite from Colorado;
danburite from Mexico; and four tourmaline crystals from Mozam-
bique.

The following noteworthy gems were acquired by exchange: a 73.3-
carat sphalerite from Utah; a fine reddish-brown zircon of 105.9 carats
from Thailand; an unusually large and fine precious topaz from
Brazil, weighing 129.1 carats; an exceptional golden sapphire from
Burma, weighing 92.5 carats; and a 19.8-carat yellow apatite from
Mexico. Gems purchased from the Chamberlain fund for the Isaac
Lea collection include: a 10.8-carat kornerupine from Madagascar;
an 18.5-carat golden sphalerite from Utah; a colorless zircon from
Ceylon, weighing 48.2 carats; a star garnet sphere weighing 67.3
carats, from Idaho; and a 43.4-carat sinhalite from Ceylon.

Important additions to the meteorite collection include the follow-
ing: Ladder Creek, Kans., from the Argonne National Laboratory;
Vera, Santa Fé, Argentina, from Lorenzo Orestes Giacomelli; Belle
Plaine, Kans., from Professor Walter Scott Houston; Idutwa, Cape
Province, South Africa, from Dr. Edgar D. Mountain; Nuevo Laredo,
Mexico, from C. C. Patterson; and Sikhote-Alin, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, from the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences.

The outstanding accession of the year in the division of vertebrate
paleontology resulted from fieldwork by Peter P. Vaughn, who
obtained excellent materials representing a number of genera of fish,
amphibians, and reptiles from the Clyde and Arroyo formations of
Baylor County, Tex. <A dinosaur bone, the largest known from this
The Hope diamond, presented to the National
Museum by Harry Winston. This 441/-carat,
deep blue stone is shown here full size.

country, 6 feet 10 inches long, a humerus of the Jurassic genus
Brachiosaurus, was donated by D. E. Jones. Two accessions of fossil
fish received in exchanges furnished exhibition material: one, a
specimen of the Triassic coelacanth Diplurus newarki, together with
its life restoration to scale, was received from Princeton University;
the other includes 81 specimens of fossil sharks and ray-finned fishes
from two marine Upper Cretaceous formations in Lebanon from the
School of Engineering, American University of Beirut, through

52 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Dr. Harry M. Smith. Of mammalian materials acquired, the skull
of the Miocene whale Cetotherium megalophysum, is outstanding. It
was collected by Captains Daniel and Edward Harrison of Ewell, Md..,
and was presented by the Ewell Junior High School.

Among the important gifts received in the division of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany are: 7,345 specimens of carboniferous
plants collected by Dr. Harvey Bassler, received from the Maryland
Department of Geology, Mines and Water Resources, The Johns
Hopkins University; 28 type specimens of Miocene mollusks from the
Chesapeake Bay area, from Dr. John Oleksyshyn, Boston University ;
144 slides of Recent Foraminifera and Ostracoda from the Antarctic,
from Rear Admiral Charles W. Thomas; 63 specimens of Oligomiocene

a mor rcenenne wens

Humerus of the Jurassic Dinosaur Brachiosaurus. Largest known from this
country, it is 6 feet 10 inches long, and was donated by D. E. Jones of
Delta, Colorado.

ostracods from the Brasso formation of Trinidad, from Dr. W. A. van
den Bold; 200 Mesozoic invertebrate fossils from Israel, from Dr. J.
Wahrman; and 263 foraminiferal concentrates and well-cuttings form
Italian Somalia, from the Sinclair Oil and Gas Company.

Through funds provided by the Walcott bequest,438 invertebrate
fossils, including over 400 goniatites from Oklahoma, were acquired
by the museum. A grant from the National Science Foundation
permitted associate curator Porter M. Kier to collect 1,490 echinoids
and other invertebrate fossils in Belgium, France, Holland, and
Switzerland.
ACCESSIONS 53

Among the important exchanges received are: 750 specimens of
assorted invertebrate fossils from the Mesozoic and Tertiary of Great
Britain, from Sergeant Philip Cambridge; 61 blocks of Permian
limestone from West Texas, from Harvard University through Dr.
H. B. Whittington; and one specimen of the very rare brachipod
Enantiosphen from the Devonian of Germany, donated by Dr. Wolf-
gang Struve, Senckenberg Museum, Frankfurt, Germany.

Science and ‘Technology

The most noteworthy accessions acquired in the division of agri-
culture and wood products comprised 111 authentic wood samples
of Santa Catarina, Brazil, collected and donated by Dr. Lyman B.
Smith, and a portable farm steam engine made in 1877 by Frick and
Company and donated by that firm.

Among the items of major importance added to the division of
electricity are a group of pieces constructed by Thomas Davenport, a
Vermont blacksmith who obtained the first patent on an electric
motor, given by Frank Chandler; and, from the General Electric
Research Laboratory, replicas of Dr. Irving Langmuir’s vacuum
distallation pump and of his apparatus for measuring surface tension,
devices basic to the work for which he received the Nobel Prize.

Frick portable steam engine No. 315, made in 1877 and in continuous
use until 1949. Donated by the Frick Company for the farm machinery
hall now being renovated.
54 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Left: Watch, one of about 500 made between 1807 and 1817, by Amer-
ica’s first watchmaker Luther Goddard. Right: No. 1 of 30 factory-made
watches, the first produced in America (1852). It was the personal watch
of Edward Howard, leading partner in founding the machine watchmaking
industry in this country.

Mrs. Edith Earle donated two examples of the telephone that her
father, James H. Karle, made in the winter of 1876-77 at Brown
University under the direction of a group of professors there. The
acoustical design of the group at Brown was incorporated in the
design of the Bell telephone.

The following significant objects were acquired in the division of
mechanical and civil engineering: the personal watch of Edward
Howard, considered the parent of all American factory-made watches,
from the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association; a rare and
fine wagon-spring clock given by Mrs. Francis Boutelle Allen; and
three noteworthy precision clocks presented by the Georgetown
University Observatory through Father F. J. Heyden. <A valuable and
attractive collection of early handmade locks, bolts, and decorative
hardware, with pieces dating from the 16th century, was presented
by the Yale & Towne Manufacturing Company. Two important
early machine tools were received: an 1851 Robbins and Lawrence
chain-feed lathe, given by Curtis Woodruff, and a Jones & Lamson
turret lathe of about 1880, donated by George F. Kiley. A Porter-
Allen steam engine, prototype of the compact high-speed steam engine
which dominated the medium-size engine field for many years, was
presented by the Philadelphia Electric Company.

The most significant accession in the division of medical sciences
is a collection of dental instruments, furniture, and equipment relating
to the history of dentistry, totaling 2,869 specimens, received from the
University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry. It provides an
excellent cross-section of the equipment used by the dentist from the
mid-19th century until the early 20th century, and contains rare
ACCESSIONS 55

individual items such as an early ether inhaler and two extraction
instruments. An important collection of material relating to the
discovery and development of the Salk poliomyelitis vaccine was
contributed by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.
This collection includes original flasks used by Dr. John F. Enders
to grow polio viruses in cultures of human embryonic skin and muscle
tissue; a bottle and automatic rocker used at the University of Toronto
Connaught Laboratories to grow polio virus in quantity; syringe and
residues of the first vaccines given by Dr. Jonas E. Salk; and the
original draft of the report by Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr., evaluating the
1954 field trials of pohomyelitis vaccine.

The division of physical sciences continued its efforts to acquire
early scientific apparatus used in colleges. The majority of the

Recently acquired model, of the 325-foot Hudson River steamer Francis
Skiddy. On the run to Albany the Skiddy, built in 1852, regularly averaged

23 miles per hour.

apparatus collected this year is chemical, and the most noteworthy
of the accessions is a group of instruments used by Ira Remsen at
Johns Hopkins University. Other outstanding items obtained are the
first equatorial telescope (1881) of the Warner & Swasey Company,
the gift of that company, and the first helium liquefier built in the
United States (1931), donated by the National Bureau of Standards.
Specimens of major importance acquired in the division of trans-
portation are a model representing the sister ships /ndependence and
Constitution, modern American liners, received from American Export
Lines, and models of the Hudson River steamer Francis Skiddy, from
F. Van Loon Ryder, and of the Narragansett Bay steamer Mownt
Hope, from Mary T. Campbell. Other important accessions include
an oil-tank wagon from the Esso Standard Oil Company, a private
coach presented by Mrs. Richard Saltonstall through the interest of
Senator Leverett Saltonstall, and a Conestoga wagon from Howard C.
Frey. The private coach, a most significant addition, was built in
1851 by the famous carriage maker Thomas Goddard of Boston.
56 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Arts and Manufactures

An outstanding addition to the division of ceramics and glass is
a collection of 600 pieces of Dutch and German pottery and stone-
ware, the gift of the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr., Chief of
Protocol, and Mrs. Buchanan. The collection is especially rich in
medieval Dutch household wares and Rhenish stoneware types,
many of which are exhibited nowhere else'in the United States. A
noteworthy slip-decorated, Rhenish jar from Pingsdorf, Germany,
dated 12th or 13th century, is representative of the beginnings of the
very important German stoneware industry. A Raeren ewer from
Rhenen dated 1585, in almost perfect condition, is exceptional in that
most wares of this type lack the spout or handle or both. A collection
of 170 glass items donated by Mrs. Clara W. Berwick includes a rare
eroup comprising early American glass pieces of the Stiegel and
Amelung type, as well as later wares from the famous Sandwich
factory in Massachusetts. Mrs. Mary Roebling gave three sculp-
tured birds and the figures of horses by Edward Marshall Boehm.

Rhenish stoneware, from “Historic Pottery from Holland,” an exhibit of
the collection given by the Honorable Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr., and Mrs.
Buchanan. The brown-glazed stoneware from Siegburg, Raeren, and
other Rhenish stoneware centers, 1 3th—1 7th centuries, are shown with matching
17th-century sherds excavated from the site of Jamestown, Va., by the
National Park Service.
ACCESSIONS a

Mrs. George Hewitt Myers presented 48 pieces of Castleford porce-
lain, made in England between 1790 and 1820. Among these rare
items are teapots and pitchers decorated with an American eagle
after the design of contemporary coins.

The division of graphic arts acquired an important group of fine
prints. The selection of these examples by outstanding printmakers
from the year 1500 to the present day made it possible to fill a number
of significant gaps in the collection. The prints include an engraving
by the Italian renaissance master, Marcantonio Raimondi, Sé.
Cecelia; two prints by important French artists of the turn of the
20th century—a lithograph by Edouard Manet, La barricade, and
a color lithograph by Edouard Vuillard, Les deux belles seurs; and

DN See

‘Landscape with Flock of Sheep,” etching by Rembrandt Van Rijn (1606-
1669) added to Graphic Arts collection.

an exceptionally fine impression of an etching by Rembrandt van
Rijn, Landscape with a flock of sheep. Max Levy & Co., Philadelphia,
through Howard S. Levy, presented a 50-line halftone screen; R. R.
Donnelley & Sons Co., Chicago, through Walter L. Howe, gave a
panel describing the rotogravure process; and the firm of Edgerton,
Germeshausen & Grier, Inc., Boston, donated the first battery-
operated portable electronic flash unit, invented by Dr. Harold
K. Edgerton.

The division of textiles obtained from Arthur E. Wullschleger an
18-century French hand-and-foot treadle loom to which a Jacquard
head had been added in the second quarter of the 19th century. Mr.
Wullschleger collected the loom in Lyons, France, and it was reno-
vated at Wedgewood Mills, Jewett City, Conn. An excellent model
of the 1787 patent of Cartwright’s power loom, an invention un-
represented in the national collection, was made by Robert Klinger
of the exhibits staff. A fine collection of 46 18th- and 19th-century
58 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

printed cottons were given by Mrs. Kenneth Franzheim. Beautiful
examples of contemporary hand and power woven fabrics were pre-
sented by the Irish Linen Guild, Potomac Craftsmen, Designer-
Weavers, The American Cotton Manufacturers Institute, the Cor-
duroy Council, the International Silk Association, and the Man-Made
Fibers Association.

The division of industrial cooperation acquired the original equip-
ment used in 1956-57 to carry out the experiments suggested by
Nobel prize winners, Dr. T. D. Lee of Columbia University and Dr.
C. N. Yang of the Institute for Advanced Studies, to demonstrate
that in the decay of an elementary particle into another particle
parity is not conserved. Examples of early seismometers used in
exploration for oil were presented by the Continental Oil Company.

Civil History

The division of cultural history received several gifts which en-
hanced its furniture collection. A Louis XIV commode with marble
top, labeled with the maker’s name, ‘“‘“M. Cresson,” was given by
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Wickes, and a painted Tyrolean wardrobe
on frame was presented by the estate of Dr. Elisabeth Lotte Franzos.
Mrs. H. B. Blackmar gave a Connecticut cherry “highboy,” an
Empire sofa, and several chairs; Mr. and Mrs. Louis Rothschild
donated an American secretary-bookease, a chest of drawers, and
a card table, all late 18th century; Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Monell
presented several examples of Chinese lacquered furniture.

Three outstanding acquisitions of architectural importance were
made this year. An entire room and numerous fragments were
obtained from the Gothic Revival-style Harral-Wheeler house in
Bridgeport, Conn., designed by Andrew Jackson Davis about 1848
and recently dismantled. The City of Bridgeport gave the material.
A wide variety of cast-iron architectural fragments from office build-
ings and store fronts of the now-demolished old mercantile section of
St. Louis was transferred by the Jefferson National Expansion
Memorial of the National Park Service. An entire log house, built
in Wilmington, Del., in the German tradition in the early 18th cen-
tury, was given by the Board of Trustees and Building Commission
of the Henry C. Conrad School Department of Wilmington. Other
gifts include a pair of 18th-century wine coolers used in the Winter
Palace of St. Petersburg and a silver tea and coffee service originally
owned by Czar Alexander I from Col. William E. Shipp, and a Penn-
sylvania stove plate, dated 1784, from the Union Fork and Hoe
Company.

New important additions to the White House china collection were
received in the division of political history. Henry Francis DuPont
ACCESSIONS 59

donated a plate from a dessert service purchased for the White House
during the administration of Monroe. The china has an amaranthine
border with vignettes representing military might, agriculture, com-
merce, art, and science. It was made in France by Dagoty. Out-
standing accessions to the collection of American period costume were
an early dress of homespun cotton, given by Mrs. Charles D. Collins;
a dress and wedding petticoats of the early 19th century, a gift of
the Misses Marion and Elinor Abbot; a collection of late 19th- and
early 20th-century costumes, presented by Miss Eleanor P. Custis;
and a wedding dress and other costumes of the 1890’s of historic
importance because of their connection with famous South Carolina
families, the gift of Mrs. Pinckney Alston Trapier. A Civil War flag
which had been hung out in mourning at the time of Lincoln’s death
was donated by John M. Harlan, Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court.

The donation of Mrs. Catherine E. Bullowa, consisting of 21,531
coins, medals, and paper currencies, is an important addition to the
numismatic collection. Of special interest in this series is a group of
504 early German and Italian silver and copper coins, dating from the
11th through the 16th centuries and a collection of 62 German patterns
engraved by C. Goetz at the Munich Mint after World War I.

A notable accession is the President Dwight D. Eisenhower collec-
tion of coins, medals, and memorabilia, including a group of 149 gold,
silver, and copper mintings covering all periods of history from Ancient
Greece to modern times. Especially remarkable are a silver shekel
from Judea struck during the first revolt against the Romans in A.D.
66-70 and a silver shekel from Tyre, Phoenicia, considered similar to
the “thirty pieces of silver” from the Bible. A set of 14 gold medals,
issued by the Italo-Venezuelan Bank and portraying World War II
leaders, and a 20-dollar gold piece engraved on the reverse ‘Reims,
May 7, 1945, 0240” are included.

A collection of nine medals and plaques engraved by the American
medalist, Victor D. Brenner, was received from the Eric P. Newman
Numismatic Education Society of St. Louis. An important collection
of 307 proclamation pieces, struck by different Mexican cities and
organizations in the late 18th and early 19th centuries in commemora-
tion of Spanish kings, was presented by Joseph B. Stack. Joseph
Noble donated five terracotta molds excavated in Egypt and used in
ancient times for casting imitations of Roman coins issued about A.D.
300 at Alexandria. Seven steel dies done by artists like C. G. Wright
and A. C. Paquet, for the striking of medals portraying George Wash-
ington, Zachary Taylor, and Ulysses S. Grant, were donated by Mr.
Paul Franklin. From Dr. Jacob Staiman came a rare copper plate
used about 1814 for printing 5-, 10-, and 20-dollar bills for the Bank
of Swatara, Harrisburg, Pa.

52459259 —_5
60 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Former Postmaster General James A. Farley converted two addi-
tional units from loan to gift in the division of philately and postal
history, thus concluding the transaction begun in 1956. Two collec-
tions of inestimable reference value were transferred from the Library
of Congress—the Ackerman collection of United States die and plate
proofs, in three volumes features postage, and the Clarence H. Eagle
collection of United States revenue proofs and essays includes a com-
prehensive showing of match and medicine varieties. Mr. John P. V.
Heinmuller donated his prize-winning collection of Zeppelin covers.
Housed in 21 volumes, the collection portrays the early experimental
flights of the 1908-10 period, World War I, and all flights of the
Graf Zeppelin. One interesting specimen is a scorched cover carried
on the ill-fated flight of the Zeppelin Hindenburg, which burned at
Lakehurst, N.J., May 6, 1937. Commander W. R. Anderson,
Commanding Officer, United States Navy submarine Nautilus, pre-
sented in the name of the Navy and his crew the rubber canceling
device made by two crew members and used on cachet envelopes in
commemoration of the first navigation by submarine beneath the
polar ice cap.

Armed Forces History

Among the outstanding material received in armed forces history
were early United States military and naval insignia from the unique
W. Stokes Kirk collection, a very rare pair of epaulets owned by
General George Washington, acquired from Mrs. Janet Randolph Ball
Haden, and an early 19th-century broadax from the Fort Ticonderoga
Museum. A collection of over 300 objects associated with the history
of the United States Marine Corps was received as a loan; 17 builder’s
half models of early naval vessels were transferred from the United
States Naval Academy; and examples of diving gear were received
from the Experimental Diving Unit, Department of the Navy.

Original drawings, totaling 177, of plans for United States sailing
ships were presented by Howard I. Chapelle, curator of transporta-
tion and author of the important work The History of the American
Sailing Navy. Frank Mather Archer presented an excellent example
of the type of uniform coat worn by a lieutenant of the U.S. Infantry
during the period 1828-36. An outstanding collection of prints and
books illustrating European uniforms and equipment was presented
by Col. Wiliam E. Shipp. Edward B. Tucker, of Somerset, Bermuda,
donated objects recovered from a 16th-century wreck off Bermuda.
Objects from 18th-century shipwreck sites in Florida were received
through the courtesy of Edwin A. Link, Arthur McKee, and Dr. and
Mrs. George Crile, Jr. An iron shot from the site of the 16th-century
fortress of San Lorenzo was given by Karl P. Curtis of Panama.
Care of Collections

SPECIMENS ACCESSIONED, IDENTIFIED, AND DISTRIBUTED—
FISCAL YEAR 1959

Lent for
Accessions Giftsto Transferred _ study to
(transac- Exchanged educational toother investigators
Departments and tions) 1959 Received with other institutions, Government and Specimens
Divisions (mew) on loan institutions etc. agencies institutions identified
Anthropology . 59 0 1 1825 0 457 15, 601
Botany. .. . 343 0 17, 739 418 QO 24,023 20, 060
Geology ... 393 @ 2) 1124 319 250 6,543 15, 414
Zoology .. . 729 4,079 8,055 4, 842 1,886 153,932 83,377
Armed Forces
History. . . 68 304 5 0 0 23 1, 678
Arts and Manu-
factures . . 71 518 0 0) 0 1 4, 344
Civil History . 361 123 0 0 811 4,361 128, 916
Science and
Technology . 209 57 6 10 25 64 4, 465
Tom . 2238 Bill MOO WA AOM IC, 4O8 7s, elas

Anthropology

Chief exhibits specialist A. Joseph Andrews assembled the 31
sections of an Olmec style stone head, 9% feet high, from Vera Cruz,
Mexico, and then painted it and assisted in its installation in the
hall of highlights of Latin American archeology. Three Easter Island
figurines carved from wood, a mounted elephant head, a Haida
Indian totem pole, 2 model boats with outriggers, a small loom,
and a carved wooden mask were repaired. A stone statue of Buddha
was fastened to a marble base, and two large pieces of pottery were
restored. A bust of Abraham Lincoln was renovated for the division
of history, as well as several pieces of sculpture for the National
Collection of Fine Arts. In addition to his many tasks, Mr. Andrews
gave instructions in molding and casting fruit, hardening plaster
of paris, making figurines, preserving basketry, restoring pottery,
and repairing antique glass.

In the division of ethnology, cleaning, relining, and the restoration
of 450 paintings by George Catlin is underway. ‘This project is
expected to be completed in 3 years. Considerable study and record-
ing of data concerning this early 19th-century collection of paintings
has resulted in the revision of the official divisional records. Assistant
curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., with the help of museum aide Clarence

61
62 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

A. Bender, continued his responsibility for the care and systematic
classification of the ethnological collections; with the exceptions of
the Straus collection of ivory carvings, the cataloging and storage of
all new collections have been kept up to date. Following the separa-
tion of cultural history from the division of ethnology last year, the
catalog card records have been segregated and are being transferred
to the appropriate division. Classification and assembly of specimens
has begun, but the actual transfer of objects must await the provision
of exhibit and storage facilities in the new Museum of History and
Technology. The specimen catalog and the accession files are being
brought up to date and cross references are being made. The new
tribal-locality file is about half complete, and the extensive file of
photographs is in process of being identified. Research by Museum
specialists and that of outside scientists as well will be considerably
facilitated, and the handling of a growing number of inquiries will be
improved.

During recent years considerable time and effort has been expended
by the aides in the division of physical anthropology in checking and
rearranging the study collections on the 4th floor of the rotunda of
the Natural History building. Anthropological aide Charles Eyman
and summer intern David Andrews, a graduate student in anthro-
pology at Cornell University, succeeded by the end of the summer in
segregating a residue of material which appeared to have no scientific
value because of its fragmentary condition and lack of data. Subse-
quently, this material was condemned and the necessary adjustments
were made in the records. Richard E. Jensen became temporary
aide in October and spent considerable time repairing the skeletal
material in the newly arranged collection. He sought out and listed
by dental age all the subadult skeletal remains. This special index
will make it much easier to locate material in any particular age
category.

In the division of archeology, the processing of new accessions
and other routine activities connected with the maintenance and
care of the collections have been slowed down by various activities
incidental to the exhibits modernization program. With the dis-
mantling of hall 22, museum aides George S. Metcalf and Robert C.
Jenkins have reorganized this classified material so that it is readily
accessible pending selection of pieces for the new exhibit. Practically
all the old exhibit cases have been emptied and their contents, along
with objects from storage, have been stored in the 200 additional
quarter-unit storage cases acquired this year. The project of washing
and preserving aboriginal textiles from Peru and Chile has continued,
and new and unusual specimens are being uncovered. Except for
the washing and numbering by aides Jenkins and Mrs. W. M. Pelham
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 63

of specimens brought back from the 1958 excavations of Drs. Clifford
Evans and Betty J. Meggers in coastal Ecuador, no rearrangements
of storage were made of the Latin American collections. Storage col-
lections of Old World archeology were examined by associate curator
Ralph S. Solecki, and with the help of aide Jenkins one-third of the
collection was rearranged to facilitate study and conserve space.
Certain collections from various localities in Latin America that
were excavated by former Smithsonian Institution scientists have

oe

Summer intern measuring a bone snow-shovel blade to prepare data for
accessioning into the archeological collections a large collection of artifacts
from near Point Barrow, Alaska.

been sent to advanced graduate anthropology students at various
universities for classification and study under the supervision of their
professors. John Glass, at Harvard University, reports good progress
on the large collections from Honduras excavated by Strong, Kidder,
and Paul in 1936. He hopes to complete his report in 1960. The
large sherd collection from Panama excavated by Stirling and Willey
in 1948 was shipped to the Peabody Museum, Harvard University.
John Ladd reports that he has classified about 50 percent of the
material and hopes to complete the job, including a monograph, during
the next school year. Robert Squier, of the University of Kansas,
64 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

is making good progress in his study of one of the survey collections
made by Philip Drucker in Vera Cruz and Tabasco, Mexico, in
1953-54.

Zoology

This year much progress took place in the care and documentation
of the zoological collections. In the division of mammals, new storage
cases permitted considerable advancement of the long-term project
of rearranging the collection and merging the mammals of the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service with those of the national collections.
Under associate curator Handley’s direction, better arrangement of
the skulls and skeletons of large whales was achieved. Dr. Walter
Sheppe, summer intern, rearranged the edentate groups and about
half of the lagomorphs, and during the remainder of the year this
task was completed under the direction of associate curator Setzer.
At the end of the year the general rearrangement of most of the squir-
rel-like rodents was finished.

All material received in the division of birds was fumigated, identi-
fied, cataloged, and incorporated into the main collection, except for
lots held out for study. During the year several thousand specimens
were reidentified and rearranged by associate curator Deignan and
museum aide Feinstein.

In the division of reptiles and amphibians, the inventory of the
salamanders was completed and progress was made on that of the
lizards.

Lack of storage space in the division of fishes continued to be a
problem. The temporary storage room in the basement of the Bird
House at the National Zoological Park is almost filled.

Several large-scale tasks were accomplished in the division of insects.
Summer interns inspected and completed the fumigation of 18,559
drawers of specimens, completing a project begun in 1956. A total
of 282,189 specimens was transferred from miscellaneous boxes to
permanent trays and standard cases. The permanent slide collection
of Geometridae, containing more than 10,000 slides, was rearranged
and transferred to steel cabinets. In the Hemipteran section it be-
came necessary to remove and rearrange 34,256 specimens and to
relabel newly lined trays because of defective cork lining. The 22
drawers of the Japanese Microlepidoptera have been completely
organized, and in the Collembola-Protura collection 1,128 slides have
been labeled and arranged; 66 lectotypes and 84 cotypes on 116 slides,
not previously segregated, have been properly labeled and arranged.
To the regular identified series were added 1,695 Coleoptera. There
was also much progress in the care of the Arachnida-Myriapoda
collections. Virtually all the typical Arachnida and most of the
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 65

Chilopoda and Diplopoda have been incorporated into the new type
collection and have been cataloged. Particular emphasis was given
to the huge collections of unidentified millipeds and centipedes, and
at the close of the year the majority of unidentified centipedes had
been sorted to geographical area, order, and in many instances to
family and genus. The holdings in typical and ordinary Opilionida
were sorted, revived, and rehoused when necessary, and many speci-
mens were assigned to families and genera. Work continued on the
collections of Scorpionida, Pedipalpida, Pseudoscorpionida, and
Solpugida.

In the division of marine invertebrates, associate curator Bayer
and museum aides Peterson, James, and Livingston have devoted
long hours to the removal of much unidentified material from the
alcoholic storage area and have made possible a long overdue rear-
rangement and consolidation of the remaining collections. Associate
curator Bowman has consolidated the decapod crustacean types, mak-
ing them much more accessible. Museum aide Livingston has con-
tinued the routine examination, cleaning, and refilling of the alcoholic
lots.

A start has been made in the division of mollusks to replace open
steel racks and metal drawers in the attic storage room with standard
quarter-unit cases. Summer intern John B. Burch reorganized one-
quarter of the United States species in the pearly fresh-water mussel
collections.

Botany

The ferns were shifted and expanded during the year to occupy 19
additional cases. This gave an opportunity to rearrange the collection
according to the modern system of Carl Christensen. In the fungus
collections Dr. Marie Lack of the Department of Agriculture com-
pletely rearranged the Myxcmycetes transferred to the national fungus
collection last year and identified many specimens that had remained
undetermined for many years. There were only minor changes in
the arrangement of the rest of the collections. With the exception of
cryptogams, there is now enough room for expansion for a few years
to come.

The major activities in caring for the permanent collections and
the processing of new materials are summarized in the following table:

1967-58 1958-59
Specimens and photographs mounted. . . .. . . 33,063 31, 336
SpeCuMens pre paAILeGm ys wr See ey ers 5) lO fol: 9, 137
Specimens stamped and recorded. ........ 24,112 28, 458

Specimens incorporated in herbarium. . .... . 59,191 32, 106
66 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

There are 57,510 types in the segregated type herbarium, including
39,748 phanerogams, 10,046 grasses, 3,372 ferns, and 4,344 crypto-
gams. ‘This is an increase of 390 during the year.

Geology

Except for the need of cleaning a few seldom used sections, the
collections of mineralogy and petrology are in good condition. Com-
pletion of work of modernizing the gem and mineral hall left a residue
of material formerly stored under the cases in the old exhibit hall.
This material is being sorted and everything of value placed in the
study collections.

In the division of vertebrate paleontology, due to the pressure placed
on the laboratory staff by the current exhibition program, almost no
time has been available for preparation of materials for study or for
care of the collections in general. The backlog of the material await-
ing preparation for study has rapidly mounted as field collections,
resulting from research programs, have been added.

The problem of making inventory for the large amount of material
stored in the corridors of the division of invertebrate paleontology and
paleobotany, often in two decks up to 9 feet, has been successfully
solved this year. Most of the material is now carded and can be
located quickly. The gastropod collection has been alphabetized and
completely reworked. The gigantic task of sorting the thousands of
specimens taken from the Glass Mountains etchings and the prepara-
tion of nonsilicified material is nearly complete. All the blocks col-
lected for processing have been acidized and only a few drawers of
residues need sorting and distribution. Museum aide J. L. Connors
alternated his cataloging duties with picking the residues for good
specimens and making rough sortings of the picked material. Head
curator G. A. Cooper placed them in their proper generic niches and
also prepared all the pieces containing unsilicified fossils and sorted
them into their proper genera. Associate curator Richard E. Board-
man had the bryozoan collection minutely searched for type material,
and this has resulted in a considerable increase in the type collection.
The bryozoan type collection is now complete and all the thin sections of
bryozoans have been put in order. ‘The coral collection is under the
care of associate curator Boardman, and except for revision of species
identification needs little attention. The thin sections of corals
have been removed from the slide boxes and have been placed in
Lab-Aid flat file cases in alphabetical order. Many unmarked type
slides were recognized and have been placed in the type collection.

Associate curator Porter M. Kier is working on a revision of the
erinoid and other type echinoderms. ‘The Marr collection of crinoid
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 67

types and other specimens from the Pennsylvanian of Texas were cata-
loged and distributed. During the year museum aide Henry B. Roberts
directed the reorganization of the biological collections of gastropods,
monoplacophorans, scaphopods, and ‘“pteropods.’? These were
arranged alphabetically, standard trays were substituted, and
shallower drawers were used where possible to conserve space. The
same treatment is now being applied to the ostracod collection. The
ostracods, because of their small size and heterogeneous arrangement
in slides, bottles, vials, boxes, and trays, have always been one of the
most difficult collections to use. In the future this will no longer be
true. Museum aide Roberts has spent a great deal of time unpacking
a collection of thousands of Tertiary mollusks from New Zealand.
With the help of museum aide Edwin Herman, he also cleaned, sorted,
arranged, and identified a collection of Miocene fossils which will be
used for exchanges of specimens. They also teamed up to attack
problems of attic storage, and museum aide Herman has relabeled
many storage drawers to show their full content. Museum aide
James L. Connors is revising the type collection of trilobites under an
alphabetical arrangement based on the name under which the speci-
men was published. He is weeding out the nontype specimens, and
when this task is completed the collection will consist wholly of type
material. Museum aide Louis Reed is numbering all of the non-
silicified specimens from the Glass Mountains.

Science and Technology

Restoration and renovation of specimens for exhibition in the
Museum of History and Technology has been continued. Among
the items restored by the division of physical sciences are an astro-
nomical transit telescope, a small comet seeker, and a chronograph
for the exhibit of astronomy.

The division of mechanical and civil engineering reports that exhibits
specialist Donald Berkebile and museum aide Frank Bullock have
restored an 1840 planing machine and a Shipman portable steam
engine. Museum aide William Bridges, assisted by Henry Sloan, re-
stored an 1829 Baldwin steam engine and a model of an early Greene
steam engine. Two groups of watches were renovated and adjusted
by timekeeping instrument repairer Charlie Smith.

The division of transportation has continued the repair of ship
models and rearranging of exhibits in the watercraft hall. Exhibits
specialist Donald Berkebile has almost completed the restoration of
the Balzer automobile, and the Winton Bullet Number One is also
being renovated.
68 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

In the division of agriculture and wood products, considerable
progress has been made by museum aide John M. Wingo in the general
renovation and rehousing of the reference collection of agricultural
patent models. Museum aide Edward A. Avery has prepared 5,900
wood samples for the reference collections.

Associate curator John B. Blake and museum aide Everett Jackson,
of the division of medical sciences, have completed the identification
and storage of the dental collection. Museum aide George H. Ford,
Jr., prepared a new subject index of all pharmaceutical equipment.
Special storage facilities have been constructed for the reference col-
lection of eyeglasses.

Arts and Manufactures

The inventory of the division of industrial cooperation was com-
pleted by museum aide John C. Carter. In the division of textiles,
museum aide Marjorie Sampson supervised the stitching of muslin
backing to the 10 quilts to be installed in the new quilt case. She
assisted lace consultant Johanna Van Nierop in preparing laces for
examination. Miss Van Nierop has begun a preliminary examination
of the lace collection to identify and recommend those pieces most
suitable for the new lace exhibit.

The ceramics and glass division restored the following items:
Sévres metal and porcelain cabinet, ca. 1826, pair of Malachite urns
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 69

Very early American
metal planer, of about
1840, made by John H.
Gage, Nashua, N.H., as
it was found in aban-
doned shop in South Lon-
donderry, Vt., by asso-
ciate curator Edwin A.
Battison.

Top: Planer as it was
received at the museum.
Bottom: Restored in mu-
seum exhibits shop by
model maker Don Berke-

bile.
70 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

with pedestals, pair of bronze candelabra, French porcelain vase.
With the receipt of 50 new storage units, a start was made on the re-
arrangement and renovation of the storage collections.

The division of graphic arts reports considerable improvement in
the care of collections. Museum aides James W. Norwood matted
about 550 prints, made minor repairs, and separated them into eate-
gories of size and color. He examined about 1,000 file cards and
brought the description of specimens up to date. A complete reorgan-
ization of the photographic collections has been started. Museum
aide Rudolph G. Morris transferred about 2,500 photographie prints
from inadequate storage units to solander cases and placed them in
new print cabinets. Over 700 specimens were examined for possible
inclusion in the Museum of History and Technology exhibitions.
Several daguerreotypes were restored by the use of a new process
which virtually eliminates all oxidation commonly found in such prints.

Civil History

All divisions have made progress toward improvement in the storage,
inventory, and arrangement of objects. Growing concern with
preservation and with the effect of hght, dust, and humidity led curator
Wileomb E. Washburn and assistant curator Anne W. Murray to
conduct limited tests of filters and other devices and eventually to
consult with Laurence Harrison of the Metropolitan Museum on the
effect of light upon textiles. The results of these researches will be
used in the new museum. A painting of General Grant and his family
by Cogswell has been restored. Mr. Sugiura of the Freer Gallery of
Art remounted a painting on the inside of a Chinese tea box owned by
George Washington. ‘Twoarmchairsowned by General PhilipSchuyler
have been restored to their original condition. Assistant curator
Murray and museum aide Sarah Powell have made steady progress
regrouping and tagging all costume items. The gowns have all been
placed in storage lockers with the left sieeve facing the door and a tag
at the inside seam near the cuff. Similar progress has been made in
rehabilitating the costumes.

In the division of philately and postal history, museum aide Theo-
dore B. Ruhoff has continued regrouping stamps in new stockbooks
and has completed countries through the letter M.

Rearranging coins, medals, and paper currencies by subject rather
than by accessions continued in the division of numismatics, and more
than 33,000 coins were reenveloped and regrouped. Experiments are
in progress on the use of X-ray spectrography for nondestructive test-
ing of coins and medals to determine their metallic composition.
CARE OF COLLECTIONS 7

Armed Forces History

In the division of military history, work on cleaning and rearranging
the uniform reference collection continued and is now 90 percent
complete. All the military headgear has been cleaned. Valuable
flags and uniforms were repaired and reinforced to prevent futher
deterioration. The extensive collection of footwear was treated with
preservatives and is now being stored in more accessible containers.
Steel map cabinets were obtained and the collections of pistols and
insignia were arranged in them. Fifty percent of the Weapons
exhibited on the west gallery were carefully cleaned and treated with a
new wax preservative.

Division of naval history reference collections in the Arts and
Industries building have been throughly examined and re-marked
and stored in new quarter unit steel cases. Museum aide John L.
Rawls repaired and refinished several half models. Contracts with
local craftsman have resulted in the restoration of several ship models.
Museum aide Alan B. Albright treated and packed in protective
wrapping all objects in the collections from underwater wreck sites.
Laboratory equipment for the preservation of these materials received
during the year included an electric oven for drying and impregnating
with plastics and an apparatus for the distillation of water for testing
purposes.
Investigation and Research

Museum of Natural History

Since taking up his duties as Director in October 1958, Dr. A. C.
Smith has made only limited progress in his studies of Pacific island
plants. Concerned in other Government-sponsored activities, Dr.
Smith served as adviser to the National Science Foundation on its
panels for systematic biology and biological facilities, and as Smith-
sonian liaison member of the Division of Biology and Agriculture of
the National Research Council. He continued to serve as chairman
of the council of the American Society of Plant Taxonomists, and was
elected vice president of the International Association for Plant
Taxonomy.

Anthropology

During the year, head curator Frank M. Setzler checked the galley
proof of three papers: ‘“The Archeology of Arnhem Land, Australia,”
“Dermatoglyphics of Australian Aborigines,” and ‘Hair of Australian
Aborigines,” written in collaboration with various specialists. These
papers will be published during the coming year in Australia as volume
2 of the Australian-American Arnhem Land Expedition. In collabora-
tion with C. Malcolm Watkins and Professor Oscar Darter, he carried
forward the identification and historical reconstruction of Marl-
borough Town, near Stafford, Va., which he excavated in 1956. As
time permitted he prepared notes on the effigy pipes found associated
with Adena culture sites. In the Welcome Mound, near New Martins-
ville, W. Va., which he excavated in the fall of 1957, he was fortunate
in locating an unusual tubular pipe carved to represent the head and
neck of a shoveler duck. Since then he has located several similar
pipes which had never been reported.

Archeology.—Curator Waldo R. Wedel continued preparation of
his manuscript report on the archeology of the Horner Site, a 7,000-
year-old Early Man game kill and butchering ground near Cody,
Wyo. This site is important because it has provided an unusually
comprehensive series of the stone tools used by the early big-game
hunters of the western Great Plains and nearby regions. Some
analytical work was completed on the extensive collections from
central South Dakota made by Dr. Wedel and aide George Metcalf

72
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 73

during previous summers while on detail to the River Basin Surveys.
Several hundred pen and ink drawings of specimens pertaining to this
latter work were prepared by the scientific illustrator, Betty E. Baker.

In connection with the annual meeting of the American Anthro-
pological Association in November 1958, Dr. Wedel organized a
symposium on “The Ethnohistorical Approach to Anthropology”
and presented a paper on that subject. As a member of the executive
committee of the Society for American Archaeology, he attended the
annual meeting of that organization in Salt Lake City, Utah, where
he read a paper entitled “Solutrean and Sandia—Diffusion, Parallel-
ism, or Imagination,” prepared by associate curator Ralph S. Solecki.
Following the sessions, Dr. Wedel spent 3 days studying archeological
collections in the University of Utah Museum of Anthropology and
visited an interesting and unusual Desert culture site on Fremont
Island in Great Salt Lake west of Ogden. The time and cultural
relationships of this site remain somewhat obscure, but an obsidian
projectile point from the site has been tentatively dated by petro-
graphic methods at about 500 B.C.

Associate curator Clifford Evans and research associate Betty J.
Meggers attended the 33d International Congress of Americanists
meeting in San José, Costa Rica, in July 1958. They participated
in a symposium on ‘The Definition of the Formative Period in
Nuclear America” and delivered a paper on ‘‘Preliminary Results of
Archeological Investigations in the Upper Orinoco, Venezuela.” At
this conference a committee was appointed to plan coordinated
research among archeologists of various institutions in search of
aboriginal interrelationships between Mexico, Middle America, and
northern South America. Afterward, they flew to Guayaquil,
Ecuador, where they continued archeological collaboration with
Emilio Estrada, Director of the Museo Arqueolédgico Victor Emilio
Estrada. They did fieldwork in the region around Quevedo in the
Province of Los Rios, on the Daule River in Guayas Province, and on
the Islands of Jambeli in El Oro Province next to the Peruvian border.
This work was planned with a view toward filling gaps, remaining from
the previous seasons’ work in 1954 and 1957, in the aboriginal cultural
sequence of the Guayas Basin of southern Ecuador. In addition to
their fieldwork, they studied the new materials obtained by Emilio
Estrada, and returned to Washington at the end of September 1958.

On April 17 Dr. Evans spoke on ‘The Archeology of British
Guiana”? and Dr. Meggers on “The Wai Wai Indians of British
Guiana’ at the School of American Research of the Museum of
New Mexico, in Santa Fe.

Associate curator Ralph S. Solecki, aided by his wife, continued
the classification of Shanidar Cave and Zawi Chemi Shanidar archeo-

TA U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

logical materials collected during the 1956-57 season in Iraq. Many
of the nonartifact materials (bones, soil samples, and shells) were
sent to specialists for analysis and report. At the annual meeting
of the American Anthropological Association in November 1958,
Dr. Solecki presented a paper on “The Importance of the Wtrm
Maximum in the Upper Paleolithic of Eurasia.”’ At the January 8
meeting of the Washington Society of the Archaeological Institute of
America at Dumbarton Oaks, he presented a paper entitled ‘Before
History in Mesopotamia.”

From March 15 to April 8, 1959, Dr. Solecki served as a consultant
on salvage archeology at the meeting of the International Committee
on Historical Monuments of UNESCO in Paris. As a result of the
meeting a manual is being prepared under UNESCO auspices on the
subject of salvaging archeological and historical remains from large-
scale engineering works throughout the world. Dr. Solecki is respon-
sible for gathering material and editing the papers assembled.

Museum aide George Metcalf, after hours and on weekends,
continued studying material from a group of prehistoric sites in
central Nebraska. The results suggest a reoccupation of one site by
the same group and the possibility that changes in vessel rim patterns
can be shown to have chronological significance. The results of this
work will be incorporated in a monograph, ‘“‘Archeological Investiga-
tions in the Davis Creek Valley, Central Nebraska,’ now in
preparation.

Neil M. Judd, research associate in anthropology, continued work
on archeological materials collected in Chaco Canyon, New Mexico,
for the National Geographic Society. His second volume, ‘‘Pueblo
del Arroyo, Chaco Canyon, New Mexico,” was published. He is
now at work on a third monograph, dealing with the architecture of
Pueblo Bonito. He completed a paper, ‘“The Braced-Up Cliff at
Pueblo Bonito,” which will appear in the Smithsonian Annual Report.

The Smithsonian Institution appointed H. Morgan Smith, Curundu,
Canal Zone, as a collaborator in the department of anthropology for
the purpose of salvaging some of the archeological data and materials
that are constantly being uncovered by the construction of new roads
and buildings in the Canal Zone. He will cooperate with the Museo
Nacional of Panama to prevent the destruction of archeological sites
by untrained amateurs.

Physical anthropology.—Curator T. Dale Stewart studied the
skulls from the Venado Beach collection donated by Dr. S. K. Lothrop,
Peabody Museum, Harvard University. Some of the skulls are
notable for their peculiar type of cranial deformity. Dr. Stewart
made a study of this deformity with the aid of stereographic drawings
and prepared a paper in which the deformity was analyzed and
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 75

compared. It is significant that this deformity, which mainly
involves compression of the parietal bones, is identical with examples
found in late prehistoric periods in Mexico and also that nothing
comparable has been found in South America. His paper, ‘Skeletal
Remains from Venado Beach, Panama: Cranial Deformity,” will
appear in the Proceedings of the 33d International Congress of
Americanists, which he attended in San José, Costa Rica, July 1958.
Following his return from Costa Rica in August, Dr. Stewart com-
pleted a section on physical anthropology for the Handbook of Latin
American Studies.

During the fall Dr. Stewart published jointly with Dr. Preston
Holder, of the University of Nebraska, a manuscript which dealt
with filed human teeth observed in an articulated skeleton found by
Dr. Holder at the Cahokia Mound site in Illinois. Dr. Stewart has
now described all the examples thus far recovered of this tooth-filing
practice in the Mississippi Valley. He began editing the report on
the Townsend Site near Lewes, Del., originally prepared by a com-
mittee of the Sussex Society of Archaeology and History, and added
his own sections dealing with the human and dog skeletal material
which had been recovered and subsequently donated to the national
collections. By collaborating with local archeological societies the
division now obtains some of its more important collections from
them. Dr. Stewart made arrangements with Dr. Dick Shutler, Jr.,
of the University of Arizona, to describe four skulls from Lost City,
Lake Mead Recreational Area, Nev., which comprise all the human
skeletal material from this now submerged site that could be saved.
They are completely different in type from one another. One is of
particular interest because it shows an unusual type of pathological
deformity caused by premature closure of the coronal suture, a rare
condition in American Indians.

During the rest of the year Dr. Stewart concentrated on restoring
and studying the very incomplete skeleton of Shanidar 111 recovered by
Dr. Ralph Solecki in the Shanidar Cave in Iraq. This Neanderthal,
despite its fragmentary condition, contributes much to our knowledge
and extends the findings reported by McCown and Keith (1939) on
the Mount Carmel remains of Palestine. Dr. Stewart read a paper
at the annual meeting of the American Association of Physical An-
thropologists dealing with the peculiar form of the pubic bone of
Shanidar 111. From the study of this single bone he was able to dis-
tinguish two types of humanity existing in the Near East during the
Mousterian cultural period.

In March Dr. Stewart went to Prague to represent the Smithsonian
at the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the birth of Dr. Ales
Hrdliéka, former curator of the division of physical anthropology.

524592—59—_6
76 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

During the celebration, which lasted nearly a week, he gave several
talks concerning Hrdli¢ka and current work on physical anthro-
pology in the United States. In this connection, it should be recalled
that Hrdliéka came to America from Czechoslovakia at the age of
13. After he had studied medicine and became interested in anthro-
pology, he was called to the National Museum in 1903 to organize
a division of physical anthropology. The present division, with its
vast collection of human skeletal remains from all over the world,
is almost wholly a result of his efforts. He died in September 1943.

Dr. Stewart was appointed a member of the Board of Examiners in
the Basic Sciences of the District of Columbia Commission on Licen-
sure to Practice the Healing Art. He replaces Dr. Paul Bartsch and
represents the field of anatomy.

Dr. Marshall T. Newman, associate curator of physical anthro-
pology, was granted leave of absence to act as visiting lecturer in
anthropology at the University of Michigan for the academic year
1958-59. His teaching load ranged from a beginning course for 370
freshmen and sophomores in human biology through an advanced
two-semester graduate course in physical anthropology to a graduate
seminar given jointly for the departments of anthropology and human
genetics on ‘Human Selection and Adaptation.” During the year
he also lectured on aspects of the integrated biological-nutritional
studies on the Indians of Vicos, Peru, to the American Anthropologi-
cal Association in Washington, on November 22, and to a depart-
mental seminar at Ann Arbor, on February 25. On February 3
he was the third speaker in an 8-week lecture series on “Man and
Nature,’”’ sponsored by the adult education extension service of the
University of Michigan. His subject was ‘The Biology of Race.”
At the annual meetings of the American Association of Physical An-
thropologists on May 15, Dr. Newman gave a paper on ‘““The Relation
of Body Weight to Temperature and Nutrition in New World
Aborigines.”

Ethnology.—Curator Saul H. Riesenberg continued his analysis
of field materials from Ponape and Samoa, A monograph on native
Ponapean political organization is nearly completed. ‘Two shorter
papers will be published during the next year.

Associate curator Gordon D. Gibson pursued his study of the
ethnology of the Southwestern Bantu in Africa in preparation for the
writing of a general ethnography and detailed reports on particular
aspects of the culture of these people, some of whom he has studied in
the field. The Southwestern Bantu are of particular theoretical
importance because of the wide range of subsistence patterns and the
corresponding variations in descent systems and other aspects of their
culture. Dr. Gibson completed for publication the first section of a
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH veal

bibliography of anthropological bibliographies covering North,
Central, and South America. He visited the Chicago Natural History
Museum to examine African ethnological materials from southern
Angola.

Assistant curator Robert A. Elder, Jr., continued his spring and fall
weekend excavations on the Colonial American trading post site at
Angelica Knoll, Calvert County, Md. This site is proving to be
important because within a limited area there has been found an
unusual variety of types of imported trade materials, including several
dated pieces and a brick foundation. The field investigation will
probably be completed within the year.

Research associate Herbert W. Krieger continued his work on the
archeological collections he made in previous years at village sites along
the Columbia River and in the Caribbean islands.

Research by visiting investigators.—From September until
December 1958, Carlos Angulo Valdes, a Guggenheim Foundation
Fellow and Director of the Instituto de Investigaciones Etnoldgicas
y Museo Arqueolégico, Universidad del Atlintico, Barranquilla,
Colombia, returned to the division of archeology to complete his
training program begun in February 1958. He completed his work
with associate curator Evans and research associate Meggers very
successfully, and was awarded a Smithsonian Institution Certificate
of Achievement. Since his return to Colombia Mr. Angulo has put
into practice some of the techniques learned, conducting stratigraphic
archeological investigations at the site of Malambo, on the Rio
Magdalena in northern Colombia. For 3 months, from late Novem-
ber 1958 to the end of February 1959, Alberto Rex Gonzalez of the
University of Cérdoba and the Museo de la Plata, Argentina, a
Guggenheim Foundation fellow and holder of a research fellowship
of the Organization of American States, worked with Dr. Evans to
complete his study of the Paleo-Indian site of Intihuasi Cave in
northwest Argentina.

Other visitors who spent shorter periods of time examining and
studying anthropological collections included Reina Torres de
Iannello, University of Panama; Amada Arauz, Darién Subcommit-
tee, Pan American Highway; James W. Marshall and Heinz Forth-
man, Ethnological Film Foundation; Ruth Hestrin, Israel Archeo-
logical Museum; Carlos Samayoa Chinchilla and Antonio F. Tejeda,
Instituto de Antropologia e Historia, Guatemala; Michael D. Coe,
University of Tennessee; Nermin Erdentug, University of Ankara,
Turkey; W. Barclay Stephens, California Academy of Sciences;
John de Young, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, Guam;
I. A. Zolotarevskaja, Academy of Science, Institute of Ethnography,
Moscow; Pimol Sangutai, Kasetsart University, Bangkok; Clara Lee
78 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Tanner, University of Arizona; EK. S. Carpenter, University of
Toronto; Roland Force, Chicago Natural History Museum; Natalie
Woodbury, Arizona State Museum; Leslie A. White, University of
Michigan; Etta Becker-Donner, Museum fiir Vélkerkunde, Vienna;
Charles O. Bechtol, Medical Center, University of California at Los
Angeles; Desmond Clark, National Museum of Northern Rhodesia;
Desmond Cole and Mrs. Cole, University of Witwatersrand, South
Africa; Hugh Ashton, Department of Native Affairs, Southern
Rhodesia; J. J. Fénykévi, Madrid, Spain; Elizabeth Leszczynska,
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University; and John
Swipes and Nelson Ingersoll, Muth & Mumma Dental Laboratories,
Inc., Harrisburg, Pa. The facilities of the division of physical
anthropology were made available in cooperation with the Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology training program in forensic pathology
for medical officers in the military services.

Zoology

In reviewing the research program of the department of zoology,
one relatively new development merits special comment. The in-
creasing support now being accorded the type of research that can
best be conducted in museums has made it possible to expand investi-
gations already underway or planned, and to advance these investi-
gations into whatever related fields of biology their successful
prosecution may require. The descriptive zoologist, who in the past
was too often looked upon as an inferior colleague of the experimental-
ist, and who was called in only as needed to identify animals used in
the latter’s experiments, is today on a par with the experimentalists
and is in a position to ask, if need be, the physiologist, bacteriologist,
geneticist, and endocrinologist to assist him in advancing his researches
into their more analytical stages. As a result, in descriptive zoology
the problems being investigated are coming more and more to stem
from the reality of the total zoological picture, as evinced by a study
of the animals themselves, rather than from theoretical considera-
tions emanating from a seminar, a library, or an armchair. This
change is tending to bring together methods and approaches that
have too long been separated.

The third Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition, in the spring
of 1959, visited and collected biological materials on Trinidad, Tobago,
and the islands of the Lesser Antilles, including St. Lucia, Mar-
tinique, Dominica, Montserrat, Antigua, and Barbuda. This ex-
pedition was the fifth of a series made possible by the continuing
generosity of Mr. and Mrs. J. Bruce Bredin, of Wilmington, Del.
Mr. Bredin was able to join the expedition in Trinidad and Tobago,
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 79

and Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, research associate and retired head
curator of zoology, again acted as expedition leader throughout the
trip. Two other Smithsonian staff members participated: Dr.
Thomas E. Bowman, associate curator of marine invertebrates, and
Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator of phanerogams. Three
scientists from institutions in Delaware completed the roster, and
the expedition utilized the yacht Caribee as a floating base for 5 weeks.
Especially interesting collections of marine invertebrates were made
on reefs off Tobago and Montserrat, while a series of caves on Bar-
buda was again visited and explored in greater detail. The zoological
and botanical material obtained contains much unusual and useful
material, but it is too early to appraise it either quantitatively or
qualitatively. The Smithsonian Institution is deeply indebted to Mr.
and Mrs. Bredin for their continuing interest in the development of
the National Museum’s biological collections.

Dr. Herbert Friedmann, head curator of zoology, was awarded the
Daniel Giraud Elliot Medal of the National Academy of Sciences for
the most meritorious work in zoology of the year. The current
award took into consideration the year 1955 and was made in recog-
nition of Dr. Friedmann’s ‘‘The Honey Guides” (U.S. Nat. Mus.
Bull. 208, 292 pp., 25 pl., 1955).

Mammals.—Research on mammals followed along lines set in
previous years, with progress on several long-range programs. Asso-
ciate curator Henry W. Setzer worked principally on the collections
sent in from Egypt and adjacent areas by Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 3. During the year he published on the jerboas, hares,
mustelids, and gerbils of Egypt, and prepared reports on other groups.
Dr. Setzer, together with J. L. Paradiso of the Fish and Wildlife
Service, also collected small mammals in Calvert County, Md.

Associate curator Charles O. Handley, Jr., spent most of January,
February, and March in the field in Darién, Panama. Assisted by
B. R. Feinstein, aide in the division of birds, he collected more than
1,600 specimens of mammals, including several species new to the
Museum and a good number hitherto unknown from Panama. He
later studied pertinent Neotropical specimens in museums in this
country, and completed reviews of the tropical American red squirrels
and the spiny rats of the genus Hoplomys, also making progress on a
revision of the shrews of the genus Cryptotis. Dr. Handley, with
L. T. Dymond, also collected mammals in Lancaster County, Va.,
on the western shore of Chesapeake Bay, and later he made further
collections on Whitetop Mountain, Va.

Birds.—Head curator Herbert Friedmann worked on portions of
the manuscript of a critical review and evaluation of the biological
problems inherent in brood parasitism in birds. He emended and, in
80 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

places, rewrote portions of his monograph of the parasitic weaverbirds.
Under a special grant from the National Science Foundation he,
together with his colleagues S. J. Ajl, J. H. Rust, and M. Papa, have
made further progress in the study of the wax-splitting micro-organism
isolated from the honey-guides. The tissue culture studies begun in
the previous year have been much extended, and the protein fraction
responsible for wax-degradation has been isolated from the microbe.
During the year he worked out a plan for a study of the possible
endocrine factors underlying the change from self-breeding to brood
parasitism in birds, and as the year came to its close he was given a
grant to pursue this investigation over the next 3 years. During the
year he assembled data for a paper on additions to the known hosts of
the various species of cowbirds, and also amassed many new data on
African parasitic cuckoos and honey-guides. Dr. Friedmann attended
and presented a paper on the program of the 15th International
Congress of Zoology in London. He also gave lectures at the De-
partment of Zoology, Harvard University; the Nuttall Ornithological
Club, Cambridge; the Department of Zoology, University of Minne-
sota; the Minnesota Museum of Natural History, Minneapolis;
and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.

Associate curator Herbert G. Deignan completed his revisionary
studies of the large and difficult group of babblers for the continuation
of the ‘‘Check-list of Birds of the World,’’ begun by the late James L.
Peters and being continued by ornithologists at Harvard University
with the aid of many collaborators. In March 1959 Mr. Deignan
represented the Smithsonian Institution at the Centenary Celebration
of the British Ornithologists’ Union, at Cambridge University.

B. R. Feinstein, aide, completed and published a review of the forms
of the whiskered auklet of the Bering Sea region, and, as mentioned
earlier, assisted Dr. Handley during field studies in Panama from
January to March 1959.

Research associate and retired Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Alexander Wetmore resumed his field studies and his collecting
of birds in Panama from January to April 1959. During this period
Dr. Wetmore visited forested areas in Darién adjacent to Colombia,
obtaining collections and notes of especial importance because orni-
thologists had not previously worked in these areas. Dr. Wetmore
continued his research on the birds of Panama and Colombia.

Reptiles and amphibians.—The critical catalog of the reptilian
and amphibian types in the U.S. National Museum was put into final
form by curator Doris M. Cochran and is now in press. She also made
good progress in her study of Colombian frogs, undertaken in col-
laboration with Dr. C. J. Goin, of the University of Florida. During
these years these two specialists have surveyed the known species of
most of the genera involved.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 81

Fishes.—Research oa fishes was aided by the installation of a
Softex X-ray machine, which makes possible investigations in osteol-
ogy on a comparable basis with other institutions doing similar
research.

Curator Leonard P. Schultz and associate curator Ernest A. Lachner
continued the final revisions of volumes 2 and 8 of the ‘‘Fishes of the
Marshall and Marianas Islands,” which was undertaken in conjunction
with the atom bomb experiments. Dr. Schultz published a review of
the parrotfishes, family Scaridae. This is an important contribution
to the systematics of a very difficult group of fishes, never before
reviewed on a worldwide basis. Among other results, it revealed that
many species exhibit sexual dimorphism, a study of which enabled
the reviewer to determine which forms, previously thought to be differ-
ent species, actually are merely males and females of the same species.
He also described three new species of serranid fishes of the genus
Pikea and a new cyprinid fish from Siam, and published a paper
describing a new approach to the study of the distribution of the
fishes of the Indo-West Pacific area. In addition to these completed
projects, Dr. Schultz brought near to completion a review of the
silverhatchet fishes of the western Atlantic and a study of the generic
status of the species of Mimagoniates and Glandulocauda; he is setting
up a reference file on the documentation of shark attacks throughout
the world.

Dr. Lachner continued his studies of the gobies of the Marshall and
Mariana Islands. For the completion of his study of the cardinal-
fishes and goatfishes it will be necessary for him to examine collections
in museums on the west coast and elsewhere; a grant to enable him to
do this was received from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial
Foundation. He has also made progress in his study of the remoras, or
sharksuckers, and his manuscript is now well advanced. Dr. Lachner
continued his interest in national problems related to ichthyology in
his capacity as consulting editor of Wildlife Monographs, and he also
served on the Committee of Common Names of Fishes. The list to be
prepared by this Committee, which thus far has screened common
names of about 2,000 species, will serve as a useful tool for standardiza-
tion of common names in use by the industry, government agencies,
sportsmen, biologists, and laymen.

Associate curator William R. Taylor concentrated his researches on
the fishes collected by the Arnhem Land Expedition of 1948, and has
made good progress with this large assignment. He also added
importantly to his revision of the North American catfishes of the
genus Noturus.

R. H. Kanazawa, museum aide, published two papers, one a revision
of the conger eels of the world, and the other describing a new armored
82 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

catfish from South America. He has in manuscript a description of a
new genus of conger eel.

Insects.—Research on insects was pursued by the various members
of the staff with productive results, some of which are still in a stage
that makes them difficult to evaluate. Under a grant from the
National Science Foundation, curator J. F. Gates Clarke was in the
field in Colombia, Peru, Argentina, Bolivia, and Chile from late
December to late March, collecting and studying Microlepidoptera.
He also pushed close to completion his study of the Microlepidoptera
of the Juan Fernandez Islands.

Associate curator Oscar L. Cartwright spent 2 weeks in the field in
Florida studying the coleopterous genera Ataenius and Onthophagus,
and worked on this material as time and opportunity allowed.

Associate curator Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., completed studies of a new
Floridan Pectiniunguis with a reappraisal of its type species, of the
Chilopoda collected by one of the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean
Expeditions, and of Mecistocephalus in tropical America, with a rede-
scription of M. guildingii Newport; descriptions of a new American
cryptopoid genus and of a new insular centipede from the western
Pacific; and he prepared a series of articles on Myriapoda (Chilopoda,
Diplopoda, Symphyla, and Protura) for the McGraw-Hill Encyclo-
pedia of Science. In a publication wherein was described a new
himantariid genus he presented a catalog of all members of that
group known from North America.

In progress are a catalog of type localities of North American Myria-
poda; a checklist of the Chilopoda of Virginia; the Ethopolyine geno-
types; the centipedes of New York State; the Geophilus mordax com-
plex in northeastern North America; the Chilopoda of Alaska and
adjacent islands; the Chilopoda of eastern North America; the genera
Polycricus, Nesidiphilus, and Telocricus; and the Chilenophilinae of
North America.

Associate curator William D. Field completed his studies of the
South American butterfly genus Tatochila, and Miss Sophy Parfin,
assistant entomologist, continued her research on the aquatic
Neuroptera.

Marine invertebrates.—Marine invertebrate zoology continued
to be an active field of research. It is very important that this should
be fostered and enlarged upon, as only a few of our major research
museums are involved in this biologically basic area of study. Curator
Fenner A. Chace, Jr., completed the description of a new fish-cleaning
shrimp from the West Indies and, in collaboration with Dr. George
M. Moore of the University of New Hampshire, a description of a
bicolored gynandromorph of the American lobster. Dr. Chace con-
tinued his studies of the nonbrachyuran decapod crustaceans of
Clipperton Island, based on the collections made by the Presidential
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 83

Cruise of 1938 and of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography Expedi-
tions of 1956 and 1958.

Associate curator Frederick M. Bayer completed a report on the
octocorals collected by the Coquette and the Oregon off Surinam and
adjacent coasts of South America, prepared a revision of his findings on
the geographical distribution of the family Gorgoniidae, and revised
the genus and described a new species of Placogorgia. He also began a
study of the octocorals of tropical West Africa, based on the collec-
tions of the Calypso and Atlantide Expeditions. Dr. Bayer attended
the 15th International Congress of Zoology in London, following which
he visited museums there and on the continent.

Associate curator Thomas E. Bowman completed a revision of the
hyperiid amphipods of the genus Parathemisto in the North Pacific and
adjacent Arctic Ocean, and brought close to completion an account of
a new isopod of the genus Lironeca found in the gill chambers of moray
eels. Dr. Bowman spent the period from February 18 to March 4,
1959, at the Institute of Marine Zoology of the University of Puerto
Rico, collecting both in the vicinity of the laboratory, and at Maya-
giiez. In addition, he participated in the third Smithsonian-Bredin
Caribbean Expedition between March 29 and May 5, 1959.

Associate curator Charles E. Cutress, Jr., completed the descriptions
of three new zoantharians from California and has continued his
studies of shallow-water sea anemones of the Hawaiian Islands.

Before his last illness, Clarence E. Shoemaker, research associate,
had nearly finished the descriptions of three new cave amphipods
from the West Indies. His manuscript has been completed by Dr.
Bowman. Five other studies on which Mr. Shoemaker was working
at the time of his death are in various stages of completion, and efforts
are being made to interest other amphipod specialists in finishing them.

J. Percy Moore, collaborator in marine invertebrates, reports that
he spent much of the year (his 90th) studying the leeches of the South
Atlantic States, as well as rewriting the chapter on leeches for the
forthcoming revised edition of the Ward and Whipple volume on
“Freshwater Biology.”

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., honorary research associate, has had heavy
administrative loads at the University of Virginia and at the Mountain
Lake Biological Station. However, he was the sole or joint author of
eight publications, comprising nearly 150 pages, that have appeared
during the past year.

Mildred S. Wilson, collaborator in copepod crustacea, has continued
work on the compilation of synonymies and detailed distribution
records for her monograph of the North American fresh-water Cala-
noida. The records are being gleaned from the literature and from
some 4,500 lots of new material now available to her. Along with her

524592—59——_7
84 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

research she has attended to the curatorial aspects, so that the col-
lections will be properly organized for her purposes and for eventual
deposit in the museum.

During the year, 30 specialists in other institutions agreed to
identify material of various invertebrate groups which could not be
reliably determined by members of our regular staff. Of the 50 ship-
ments, including more than 5,789 specimens, sent to these official
and unofficial collaborators, 22, including more than 403 specimens,
have already been returned. The specialists rendering these services

and the groups involved are:

Dr. J. Laurens Barnard:
crustaceans.

Dr. E. L. Bousfield: amphipod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. Elisabeth Deichmann: echinoderms.

Dr. Ralph W. Dexter: branchiopod
crustaceans.

Dr. Ellsworth C. Dougherty: caprellid
amphipod crustaceans.

Dr. Edward Ferguson, Jr.: ostracod
crustaceans.

Dr. John §. Garth: crabs.

Dr. G. E. Gates: earthworms.

Mr. R. U. Gooding: copepod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. Olga Hartman: polychaete worms.

amphipod

Dr. Libbie H. Hyman: flatworms.

Dr. Paul L. Illg: copepod crustaceans.

Dr. Meredith L. Jones: polychaete
worms.

Dr. Karl Lang: tanaid crustaceans.

Dr. N. T. Mattox: conchostracan crus-
taceans.

Dr. Frank Maturo, Jr.: bryozoans.

Dr. Robert J. Menzies: isopod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. Milton A. Miller: isopod crusta-
ceans.

Dr. J. Perey Moore: leeches.

Dr. Marian H. Pettibone: polychaete
worms.

Dr. Enrique Rioja: sponges.

Dr. Huzio Utinomi: alcyonarian corals.
Mrs. Mildred 8. Wilson: copepod crus-

Dr. Willard D. Hartman: sponges.
Dr. Joel W. Hedgpeth: pyenogonids.

Dr. Dora P. Henry: barnacles. taceans.
Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.: crayfishes.| Dr. Harry C. Yeatman: copepod crus-
Dr. P. Wagenaar Hummelineck: me- taceans.

dusae. Mr. Fred C. Ziesenhenne: echinoderms.

Moilusks.—Studies on mollusks brought close to completion by
curator Harald A. Rehder include a number of small papers on marine
mollusks of the Caribbean area and a nomenclatural discussion of the
scientific names used in the Portland Catalogue of 1786. Dr. Rehder
was elected to the board of directors of the Natural Science Foun-
dation, of Philadelphia.

Associate curator Joseph P. E. Morrison spent most of his research
time on a continuation of his studies of the Melampidae, the Bythini-
idae, and of certain genera of Mactridae living in brackish water.
He also did considerable collecting and ecological work in various
salt marsh areas from the Potomac River to the Everglades National
Park in southern Florida.

Research by visiting investigators.—As usual, a large number
of outside investigators, other than persons from other Federal agen-
cies in the Washington area, spent various amounts of time in the
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 85

museum, studying specimens or records, or consulting publications or
staff members. Among those who consulted the mammal collections
may be mentioned Kyle R. Barbehenn, working on a Pacific Science
Board project; Robert K. Enders, Swarthmore College; Ellen For-
sythe, American Museum of Natural History; J. Knox Jones, Jr.,
University of Kansas; George E. Lammers, Florida State University;
Murray L. Johnson, College of Puget Sound; Stuart O. Landry,
University of Missouri; Robert Rausch, Arctic Health Research
Center; William L. Strauss, Jr., Johns Hopkins University; and
Richard H. Tedford, University of California. Other zoologists
primarily concerned with mammals visited the division in June 1959,
during an annual meeting of the American Society of Mammalogists
for which the museum was host. Outside investigators working in
the division of birds included Charles H. Blake, Hillsboro, N.C.;
Walter Bock, Harvard University; José I. Borrero, Bogota,
Colombia, a Guggenheim fellow; David E. Davis, Johns Hopkins
University; Laurence Irving, Arctic Health Research Center; James
D. Macdonald and Mrs. Macdonald, British Museum (Natural
History), London; Alden H. Miller, University of California; Harry
C. Oberholser, Cleveland, Ohio; Bryan Patterson, Harvard Univer-
sity; Robert K. Selander, University of Texas; Erwin Stresemann and
Mrs. Stresemann, University of Berlin, Germany; and Ernst Sutter,
Naturhistorisches Museum, Basel, Switzerland. Among visitors to
the division of fishes was William Gosline, of the University of Hawaii,
who spent 10 months in residence at the museum as a Guggenheim
fellow, studying the osteological relationships of isospondylous fishes;
also Harald Schultz, Sao Paulo Museum, Brazil; Umpol Pongsuwana,
Bangkhow Fisheries Station, Thailand; H. Saanni, National Fisheries
Research Institute, Indonesia; Inocencio A. Ronquillo, Bureau of
Fisheries, Manila; J. L. Hart, St. Andrews, Canada; W. B. Scott and
Mrs. Scott, Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto; and R. Smithers,
National Museums, Southern Rhodesia. Among foreign visitors who
utilized the collections of insects may be mentioned Fred D. Bennett,
Commonwealth Institute of Entomology, Trinidad; R. S. Bigelow,
MacDonald College, Quebec; Frederico Lane, Sao Paulo, Brazil;
Mario Vaughn Rodriguez, Managua, Nicaragua; J. F. Salmon,
Victoria University College, Wellington, New Zealand; Mercedes D.
Delfinado, Department of Health, Manila; H. M.S. May, Department
of Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane; D. A. Griffiths, British Ministry
of Agriculture, London; and Bogomir Milosevié, Rijeka (Fiume),
Yugoslavia. Marine invertebrate collections were studied at the
museum by the following, among others: Patricia Dudley, University
of Washington; Bonnie Eldred, Florida State Board of Conservation,
St. Petersburg; R. U. Gooding, Boston University; Clyde T. Reed,
86 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

University of Tampa; Tohru Uchida, Hokkaido University, Japan;
Roland L. Wigley, Woods Hole, Mass.; Torben Wolff, University of
Copenhagen; and Won Tack Yang, Fisheries Experimental Station,
Pusan, Korea. In the division of mollusks some of the visitors were:
Gilbert L. Voss, University of Miami; Harry W. Wells and Mrs. Wells,
Cape Hatteras, N.C.; Axel A. Olsson, Coral Gables, Fla.; Harvey R.
Bullis, Jr., Pascagoula, Miss.; Jay A. Weber, Miami, Fla.; Willis G.
Hewatt and Mrs. Hewatt, Texas Christian University; Priscilla J.
Militante, University of the Philippines; Argentino A. Bonetto and
Mrs. Bonetto, Santa Fe, Argentina; O. K. Khaw, National Medical
Defense Center, Taipei, Taiwan; Nayat Ullah Khan, Central Fisheries
Department, Karachi; W. B. Miller, Point Mugu, Calif.; John B.
Burch, University of Michigan; and Alan J. Kohn, Florida State
University.

Botany

Phanerogams.—Curator Lyman B. Smith continued the study
of his 1956-57 collections from the planalto of Santa Catarina, and
from the resulting data published several papers on the phytogeo-
graphy of southern Brazil. This work has been advanced by large
subsequent collections received from Padre Raulino Reitz, director
of the Herbdrio Barbosa Rodrigues. With Dr. R. J. Downs, of the
Department of Agriculture, Dr. Smith completed studies of the
Amaranthaceae and Caryophyllaceae of the Brazilian State of Santa
Catarina, to be published in Brazil. He continued the preparation
of a monograph of the Bromeliaceae, completing descriptions of more
than half of the approximately 1,700 species, and supervised a can-
didate for the degree of Ph. D. at the George Washington University,
this work being based largely on the material in the National Her-
barium.

Associate curator E.C. Leonard continued preparation of a Flora of
Hispaniola, completing manuscript for the first fascicle, Cycads
through Gramineae. The Acanthaceae for the Flora of Texas was
undertaken and the groundwork laid by obtaining and organizing
large loans of material. Work on the nearly completed Acanthaceae
of Argentina was largely suspended in order to obtain additional
critical material and to find time to meet publication deadlines on
several smaller manuscripts.

Associate curator Velva E. Rudd completed her revision of the series
Viscidulae of the genus Aeschynomene and also her synopsis of
Aeschynomene for the Flora Malesiana. She continued her studies
toward a synopsis of the subtribe Aeschynomeninae (Leguminosae)
and a revision of the American species of Ormosia, and commenced
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH. 87

the preparation of a floristic treatment of the papilionate legumes of
Mexico.

Associate curator Richard S. Cowan continued his studies in the
genus Swarizia, but spent most of his research time in completing a
manuscript on the Rutaceae of Santa Catarina, Brazil, and another
on the Rutaceae for the Flora of Guayana. Dr. Cowan completed
his work of preparing approximately 1,000 entries of Leguminosae for
the Index Nominum Genericorum. He served as botanist on the
1959 Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition, collecting some 569
numbers of plants on Trinidad, Tobago, St. Lucia, Dominica, and
Barbuda.

Grasses.—Head curator Jason R. Swallen continued his studies
of the grasses of southern Brazil as time permitted. On request,
he prepared a paper for the Boletin de la Sociedad Botanica de Mexico,
describing six new grasses from Mexico.

Mrs. Agnes Chase, research associate, has continued to keep the
comprehensive catalogue of grass genera and species up to date, as well
as proofreading the second copy, which she completed last year.
She revised her book, ‘“The First Bock of Grasses,” a new edition of
which was published by the Smithsonian Institution early in 1959.

Dr. F. A. McClure, research associate, continued his studies of the
bamboos under the auspices of the Maria Moors Cabot Foundation of
Harvard University and the National Science Foundation. The
last two of three installments of his paper, ‘‘Bamboos for the Pacific
Islands,” appeared in the July and October 1958 issues, respectively,
of the Quarterly Bulletin of the South Pacific Commission. A
paper entitled ‘“Bamboo as a Source of Forage” appeared during the
year in the Proceedings of the Highth Pacific Science Congress (vol.
4 8, pp. 609-644, 1958). To be published in an early number of
Taxon is a second installment of his paper ““Typification of the
Genera of the Bambusoideae,’”’ incorporating documentation of
recently described genera. At the request of the publishers of the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, an illustrated general treatise on bamboo
was prepared for their new edition, issued this year.

Ferns.—Curator C. V. Morton spent a good deal of time during
the year working over the photographs of type specimens of ferns in
European herbaria that he secured in 1954. All the prmts, numbering
about 64,000, have now been made. During the year work has been
concentrated on checking the identity of the specimens photographed,
checking the original descriptions and citations, and determining the
correct systematic position of the species involved. This work has
been conducted jointly with Dr. Hans Peter Fuchs, research assistant.
Mr. Morton has continued other studies on the ferns of tropical
America and on ferns cultivated in the United States. He has con-
SS U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

tinued as editor of the American Fern Journal and of the section
Pteridophyta for Biological Abstracts.

Cryptogams.—Associate curator Mason E. Hale, Jr., continued
on a major and long-term project of writing a lichen flora of the eastern
United States. Extensive fieldwork in furthering this study was
carried on in Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia, and
North Carolina. Considerable progress was made on a monographic
revision of the lichen genus Parmelia in tropical America. The bulk
of the West Indian herbarium specimens of this genus were annotated,
and the majority of the approximately 120 species in the section
Amphigymnia were typified. <A study of the Parmelia species identi-
fied by Bernt Lynge from Brazil has been completed. His other
research studies included experiments on the chemical strains and
growth rates of several] eastern North American lichens. Dr. Hale
attended the annual meeting of the American Institute of Biological
Sciences at Bloomington, Ind., at which he delivered a paper on
“Misunderstood Names in Parmelia, sect. Amphigymnia.”’ He
also presented a paper on “Chemical Taxonomy of Lichens’’ at the
monthly seminar of the Chesapeake Biological Station, Solomons, Md.

Associate curator Paul Conger continued his studies on the diatom
flora of Chincoteague Bay, especially in connection with its relation-
ship with the ecology and economic resources of that area; diatoms
are of especial concern in relation to pollution and to the food supply
of the oyster beds. Taxonomic studies have continued on the impor-
tant genus Grammatophora, and an analysis and study of Antarctic
diatoms was begun, based on the samples collected by the British,
Australia, and New Zealand Antarctic Expedition under Sir Douglas
Mawson. Some attention hasbeen given also to the study of abnormal
forms and variations among the diatoms.

Assistant curator Robert R. Ireland started a long-term project
on the moss flora of Virginia. A number of field trips were made to
the Shenandoah National Park and the adjacent Piedmont. A
complete bibliography of the literature on Virginia mosses has been
prepared, and a revision of the species reported by earlier bryologists
is M progress.

Dr. John A. Stevenson, honorary curator of fungi, has continued
with studies of the fungi in the museum collections, particularly of
those of importance in plant pathology.

Research by visiting investigators.—Dr. José Cuatrecasas con-
tinued as a resident investigator under a grant from the National
Science Foundation. He completed a monograph of the Humiriaceae
and began a revision of Colombian Compositae, consisting of approxi-
mately 800 species. Dr. Kittie F. Parker continued her research on
the western flora, especially Compositae. James M. Rominger, of the
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 89

University of Illinois, spent some time in the grass herbarium examin-
ing the specimens of the American species of Setaria, preparatory to a
revision of the genus.

Others who visited the department briefly were I. D. Clement,
Harvard University; M. A. Johnson, Rutgers University; D. A. Liv-
ingston, Duke University; Harold E. Moore, Bailey Hortorium;
Bassett Maguire, New York Botanical Garden; H. L. Mason, Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley; Elizabeth McClintock, California
Academy of Sciences; Rogers McVaugh, University of Michigan;
Rolla F. Tryon and Mrs. Tryon, Harvard University; Edith Scamman,
Harvard University; Robert Blasdell, University of Michigan; James
H. Maysilles, Hanover College; Donovan S. Correll, Texas Research
Foundation; Edgar T. Wherry, University of Pennsylvania; Mildred E.
Faust, Syracuse University; Joseph Ewan, Tulane University; Robert
K. Divoky, Kansas City, Mo.; Margaret Fulford, University of Cincin-
nati; Harvey A. Miller, Miami University, Oxford, Ohio; David
Pierce, Arlington, Va.; Paul Prior, Texas Technological College; A. J.
Sharp, University of Tennessee; Rudolph Schuster, University of
Massachusetts; Fr. Conan J. Taylor, St. Clement Friary, Cincinnati,
Ohio; Ruth Patrick, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia;
Ralph Lewin and Mrs. Lewin, Woods Hole Oceanographic Laboratory;
Francis Beaven, Chesapeake Biological Laboratory; John L. Stone,
Washington, D.C.; David Fairbrothers, Rutgers University; and
George Church, Brown University.

The following foreign visitors made use of the National Herbarium
during the year: A. Ferndndez, Bogota, Colombia; R. D. Hoogland,
Canberra, Australia; Ernest Rouleau and Bro. Fabius, University of
Montreal; F. A. Stafleu, Botanical Institute and Herbarium, Utrecht;
William T. Stearn, British Museum (Natural History), London;
A. H. Magnusson, Goteborg, Sweden; M. Vroman, Free University,
Amsterdam; Amy Von der Porten, Institute of Jamaica; Bro. Alain,
Colegio de la Salle, Havana; George Taylor, Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew, England; J. R. Ramsammy and Mrs. Ramsammy, British
Guiana; Juan Ibanez, Montevideo; and A. J. G. H. Kostermanns,
Bogor, Indonesia.

Staff members of other Government agencies, particularly the De-
partment of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture, con-
tinued to consult the collections regularly.

Geology

Although research in the department of geology has been seriously
slowed by the need to devote time to the planning and development of
exhibits, advances were made in each division. No discussion of the
research performed in the department of geology would be complete
90 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

without mention of Lawrence B. Isham, scientific illustrator, and
Jack Scott, photographer, whose work contributed substantially to
its accomplishment.

Mineralogy and petrology.—Curator George Switzer completed
the annual review of the diamond industry, and continued work on a
long-term research project dealing with the sulfate and related min-
erals. Other minerals under investigation by him are paradamite from
Mapimi, Mexico; fornacite from Tiger, Ariz.; and hambergite from
San Diego County, Calif. In August 1958 he made a collecting trip
to various western localities, including the uranium mine in the vicinity
of Grants, N. Mex.; the borate deposit at Boron, Calif.; and the copper
mines at Butte, Mont. Material collected was added to the Roebling
collection. Dr. Switzer was appointed United States delegate to the
Museums Commission of the International Mineralogical Association.
In this capacity he is also chairman of a Mineralogical Society of
America committee engaged in the preparation of a directory of
mineral collections in the United States. This will be incorporated
into a world directory of mineral collections to be published by the
International Mineralogical Association.

Associate curator Edward P. Henderson completed a study of the
Jalandhar meteorite. This iron meteorite is reported to have fallen
in India in 1621 and was made into a knife which was presented to
Emperor Jahangir. Other work in progress includes a study of the
geographic distribution of hexahedrites, investigation of the metallic
inclusions in iron meteorites, study of the morphology of meteorites,
and descriptions of several unstudied or incorrectly described mete-
orites in the collection.

Associate curator Paul E. Desautels continued a long-range research
project on the lead oxychloride minerals from Laurium, Greece, and
began work on the description of a new Mexican locality of the rare
mineral legrandite.

Associate curator Roy S. Clarke, Jr., completed chemical analyses
of the Casas Grandes, Grant, and Boaz meteorites, and continued
work on two long-range projects, a study of the solubility relation-
ships in the four component equilibrium system Na,0-CaO-B,0;-H,O,
and a study of methods of chemical analysis for stony and iron
meteorites. In addition, he is making chemical analyses of several
minerals for other members of the division.

Vertebrate paleontology.—Curator C. Lewis Gazin has renewed
his investigation of the lower Eocene mammalian faunas of the
Knight formation, based on the more extensive collections now at
hand. These include materials obtained by his field parties in 1953,
1954, and 1956 from various localities in southwestern Wyoming,
supplemented by small collections in Yale and Princeton Universities
- INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH Q]

and in the University of California. Better information is now avail-
able on the composition of the faunas and correlation of the several
horizons encountered. He completed a paper relative to this work
for the guidebook of the 1959 field conference of the Intermountain
Association of Petroleum Geologists describing the history of pale-
ontological exploration and dating of the early Tertiary formations
around the Uinta Mountains. Dr. Gazin has also undertaken a
study of speciation in the Eocene genus Hyopsodus, based on statis-
tical analyses of comparatively large population samples from various
horizons in the lower and middle Eocene and the sparse materials
known from the upper Eocene. He has underway, moreover, a study
of the relationships of certain groups of Paleocene and Kocene mam-
mals believed to have affinities to the pantolestid insectivores.

Dr. Gazin has continued to represent the Society of Vertebrate
Paleontology in the Earth Sciences Division of the National Research
Council, and to serve as chairman of the Eocene subcommittee of the
Society of Vertebrate Paleontology’s Committee on Nomenclature
and Correlation of North American Continental Cenozoic.

The chemical preparation and serial sectioning of fossil fishes from
the Jurassic of Cuba, for studies of associate curator David H. Dunkle,
has been continued throughout the year. The work was greatly
furthered with the help of an intern during the summer of 1958; it is
expected that the sectioning of skulls of all the holostean and halecos-
tome genera involved will be completed by the end of the calendar
year 1959. In addition to the continuing project, two small ones
were undertaken. One, completed and published, concerns a beryci-
form fish from the Oligocene of Florida. The other, which will be
ready for publication shortly, also involves a beryciform fish deriving
from Upper Cretaceous rocks of South Dakota, probably referable
to the family Trachichthyidae. These studies are considered of
importance because of the key position attributed to the order Bery-
ciformes as an intermediate stage of evolution between the primitive
‘Gsospondylous” teleosts and the more advanced acanthopterygian
fishes, and because of their heretofore negligible fossil records in the
Western Hemisphere.

Research of associate curator Peter P. Vaughn during the summer
and fall of 1958 involved study of the fauna of the Cutler formation
of Upper Paleozoic age in southwestern Colorado, which he had
undertaken with Dr. G. Edward Lewis, of the U.S. Geological Survey.
As a part of this investigation a field trip to the vicinity of Placerville,
Colo., to study the physical characteristics of the formation was
made in the company of Dr. Lewis.

Invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany.—Dr. Richard E.
Grant, who, through the assistance of a National Science Foundation
92 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

grant, is aiding head curator G. A. Cooper on his Glass Mountains
Permian project, has prepared manuscript for about 100 species.
He has completed study of the Strophomenoidea and is now engaged
with the Rhynchonelloidea, a group very prolific in genera and
species. Dr. Cooper has spent considerable time in the sorting of
the genera and species and making basic generic determinations.

In the last 2 weeks of May 1959 a party from the museum, con-
sisting of head curator Cooper, associate curator Boardman, and
others, studied and collected the thick sequence of Middle Devonian
in central and eastern New York. The object of the expedition was
twofold: to collect at some type localities fossils of poorly known
species for exhibits, and to study the facies development of this
classical region. Drs. Cooper and Boardman were accompanied by
Drs. J. T. Dutro and W. A. Oliver, of the U.S. Geological Survey,
and Drs. Gertrude Biernat of Warsaw, Poland; Michael House of
Durham, England; and Paul Sartenaer of Belgium.

Associate curator Richard S. Boardman completed a thorough
revision of the Silurian bryozoan genus Trematopora. By preparation
of numerous thin sections, Dr. Boardman was able to study the wall
structure of 10 species, and thus more closely to define the genus and
make its characters better known. In addition to this completed
project, he has three others underway. The first, with Nils Spjeldnaes,
of Norway, who has been working with him, is a revision of the genera
of the Paleozoic Trepostomatous bryozoans. The second is a study
of the rhomboporoid Bryozoa of the Hamilton (Devonian) group of
New York State; this study will involve the making of many thin
sections. The third consists of fieldwork in Tennessee and Virginia
designed to furnish material for a study of the Middle Ordovician
bryozoans of the southern Appalachians.

Associate curator Porter M. Kier completed two projects during the
year and has three in various stages of completion. His completed
projects include a study of some small echinoids taken from drill holes
on Eniwetok and Bikini Atolls. These enabled the dating of the
parts of the bore hole that produced the echinoids. Another completed
project is the description of six species of Paleozoic echinoids, these
rare fossils, usually complicated to clean and study, are illustrated
by excellent photographs. He is also well advanced in his study of
the Cassiduloid echinoids for the Treatise of Invertebrate Paleon-
tology. His other projects include a restudy of some unusually large,
flat echinoids from Carboniferous rocks of Belgium, and a study of
the echinoids of the Ocala limestone of Florida.

In early April 1959 Dr. Kier and Henry Roberts traveled to Ala-
bama, Florida, and Georgia in quest of Tertiary echinoids. Although
they found high water along many of the creeks they were, neverthe-
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 93

less, able to collect many fine echinoids, which will be used by Dr. Kier
in his revisionary studies. Aside from some specimens purchased
many years ago, this is the most substantial collection of echimoids
ever acquired by the museum.

Museum aide Henry Roberts completed a study of the Upper
Cretaceous decapod crustaceans (crabs) of New Jersey and Delaware.
The manuscript is to be published by the New Jersey Geological
Survey. He also completed a study of Tertiary decapod crustaceans
from Oregon, and the manuscript will be incorporated in a USS.
Geological Survey report. Uncompleted projects deal with Creta-
ceous crabs of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal plains and decapod
crustaceans from Eniwetok drill holes. Crabs and lobsters are rare
fossils and, when fragmentary, are difficult to study.

Research associate R. S. Bassler has continued study of the leper-
ditioid ostracods, a large and difficult group. He reports near
completion of this work.

Research associate C. Wythe Cooke has continued his studies of
Mesozoic and Tertiary echinoids.

Research by visiting investigators.—Many students of fossils
visited the museum to study collections or work on special materials.
Those visiting the division of vertebrate paleontology were: Noemi
Cattoi, Buencs Aires Museum; EH. H. Colbert, American Museum of
Natural History; Coleman Goin, University of Florida; Ernest
Lundelius, University of Texas; R. A. Stirton, University of California;
David C. Roberts, Cleveland Museum of Natural History; Herbert
Winters, University of California; and H. E. Wood II, Rutgers
University. Outside investigators in invertebrate paleontology and
paleobotany included several American and foreign workers: A. K.
Miller and W. M. Furnish, State University of lowa; R. C. Moore,
University of Kansas; Norman D. Newell, American Museum of
Natural History; Roger Batten, University of Wisconsin; Harry B.
Whittington, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University;
and John Imbrie, Columbia University. Foreign geologists working
on museum collections were June Phillips, now of the Peabody
Museum, Yale University, and Nils Spjeldnaes, Institute for Geology,
Oslo, Norway.

Museum of History and Technology

Although staff members of the Museum of History and Technology
are heavily occupied with planning for exhibit halls in the new museum
building, most of them also conduct research projects. Research that
is expected to lead to publication is discussed here.
Q4 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959
Science and Technology

Physical sciences.—Head curator Robert P. Multhauf has com-
pleted short articles on European science museums, the role of the
museum in engineering education, and the history of surveying instru-
ments. He has in progress a project relating to the development of
self-recording meteorological instruments. Dr. Multhauf serves on
the councils of the History of Science Society and the Society for the
History of Technology.

Mechanical and civil engineering.—Curator Kugene S. Ferguson
contributed several articles on the kinematics of mechanisms to the
McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Technology. He has also
nearly completed a study of the state of engineering thermodynamics
in the 1850’s entitled “John Ericsson and the Age of Caloric,” except
for consolidation of the mathematical analyses that were made during
the investigation.

Associate curator Edwin A. Battison initiated research into the
records of the Waltham Watch Company with particular emphasis on
documenting the development of specialized watchmaking machines
that have since been adopted by a large number of other industries.
He is also engaged in a study of the history of the Waterbury Watch
Company and its pioneer work in developing the nonjeweled watch.
Mr. Battison continues to serve on the Museum Committee of the
National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors.

Assistant curator Robert M. Vogel completed a study of the unique
elevator systems of the Eiffel Tower, which dealt particularly with
their relationship to the previous and subsequent state of the art.
The importance of this installation lay in the fact that it was the
first of power and capacity sufficient to fulfill the requirements of
vertical transportation presented by the then rapidly developing
skyscraper.

Electricity.—Acting curator W. James King continued his long-
range research involving expansion of the data and biographical files,
preparation of bibliographies, accumulation of material in the history
of electricity, and collection of electrical patents and photographs of
electrical equipment. He completed three articles on 19th-century
electrical technology, dealing with the chemical cell, the early
generator, and communications.

Transportation.—Curator Howard I. Chapelle has completed
amendments and additions to his catalog of the watercraft collection,
now in press. He has completed a number of articles on boats for
encyclopedias and has prepared a paper detailing the mode of recon-
struction employed in model drawings for the Savannah, the first
steamer to cross the Atlantic, in 1819. Mr. Chapelle attended the
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 95

World Fishing Boat Congress in Rome, in April 1959, and there
presented a paper on hull-form.

Assistant curator John H. White, Jr., completed a study of the
Kerper railroad and also a project on the Norris Locomotive Works
of 1855; he has in progress several studies of early steam locomotives,
cable railways, and the electric automobile.

Agriculture and wood products.—Curator William N. Watkins
continued his investigations of the origin of furniture woods and
other woods. He reviewed all the American and European woods of
the genus Betula in the collection in connection with an attempt to
ascertain the origin of a “Queen Anne”’ doll.

Edward C. Kendall, associate curator, continued research into the
cutting apparatus on the early McCormick reaper and subsequent
modifications of it through the 1870’s. A study of 18th-century
American plow types was begun, as well as an investigation of certain
aspects of Moore and Hascall’s combined harvester thresher patented
in 1836.

Medicai sciences.—Curator George B. Griffenhagen has under-
taken research in a wide variety of subjects related to pharmaceutical
history. These include a historical review of the drug supplies in the
American Revolution, the evolution of the apothecary jar, and
studies of early American drug catalogs and pharmaceutical apparatus.
Mr. Griffenhagen spent several weeks in Europe in the summer of
1958, primarily to participate as an official delegate in the 17th
General Assembly of the International Pharmaceutical Federation
held in Brussels September 8-13. He also visited numerous museums
and private collections in Europe for research and study, and he
presented several papers to various institutions and groups interested
in medical sciences. Mr. Griffenhagen continues to serve as secretary
of the American Pharmaceutical Association’s Section on Historical
Pharmacy, as secretary-treasurer of the Friends of Historical
Pharmacy, Inc., and as council member of the American Institute of
the History of Pharmacy; in addition, he was elected president of
the City of Washington Branch of the American Pharmaceutical
Association.

Associate curator John B. Blake completed a book entitled “Public
Health in the Town of Boston, 1630-1822,” which is now in press.
He also continued his researches into the history of dental instru-
ments, the history of hypodermic syringes and medication, and of
blood-pressure instruments. Dr. Blake continues to serve as secre-
tary-treasurer of the American Association for the History of Medi-
cine, and he is also a consultant in the history of medicine to the
Division of Research Grants of the National Institutes of Health.

Research by visiting investigators.—Among many visitors who
consulted the collections of the department of science and technology
96 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

and conferred with staff members may be mentioned George L.
Johnson, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare; C. E. Smart,
of W. & L. E. Gurley, Troy, N.Y.; Rear Admiral Hugh Pullen, Royal
Canadian Navy; Kenneth Durant and Robert B. Inverarity, Adiron-
dack Museum, Blue Mountain Lake, N.Y.; Paul Westhaeffer and
Leonard Rice, who studied files of railroad history; and a group of
representatives of the Civil War Centennial Commission, who were
concerned with records of the ships of the Confederate Navy.

Arts and Manufactures

Industrial cooperation.—Head curator Philip W. Bishop con-
tinued his work on his contribution to ‘Histoire Générale des
Techniques,” to be published in 1960 under the editorship of Maurice
Daumas, of the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers. He also
began research in the history of the development of manufacturing
techniques with special reference to the making of consumers goods
from the nonferrous metals.

Textiles.—Acting curator Grace L. Rogers’ history of the sewing
machine, based on the Museum’s collection, was completed and
progress was made on the catalog of the sampler collection. Addi-
tional research in the subjects of printing and dyeing and the needle-
work techniques will be incorporated in a publication on textiles, as
exhibited in the modernized south hall and gallery, which will present
a brief history of the important textile machines, implements, inven-
tions, and processes. It will be illustrated with photographs of the
outstanding museum specimens and of some of the exhibits.

Ceramics and glass.—Acting curator Paul V. Gardner has nearly
completed his study of Sévres and other French porcelain in the Alfred
Duane Pell collection. Other research projects in progress include
studies of Minton pate-sur-pdte in the same collection; the English
18th-century enamels in the John Gellatly collection; the renaissance
jewelry and ancient glass in the same collection; Ador, court goldsmith
to Catherine the Great; and the Charles X Sévres porcelain cabinet.

Graphic arts.—Curator Jacob Kainen made final revisions of his
monograph on John Baptist Jackson (1700?-1780?), an English
artist who pioneered in color printing from woodblocks. This study,
completed during the previous year, is now being published. He also
began a study of some phases of the style of the Dutch engraver,
Hendrick Goltzius (1558-1617).

Alexander J. Wedderburn, associate curator, continued research on
his study of Henry Fitz, Jr., who is said to have made daguerreotype
portraits as early as 1839. Some of these portraits are included in the
national collection.

INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 97

Assistant curator Fuller O. Griffith continued work on a, checklist of
the lithographs of Childe Hassam (1859-1935), a well-known American
artist. Hassam’s lithographs have been neglected, although they
probably constitute his most original body of work.

Research by visiting investigators.—Many visitors examined
collections in the department of arts and manufacturers in pursuance
of research; among them were Jeanne McHugh Kerr, Norman, Okla.;
Maria José de Mendonca, Musea Nacional de Arte Antiga, Lisbon;
Bhabesh C. Sonyal, Delhi Polytechnic, Delhi, India; Georges Dayez,
Paris, France; John C. Stehle, working on a study of the painter
Emanuel Leutze; Helen Louise C. Pettis, Howard University; Harold
S. Anderson, Edison Laboratory National Monument, Orange, N.J.;
George Leighton, New York City; Gordon Hendricks, New York
City; Beaumont Newhall, George Eastman House, Rochester, N.Y.;
and Henrique Scheibe, Cinematica Brasiliera, Sio Paulo, Brazil.

Civil History

Head curator Anthony N. B. Garvan, together with Arlene Krim-
gold, completed ‘Some Statistical Aspects of American Church
Plate.’”’ He addressed the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference
on the techniques of applying Human Relations Area File categories to
historical materials, and spoke at the Williamsburg Antiques Forum
on “Some Historical Dimensions of Colonial Silver.” He also ad-
dressed the 1958 Conference on Landscape Architecture on “Cultural
Aspects of the American Environment.” The Index of American
Cultures, under Dr. Garvan’s direction, completed the first area file of
about 250,000 items dealing with Boston, 1675-1725. He has pre-
pared a draft of ‘‘An Account of American Custom,” for submission to
an interested publisher, and is in the process of completing an article
on Puritan iconography. Dr. Garvan acted as adviser to the Penn-
sylvania Historical Commission on Governor Keith’s Graeme Park,
Horsham, and recovered for the Commission a substantial collection
of ceramics and metal work from archeological excavations of the
kitchen area. He served on the editorial board of the American
Quarterly and as a director of the Society of Architectural Historians.

Arlene Krimgold, junior historian, in addition to research for a
paper on colonial church plate, mentioned above, began research for
a paper on ‘‘Kuropean Adaptation of Native American Flora and
Fauna.”

Political history.—Curator Wilcomb E. Washburn addressed a
session of the American Committee of the International Commission
for the Study of Representative and Parliamentary Institutions, at the
annual meeting of the American Historical Association, on the subject
“The Effect of Bacon’s Rebellion on Legislative, Judicial, and Execu-
98 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

tive Relationships between England and the Colony of Virginia.”
He also completed a portion of his study of the legal and moral justi-
fications for dispossessing the American Indian. The completed
portion appeared as a chapter in “Seventeenth Century America:
Essays on Colonial History,” edited by James Morton Smith, published
in June 1959 by the University of North Carolina Press. Dr. Wash-
burn continued his work on a documentary history of Bacon’s Re-
bellion, and began basic research on political campaign techniques in
American life. In November he presided at the annual meeting of the
American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference, held this year at the
Smithsonian Institution, and was succeeded in its presidency by
Frederick J. Dockstader, of the Museum of the American Indian in
New York. Dr. Washburn immediately began duties as president of
the Chesapeake Chapter of the American Studies Association for
1958-59.

Margaret B. Klapthor, associate curator, continued her research
on the furnishings of the White House and on White House china.
A file of photographs of interiors of the White House at all periods is
being assembled for reference purposes. Mrs. Klapthor has continued
to act in an advisory capacity for the White House on the exhibition
and identification of White House china and has given the White
House assistance in locating items representing administrations
missing in the collection. The loan lecture on ‘“The Dresses of the
First Ladies of the White House’ was sent to Colorado, Florida, and
New York during the year.

Assistant curator Charles G. Dorman brought to completion his
“Survey of Delaware Cabinet Makers, 1700-1830’ and submitted it
for publication in the semi-annual journal of the Delaware Historical
Society. During the year he gave talks on ‘The Philadelphia
Presidential Mansion” and ‘‘The Adams Family in Washington, 1800
to 1847.”

Assistant curator Anne W. Murray carried on intensive research in
the history of costume in connection with planning the hall of Ameri-
can period costume. Special research concerning the restoration of
18th-century items was undertaken in order to overcome the lack of
sufficient original examples. Mrs. Murray’s projected catalog of the
Copp collection had necessarily to take second place to the planning of
the costume hall.

Cultural history.—Acting curator C. Malcolm Watkins continued
with his long-range study of 17th-century ceramics used in America,
concluding one phase with the submission for publication of a paper,
“North Devon Pottery Exported to America in the 17th Century.”
He has worked concurrently on his phase of a report on the archeo-
logical and documentary investigations of Marlborough, Va., the 18th-
century plantation of John Mercer. ‘This report is being prepared
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH O9

jointly with Frank M. Setzler, head curator of anthropology, who con-
ducted the excavations in 1956 and 1957 under an American Philo-
sophical Society grant.

John D. Shortridge, newly appointed associate curator in charge of
western musical instruments, submitted for publication a paper on
“Ttalian Harpsichord Building in the 16th and 17th Centuries.”’
He is now working on a comprehensive catalog of the musical instru-
ment collections. Mr. Shortridge has organized a group of amateur
musicians who play early music on instruments in the collections.
In March Mr. Shortridge participated in a recital at Mary Washington
College in Fredericksburg, Va., and gave a commentary on the music.

Assistant curator Rodris Roth initiated research for a paper,
“Floor Coverings used in America during the 18th and Early 19th
Century,” part of a general study of interior treatments. She has
also embarked upon the second phase of this project, a study of fire-
place equipment, other than cooking implements, used in America
during the 18th and early 19th centuries. Miss Roth lectured to
the Alexandria Association in January on ‘Furnishing the Federal-
Period Home.”

Ivor Noel Hume, chief of the Archeological Laboratory of Colonial
Williamsburg, was appointed a research associate of this division.
Mr. Noel Hume is completing a detailed archeological report on the
excavation of an 18th-century refuse pit at the site of Rosewell,
historic plantation in Gloucester County, Va.

Philately and postal history.—Acting curator George T. Turner
addressed the Library of Congress Philatelic Club, the Washington
Philatelic Research Society, and other organizations on topics of his
speciality. He completed for publication two papers, “Some Sources
Useful to the Postal Historian” and ‘‘A Biographical Sketch of A. C.
Kline.” As retiring president, Mr. Turner presided at the annual
sessions of the American Philatelic Congress held in New York City,
continued to serve on the Board of Directors of the American Phila-
telic Society, and participated as a judge of exhibits at the Garfield-
Perry Stamp Club in Cleveland. Mr. Turner carried on research in
several institutions in California.

Associate curator Francis J. McCall conducted research in Boston
and Cambridge, Mass., on the history of American Colonial posts.
This is part of a survey of development of the posts on the United
States eastern seaboard. Mr. McCall completed studies entitled
“A New American Nation, the Federation of the West Indies” and
“The New High Value Documentary Stamps.” He also gave talks
to local philatelic organizations.

Theodore B. Ruhoff, museum aide, completed a short study,
“Cracked Plate or Scratch Variety?” that was published in Linn’s
Weekly Stamp News.

524592598
100 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Numismatics.—A survey of the gold coins struck in the United
States was completed by acting curator Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli and
published in abridged form in various issues of the Washington Star.
Some progress was made on the ‘Dictionary of American Engravers
and Medallists,”’ and also in the arrangement and collation of source
material for a corpus of Greek coinage from Kallatis, Dionysopolis,
Istros, Markianopolis, Nikopolis, Odessus, and Tomis. Dr. Clain-
Stefanelli’s research on ‘‘Re-attribution of some Alexander Coins”’
continued, and a ‘Chronology of the Lysimachus series of Kallatis’’
was worked out, based on a comparative study of the dies as well as
on stylistic, historical, and intrinsic elements. The results of this
study formed the subject of a lecture presented at the annual meeting
of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

Assistant curator Elvira Clain-Stefanelli continued her research on
modern gold coinages of the world issued since 1800. Certain sections
of this long-range project, which will include over 3,000 different
types, were chosen as subjects for special publications; sections on
Ttaly and the Italian States with 142 types, and Germany and the
German States of the 19th century with 384 types, are in course of
completion. The Russian gold and platinum issues of the last 150
years, supplemented with an historical introduction, were the subject
of a special paper in course of publication in the Numismatic Circular,
London, England. A special study entitled ‘Italian Coin Engravers
of the 19th and 20th Centuries and Their Work” was completed;
it presents an analysis of the artistic aspects of the work of Italian
die engravers since 1800, and is a new contribution to numismatics
and its relation with history and the history of art. A new project
connected with ancient Greek metrology has resulted from research
on South Italian and Sicilian numismatics. It is a study on an
unpublished coin denomination, the tetartemorion, struck in Rhegium,
South Italy. In the field of ancient Roman numismatics, the assistant
curator continued her research on the subject, “‘Voting in Ancient
Rome as Illustrated on Coins.” The purpose of this study is to
show the contribution of numismatic evidence to a better interpreta-
tion of an interesting political and social aspect of ancient Roman life.
Some numismatic evidence was also gathered for a publication on two
hybrid denarii of Decimus Postumius and L. Mussidius Longus.

In connection with their research projects, Dr. and Mrs. Clain-
Stefanelli traveled extensively, visiting mints in the United States
and Canada. Paper currencies and other source material of the
Colonial period formed the subject of research at the American
Antiquarian Society in Worcester, Mass. The curator delivered
several talks to groups interested in numismatics.

Therese Heyman, museum aide, completed her project on the
medieval Mosan goldsmith, Godefroid de Claire.
INVESTIGATION AND RESEARCH 101

Research by visiting investigators.—The reference collections
of the department of civil history were consulted by many investi-
gators, including Carl Steig; H. W. Godard; P. K. Sherman; Meredith
Colket; Sister M. Fidelma; L. W. Christensen; Fred Thomas; O. L.
Harvey; M. W. Ludington; R. B. Truitt; Th. Buttrey, Yale Univer-
sity; Peter Berghaus, Muenster, Germany; Stanley M. Seganish;
Georgia S. Chamberlain; and Renee Fantin.

Armed Forces History

Naval history.—Head curator Mendel L. Peterson continued his
study of the marking and decoration of muzzle-loading cannon,
examining collections at Old Fort Niagara, Fort George, the United
States Naval Gun Factory, and single specimens in New England.
He assisted the Government of Bermuda in establishing the identity
of a shipwreck site discovered on the eastern end of the island, examin-
ing the site and materials recovered from it. Ceramic and pewter
materials were identified by C. Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of
cultural history, while wood samples from the ship were identified by
William N. Watkins, curator of agriculture and wood products. The
site proved to pertain to the wreck of the Sea Venture, which resulted
in the settling of the islands.

Military history.—Acting curator Edgar M. Howell completed
a study of Private H. Steiffel of the 5th United States Infantry and
his sketches of Army activities in the Western States following the
Civil War. He also brought to near completion a study of German
strategical and tactical defenses against Soviet guerrillas in World
War II for publication in Military Review, a publication of the Com-
mand and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, Kans.

Assistant curator Craddock R. Goins, Jr., completed a study of the
circumstances surrounding the presentation by act of Congress, for
gallantry in the War of 1812, of Hall rifles to Captain Aiken’s Volun-
teers. He also completed researches into the development of the Hall
rifle between 1811 and 1832.

Research by visiting investigators.—Col. J. Duncan Campbell,
consultant to the department, studied the insignia in the W.
Stokes Kirk collection in connection with the preparation of an author-
itative work on early American naval and military insignia. Other
investigators utilizing the department’s collections for research in-
cluded William Walker, Museum of the Rock Island Arsenal; Parke
Chetfield, Aberdeen Proving Ground; Bell Wiley, Emory University,
Atlanta, Ga.; and Helen Brown, research assistant for American
Heritage.
Publications

The scientific publications of the United States National Museum
continued under the editorship of John S. Lea, assisted by Ernest B.
Biebighauser, who also serves as editor of the Proceedings. On
January 12, 1959, Michael F. Walker joined the staff as editor.

In addition to the Annual Report, the Museum issued 22 publica-
tions based on research in the national collections. Of these, 4 were
in the Bulletin series, and 18 were in the Proceedings series.

At the close of the year, 17 Proceedings papers and the following
Bulletins were in press:

202, vol. 2. Fishes of the Marshall and Marianas Islands, by Leonard P. Schultz
and collaborators: Wilbert M. Chapman, Ernest A. Lachner, and Loren P.
Woods.

217. The birds of Anaktuvuk Pass, Kobuk, and Old Crow, by Laurence Irving.

218. Contributions from the Museum of History and Technology: Papers 1-11,
by members of the staff and others.

219. The National watercraft collection, by Howard I. Chapelle.

220. Type specimens of amphibians and reptiles in the United States National
Museum, by Doris M. Cochran.

221. Type specimens of birds in the United States National Museum, by Herbert
G. Deignan.

222. John Baptist Jackson: his chiaroscuros and color woodcuts.

Publications by the staff, including honorary members, totaled
226. These, listed on pages 105 to 114, were distributed as follows:

Publi- Publi-

Department cations Depariment cations

ANCMTODOLOGY ee ee suet ets ee oo | Clvilgeastoryy | an teas tel nee nae 8

BOTANY eter. Renee) eh . . . 54 Armed Forces History ..... 3
Geology: ous Pee EGP SUS PELE 126

ZOOLOGY A oe Ai eccentrics Pye cl ethers, SO Rotalidecoe\usdiahe hese eee O
Science and Technology... .. 16

102
PUBLICATIONS 103

Publications of the United States National Museum
July 1958 through June 1959

REPORT

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1958. Pp. iv+150, illustr., January 16, 1959.

BULLETINS

193. A list and index of the publications of the United States National Museum
(1875-1946). Supplement 1: Publications of the United States National
Museum, January 1947-June 1958. Pp. iii+16, October 8, 1958.

212. Checklist of the millipeds of North America, by Ralph V. Chamberlin and
Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. iii-+-236, September 26, 1958.

214. Review of the parrotfishes, family Scaridae, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp.
v+148, 31 figs., 27 pls., September 16, 1958.

216. Ichneumon-flies of America north of Mexico: 1. Subfamily Metopiinae, by
Henry and Marjorie Townes. Pp. ix+318, 196 figs., March 6, 1959.

PROCEEDINGS
From VoLuME 106

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i—vii, 589-615, June 8, 1959.
From VouumE 107
Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i~-v, 651-671, May 29, 1959.
From VouuME 108

No. 3395. A review of some galerucine beetles with excised middle tibiae in the
male, by Doris H. Blake. Pp. 59-101, 6 figs., July 16, 1958.

No. 3398. A review of the copepod genus Ridgewayia (Calanoida) with descrip-
tions of new species from the Dry Tortugas, Florida, by Mildred Stratton
Wilson. Pp. 137-179, 37 figs., August 11, 1958.

No. 3399. Revision of the milliped genus Pachydesmus (Polydesmida: Xysto-
desmidae), by Richard L. Hoffman. Pp. 181-218, 12 figs., August 20, 1958.

No. 3400. A revision of the eels of the genus Conger with descriptions of four
new species, by Robert H. Kanazawa. Pp. 219-267, 7 figs., 4 pls., October 6,
1958.

No. 3401. Three North American Cretaceous fishes, by David H. Dunkle.
Pp. 269-277, 3 pls., October 21, 1958.

No. 3402. Taxonomy and nomenclature of three species of Lonchura (Aves:
Estrildinae), by Kenneth C. Parkes. Pp. 279-293, 1 fig., October 21, 1958.

No. 3403. Rhizocephala of the family Peltogastridae parasitic on West Indian
species of Galatheidae, by Edward G. Reinhard. Pp. 295-307, 4 figs.,
1 pl., November 20, 1958.

No. 3404. Advances in our knowledge of the honey-guides, by Herbert Fried-
mann. Pp. 309-320, October 21, 1958.

No. 3405. Three new serranid fishes, genus Pikea, from the western Atlantic, by
Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 321-329, 2 figs., November 17, 1958.

No. 3406. The status of the lizard Cnemidophorus perplecus Baird and Girard
(Teiidae), by T. Paul Maslin, Richard G. Beidleman, and Charles H. Lowe,
Jr. Pp. 331-345, December 31, 1958.
104 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

No. 3407. Synopsis of the species of agromyzid leaf miners described from
North America (Diptera), by Kenneth E. Frick. Pp. 347-465, 170 figs.,
March 5, 1959.

No. 3409. Scarab beetles of the genus Bothynus in the United States (Coleoptera:
Scarabaeidae), by O. L. Cartwright. Pp. 515-541, 6 figs., March 10, 1959.

No. 3410. A further study of Micronesian polyclad flatworms, by Libby H.
Hyman. Pp. 548-597, 17 figs., March 6, 1959.

From VoutumE 109

No. 3411. A revision of the milliped genus Brachoria (Polydesmida: Xystodes-
midae), by William T. Keeton. Pp. 1-58, 11 figs., April 14, 1959.

No. 3413. Notes on Aradidae in the U.S. National Museum (Hemiptera),
I. Subfamily Calisiinae, by Nicholas A. Kormilev. Pp. 209-222, 18 figs.,
April 20, 1959.

No. 3414. Flies of the genus Odinia in the Western Hemisphere (Diptera:
Odiniidae), by Curtis W. Sabrosky. Pp. 223-236, 1 pl., May 29, 1959.
Publications by Members of the Staff
of the
United States National Museum

July 1958 through June 1959

Battison, Edwin
lions. Bull. Nat. Assoc. Watch and
Clock Collectors, Inc., vol. 8, No. 7,
pp. 327-330, 3 pls., December 1958.

Bayer, Frederick M. A faunistic study
of the shallow-water Octocorallia of
the West Indian region. (Abstract.)
Bull. George Washington Univ., vol.
58, No. 3, pp. 3-8, 1958.

Further remarks on the geo-

graphical distribution of Gorgoniidae.

Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol.

48, No. 12, pp. 394-396, 7 figs.,

December 1958.

A review of the gorgonacean

genus Placogorgia Studer, with a

description of Placogorgia tribuloides,

a new species from the Straits of

Florida. Journ. Washington Acad.

Sci., vol. 49, No. 2, pp. 54-61, 15

figs., [February] 1959.

and Deichmann, Elisabeth. Two
new plexaurid gorgonians from the
Bahama Islands. Bull. Mar. Sci.
Gulf and Caribbean, vol. 8, No. 3,
pp. 224-235, 5 figs., 1958.

Blake, John B. Diseases and medical
practice in colonial America. Inter-
national Record of Medicine, vol.
171, No. 6, pp. 350-363, June 1958.
Also reprinted in Felix Marti-Ibanez,
ed., History of American medicine, a

symposium, New York, MD Publica-|—_

tions, Inc., pp. 34-47, 1959.

American Association for the
History of Medicine: report of the
thirty-first annual meeting. Bull.
Hist. of Med., vol. 32, No. 5, pp.
425-437, September—October 1958.

A. Time—for Mil-]-

Benjamin Waterhouse, Har-
vard’s first professor of physic.
Journ. Med. Ed., vol. 33, No. 11,
pp. 771-782, November 1958. Also
reprinted in The Pharos, April 1959.

Bowman, Thomas E. A new species of
Acrocalanus (Copepods: Calanoida)
from off the southeastern coast of the
United States. Bull. Mar. Sci. Gulf
and Caribbean, vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 118-
124, 3 figs., June 1958.

, Chappuis, P. A., and Herbst, H.
Plankton from the Persian Gulf. In
Henry Field, An anthropological re-
connaissance in West Pakistan, 1955.
Papers Peabody Mus. Arch. and
Ethnol., Harvard, vol. 52 (Appendix
J), p. 266, 1959.

Brown, Roland W. Some _ paleobo-
tanical problematica. Journ. Paleont.,
vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 120-124, 1959.

A bat and some plants from the
upper Oligocene of Oregon. Journ.
Paleont., vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 125-129,
1959.

Carriker, M. A., Jr. On a small collec-
tion of Mallophaga from the United
States with description of three new
species. Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington,
vol. 60, No. 4, pp. 167-174, illustr.,
1958.

A new species and subspecies of
Mallophaga from Venezuela. Acta
Biologica Venezuelica. Univ. Cen-
tral de Venezuela, vol. 2, art. 18, pp.
172-177, April 30, 1958.

A pew species and subspecies of
Ardeiphagus from Colombia. Neo-

105
106 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

tropical Miscellany, No. 11, pp. 163-
166, February 1958.

Cartwright, Oscar L. Another old
record of Aphotaenius carolinus (Van
Dyke). Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington,
vol. 60, p. 124, 1958.

Scarab beetles of the genus
Bothynus in the United States (cole-
optera: Scarabaeidae). Proc. U.S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 108, No. 3409,
pp. 515-541, March 1959.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr. A new shrimp
of the genus Periclimenes from the
West Indies. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 71, pp. 125-130, 17 figs.,
November 10, 1958.

and Moore, George M. A bi-

colored gynandromorph of the lobster,

Homarus americanus. Biol. Bull.,
vol. 116, No. 2, pp. 226-231, 4 figs.,
April 1959.

Chase, Agnes. First book of grasses.
Ed. 3, pp. xix+127, 94 figs., Smith-
sonian Publ. 4351, 1959.

Clain-Stefanelli, Vladimir. Our gold
coins. An illustrated series in the
Sunday Star, Washington, D.C., 1958.

Clarke, J. F. Gates. The correct name
for a pest of beans. Proc. Ent. Soc.
Washington, vol. 60, p. 187, 1958.

Meyrick types of Microlepi-
doptera in the British Museum
(Natural History), London. Tortri-
cidae, Olethreutidae, Noctuidae, vol.
3, pp. 1-600, 298 pls., 2,687 figs., 1958.

Clarke, Roy S., Jr., and Cuttitta, Frank.
Determination of thallium by a
dithizone mixed-color method. Ana-
lytica Chimica Acta, vol. 19, No. 6,
pp. 555-562, 1958.

, Altschuler, Zalman S., and Young,
E. J. Geochemistry of uranium in
apatite and phosphorite. U.S. Geol.
Surv. Prof. Paper 314—D, pp. 45-90,
1958.

Cooke, C. Wythe. Pleistocene shore-
lines in Maryland. Geol. Soc. Amer.
Bull., vol. 69, No. 9, pp. 1187-1190,
1958.

Cooper, G. Arthur. Presidential ad-
dress: The science of paleontology. |-
Journ. Paleont., vol. 32, No. 5,

pp. 1010-1018, 1958.

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Cowan, Richard S. Leguminosae. In
Bassett Maguire, John Wurdack, and
collaborators, Botany of the Guayana
Highland—III. Mem. New York
Bot. Garden, vol. 10, No. 1, pp.
142-153, July 1, 1958.

Rutaceae. Jn Bassett Maguire,

John Wurdack, and collaborators,

Botany of the Guayana Highland—

III. Mem. New York Bot. Garden,

vol. 10, No. 1, pp. 154-156, July 1,

1958.

Leguminosae of the Western
Hemisphere—Notes on Choices of
Lectotypes. Taxon, vol. 8, No. 2,
pp. 58-60, March 12, 1959.

Crabill, Ralph E. A new schendylid
from the Eastern United States, with
notes on distribution and morphology.
Ent. News, vol. 69, No. 6, pp. 153-
160, 1958.

A new Eulithobius, with a key

to the known American species.

Journ. Washington Acad. Sci., vol.

48, No. 8, pp. 260-262, 1958.

A new Kethops from New Mexi-

co, with a key to its congeners.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Washington, vol. 60,

No. 5, pp. 235-238, 1958.

Conspectus of the higher cate-

gories of Chelicerata. In E. W.

Baker, et al., A guide to the families

of mites. Ch. 1, pp. 1-8, 1958.

A synonymical list of American

Himantariidae, with a generic key

and description of anew genus. Ent.

News, vol. 70, No. 5, pp. 117-126

and No. 6, pp. 153-159, 1959.

Notes on Mecistocephalus in
tropical America, with redescription
of Mecistocephalus guildingit Newport.
Journ, Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 49,
No. 6, pp. 188-191, 1959.

Cuatrecasas, José. Notes on American
Solanaceae. Rep. Sp. Nov. Fedde,
vol. 61, pp. 74-86, 1956.

. A sketch of the vegetation of the

North-Andean province. Proc. 8th

Pacific Sci. Congr., vol. 4, pp. 167-

173, 1957.

. The Colombian species of Jwanul-

loa. Brittonia, vol. 10, pp. 146-150,

2 figs., 1958.

PUBLICATIONS

——. Prima Flora Colombiana, 2. Mal-
pighiaceae. Webbia, vol. 13, pp.
343-664, 46 figs., 1958.

. Aspectos de la vegetacion natural

de Colombia. Rev. Acad. Colombia

C.E.F.N., vol. 10, pp. 221-268, 37

pls. (2 in color), 4 figs., 1958.

Introduccion al estudio de los
manglares. Bol. Soc. Bot. Mexico,
vol. 23, pp. 84-98, 6 figs., 1958.

Deignan, H. G. Two new birds from
eastern Asia. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash-
ington, vol. 71, No. 33, pp. 161-162,
1958.

Desautels, Paul E. The national collec-
tion of gems and minerals. Lap.
Journ., vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 4-10, 1959.

Drake, Carl J. Angolan Tingidae
(Hemiptera) (Second contribution):
Companhia de Diamantes de Angola.
Servicos Culturais. Publicacéés vol.
38, pp. 99-110, illustr., 1958.

. A new Australian piesmid (Hem-

iptera). Proc. Roy. Ent. Soc. London,

ser. B, vol. 27 Nos. 3-4, pp. 46-48,

illustr., 1958.

A new genus of apterous aradid

from the Philippines (Hemiptera:

Aradidae). Bull. Southern California

Acad. Sci., vol. 57, No. 3, pp. 147-148.

illustr., 1958.

A new neotropical halobatid

(Hemiptera: Gerridae). Bull. Brook-

lyn Ent. Soc., vol. 53, No. 4, pp.

100-102, illustr., 1958.

. An unrecorded saldid from Portu-

gal (Hemiptera: Saldidae). Revista

da Faculdade de Ciencias de Lisboa,

2nd ser., —C-, vol. 6, No. 2, pp. 145-

148, illustr., 1958.

New neotropical Veliidae (Hem-

iptera). Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington,

vol. 71, pp. 133-142, illustr., 1958.

Quelques Tingidae Malgaches

(Hemiptera). Mém. Inst. Sci. Mada-

gascar, sér. E, vol. 9, pp. 315-333,

illustr., 1958.

Three new species of Ypsotingis

(Hemiptera: Tingidae). Bull. South-

ern California Acad. Sci., vol. 57,

No. 3, pp. 149-153, illustr., 1958.

Tingidae (Hemiptera: Heter-

optera). Institut des Parcs Nationaux

107

du Congo Belge. Exploration du Pare
National de l’Upemba, Mission G. F.
De Witte . . . (1946-1949), vol. 50,
No. 3, pp. 25-33, illustr., 1958.

——. Two new neotropical microvelias
(Hemiptera: Veliidae). Bull. Brook-
lyn Ent. Soc., vol. 53, No. 3, pp.
59-61, illustr., 1958.

. Two new species of water-striders

from Peru (Hemiptera: Gerridae).

Bull. Brooklyn Ent. Soc., vol. 53,

No. 5, pp. 109-111, 1958.

and Capriles, J. Maldonado. A

new tingid from Pakistan (Hemiptera).

Bull. Brooklyn Ent. Soc., vol. 54,

No. 1, pp. 25-26, illustr., 1959.

and Chapman, Harold C. New
neotropical Hebridae, including a
catalogue of the American species
(Hemiptera). Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 10, pp. 317-
326, illustr., 1958.

——. The subfamily Saldoidina (Hem-
iptera: Saldidae). Ann. Ent. Soc.
America, vol. 51, No. 5, pp. 480-485,
illustr., 1958.

and Davis, Norman T. The

morphology and systematics of the

Piesmatidae (Hemiptera), with keys

to world genera and American species.

Ann. Ent. Soe. America, vol. 51,

No. 6, pp. 567-581, illustr., 1958.

A new subfamily, genus and

species of Lygaeidae (Hemiptera:

Heteroptera) from Australia. Journ.

Washington Acad. Sci., vol. 49, No. 1,

pp. 19-26, illustr., 1959.

and Roze, Janis A. A new Micro-

velia from Venezuela (Hemiptera:

Veliidae). Bull. S. Calif. Acad. Sci.,

vol. 57, No. 1, pp. 47-48, illustr., 1958.

(See under Slater, James A.)

and Smithers, C. N. Two new
species of Pogonostyla (Hemiptera:
tingidae). Revue de Zoologie et de
Botanique Africaines, vol. 57, Nos. 3—
4, pp. 313-316, illustr., 1958.

Dunkle, David H. Three North Ameri-
can Cretaceous fishes. Proc. U.S.
Nat. Mus., vol. 108, No. 3401, pp.
269-277, 3 pls.

Activities of the Division of

Vertebrate Paleontology. Soc. Vert.

108

Paleont. News Bull., No. 55, pp. 13-

14, 1959.

and Olsen, Stanley J. Description
of a beryciform fish from the Oligocene
of Florida. Florida Geol. Surv., Spec.
Publ. No. 2, Pap. No. 3, pp. 1-20,
4 figs., 1959.

Evans, Clifford (compiler and editor).
Anthropological activities in the
United States—1956. In Boletin
Bibliogrdfico de Antropologéa Ameri-
cana, vol. XIX—XX—1956-1957,
parte 1, pp. 31-65. Mexico, D.F.,
1958.

Archaeology: Western Hemi-

sphere. The Americana Ann., pp.

44-45, 1959.
(See under Meggers, Betty J.)

and Meggers, Betty J. Valdivia—
An early formative culture of Ecua-
dor. Archaeology, vol. 11, No. 3,
pp. 175-182, 1958.

—— and Meggers, Betty J. Archeol-
ogy of South America, except Ven-
ezuela and Colombia. Jn Handbook
of Latin American Studies, No. 21,
Univ. of Florida Press, pp. 16-26, 1959.

and Meggers, Betty J. and Estrada,
Emilio. Cultura Valdivia. Publica-
cion No. 6 del Museo Victor Emilio
Estrada, Guayaquil, 126 pp., April
1959.

Ewers, John C. Indian love medicine.
The Beaver, pp. 40-41, Autumn 1958.
(Reprinted in the English Digest,
London, March 1959, pp. 85-88.)

(See under William Wildschut.)

Feinstein, B. R. A record of the
white-headed marsh tyrant from the
State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
Condor, vol. 60, No. 4, p. 259, 1958.

Geographic variation in the
whiskered auklet. Auk, vol. 76, No.
1, pp. 60-67, 1959.

Ferguson, Eugene S. The tool engineer
and the tools of yesterday. American
Soc. Tool Engineers, Collected Papers,
vol. 59, book 1, No. 211, pp. 1-10,
13 pls., 1959.

Thomas Truxtun in New Jersey:

Some unanswered questions. Proc.

New Jersey Hist. Soc., vol 77, pp.

91-102, April 1959.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Friedmann, Herbert. Cerophagy in the
honey-guides and its microbiological
implications. XVth Internat. Congr.
Zool., sec. VI, paper 7, 1958.

The status of the gray-breasted

least honey-guides. Proc. Biol. Soc.

Washington, vol. 71, No. 15, pp. 65-

68, 1958.

Identification of bird bones. In

Erik K. Reed, Excavations in Mancos

Canyon, Colorado. Univ. Utah,

Anthrop. Papers, No. 35, pp. 210-212,

1958.

Advances in our knowledge of the
honey-guides. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus.,
vol. 108, No. 3404, pp. 309-320, 1958.

Fuchs, Hans Peter. Nomenclature pro-
posals for the Montreal Congress.
Taxon, vol. 7, No. 8, pp. 218-2238,
October 1958.

The correct name of the moun-

tain fern. Amer. Fern Journ., vol. 48,

No. 4, pp. 142-145, January 1959.

. Professor Wilhelm Herter. Amer.

Fern Journ., vol. 48, No. 4, pp. 168-

169, January 1959.

Identification et validité du

Polypodium pieritoides Lamarck. Buil.

Soc. Bot. France, vol. 105, Nos. 7-8,

pp. 338-348, pl. 1, February 1959.

Zur Nomenklatur, Taxonomie

und Systematik von Chetranthus cus-

pidatus. Act. Bot. Acad. Sci. Hung.,

vol. 5, Nos. 1-2, pp. 39-55, pls. 1, 2,

fig. 1, April 1959.

Zederbauera, eine neue orien-
talische Cruciferen-Gatiung. Phyton,
vol. 8, Nos. 1-2, pp. 160-170, figs.
1-5, March 1959.

Gazin, C. Lewis. A review of the
middle and upper Eocene primates of
North America. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 136, No. 1, pp. 1-112, 1
chart, pls. 1-14, 1958.

Paleontological discovery in

Panama. Discovery, vol. 19, No. 8,

pp. 316-317, 1958.

A new dichobunid artiodactyl
from the Uinta Eocene. Breviora,
Mus. Comp. Zool., No. 96, pp. 1-6,
1958.

Griffenhagen, George B. The phar-
macy in history. Journ. Internat.

PUBLICATIONS

College of Surgeons, vol. 29, pp. 789-
803, 16 figs., June 1958.
John ‘'Tweedy’s
drugs. Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut.
Assoc. (Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol.
19, pp. 498-499, 2 figs., August 1958.
Signs and signboards of early
American pharmacies. Journ. Amer.
Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical Phar-
macy ed.), vol. 19, p. 554, 4 figs.,
September 1958.
Where is the oldest pharmacy?
Journ. Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc.
(Practical Pharmacy ed.), vol. 20,
pp. 40-41, 2 figs., January 1959.
Dose: one spoonful. Journ.
Amer. Pharmaceut. Assoc. (Practical
Pharmacy ed.), vol. 20, pp. 202-205,
6 figs., April 1959.
The Wedgwood mortar. The
Spinning Wheel, vol. 15, pp. 34-35,
1 fig., May 1959.
——— and Romaine, Lawrence B. Early
U.S. pharmaceutical catalogues.
Amer. Journ. Pharmacy, vol. 131,
pp. 14-383, 6 figs., January 1959.
Hale, Mason E., Jr. Vitamin require-
ments of three lichen fungi. Bull.
Torrey Bot. Club, vol. 85, No. 3,
pp. 182-187, figs. 1-3, May 1958.
The occurrence of Parmelia
formosana in North America. Cas-
tanea, vol. 23, No. 3, pp. 89-90,
September 1958.
The status of Usnea diplotypus
in North America. The Bryologist,
vol. 61, No. 3, pp. 247, 248, September
1958.

Chemical components of type
specimens in Parmelia-I: Brittonia
vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 177-180, October
1958.

Handley, Charles O., Jr. A review of
the genus Hoplomys (thick-spined
rats), with description of a new form
from Isla Escudo de Veraguas, Pan-
amg. Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol.
139, No. 4, pp. 1-10, July 3, 1959.

Henderson, Edward P., and Furcron,
A. S. Forged meteorite from Cave
Spring, Georgia. Georgia Mineral

catalogue of| Hobbs, Horton H., Jr.

109

Newsletter, vol. 11, No. 3, pp. 86-91,
1958.
Two new cray-
fishes of the genus Procambarus from
South Carolina. Journ. Washington
Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 5, pp. 160-168,
24 figs., [May] 1958.

Two new crayfishes of the genus

Procambarus from South Carolina

and Georgia. Notulae Naturae, No.

307, 10 pp., 26 figs., July 1958.

The evolutionary history of the
pictus group of the crayfish genus
Procambarus (Decapoda; Astacidae).
Quart. Journ. Florida Acad. Sci., vol.
21, No. 1, pp. 71-91, 20 figs., October
1958.

—— and Hart, C. W., Jr. The fresh-
water decapod crustaceans of the

Apalachicola drainage system in
Florida, southern Alabama, and
Georgia. Bull. Florida State Mus.,

Biol. Sci., vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 145-191,
39 figs., 8 maps, May 14, 1959.

(See under Penn, George Henry.)
and Walton, Margaret. Procam-
barus pearser plumimanus, a new
crayfish from North Carolina (Deca-
poda: Astacidae). Journ. Elisha
Mitchell Sci. Soc., vol. 74, No. 1, pp.
7-12, figs., May 1958.

A new crayfish of the genus
Procambarus from Alabama (De-
capoda; Astacidae). Proc. Biol. Soc.
Washington, vol. 72, pp. 39-44, 12
figs., May 1, 1959.

(See under Word, Benjamin H.,

Jr.)

Hotton, Nicholas, S11. Morphological
relationships of the chorda tympani
in living and fossil tetrapods. The
Anatomical Record, vol. 132, No. 3,

p. 457, 1958.
——. Acroplous vorax, a new and
unusual labyrinthodont amphibian

from the Kansas Permian. Journ.
Paleont., vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 161-178,
pl. 28, 1959.

The pelycosaur tympanum and
early evolution of the middle ear.
Evolution, vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 99-121,
figs. 1-6, tables 1-3, 1959.

110

Howell, Edgar M. Wellspring of ésprit.
Army Inf. Dig., June 1959.

Kanazawa, Robert R. A new species of
catfish, family Loricariidae, from
Ecuador. Copeia [1958], No. 4, pp.
327-328, fig. 1, 1958.

A revision of the eels of the genus
Conger with descriptions of four new
species. Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol.
108, No. 3400, pp. 219-267, 7 figs.,
4 pls., 1958.

Kellogg, Remington. Description of the
skull of Pomatodelphis inaequalis
Allen. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool.,
Harvard College, vol. 121, No. 1,
26 pp., 6 pls., May 1959.

Kier, Porter M. New American Paleo-
zoic echinoids. Smithsonian Misc.
Coll., vol. 135, No. 9, 26 pp., 8 pls.,
1958.

Permian echinoids from West

Texas. Journ. Paleont., vol, 32,
No. 5, pp. 889-892, 1958.
Infrabasals in the crinoid

Opstocrinus Kier. Contr. Mus. Pale-
ont., Univ. Michigan, vol. 14, No. 13,
pp. 201-206, 1959.

Klapthor, Margaret Brown, and Brown,
Paul Dennis. The History of Charles
County, Maryland, Written in Its
Tercentenary Year of 1958. Charles
County Tercentenary, Inc., La Plata,
Maryland, pp. xi+204, 1 map,
illustr., [1958].

The Gown of Mrs. Dwight D.
Hisenhower, supplement to: The
Dresses of the First Ladies of the
White House, by Margaret W. Brown.
Smithsonian Inst., pp. 1-5, 1958.

Leonard, E. C. Three new species
of Acanthaceae from Santa Catarina,
Brazil. Sellowia, vol. 10, No. 9,
pp. 81-86, 3 figs., 1958.

McCall, Francis J. A New American
Nation, The Federation of the West
Indies. 24th Annual Amer. Phila-
telie Congr. Book, pp. 155-168,
1 map, 10 pls., 1958.

The new high value documentary

stamps. Amer. Revenuer, vol. 13,

No. 1, pp. 1-2, 1 pl., 1958. Reprinted

by Scott’s Monthly Journal, vol. 40,

No. 3, pp. 50-51, 1 pl., May 1959.

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1959

McClure, F. A. Bamboo as a source of
forage. Proc. 8th Pacific Sci. Congr.,
vol. 4 B, pp. 609-644, 1958.

Bamboos for the Pacific Islands.
South Pacific Comm. Quart. Bull.,
vol. 8, pp. 20-22, 56-57, April 1958;
pp. 40-42, July 1958; pp. 53-55,
October 1958.

Meggers, Betty J. Ambiente y cultura
en la cuenca del amazonas: revision
de la teoria del determinismo ambi-
ental. In Estudios sobre ecologia
humana, pp. 71-89. Estudios Mono-
graficos, III, Union Panamericana,
Washington, D.C., 1958.

(Editor). Evolution and anthro- |

pology: A centennial appraisal. 172

pp. The Anthrop. Soc. Washington,

Washington, D.C., 1959.

(See under Evans, Clifford)

and Evans, Clifford. Archaeologi-

eal evidence of a prehistoric migra-

tion from the Rio Napo to the mouth
of the Amazon. In Migrations in

New World Culture History, Univ.

Arizona Soe. Sci. Bull. No. 27, vol. 29,

No. 2, pp. 9-17, 1958.

and Evans, Clifford. Present
status and future problems of archeo-
logical investigations in Ecuador.
In Miscellanea Paul Rivet Octo-
genario Dicata, vol. 2, pp. 355-361.,
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de
Mexico, 1958.

——— and Evans, Clifford. Identifica-
cio das dreas culturais e dos tipos de
cultura na base da cerfimica das
jazidas arqueolégicas. Archivos do
Museu Nacional, vol. XLVI, Rio de
Janeiro, Brasil, pp. 9-82, 15 de
Dezembro 1958.

Morrison, Joseph P. E. Americana and
Indica Clessin 1879. Nautilus, vol.
72, No. 3, p. 105, January 1959.

The primitive (life) history of

some salt-marsh snails (abstract),

Amer. Malacological Union Ann. Rep.

for 1958, pp. 25-26, January 1959.

Brackish water genera of Mac-

tridae (abstract). Amer. Malaco-

logical Union Ann. Rep. for 1958,

p. 26, January 1959.

PUBLICATIONS

Morton, C. V. Ferns and fern allies. |——.

Encyclopedia Americana, vol.

pp. 131-1387, 1957.

The identity of Polypodium

viride Gilbert. Amer. Fern Journ.,

vol. 48, No. 2, pp. 75-77, pl. 9,

April-June 1958.

The Californian species of The-

lypleris. Amer. Fern Journ., vol.

48, No. 4, pp. 1386-142, October—

December 1958.

The new edition of the Inter-

national Code of Botanical Nomen-

clature. AIBS Bulletin, vol. 8, No. 5,

pp. 24-26, 1958.

Nomenclature proposals for the

Montreal Congress. ‘Taxon, vol. 8,

No. 1, pp. 11-16, January 1959.

Proposal to conserve the name

Geraradia L. sensu Bentham 1835

against Gerardia L. 1753. Taxon,

vol. 8, No. 1, p. 28, January 1959.

A proposal regarding the con-

served name Sphenomeris. Taxon,

vol. 8, No. 1, p. 29, January 1959.

Some casual notes on the new

code of nomenclature. Taxon, vol. 8,

No. 2, pp. 37-40, March 1959.

A new Ampelocera from Cuba.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, vol. 71,

pp. 153, 154. 1958.

Some Cuban Gesneriaceae. The

Gloxinian, vol. 8, No. 4, pp. 18-21,

May 1959.

(See under Smith, Lyman B.)

Muesebeck, C.F. W. Three new aphid
parasites from the Pacific Coast
(Hymenoptera: Braconidae, Aphidi-
inae). Ent. News, vol. 69 (6), pp.
141-145, illustr., 1958.

New reared species of Lygocerus

Foerster (Hymenoptera: Ceraphbro-

nidae). Ent. News, vol. 70 (4), pp.

91-96, illustr., 1959.

and Subba Rao, B. R. A new
Braconid parasite of Hymenia re-
curvalis (Fabricius). Indian Journ.
Ent., vol. 20 (part 1), pp. 27-28,
illustr., 1959.

Multhauf, Robert P. Surveying instru-
ments, their use and their invention,
Surveying and Mapping, pp. 399-420.
November—December 1958.

11,

111

The function of the technical

museum in engineering education.

Journ. Engineering Education, vol.

49, pp. 199-203, December 1958.

European science museums.
Science, vol. 128, pp. 512-519, Sep-
tember 5, 1958.

Newman, M. T. A trial formulation
presenting evidence from physical
anthropology for migrations from
Mexico to South America. Migra-
tions, Univ. Arizona Soc. Sci. Bull.,
No. 27, vol. 29, No. 2, pp. 33-46,
July 1958.

and Schrare, Harold. Quantitative
roentgenography of skeletal mineral-
ization in malnourished Quechua
Indian Boys. Science, vol. 128, No.
3322, pp. 476-477, August 1958.

Paradiso, John L. The common black-
fish in Virginia coastal waters. Journ.
Mammalogy, vol. 39, No. 3, pp. 440-
441, August 1958.

Parfin, Sophy. Notes on the _ bio-
nomics of the Mantispidae (Neurop-
tera: Planipennia). Ent. News,
vol. 69 (8), pp. 203-207, 1958.

Penn, George Henry, and Hobbs,
Horton H. Jr. A contribution toward
a knowledge of the crawfishes of
Texas (Decapoda: Astacidae). Texas
Journ. Sci., vol. 10, No. 4, pp. 452-
483, 68 figs., December 1958.

Peterson, Mendel L. (Editor). The
Journals of Daniel Noble Johnson
(1822-1863), United States Navy.
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 136,
No. 2, pp. vi+268, April 2, 1959.

The eagle as asymbol Sunday
Star Magazine, Washington, June 28,
1959.

Reitz, Raulino, and Smith, Lyman B.
Crinodendron no Brasil. Sellowia,
No. 9, pp. 19-21, 1 pl., 1958.

Rudd, Velva E. Supplementary studies
in Aeschynomene, I: Series Viscid-
ulae, including a new species and
five new varieties. Journ. Washing-
ton Acad. Sci., vol. 49, pp. 45-52,
1959.

Ruhoff, Theodore B. Cracked plate or
scratch variety? Linn’s Weekly

112

Stamp News, vol. 32, No. 3, pp. 15,
illustr. March 23, 1959.

Schultz, Leonard P. A new approach | ——.

to the distribution of fishes in the
Indo-West Pacific area. Proc. 8th
Pacific Sci. Congr. 1953, vol. 3,
Oceanography, pp. 413-416, 1958.

A new cyprinid fish from Siam.
Tropical Fish Hobbyist, vol. 7, No. 7,
pp. 9-11, 36-37, 2 figs., color plate,
April 17, 1959.

Correction for ‘‘The frogfishes
of the family Antennariidae by
Leonard P. Schultz, No. 3383, Proc.
U.S. National Museum, 1957.” Copeia
[1958], No. 2, p. 147, 1958.

. Review of the parrotfishes, family
Searidae. U.S. Nat. Mus. Bull. 214,
pp.v +143, 31 figs., 27 pls., Septem-
ber 16, 1958.

Three new serranid fishes, genus
Pikea, from the western Atlantic.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., vol. 108, No.
3405, pp. 321-329, 2 figs. November
17, 1958; corrected issue December

17, 1958.
Setzer, Henry W. The jerboas of
Egypt [corrected paper]. Journ.

Egyptian Public Health Assoc., vol.
33, No. 3, pp. 87-94, 1958.

The hares of Egypt. Journ.
Egyptian Public Health Assoc., vol.
33, No. 5, pp. 145-151, February 2,
1959.

The mustelids of Egypt. Journ.
Egyptian Public Health Assoc., vol.
33, No. 6, pp. 199-204, April 8, 1959.
The gerbils of Egypt. Journ.
Egyptian Public Health Assoc., vol.
33, No. 6, pp. 205-227, April 8, 1959.
Slater, James A., and Drake, Carl J.
The systematic position of the family
Thaumastocoridae (Hemiptera: Het-
eroptera). Proc. Tenth Int. Congr.
Ent., 1956, vol. 1, pp. 321-323, 1958.
Smith, Lyman B. Bromeliaceae. In
Pulle, Fl. Suriname, vol. 1, part 2,
pp. 94-148, 1957.
Resumo preliminar das Mirsi-
ndiceas de Santa Catarina. Sellowia,
No. 8, pp. 237-248, pls. 1-4, 1957.
A new Pitcairnia from His-
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 8,

paniola,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

No. 2, pp. 20, 21, 2 figs., March—

April 1958.
Caroa, nature’s gift to the
Nordestino. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol.

8, No. 2, pp. 28-80, 2 figs., March—
April 1958.

Lone Oriental of the Bromeliads.
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 8, No. 2,
pp. 19, 20, 1 fig., March—April 1958.
Orthophytum fosterianum.
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 8, No. 2,
pp. 24, 25, 1 fig., March—April 1958.
A striking new Peruvian Tilland-
sia. Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 8, No. 3,
pp. 44, 45, 2 figs., May—June 1958.

. On collecting Neoregelias.
Bromel. Soc. Bull., vol. 8, No. 5,
pp. 78, 79, September—October 1958.
Why Neoregelia. Bromel. Soc.
Bull., vol. 8, No. 5, p. 66, September—
October 1958.

Bromeliaceae. In Standley &
Steyermark, Fl. Guatemala. Field-
iana: Bot., vol. 24, part 1, pp. 380—
476, figs. 65-121, 1958.

Bromelidceas notA4veis do Herb-
drio do Jardim Boténico do Rio de
Janeiro, 11. Arq. Jard. Bot. Rio de
Janeiro, vol. 15, pp. 329-331, 1 pl.,
1958.

Notes on Bromeliaceae, X.
Phytologia, vol. 6, No. 4, pp. 257-261,
1958.

——. Notes on South American

phanerogams, 1. Journ. Washington

Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 9, pp. 282-

284, 1 fig., 1958.

Notes of South American

phanerogams, 1. Journ. Washington

Acad. Sci., vol. 48, No. 10, pp. 310-

314, 1 fig., 1958.

Trés Bromelidceas novas do

Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi. Bol.

Mus. Paraense Emilio Goeldi, new

series, No. 1, pp. 1-4, 1 pl., 1958.

Illumination on the _ generic

names in the Bromeliaceae. Bromel.

Soc. bull., vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 14, 15,

January—February 1959.

Bromeliaceae do Herbdrio do

Dr. Adolpho Lutz. Mem. Inst.

Oswaldo Cruz, fol. 56, fase. 1, pp. 35-

37, 2 figs., 1959.

PUBLICATIONS

Notes on Bromeliaceae, XI.
Phytologia, vol. 6, No. 7, pp. 433-443,
2 pls., 1959.

and Downs, Robert J. Xiriddceas

Brasileiras do Herbdrio do Museu

Nacional, Rio de Janeiro. Bol. Mus.

Nac. Rio de Janeiro, new series, No.

17, pp. 1-19, 1957.

and collaborators (Rogers Mc-

Vaugh, C. V. Morton, Aaron Gold-

berg). The Machris Brazilian Ex-

pedition. Botany: Phanerogamae,

Alstroemeriaceae and other families.

Contr. Sci. Los Angeles Co. Mus.,

No. 23, pp. 3-12, 6 figs., 1958.

(See under Reitz, Raulino.)

Snodgrass, Robert E. Evolution of
arthropod mechanisms. Smithsonian
Mise. Coll., vol. 138(2), 77 pp.,
illustr., 1958.

Snyder, Thomas E. Two new Glypto-
termes from the Philippines (Isoptera,
Kalotermitidae). Proc. Ent. Soe.
Washington, vol. 60(5), pp. 229-231,
1958.

Alien termite infests Houston,
Texas waterfront, Pest Control. Vol.
27(2), p. 6, 1959.

The minimum property stand-
ards for one and two living units.
Bull. Ent. Soc. America, vol. 5(1),
p. 50 (abstract), 1959.

Solecki, Ralph S. Eastern Hemisphere:
Archaeology. Jn Americana Annual,
pp. 46-47, 1959.

Digging up 100,000 years. In

The story of our time. The Grolier

Society Inc., pp. 264-267, 1959.

The 1956-57 season ut Shanidar,

Iraq. A_ preliminary statement.

Quaternaria, Rome, vol. 4, 8 pp.

(1957), 1958; and Sumer, vol. 14,

Nos. 1-2, pp. 104-108, 1958.

Dating of Zawi Chemi, an early

village site at Shanidar, Northern

Iraq. Science, vol. 127, No. 3312, p.

1446, June 20, 1958.

Collection of material data from

three archaeological sites at Shanidar,

Iraq. In American Philosophical

Society Yearbook—1958, Philadel-

phia, pp. 403-407, 1959.

113

Considerations in the interpre-
tation of aerial views in archaeology.
Photogrammetric Engineering, vol.
24, No. 5, p. 798, December 1958.

Stewart, T. D. Skeletal remains from
Mancos Canyon, Colorado. Jn Erik
K. Reed, Excavations in Mancos
Canyon, Colorado. Univ. Utah,
Anthrop. Papers No. 35, Appendix B,
pp. 190-197, August 1958.

Stone age skull surgery: A

general review, with emphasis on the

New World. Ann. Rep. Smithsonian

Inst. for 1957 (Publ. No. 4333), pp.

469-491, 10 pls., 1958.

A complete find of filed teeth

from the Cahokia Mounds in Illinois

(with Preston Holder). Journ. Wash-

ington Acad. Sei., vol. 48, No. 11, pp.

349-357, November 1958.

The rate of development of

vertebral osteoarthritis in American

Whites and its significance in skeletal

age identification. The Leech, vol.

28, Nos. 3-5, pp. 144-151, 1958.

Further notes on the Melton

mask (with Ben C. McCary). Quart.

Bull., Archaeological Soc. of Virginia,

vol. 13, No. 2, 2 pp., 2 figs., December

1958.

First views of the restored
Shanidar I skull. Sumer (A Journal
of Archaeology & History in Iraq),
vol. 14, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 90—96, 8 pls.,
6 figs., 1958.

Restoration and study of the
Shanidar I Neanderthal skeleton in
Baghdad, Iraq. American Philos.
Soe. Yearbook (1958), pp. 274-278,
1959.

Skeletal remains from the vicin-
ity of Point Barrow, Alaska. In
James A. Ford, Eskimo prehistory in
the vicinity of Point Barrow, Alaska.
Anthrop. Papers Amer. Mus. Nat.
Hist., vol. 47, part I, Appendix B,
pp. 245-258, 6 pls., 1959.

The effect of Darwin’s theory of
evolution on physical anthropology.
In Evolution and Anthropology: A
Centennial Appraisal. Publ. Anthrop.
Soe. Washington, pp. 11-25, 1959.

—
114

Switzer, George. Thirty-third annual
report on the diamond industry, 1957.
Jewelers’ Circular-Keystone, vol. 128,
15 pp., 1958.

Taylor, Walter W. The Pueblo ecology
study: hail and farewell. Mus.
Northern Arizona, Flagstaff, Bull. 30,
pp. 1-17, 1958.

A brief survey through the
Grand Canyon of the Colorado River.
Mus. Northern Arizona, Flagstaff,
Bull. 30, pp. 18-30, 1958.

Turner, George T. Some sources useful
to the postal historian. Official pro-
gram of 72d annual convention of the
American Philatelic Society, pub-
lished by Assoc. South Jersey Stamp
Clubs, pp. 60-68, October 22, 1959.

Vaughn, Peter P. On the geologic
range of the labyrinthodont amphib-
ian Eryops. Journ. Paleont., vol.
32, No. 5, pp. 918-922, 1958.

On a new pelycosaur from the

lower Permian of Oklahoma, and on

the origin of the family Caseidae.

Journ. Paleont., vol. 32, No. 5, pp.

981-991, 1 fig., 1958.

Activities of the Division of

Vertebrate Paleontology. Soc. Vert.

Paleont. News Bull., No. 54, pp.
18-20, 1958.
Washburn, Wilcomb E. Moral and

legal justifications for dispossessing
the Indians. In Seventeenth-Cen-
tury America: Essays in Colonial
History. Univ. North Carolina
Press, Chapel Hill, pp. 15-32, 1959.

Wedel, Waldo R. Las praderas cen-
trales de norteamerica: naturales u
obra humana? Jn Estudios sobre
ecologia humana, Estudios Mono-
graficos, III. Union Panamericana,
Washington, pp. 39-69, 1958.

Wetmore, Alexander. Miscellaneous
notes on fossil birds. Smithsonian
Misc. Coll., vol. 135, No. 8, pp. 1-11,
1958.

Extralimital records for the
eastern kingbird, tree swallow, and

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

blackpoll warbler. Auk, vol. 75,

No. 3, pp. 467-478, 1958.

Birds of the Pleistocene in North
America. Smithsonian Misc. Coll.,
vol. 138, No. 4, pp. 1-24, 1959.

Description of a race of the
shearwater Puffinus lherminiert from
Panama. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washing-
ton, vol. 72, No. 6, pp. 19-22, 1959.

Wildschut, William, and Ewers, John C.
Crow Indian beadwork, a descriptive
and historical study. Contributions
from the Museum of the American
Indian Heye Foundation, New York,
vol. 16, 55 pp., 47 pls. (3 in color),
1959.

Wilson, Mildred Stratton. North
American harpacticoid copepods. 6.
New records and species of Bryo-
camptus (subgenus Arcticocamptus)
from Alaska. Trans. Amer. Micro-
scop. Soc., vol. 7, pp. 320-328, 2 pls.,
July 1958.

A review of the copepod genus

Ridgewayia (Calanoida) with descrip-

tions of new species from the Dry

Tortugas, Florida. Proc. U.S. Nat.

Mus., vol. 108, No. 3398, pp. 137-179,

37 figs., August 11, 1958.

New Records and species of

calanoid copepods from Saskatchewan

and Louisiana. Canadian Journ.

Zool., vol. 36, pp. 489-497, 3 figs.,

August 1958.

The copepod genus Halicyclops
in North America, with description
of a new species from Lake Pont-
chartrain, Louisiana, and the Texas
coast. Tulane Stud. Zool., vol. 6,
pp. 176-189, 20 figs., December 31,
1958.

Word, Benjamin H., Jr., and Hobbs,
Horton H., Jr. Observations on the
testis of the crayfish Cambarus
montanus acuminatus Faxon. Trans.
Amer. Microscop. Soc., vol. 77, No. 4,
pp. 435-450, 26 figs., October 1958.

Donors to the National Collections

(Except when otherwise indicated, the specimens were presented by individual
donors or were transferred by the Bureaus of the Government in accordance with law.)

Abbot, Elinor. (See Abbot, Marion,
and Abbot, Marion Stanley, deceased)

Abbot, Marion and Elinor, Washing-
ton, D.C.: 3 items of early 19th-century
American costume (222541). (See also
Abbot, Marion Stanley, deceased)

Abbot, Marion Stanley (deceased):
(Through Marion and Elinor Abbot)
counterpane composed of yellow and
drab silk petticoats of the 18th century
(224951).

Abbott, Mrs. Isabella.
U.S. Department of)

Abe, Dr. Tokiharu, Tokyo, Japan:
27 fishes from Japan (222793).

Abendroth, Mrs. A., Teresdépolis,
Brazil: 12 plants of Brazil (223461,
225181).

Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.: 10
plants collected by Dr. C. Earle Smith
in tropical America (202265); (through
Dr. James Bohlke) 26 fishes from
Andros Islands, Bahamas (216359, ex-
change); (through C. S. Hart, Jr.) 102
shrimps (224320); (through Dr. H. R.
Roberts) specimen of the Hoba, South
America, meteorite and specimen of the
Black Moshannan Park, Pennsylvania,
meteorite (221215); and 625 minerals
from various localities (224716, ex-
change).

Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.,
Moscow, U.S.S.R.: (Through Dr. E. L.
Krinov) a slide of small spherical masses
and meteoric dust from Sikhote-Alin
meteorite (222660). Komarov Botanical
Institute: 209 phanerogams, 22 grasses,
and a fern, issues 81-84 of the ‘‘Her-
barium of the Flora of the USSR”
(222373, exchange) ; (through Prof. V. P.
Savicz) 50 cryptogams (221428, ex-

(See Defense,

§24592—59—_9

change). Mineralogical Museum:
(Through Prof. G. P. Barsanov) chevy-
kinite from the Urals, U.S.S.R. (219547,
exchange); (through Dr. Margarita
Ter-Minassian) 74 beetles from Europe
(220451, exchange).

Adler, Dr. Hans H. (See United
States Atomic Energy Commission)

Aellen, Paul, Basel, Switzerland:
Plant and 5 grasses from Austria
(218980, 220592).

Agence Philatelique Haitienne. (See
Haiti, Government of)
Agencia Filatelico Dominicana. (See

Domican Republic, Government of)

Agrell, Dr. S. O. (See University of
Cambridge)

Agricultural and Mechanica! College
of Texas, College Station, Tex.: (Through
Dr. Robert A. Darrow) 43 lichens from
Texas and Arizona (225089, exchange).

Agriculture, U.S. Department of,
Washington, D.C.: Agricultural Re-
search Service: 109 phanerogams and
75 grasses (217163, 222380) ; 381 phaner-
ogams and 6 grasses of the U.S.,
Mexico, and Central America (222681,
224368, 225180); 34 land, fresh-water,
and maritime snails from the U.S.,
Mexico, Africa, Costa Rica, and Greece
(220487, 220605, 223341, 223496);
54,245 miscellaneous worldwide insects,
but chiefly from Argentina, comprising
the Dr. F. Monrés collection of chrys-
omelid beetles (224690); 67,482 miscel-
laneous insects (225255); (through Dr.
S. F. Blake) phanerogam from Texas
(223134); (through G. F. Callaghan)
4 land snails from Casablanca, Morocco
(223458); (through Dr. Frederick J.
Hermann) 239 phanerogams from vari-
ous localities, 90 Indiana sedges, and 2

115
116

ferns from Dominica (221404, 221522,
224371, 225285); (through Dr. Phyllis
T. Johnson) 300 nematodes and 8
isopods (220662); (through Dr. Paul
W. Oman) 304 land snails from various
localities, 10 brackish-water snails from
Colombia, and 3 land planarian worms
(219517, 219604, 220155, 220213,
221441, 221545, 221693, 221824, 221825,
221879, 222164, 222277, 222576, 222790,
222888, 222853, 224155); (through Dr.
R. I. Sailer) 71 land snails and 11 fresh-
water snails from various localities
(220731, 221060, 2212384, 2238711,
223733, 224402); (through Dr. Bernice
Schubert) 7 phanerogams and 9 ferns
(222684, 223468) ; (through Ivan Shiller)
phanerogam from Texas (224147). For-
est Service: 42 wood samples from the
U.S8., Mexico, South America, Hawaii,
Eastern Pakistan, and Guatemala
(222952); (through Dr. Doris Hayes
and Dr. Elbert L. Little, Jr.) 16 phanero-
gams and 50 grasses (223890); (through
Dr. Doris Hayes) 2 ferns from Idaho
(224370); (through Dr. Elbert L.
Little, Jr.) 78 woody plants of Mona
Island, Puerto Rico (224971). Soil
Conservation Service: 70 cultivated
grasses (217981).

Aitken, Dr. T. H. G., Trinidad, BWI.:
31 chalcid flies from Trinidad (223881).

Albanese, John S., Union, N.J.: 8
minerals from Franklin, N.J. (223377).

Albert, Mr. and Mrs. Ernest, San
Francisco, Calif.: 44 marine and
land snails from Okinawa (221041).

Alexander, Dr. C. P., Amberst,
Mass.: 20,000 miscellaneous insects,
worldwide (225254).

Alford, Orie W., Cincinnati, Ohio:
4-maravedi coin, struck for The Indies,
in the name of Charles and Johanna of
Spain, 1516-1555 (221030).

Alhadeff, Maurice, Leopoldville, Bel-
gian Congo: (Through Brig. Gen.
William L. Hardick) “Thumb painting”
by Brazzaville native, Bela (220014).

Allan, Greever P. (See Post Office
Department)

Allegheny Airlines, Inc., Washington,
D.C.: (Through David L. Miller)
59 cacheted envelopes used for the first

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

airmail pickup experimental flights,
May 12 to July 2, 1939, and 2 photo-
graphs (225100).

Allen, Mrs. Francis B., Washington,
D.C.: Seth Thomas boat or deck clock
(224776); wag-on-the-wall clock, with
alarm and strike; black-walnut clock
shelf; and shelf clock made by Welch,
Spring and Company (224778); Smith
Premier Typewriter No. 10 (225118);

Birge & Fuller wagon-spring clock
(225120).
Allen, Paul H. (See Centro Na-

cional de Agronomia)

Allison, Edwin C.
University of)

Allison, John, Arlington, Va.: Gray-
cheeked thrush (223085).

Allred, Dr. D. M., Provo, Utah: 2
mites from Cuba (2230738).

Allum, Dr. M.O. (See South Dakota
State College)

Allyn, James, Mystic, Conn.: 2
builder’s block models of Delaware Bay
pilot boat Thomas Howard and an un-
identified ram (221206).

Almborn, Dr. Ove.
University of)

Alsaker, Dr. R. L., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: 280 marine mollusks (224298).

Altman, Capt. Robert. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Amadon, Dr. Dean, New York, N.Y.:
Finch from Panama (221969, exchange).

Amberson, Capt. J. M. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

American Cotton Manufacturers In-
stitute, Inc., The, Washington, D.C.:
(Through Halbert Jones) 5 modern cot-
ton fabrics (225110).

American Dietetic Association, The,
Chicago, Ill.: (Through Mrs. Thelma
Pollen) an exhibit comprising 3 panels
captioned “In the Year 1799,” ‘‘Today,”
and one conveying information concern-
ing today’s hospital dietitian (221418).

American Emery Wheel Works, Prov-
idence, R.I.: 2 grinding wheels (223582).

American Museum of Natural His-
tory, New York, N.Y.: (Through Dr.
Mont A. Cazier) 910 miscellaneous in-
sect larvae, worldwide, and 5 isopods,
1 insect (220650, 224174); (through Dr.

(See California,

(See Lund,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Libbie H. Hyman) 2 isopods from
Huntsville, Ala., amphipod from Juneau,
Alaska (219940); (through Dr. Brian
Mason) jagoite on melanotekite from
Sweden and pumpellyite from Houdaille
Quarry, Summit, N.J., and 8 minerals
from Australia (224355, 225278, ex-
changes); (through Dr. Donald F.
Squires) Devonian tree stump from
Gilboa Dam, N.Y. (211139).

American Numismatic Society, The,
New York, N.Y.: ANS Centennial
Medal in bronze, designed by Laura
Gardin Frazer (221211).

American Optical Co., Buffalo, N.Y.:
(Through C. J. Gelia) American Optical
Co. Ful-Vue operating otoscope
(222968).

American Society of Mechanical En-
gineers, New York, N.Y.: ‘‘Hook tool’’
(lathe) used by John Fritz (1822-1913)
(220978).

American University of Beirut, Beirut,
Lebanon: (Through Dr. Harry M.
Smith) 81 fossil marine sharks and ray-
finned fishes from two early Upper Cre-
taceous localities and one late Upper
Cretaceous locality in Lebanon (224474,
exchange).

Anaconda Company, Grants, N. Mex.:
(Through R. D. Lynn) 2 metahewettites

from Valencia County, N. Mex.
(220931).

Ananthakrishnan, T. N. (See Loyola
College)

Anderson, Hon. Clinton P., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 9 albumen prints by William
H. Jackson (224482).

Anderson, Donald M., Ithaca, N.Y.:
23 insects (223254).

Anderson, Dr. Louis E.
University)

Anderson, Mrs. Paul S., Washington,
D.C.: Razor and shaving brush
(223145).

Anderson, Lt. Gen. Samuel E.
Defense, U.S. Department of)

Anderson, W. R., New York, N.Y.:
Rubber hand stamps, hand canceler,
and other philatelic items, designed by
the crew of the U.S.S. Nautilus and used
on the voyage to the North Pole, 1958
(221563).

(See Duke

(See

117
Anderson, William W. (See Inte-
rior, U.S. Department of the)

Anonymous: 2 pewter porringers, by
Samuel Hamlin and William Calder
(220959); eagle skeleton (221500); Chi-
nese dragon figurine (224170); restored
pottery vessel (224171); 12 surface-
found sherds and stone objects from
Utah, 1958 (224344); rail chair, Alle-
ghany Portage Railroad 1832 (224834).

ANSCO, Binghamton, N.Y.:
(Through Philip M. Mikoda) Anscoflex
II camera (222913).

Anslinger, Harry J., Washington,
D.C.: Field utility kit of Kaiser Wil-
helm 11 (224484); 23 items of narcotic
exhibition material (224774).

Anthony, Mrs. J. D., Dahlonega, Ga.:
Gold bullion receipt of the Dahlonega,
Ga., branch mint of the United States,
June 15, 1846 (223149).

Archer, Frank Mather, Washington,
D.C.: Coat, Infantry Subaltern of the
Army of the United States, 1832
Regulations, worn by Lieutenant Wil-
liam Williams Mather, Class of 1828,
United States Military Academy
(224212).

Architect of the Capitol, Washington,
D.C., Capitol Power Plant: (Through
Robert D. Holcomb) 2 electrical meters
from the U.S. Capitol power plant
(224841); (through Walter L. Rubel) 9
items, consisting of steam pump, vacu-
um gage, gage frame, recording steam
gage, 1883, steam gage 1860, name-
plates from Westinghouse and Allis-
Chalmers generators (221782).

Arellano, A. R. V. (See Instituto
Geologico)

Argonne National Laboratory, Le-
mont, Ill.: (Through Drs. William D.
Ehmann and J. R. Huizenga) meteorite
weighing 175 grams from Ladder Creek,
Kans. (220929).

Aristeguieta, Dr. Leandro. (See In-
stituto Botdnico and Ministerio de
Agricultura y Cria)

Arnhem Land Expedition: (Under
auspices of Government of Australia,
National Geographic Society, and
Smithsonian Institution) 158 archeo-
logical items collected by Frank M.
118

Setzler and Frederick D. McCarthy in
Arnhem Land during 1948 (215944,
collected for the Museum).

Arnold, Edwin H., Washington, D.C.:
Greene model steam engine (223475).

Arnold, Col. Robert B. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)
Arnow, Mrs. Theodore, Santurce,

Puerto Rico: 6 marine mollusks from
Puerto Rico (223205); (through Dr.
W. P. Woodring) 4 marine mollusks
from Puerto Rico (224357).

Aron, William. (See
University of)

ARS Polona.
ment of)

Ashlock, Peter D., Washington, D.C.:
14 lygaeid bugs from California
(221389).

Assem, Dr. J. v. d., Hollandia-Binnen,
Netherlands New Guinea: 79 mosqui-
toes from Netherlands New Guinea
(221763, 223255).

Astin, Dr. A. V. See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Athens, University of, Athens, Greece:
(Through Prof. Dr. A. N. Georgiades)
400 specimens of slag containing oxy-
chlorides from Laurium, Greece
(219679).

Atlanta Coin Club, Atlanta, Ga.: 3
wooden nickels commemorating the
25th Anniversary of the Atlanta Coin
Club (221281).

Attwill, J. Sanger. (See Saugus lron-
works Restoration, Inc.)

Auckland Institute and Museum,
Auckland, New Zealand: (Through Dr.
A. W. B. Powell) 5 land snails from New
Zealand (221182, exchange).

Austin Peay State College, Clarks-
ville, Tenn.: (Through Floyd L. Brown)
46 lichens, collected by Dr. Haskell C.
Phillips (220289); (though Dr. Haskell
C. Phillips) 14 Tennessee lichens
(224648).

Austin, Mrs. Verna S., New Orleans,
La.: Ticket to Columbian Exposition
and a fifty-cent paper bill (225076).

Australia, Government of: Australian
Museum: (Through Dr. R. O. Chalmers)
16 meteorites from various localities in

Washington,

(See Poland, Govern-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Australia (221381, exchange); (through
Dr. Gilbert Whitley) 10 fishes from the
Australian region (222112, exchange).
Botanic Gardens: 178 phanerogams, 4
grasses, 28 ferns, and a cryptogam
(221992, 222679, 224831, exchanges).
Bureau of Mineral Resources: (Through
Irene Crespin) 7 Foraminifera, from
Antarctica (220992, exchange). Com-
monwealth Scientific and Industrial Re-
search Organization, Canberra: 969 phan-
erogams, 29 grasses, and 4 ferns
(223891, 224142, 225177, exchanges) ;
(through Drs. Earl Ingerson and Jewell
Glass) 2 stillwellite minerals from Mary
Kathleen Lease, Mt. Isa District, .
Queensland (222654). Department of
Agriculture and Stock: (Through W. A.
McDougall) 200 thrips from Queens-
land, Australia (220652, exchange).
(See also Arnhem Land Expedition).

Axelrod, Herbert, Jersey City, N.J.:
2,258 fishes, 5 shrimps, 2 crayfishes, 16
mollusks, and 3 lots of turtles and
amphibians from South America
(220160); 188 aquarium fishes (220490).

Backus, Richard H. (See Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution)

Baker, Dr Arthur A. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Baker, James H., Baker, Oreg.: 73
centipedes, spiders, scorpions, solpugids,
and millipedes from Oregon (223074).

Baker, Dr. Rellin H. (See Michigan
State University)

Baker, Thomas G., Washington,
D.C.: Mounted skin of a bat (225272).

Baker, Mrs. Wakefield. (See Mad-
ison, Marshall P., and sisters)

Baldwin, Wayne J. (See California,
University of)

Ball, Dr. George E., Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada: Approximately 1,500
centipedes from Alaska, Aleutian Is-
lands, Canada, and the U.S. (222903,
222904, 223200).

Ball Railroad Time Service, The,
Cleveland, Ohio: (Through Howard E.
Schrantz) Charles E. De Long escape-
ment (225005).

Baltars, Eduards, Baltimore, Md.:
18 phanerogams of Maryland (224143).
DONORS

Bambach, Dr. Karl, Washington,
D.C.: Unakite cabochon from near
Vesuvius, Va. (220927).

Bandy, Dr. Mark C., Wickenburg,
Ariz.: Fossil fish from the Cretaceous
near Dilaco, Bolivia (221246); 5 min-
erals from various localities (221508) ;
uranite from Morogoro, Uganda
(223371, exchange).

Banner, Albert H., Honolulu, T.H.:
Zoanthid (223670).

Baranowski, R. M.
University of)

Barbehenn, Dr. Kyle.
Academy of Sciences)

Barber, Alvin. (See International
Silk Association (U.S.A.), Inc.)

Barbosa, Ivete, Recife, Pernambuco,
Brazil: 2 mollusks and 5 corals from
near Recife (222064).

Barbour, Jack, Hyattsville, Md.:
Quartz crystal micromount from Mid-
dleville, N.Y. (224178).

Barnes, Col. Theodore, Washington,
D.C.: (Through B. Woodruff Weaver)
Mary Todd Lincoln fan, Harrison
silver-hinged envelope, mid-Victorian
over-mantel mirror, marble mantel, mid-
Victorian ceiling medallion, wooden
footstool, ladies evening bag with watch,
bronze medal, cashmere shawl, linen
and lace handkerchief, china plate and
saucer, and a gilt-head walking stick
(218702). °

Barr, Dr. Thomas C., Jr., Cookeville,
Tenn.: 8 centipedes from Tennessee,
Texas, Kentucky, and West Virginia
(221174, 223879). (See also Tennessee
Polytechnic Institute)

Barsanov, Prof. G. P. (See Academy
of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Bartley, Floyd, Circleville, Ohio: 146
phanerogams, 8 grasses, and 6 ferns
(218553, 223991).

(See Florida,

(See National

Barton, E. Hank, Falls Church, Va.:| .

2 notes of North Korea, printed in
1947 in Russia (223153); a North
Korean 100-won note, printed 1947
in Russia and put into circulation about
1951, and 5 Formosa notes issued -in
1946 by the Bank of Taiwan, printed
by the ‘‘Central Trust Printery,’”’ can-
celed 1949 (224999).

TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

119

Barton, Fred B., Akron, Ohio: Flag
remnant, said to have been part of the
battle flag carried by General Custer’s
troops at the Little Big Horn, June
25, 1876 (221642).

Bartsch, Dr.A. F. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Bates, Mrs. J. W., Sr., Tulsa, Okla.:
Sea urchin (220308). .

Bates Museum, Hinckley, Maine:
(Through E. Hayden Russell) cuneiform
inscribed cone of Sumerian age found
at Nisin, Iraq (222992, exchange).

Batista, Prof. A. Chaves.
Instituto de Micologia)

Baty, Marcia Stanhope, Topeka,
Kans.: Elgin National Watch Company
wateh (224529).

Bayer, Dr. F. M., Washington, D.C.:
30 centipedes from Okinawa (225256).

Beal, Dr. R. S., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 2 beetles from the U.S. (221155);
beetle from Plummers Island, Maryland
(221770).

Bears Bluff Laberatories, Wadmalaw
Island, S:C.: (Through Dr. C. E.
Dawson) 7 fishes from various localities
(220215, exchange).

Beaudette Foundation fer Biological
Research, Solvang, Calif.: (Through
Dr. EX. Yale Dawson) 2 paratypes of
algae (223888).

Beck, Charles L., El Paso, Tex.:
Knife, sheath, brass ring, bow, and
22 arrows from the Congo (223233).

Becker, Leroy E. (See Creole Pe-
troleum Corp.)

Becton, Dickinson & Co., Ruther-
ford, N.J.: (Through Frank A. Holt,
Jr.) 5 Hypak sterile, disposable syringes,
4 with needles (223293).

Beer, Dr. Robert.
University of)

Beeson, Craig, Alexandria, Va.: Al-
bino shrew from Alexandria, Va.
(223456).

Beets, Virginia, Washington, D.C.:
Silver lapel button (hole-in-sole) used
in 1952 Democratic presidential cam-
paign (222941); 100-yuan note, issued
in 1941 by the Central Bank of China,
and 12 pieces of 1l-yuan national cur-

(See

(See Kansas,
120 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

rency notes, issued by the Farmers
Bank of China (225198).

Beil, Mr. and Mrs. Lee R., St. Peters-
burg, Fla.: 4 marine mollusks from
Panama (223875).

Belford, Dr. D. J., Canberra, Aus-
tralia: 2 slides and 6 thin sections con-
taining 5 topotypes and 7 specimens of
Foraminifera from the Eocene of Mexico
and the Cretaceous of West Australia
(222636).

Bell, Dr. J. Frederick. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Bell, Mrs. Julia Fitz Overton, Peconic,
N.Y.: (Through Mrs. Willard H.
Howell) 2 medals, bronze and gold, and
2 certificates, awarded Henry Fitz,
1845 and 1853 (220983).

- Bell, Prof. Ross T., Burlington, Vt.:
Holotype of beetle from United States
(223188).

Bell & Howell Co., Chicago, IIl.:
Electric eye turret 8 mm. motion
picture camera (223122).

Bell Telephone Laboratories, New
York, N.Y.: (Through A. R. Thompson)
2 early electron tubes (223094).

Benedict, Dr. Raiph C., Brooklyn,
N.Y.: 8 cultivated ferns (220777).

Bengston, Mrs. George, Independ-
ence, Iowa: 22 fresh-water snails and
80 insect larvae (221465).

Bennett, E. D., St. Augustine, Trin-
idad, B.W.I.: Types of 2 species of
chalcid flies from Trinidad (223244).

Bennett, F. D., Albany, Calif.: 35
chalcid flies from California (221168).

Bennison, Allan P. (See Sinclair Oil
and Gas Company)

Benos, L. C. (See New York City
Transit Authority)

Benton, Dr. Allen H., Albany, N.Y.:
14 lice from the U.S. (221180).

Bequaert, Dr. J.. Cambridge, Mass.:
10 flies from Texas and Mexico (221163).

Berg, Dr. Clifford O., Ithaca, N.Y.:
105 aquatic flies and midges from
Michigan (221175).

Bermuda Biological Station, St.
George’s West, Bermuda: (Through
Dr. James M. Moulton) 13 shrimps
(220664).

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Berry, Frederick H.
U.S. Department of the)

Berwick, Mrs. Clara W., Norwood,
Mass.: 170 pieces of American and
European early glass (221520).

Bettman, Dr. and Mrs. R. B., High-
land Park, Ill.: Political campaign ma-
terial for Arnold Miles _ collection
(220963).

Biese, Dr. Walter, Santiago, Chile:
1,225 marine, fresh-water, and land
mollusks from Chile, and 1 lot of
brachiopods (215351, exchange).

Biezanko, Dr. C. M., Pelotas, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil: 216 miscellaneous
insects (221161, 225260).

Bigelow, Mrs. Emerson, Washington,
D.C.: 2 white dresses, turn-of-the-
century (223960).

Billings, J. Harland.
Institute of Technology)

Bishop Museum, Bernice P., Hono-
lulu, T.H.: Marine mollusk from Hawaii
(224414, exchange); (through Dr. C. H.
Edmondson) 13 crabs, 2 crab pleopods,
1 aleyonarian, and 1,000 Foraminifera
(220235, 220723, 223428); (through Dr.
J. L. Gressitt) 53 insects from New
Guinea (223271, exchange); (through
Dr. Yoshio Kondo) 9 land snails from

(See Interior,

(See Drexel

the Hawaiian Islands (213012,
exchange).
Bittinger, Charles, and Judd, Dr.

Deane B., Washington, D.C.: Painting
of solar spectrum made by the donors
(223099).

Blackmar, Mrs. H. B., Omaha, Nebr.:
60 pieces of furniture, household fur-
nishings, and pictorial matter, includ-
ing a fine Connecticut highboy, all
belonging to the family of the donor
(220211).

Blake, Dr. S. F.
U.S. Department of)

Blancett, Esther, Washington, D.C.:
United States mint block of 15, center
stamp showing damaged plate variety,
4-cent Freedom of the Press issue, and
United States mint block of 15 as shown
without damaged plate variety (225308).

Blanchard, Ruth L. (See Smith-
sonian Institution)

(See Agriculture,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Blauston, Dr. Francis M., White
Plains, N.Y.: 10 dental advertising
cards (223482).

Blauvelt, Mrs. A. A.
Stamp Club)

Blecher, Minna, Washington, D.C.:
Carabao skin fan acquired by the donor
from Java (219922).

Bliss, E. W., Co., Canton, Ohio: 6
aluminum medals struck with a knuckle-
joint press (221900).

Blow, W. H. Sunbury-on-Thames,
Middlesex, England: 2 Foraminifera
from the upper Hocene of East Africa
(225074).

Blower, J. G., Manchester, England:
30 centipedes from England (223172).

Blumenthal, Theresa, Washington,
D.C.: Man’s nightshirt with red em-
broidery, and woman’s petticoat, ca.
1898 (221549).

Board of Trustees and Building Com-
mission, Wilmington, Del.: The Henry
C. Conrad School District: Delaware log
house (223588).

Boevers, Friedrich, Goslar am Harz,
Germany: 8 ores from Rammelsberg,
Harz Mountains, Germany (221148).

Bogue, Robert H., Washington, D.C.:
Skin skirt, apron, and bead ornament,
from Karamoja, Uganda, East Africa,
collected in 1956 by Mrs. P. 8S. Cart-
wright, missionary at Lotombe (222626).

Bohart, Dr. Richard M., Davis, Calif.:
2 wasps from California (223067).

Boéhlke, Dr. James. (See Academy
of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Bolster, Mrs. Ella S. (See Designer-
Weavers of Washington)

Boltovskoy, Dr. Esteban, Temperley,
Argentina: 150 Recent Foraminifera of
the Patagonian Shelf (223289). (See
also Servicio de Hidrografia Naval)

Bordewisch, Mrs. Louis, Cheverly,
Md.: Child’s rocking chair and doll
carriage (220961).

Borjes, Clara L., Washington, D.C.:
2 small pieces of fine needlepoint
(225106).

Borrero H., Dr. J. I., Bogota, Colom-
bia: (Through Dr. Alexander Wetmore)
tanager (223238, exchange).

(See Tucson

121

Borro, Dr. Primitivo, Havana, Cuba:
4 brachiopods from the Oligocene, Cuba
(222639).

Boston University, Boston, Mass.:
(Through Dr. Arthur G. Humes) 397
copepods, including types (220663).

Botanical Museum, The University,
Lund, Sweden: 25 mosses of New
England, collected by Dr. Sven
Berggren in 1874, and 25 Scandinavian
mosses (220332, exchange).

Botanisch Museum en Herbarium,
Utrecht, The Netherlands: 50 bryo-
phytes (222370, exchange); 29 plants
and 1 photograph from Surinam
(224382, exchange).

Botanischer Garten und Museum,
Berlin-Dahlem, Germany: 233 phanero-
grams, 9 grasses, and 23 ferns (222377,
exchange).

Botanisches Institut, Mainz, Ger-
many: 3 plants from Colombia (220329).

Bottimer, L. J., Kerrville, Tex.: 3 small
moths and one infested pod of acacia
(223082).

Bottome, Peter, Cambridge, Mass.:
1,644 fresh-water and marine fishes from
Venezuela (219726).

Boucot, Dr. Arthur J., Cambridge,
Mass.: Plancheite from Star of Congo
Mine, Belgian Congo, and 6 minerals
from Sweden and Belgium (220926,
220930); 3 minerals from Sweden
(224176, exchange).

Bournier, Dr. A., Montpellier, France:
27 thrips, including 3 paratypes from
France, Madagascar, and French Equa-
torial Africa (223273, exchange).

Bousfield, Dr. E. L. (See Canada,
Government of)

Bowman, Dr. T. E., Washington,
D.C.: 7,154 miscellaneous marine in-
vertebrates (218558).

Boyd, Charles, Chevy Chase, Md.:
Red salamander from Washington, D.C.
(220359).

Bradshaw, Gordon VR., Tucson,
Ariz.: 2 squirrels from Arizona (225277).

Brady, L. F., Tucson, Ariz.: Cast of
fragment of a fish tooth (224184).

Braitsch, Dr. Otto. (See Sediment-
petrographische Institut)
122

Brandt, Rolf, Bengazi, Libya: 81 land
and fresh-water mollusks from North
Africa and the Balkan Peninsula
(224273, exchange).

Branscomb, Donald, Willits, Calif.:
10 ferns from California (221183,
222257, 223740).

Branson, Branley A., Stillwater, Okla.:
339 land and fresh-water mollusks from
Colorado, Idaho, Oklahoma, and Texas,
and 6 fresh-water ostracod crustaceans
from Texas (220220).

Bredin, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce. (See
Bredin Fund, Smithsonian Institution)

Bredin Fund, Smithsonian Institution:
(Through Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Bredin)
48 mammals, 10 reptiles, 3,443 fishes,
6,748 insects, 7,685 miscellaneous marine
invertebrates, 3,100 mollusks, soil sam-
ples for biotic assay, 4 specimens of
bauxite, 7 bags and 7 bottles of bottom
sediments collected in the British Virgin
and Leeward Islands in the spring of
1958 under the direction of Dr. Waldo
L. Schmitt (217237); 10 bags of fora-
miniferal sediments collected in the
British West Indies in the spring cf 1956
under the direction of Dr. Waldo L.
Schmitt (221749) ; 8 lots of Foraminifera
and a phosphate ore collected in the
Society Islands in 1957 under the direc-
tion of Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt (222016).

Breuer, Joseph P. (See Game and
Fish Commission)

Breyer, Dr. Alberto, Buenos Aires,
Argentina: 2 butterflies from Argentina
(218570).

Bricefio-Maaz, T., San Tomé, Vene-
zuela: Lizard from San Tomé, Estado
Amortegui, Venezuela (220547).

Bridgeport, City of, Bridgeport,Conn.:
Plaster ceiling and miscellaneous archi-
tectural fragments from the Harral-
Wheeler house (220109).

Briggs, John C. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Brink, Walter C., Genesee Depot,
Wis.: 5 unused ‘‘Brook Hill Local’
stamps (223677).

British Columbia, University of, Van-
couver, B.C., Canada: (Through Walter
Sheppe, Jr.) 367 fleas from British
Columbia (223064).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Brodkorb, Dr. Pierce.
University of)

Brodo, I. M., Ithaca, N.Y.: 36 lichens
of New York (222698), exchange).

Bronk, Dr. Detlev W. (See Rocke-
feller Institute)

Brookhaven National Laboratories,
Upton, L.I., N.Y.: .o(fhrough, 7Dr:
Raymond Davis, Jr.) 35 tektites from
the Philippine Islands (224469).

Brooklyn Public Library, Brooklyn,
N.Y.: United States national flag, 13
stars and stripes; signal flag from
Spanish prize ship Buena Ventura, 1899;
Confederate States battle flag (219818).

Brother, Alfred H., Winona, Minn.:
Lizard and 1 lot of mollusks from the
Philippine Islands (222858).

Brother Alain. (See Colegio de La
Salle)

Brown, Floyd L.
State College)

(See Florida,

(See Austin Peay

Brown, JohnS. (See St. Joseph Lead
Company)
Brown, Cel. John V., Hiilcrest

Heights, Md.: 26 uniforms and uni-
form accessories worn by donor while a
member of New Jersey National Guard,
ca. 1930, and the United States Air
Forces, ca. 1949 (224395).

Brown, Dr. Noel K., Jr., New York,
N.Y.:3 brachiopods from Cuba (220925).

Brown, Dr. Roland W., Washington,
D.C.: 26 cut and polished geodes
(225169).

Brown, W. Barrett.
Mrs. Maude Monell)

Brown, Dr. W. J., Ottawa, Canada:
66 beetles from Canada (223198).

Brown, Dr. W. L. (See Harvard
University)

Brown, Dr. William L., Jr., Cam-
bridge, Mass.: 21 centipedes and milli-
pedes from Indiana, Massachusetts,
Illinois, and Missouri (223070).

Browne, Owens Hand, Raleigh, N.C.:
16 mm. Kemco motion-picture camera
and 16 mm. Kemco projector (222515).

Brownell, Alfred, Providence, R.1.:
Ship-model parts, showing the construc-
tion of a sailing ship, first half of the 19th
century (222958).

(See Vetlesen,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Browning, Mrs. A. H., Washington,
D.C.: Envelope bearing U.S. 24-cent
airmail stamp 1918 (223163).

Bruce, George, Atlanta, Ga.: Glass
from the Wabar Crater, Rubal Khali,
Arabia, and a tektite from Anda,
Philippine Islands (223379).

Bruce, J. (See Defense, U.S. Depart-
ment of)
Brucker, Wilber M., Washington,

D.C.: Spiny lobster, mounted in glass-
fronted case, presented by donor on
behalf of the Government of the Ryukyu
Islands (221701).

Brun, R., Calvados, France: 11 mol-
lusks, a brachiopod, and a coral, all
from the Mesozoic of Normandy.
(223167).

Bruneau, Dr. J., Casablanca,
rocco: 8 lice from Africa (223066).

Bruns, Franklin R., Jr., Washington,
D.C.: 333 United States and foreign
mint stamps, die proofs, covers, and
experimental coils (225296). (See also
Post Office Department)

Bryant, Mrs. L. W., Carrollton, Ky.:
Model of McDannold surgical and
gynaecological chair, and gold medal,
Louisiana Purchase Exposition 1904,
awarded to McDannold chair (220307).

Brylawski, Henry. (See Franzos,
Mrs. Elizabeth Lotte, Estate of)

Buchanan, Mrs. Wiley T., Jr.
Buchanan, Wiley T., Jr.)

Buchanan, Wiley T., Jr. and Mrs.
Buchanan, Washington, D.C.: Approx-
imately 570 pieces of Dutch and Rhenish
ceramics (211179).

Bugbee, Dr. R. E., Meadville, Pa.:
4 parasitic wasps from North America
(222895).

Buhlis, Richard, Canon City, Colo:
3 canceled checks issued by the Mary
McKinney Mining Co., Cripple Creek,
Colo. (224989).

Bukinik, Victor. (See Start Stamps)

Bullis, Harvey R., Jr. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Bullowa, Mrs. Catherine, Phila-
delphia, Pa.: Collection of foreign paper
money, a group of American silhouettes,
and a collection of foreign stamps,

Mo-

(See

123

13,054 specimens (222036) ; 18,430 coins
and medals, from various countries of
the world, in silver, copper, and alu-
minum, including many specialized
collections, and 2 sheets of the ‘‘Penn-
sylvania Gazette’ (222037); 48  off-
strikes in lead, copper, and nickel of
various modern coins and medals
(225295).

Bundy, Edwin S. (See Niagara Mo-
hawk Power Corporation)

Buranek, Alfred M., Salt Lake City,
Utah: Step cut sphalerite from Park
City, Utah (222736, exchange).

Burbanck, Dr. W. D., Woods Hole,
Mass.: 151 miscellaneous crustaceans
(217189).

Burdick, Den, Berkeley, Calif.: 2 flies
from California (223191).

Burdick, William N., Los Angeles,
Calif.: 2 butterflies, paratypes, from the
State of Washington (221156).

Burford, D. L., Culver City, Calif.:
6 mollusks from California (199971).

Burk, C. F., Jr., Evanston, Ill.: 100
invertebrate fossils from the Forillon
Peninsula, Gaspé, Quebec (224349,
exchange).

Burke, J. J. (See Moran, W. E.)

Burke, John, Vandergrift, Pa.: 110
gastropods from the Pennsylvanian
near Morgantown, W. Va. (222438);
(through Dr. Ellis L. Yochelson) 23
gastropods from the Pennsylvanian of
Pennsylvania (221957).

Burket, Dr. Lester W.
vania, University of)

Burnside, Donna M., Clearwater,
Fla.: Mortar and pestle (223102).

Burnstine, Bernard N., Washington,
D.C.: Cameo pin, ‘‘Head of Medusa,”’
brought from England in early 1800’s
(224022).

Busacca, Clint.
Transit Authority)

Buss, Keen, Bellefonte, Pa.: (Through
Dr. Frank Schwartz) 131 salmonid
fishes reared under experimental condi-
tions (222577).

Byers, Dr. George W., Lawrence,
Kans.: 4 hanging flies from Panama,
Bocas del Toro, and Almirante (223194).

(See Pennsyl-

(See New York City
124

Byron, J. E., Boulder, Colo.: Sample
of gold from Clear Creek County, Colo.
(224188).

Cadenat, Dr. Jean.
Frangais d’ Afrique Noire)

Cahalane, Victor. (See New York
State Museum)

(See Institut

Cain, Dr. Roy F. (See Toronto,
University of)
California, University of, Berkeley

Campus: 490 phanerogams, 16 grasses,

20 ferns from Colombia (220423);
(through Edwin C. Allison) 8  gor-
gonians, 2 antipatharians, and 100

barnacles (223669); (through Dr. Lin-
coln Constance) 3869 phanerogams, 8
grasses, and 74 ferns (221192, exchange) ;
(through Dr. Paul D. Hurd) 2 coreid
bugs, paratypes, from California
(221501); (through John L. Mero)
manganese nodule from Downwind
Expedition (2240138, exchange) ; (through
Dr. Joseph H. Peck, Jr.) 3 brachiopods
from the Hocene of California (220503) ;
(through Dr. John Reynolds) 13 tektites
from Australia (223378). Los Angeles
Campus: (Through Wayne J. Baldwin)
2,449 fishes from the eastern Pacific
(221087, 224121).

Callaghan, G. F.
U.S. Department of)

Calves, Lucas, Kaumakani, Kaui,
T.H.:. 27 marine mollusks from the
Hawaiian Islands (220218, 221247,
223415).

Cambridge, Sgt. Philip, Cardiff, Wales:
750 assorted invertebrate fossils from
Great Britain (219962, exchange); 350
land snails from England (223239,
exchange).

Camp, Marjorie J., Beltsville, Md.:
5 American mid-19th-century books
(224558).

Campbell, Dr. J. D., Dunedin, New
Zealand: 8 brachiopods from New
England (224350, exchange).

Campobasso, Thomas, East Haven,
Conn.: Bond of Boston, Hartford & Erie
Railroad, 1866 (221098).

Canada, Government of: Department
of Agriculture: 652 phanerogams, 46
grasses, and 57 ferns (220956, exchange) ;
374 phanerogams, 26 grasses, and

(See Agriculture,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

7 ferns (224832, exchange); (through
Dr. D. F. Hardwick) 2 pairs of moths,
paratypes, from British Columbia
(221761). Department of Mines and
Technical Surveys: 26 Devonian brachio-
pods from northwestern Canada (224190,
exchange). Geological Survey of Canada:
(Through Dr. Digby J. Mclaren)
2 brachiopods from the Devonian of
Peace River region, western Canada
(224820). National Museum of Canada:
(Through Dr. E. L. Bousfield) 23
amphipods (217097); (through Dr.
Howard Crum) 19 lichens collected by
C. E. Garton in Ontario (222564).

Canfield Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Cyrtolite with thorite from Pine,
Jefferson Co., Colo. (221613); smoky
quartz from Switzerland and sphene
from Baja California (222659); euclase
and two topazes from Brazil (222777) ; 72
minerals from Franklin, N.J. (223376) ;
pyrite from Gilman, Colo. (223971);
magnesite crystal from Bahia, Brazil
(223973); anglesite from Broken Hill,
New South Wales, Australia (224187);
proustite from Chile and spodumene
from Brazil (224189); variscite from
Lucin, Utah (225072).

Canham, Comdr. D. W., Jr., Mec-

Murdo Sound, Antarctica: Penguin
egg (221752).
Cannard, S. George, Washington,

D.C.: 4 bricks from foundation of the
Wright plantation near Edgewater,
Md. (225079).

Canova, Mrs. Thomas R., Alexandria,
Va.: Chinese woman’s shoe collected
by donor’s mother during 1890's
(223581).

Canright, James E.
University)

Cape Town, University of, Ronde-
bosch, South Africa: (Through Mrs.
Helen Cherry) 40 items of Foraminifera
from Recent dredgings off South Africa
(224958).

Carl, Mrs. Josephine F. L., Victoria,
B.C., Canada: 2 crabs collected off
Vancouver Island (220491).

Carlson, Charles <A., Estate of:
(Through John A. Carlson) radio re-
ceiver and 4-cylinder gasoline engine

(See Indiana
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

(1904, patented by Mr. Carlson, August
22, 1905) (224383, 224567).

Carlson, John A. (See Carlson,
Charles A., Estate of)

Carmichael, Dr. Leonard, Washing-
ton, D.C.: 3 foreign philatelic covers
(225310).

Carnegie Institution of Washington,
Washington, D.C.: Dorsal vertebra
of a reptile from Brazil (223166).

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
(Through Dr. Kenneth C. Parkes) 2
yellow-throated warblers (221150, ex-
change).

Carroll, Sgt. George P., Fort Myer,
Va.: 4 parts of uniform and accessories
worn by the donor when he served as
drummer in the Black Watch, ca. 1957
(224394).

Cash, William V., Washington, D.C.:
Collection of ethnological materials
from San Blas Indians of Panama and
some other northern South American
countries (222130).

Castro U., Ing. José de Jesas, La
Aurora, Guatemala, Central America:
357 ants from Guatemala (225258).

Caswell-Massey Pharmacy, Inc., New
York, N.Y.: An English swan-neck
show globe and a pair of early American
glass specie jars (225331).

Cate, Mrs. Margaret Davis, Sea
Island, Ga.: Mollusk egg mass from
Georgia (221082).

Causey, Dr. David, Fayetteville,
Ark.: 20 isopods (221446).

Causey, Dr. Nell B., Fayetteville,
Ark.: 26 millipedes from Florida
(222905, 223257); 400 centipedes from
Arkansas (222906).

Cazier, Dr. Mont A. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Centro Nacional de Agronomia, Santa
Tecla, El Salvador: (Through Paul H.
Allen) 84 phanerogams from El Salvador
(223990, exchange).

Chace, Dr. Fenner A., Jr.
Shoemaker, Clarence R., deceased)

Chalker, Dr. B. O. (See Cuba. Cali-
fornia Oil Co.)

Chalmers, Dr. R. O.
Government of)

(See

(See Australia,

125

Chamberlain Fund, Frances; Lea,
Smithsonian Institution: Cut sinhalite
stone, 43.50 carats, from Ceylon (220518) ;
garnet sphere showing 6-rayed stars from
Idaho (222087); 1 each blue and green
kyanite from Brazil, emerald-cut
(222884); sphalerite from Daily Judge
Mine, Utah (223465); zircon from Cey-
lon (223471); mineral from Madagascar
(224957); (through R. Julian Dashwood)
149 marine gastropods from Mauke,
Cook Islands (225013); (through K. J.
Grosch) 512 marine mollusks from Mo-
cambique, Portuguese East Africa
(221979); (through George EH. Jacobs)
48 mollusks (220845).

Chamberlin, Dr. R. V., Salt Lake City,
Utah: 4 centipedes from Utah and Okla-
homa, including holotype and paratype
(221170, 222910).

Chandler, Frank E., Brandon, Vt.:
Set of electromagnetic demonstration
apparatus (222039).

Chapelle, Howard I., Cambridge,
Md.: 177 drawings and plans of sailing
vessels used in donor’s publication, ‘““The
History of the American Sailing Navy”
(220969).

Chapin, Dr. Edward A., West Med-
way, Mass.: 3 millipedes from Virginia
(221171); 1,000 bees and wasps from
Mount Mitchell, N.C., collected by
donor and Dr. B. D. Burke (221173).
(See also Harvard University)

Chapman, Dr. James W., San Mateo,
Calif.: 5 ants from the Philippine Is-
lands (213199).

Charette, Leopold A., Burlington, Vt.:
83 phanerogams, 3 grasses, and 4 ferns
of Japan: (225091, exchange).

Chase, Mrs. Agnes, Washington,
D.C.: 147 miscellaneous grasses
(223993).

Chatten, Paul, Washington, D.C.:
Flat fish from Fulton Fish Market, New
York, N.Y. (223459).

Cherry, Mrs. Helen. (See Cape
Town, University of)
Chiba University, Chiba, Japan:

(Through Dr. Makoto Nishida) 13 ferns
from Japan (222031).

Chicago, University of, Chicago, IIl.:
3 phanerogams from Bolivia collected by
126

Dr. M. Cardenas (220788) ; 4 plants from
Bolivia (224968).

Chicago Natural History Museum,
Chicago, Ill.: 2 fishes, paratypes, from
North Borneo (220216, exchange); 214
phanerogams and 26 grasses, collected
by Huron H. Smith (220783, exchange) ;
4 phanerogams (224199, exchange);
(through Dr. Alan G. Solem) 2,000
miscellaneous mollusks (221629, ex-
change); (through Dr. Rupert L.
Wenzel) 106 biting and sucking lice from
Egypt, Philippine Islands, Brazil, and
Maine (222333); (through Loren P.
Woods) fish from the Gulf of Mexico
(218367) ; 8 fishes including 3 paratypes,
from Brazil (222711; exchange);
(through Loren P. Woods and Mrs.
Marion Grey) 6 fishes, including one
paratype and 3 holotypes, from Gulf of
Mexico (220290).

Chitwood, Mrs. Maybelle, Beltsville,
Md.: Fish taken in market in Manila,
P.I., by Dr. Carmen Velasquez (224548).

Choong, K. S. (See Federation of
Malaya, Embassy of)

Choudhury, Lt. S. H., Peshawar,
Pakistan: 17 stamps, 2 covers, and 1
airletter sheet (222919).

Chow, Dr. C. Y., New Delhi, India:
9 mosquitoes, including types (221762).

Christenson, L. W., Cleveland
Heights, Ohio: Approximately 105,000
stamps from Japan (223165).

Christey, Leroy S. (See State, U.S,
Department of)

Christian, Dr. John J., Bethesda, Md.:
Tree shrew from Siam (225269).

Citran, Ing. Andrea, Milan, Italy:

7 minerals from Italy (222598, ex-
change).

Claghorn, George C., Morristown,
N.J.: Letter with franked envelope
from William Seward to Miss Fanny
Seward; black silk ribbon mourning
badge worn at Lincoln obsequies
(220425).

Clain-Stefanelli, E., Washington,

D.C.: 20 silver and 2 copper medieval
coins (224986); group of 34 ancient
Greek bronzes from the 5th to the 2nd
century B.C. (225194).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Clain-Stefanelli, Dr. V., Washington,
D.C.: 4 miscellaneous philatelic items
(222920) ; 6 denominations of Canadian
1958 mint set (224985); United States
revalued envelope, 3-cent plus 1-cent,
4 Afghanistan stamps, and an Afghani-
stan cover (225316).

Clapp, William F., Laboratories, Inc.,
Duxbury, Mass.: (Through Mrs. Doro-
thy J. Wallour) 5 amphipods (222124).

Claridge, M. F., Oxford, England:
4 grass jointworms from England
(2231783).

Clark, Eugene S., Jr., Sandwich,
Mass.: 10 marine mollusks and a sto-
matopod from Cape Cod Bay, Mass.
(222229, 222510).

Clark University, Worcester, Mass.:
65 lichens from Massachusetts. (222699,
exchange); 56 Massachusetts lichens
collected by Dr. B. N. Gates (222508).

Clastrier, Dr. J. (See Institute Pas-
teur d’” Algérie)

Clay, Dr. William M. (See Louisville, |
University of)

Clement, B. E., Marion, Ky.-:
fluorite from the Rosiclare vein, Rosi-
clare, Ill. (222661).

Clench, Dr. William J.
vard University)

Cleveland Automatic Machine Com-
pany, The, Cincinnati, Ohio: (Through
Nicholas Peay) single spindle ‘‘Cleve-
land” automatic screw machine
(225119).

Clinton, Elizabeth B., Bethesda, Md.:
Brass door plate from house of Governor
De Witt Clinton, commemorative token
of 1876 Universal International Exhi-
bition at Philadelphia, and copy of Seal
of .Confederate States of America
(223491).

Cieud, Dr. Preston E., Washington,
D.C.: 200 brachiopods from Hawaii
(223978).

Coe, Dr. Michael D.
University)

Cohen, Daniel M.
University of)

Cohon, Mrs. Samuel S.
hart, Jacques Frederic)

Coile, Russel C., Bethesda, Md.:
Ainu kimono and headband’ from

(See Har-

(See Harvard
(See Florida, The

(See Rein-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS »

Ashigawa village, central Hokkaido,
Japan (220921).

Coker, Dr. R. E., Mayaguez, Puerto
Rico: 3,400 copepods, isopods, and
miscellaneous plankton from Chapel
Hill, N.C. (216974).

Colby, Lauren A., Arlington, Va.:
Crosley 51, portable receiver (222392).

Colegio de La Salle, Vedado, Cuba:
775 phanerogams, 198 grasses, and 2
ferns from Cuba (222379, exchange);
(through Brother Alain) 30 plants

from Cuba (212570, 218757); 399
phanerogams, 1 grass, and 28 ferns
(225182, gift-exchange).

Coleman, Dr. Richard W., San

Francisco, Calif.: 392 fresh-water and
land snails and insects from south-
western Canada (219415); flea from
California (223192); (through Dr.
Phyllis T. Johnson) 70 biting lice from
pigeons in the U.S. (223190).

Coletti, Joseph, and Morison, Rear
Admiral and Mrs. Samuel, Cambridge,
Mass.: Bronze medal by Joseph
Coletti of Boston (224565).

College of Physicians of Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, Pa.: (Through Mrs. Ella
N. Wade) group of surgical and other
instruments relating to medical sciences
(220170).

Collingwood, Dr. C. A., Shardlow,
England: 228 ants from Europe (223455,
exchange).

Collins, Mrs. Charles D., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Dress, homespun cotton,
made and worn by Mackalana Hackler
of Grayson County, Va., 1842-48

(221532).

Collins, Dr. H. B. (See Dickinson,
Dr. John A.)

Collins, Mrs. Helen Oriani. (See
Oriani, William J.)

Colorado, University of, Boulder,

Colo.: Plant (224192, exchange); 41
lichens (224563, exchange); (through
Sam Shushan) 61 miscellaneous lichens
(222374, exchange); (through Dr. Wil-
liam A. Weber) 36 lichens (222692,
exchange); 63 lichens from Colorado
(223035, gift-exchange).

Comacho, Dr. Horacio H., San

127

Andres, Argentina: 23 Foraminifera
from Argentina (221506).
Commerce, U.S. Department of,

Washington, D.C.: Odometer (224006) ;
S. Riefler Clock, No: 76, 1903 (224780) ;
Coast and Geodetic Survey: 5 signal
lights, 2 acetylene gas generators, and a
condensing lens (223100); (through
Dr. D. L. Parkhurst) Ferrel tide
predicting calculation machine (223208) ;
(through Admiral Charles Pierce)
Michelson interferometer, ca. 1890,
and 3 specimens of Mendenhall geodetic
apparatus, ca. 1890 (221202). Mari-
time Administration: 40 items of insignia
devices and medals authorized for U.S.
Maritime Commission during World
War II (220968). National Bureau of
Standards: 3 iron mortars (221779);
blower, foot powered, for chemical
biast. furnace (224003); (through Dr.
A. V. Astin) 1931 helium liquefier
constructed at the National Bureau of
Standards (224214); (through Dr.
Walter J. Hamer) 7 standard cells and a
voltameter (2248438).. Weather Bureau:
(Through Wm. R. Thickstun) calecula-
tion machine, a slide rule, and a wind
vane (222974); 8 meteorological instru-
ments (224002); (through Robert
Wright) 32 meteorological instruments
(224564); self-registering Marvin mer-
curial barometer, 1904 (225004).
Comstock, Dr. John Adams, Del Mar,
Calif.: 21 insects from Mexico (220764).
Connelly, Mrs. Caivin S., Washing-
ton, D.C.: Hair wreath with hair
jewelry (224359).
Conover, George R.
phia Electric Co.)
Conrad, Marlin S.
University of)

(See Philadel-

(See Delaware,

Constance, Dr. Lincoln. (See Cali-
fornia, University of)
Constantine, Dr. Denny G. (See

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of)

Continental Oil Co., Ponca City,
Okla.: (Through Roy E. Garten, Jr.)
H. G. Taylor mechanical seismometer, a
variable reluctance seismometer, and a
bi-filar galvanometer used in geophysical
exploration (223580).
128

Conway, Dr. W. G.
Zoological Society)

Cook, Dr. Edwin F.
University of)

Cooley, George R., Brooksville, Fla.:
6 phanerogams and 12 grasses (223956) ;
350 phanerogams, 42 grasses, and 4
ferns (224198).

Cooley, Major Glen A., Barksdale
A.F.B., La.: 2 fishes from Baffin Island
(213969).

Cooper, Dr. G. Arthur, Washington,
D.C.: 34 Recent brachiopods from
California and Japan, and 8 brachiopods
from the Lower Cambrian of south-
eastern Missouri, collected by donor
(223977, 223984).

Cooper, Dr. and Mrs. G. Arthur,
Washington, D.C.: Approximately
7,500 invertebrate fossils from the
Devonian of Michigan, collected by the
donors (2211387).

Cooper, Mrs. G. Arthur, Washington,
D.C.: Foot warmer (223108).

Cooper, Dr. K. W., Gainesville, Fla.:
17 beetles from the U.S., bee from Peru
(223197, 223198).

Coors Porcelain Co., Golden, Colo.:
(Through Charles §S. Ryland) 2
mercurial pneumatic troughs, late 19th
century (224005).

Cope, Dr. Oliver B.
U.S. Department of the)

Copenhagen, University of, Copen-
hagen, Denmark: 844 phanerogams,
51 grasses, and 26 ferns from Argentina
(224223, exchange); (through Alfred
Rosenkrantz) 15 octocorals (212618).

Corbett, William Phelps, Fort Myers,
Fla.: Marine mollusk from northwestern
Australia (220846).

Corduroy Council of America, New
York, N.Y.: (Through Mrs. Clare Nel-
son) an example of modern corduroy

(See New York

(See Minnesota,

(See Interior,

(225104).

Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. Henry Dietrich) 285
beetles from Venezuela (222909);

(through Frederick Gehlbach) 2 holo-
types, 6 paratypes of 2 new species of
salamander from Mexico (221819).
Bailey Hortorium: 5 phanerogams
(220439); 3 phanerogams (220784, ex-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

change); (through Dr. Harold E. Moore,
Jr.) 7 cultivated phanerogams (221998) ;
5 phanerogams (223132); 2 cultivated
phanerogams (223133, exchange).

Corsthwaite, Forest May (deceased):
(Through Henry Hoffman) single-woven
Jacquard coverlet, 1845 (221201).

Costlow, John D., Jr. (See Duke
University)

Cotton, Mary Belle Filson, Aurora,
Ill.: Lithograph of Andersonville Prison
made from an original sketch that
belonged to the donor’s father, a Civil
War veteran (225185).

Count de Villoutreys, Monte Carlo,
Monaco: 155 brachiopods from the
Cretaceous of France (222632, 224188).

Cox, Harold N., Falls Church, Va.:
22 Egyptian objects (215032).

Crabill, Dr. Ralph E., Jr., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 54 centipedes from Virginia
(221152); 98 millipedes, centipedes,
spiders, beetles, and a cockroach from
North America (222890).

Craig, Mrs. Horace S., Alexandria,
Va.: 6 items of costumes and accessories,
12 children’s books, spoon, and dipper,
all of 19th century (221410, 222949);
5 examples of hand-knitted lace, 2 of
wool lace, 3 of crocheted lace, and 5
miscellaneous lace types (225105).

Craighead, F. C., Carlisle, Pa.: 14
flies, beetles, and thrips from Pennsyl-
vania (223075).

Cramer, Prof. Howard R. (See
Ward, James)
Crampton, Beecher, Davis, Calif.:

18 grasses (224377).

Crane, Mrs. Fern W., Summit, N.J.:
Type of fern (224972).

Creighton, Dr. W. S., Portal, Ariz.:
18 ants from North America (223275,
exchange).

Creole Petroleum Corp., Maracaibo,
Venezuela: (Through Leroy E. Becker)
5 samples of foraminiferal material
from the Oligocene of Colombia
(221517).

Crespin, Irene.
ernment of)

Crile, Dr. and Mrs. George, Jr.,
Cleveland, Ohio: 36 objects recovered

(See Australia, Gov-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS |

from wreck site of H.M.S. Looe, which
sank in 1744 (225183).

Croston, John, Silver Spring, Md.:
Synthetic mica (223982).

Crowe, Ambassador Philip K.,
Easton, Md.: Rigged model of Maldive
Islands Bugalo (224619).

Crown Agents, The, Washington,
D.C.: (Through A.J. E. Davis) 11 mint
stamps of various countries of the
British Commonwealth and 13 mint
stamps of various British Colonies
(222915, 225318).

Crowson, Dr. R. A., Glasgow, Scot-
land: 4 insect larvae from New Zealand
(223883).

Crum, Dr. Howard.
Government of)

Crump, Mrs. Hettebel Cabell, and
Crump, Thelma, Washington, D.C.: 34-
piece porcelain tea set (224360).

Crump, Thelma, Washington, D.C.:
Hair brooch, marble setting, 19th
century (223803). (See also Crump,
Mrs. Hettebel Cabell)

Crutchfield, Clyde V., Washington,
D.C.: Clapper rail (221753).

Cuatrecasas, Dr. José, Washington,
D.C.: 148 plants from Colombia and
Brazil (221524, 222689, 224367).

Cuba California Oil Company,
Havana, Cuba: 7 fish collected by Juan
Gallardo from the upper Jurassic Jagua
shales on the north slope of Mogote
Puntecita, Cuba (223873); (through Dr.
B. O. Chalker) 178 fossil echinoids and
56 fossil mollusks from the Miocene of
Cuba (224960).

Culberson, Dr.
Duke University)

Curry, Mrs. Edward Thomas, Had-
donfield, N.J.: Manuscript letter refer-
ring to elections in Everett, Washington,
dated October 29, 1892, democratic
nominations handbill 1876, and electoral
vote tabulator for 1876 (221335).

Curry, John E. (See Johnson, Elise
B., Estate of)

Curtis, Karl P., Gamboa, Canal Zone:
18-pound cannon ball from Fort
Lorenzo, Canal Zone (224865).

Custis, Eleanor P., Washington, D.C.:
161 costumes and costume accessories of

(See Canada,

William L. (See

129

the late 19th and 20th centuries
(222511, 224280); collection of medical,
surgical, and electro-therapeutic¢ instru-
ments and equipment (223292); Tuerk
water motor, ca. 1882 (224208).

Cypert, Eugene. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Czechoslovakia Academy of Science,
Prague, Czechoslovakia: State Archeo-
logical Institute: (Through Dr. Emanuel
Vicek) cast of Gdnovee Neanderthal
skull, found in 1926 in Northern Slo-
vakia (224953).

Dalquest, Dr. Walter W., Wichita
Falls, Tex.: 24 Permian vertebrate
fossils collected near Waurika, Okla.
(221142). (See also Midwestern Uni-
versity)

Darling, Thomas, Jr., Washington,
D.C.: Fern and photographs of fern
(221407).

Darlington, Dr. Julian T., Rome, Ga.:
9 flatworms (including holotypes and
paratypes of 3 species) (222856).

Darrow, Dr. Robert A. (See Agri-
cultural and Mechanical College of
Texas)

Dashwood, R. Julian.
berlain Fund, Frances Lea)

Daugherty, Dr. S. C., Arlington, Va.:
Collection of 232 spectacles and cases
(222970).

Davenport, Lt. Col. A. I., Shrub Oak,
N.Y.: Kettle Drum Tabard, 3d Cavalry
Regiment, and photograph of the 3d
Cavalry Band (224211).

Davies, William E.
U.S. Department of the)

Davis, A. J. E. (See Crown Agents,
The)

Davis, Bernard, Philadelphia, Pa.:
First-day cover, United Nations 5-cent
and 7-cent airmail stamps with special
cancellations, 2-9-59 (225319).

Davis, P. W., Jr., New York, N.Y.:
Terrestrial flatworm (221948).

Davis, Dr. Raymond, Jr. (See Brook-
haven National Laboratories)

Dawson, Dr. C. E., Grand Isle, La.:
17 corals and 52 marine mollusks from
the Red Sea and Persian Gulf (212754,
214951); 3 sea anemones, 9 shrimps, 1
hermit crab, and 2 _ callianassids

(See Cham-

(See Interior,
130 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
(222798).
oratories)

Dawson, Dr. E. Yale. (See Beau-
dette Foundation for Biological Re-
search; also Los Angeles County’ Mu-
seum).

De Coursey, Capt. John D.
fense, U.S. Department of)

Defense, U.S. Department of: De-
pariment of the Air Force: (Through Lt.
Gen. Samuel E. Anderson) 2 models, con-
structed by Loewy-Hydropress, Division
of Baldwin-Lima-Hami!ton Corporation
of New York City (217710). Depariment
of the Army: (Through Colonel Otto R.
Koch, Jr.) 2 pieces of distinctive in-
signia, United States Army, Fifth In-
fantry Regiment (223998); (through Lt.
Burrell J. Smittle) 6 ants from North
America (223245); (through Lt. Col.
Robert Traub) 625 biting and sucking
lice from Malaya (223241). Corps of
Cadets: (Through Lt. Col. George A.
Rebh) cadet uniforms and accessories
from the United, States Military Acade-
my (220971). Malaria Control and Sur-
vey Branch: 60 mammals from Panama
(225276). Office of the Quartermaster
General: (Through Ludwell Pruett) 10
American flags (224200). Office of Re-
search and Development: (Through Dr.
Edwin R. Willis) 360 cockroaches from
Massachusetts (222670). U.S. Army
Medical Service, Preventive Medicine
Survey and Research Groups: (Through
Captain Robert Altman) 317 lice from
Panama (223247); (through Dr. C. B.

(See also Bears Bluff Lab-

(See De-

Philip) 27 horseflies from Malaya
(221764); (through Lt. Col. Robert
Traub) 62 mammals, 6 birds from

Malaya and 3,222 ticks, worldwide, but
mostly from the U.S. (220421, 225162).
U.S. Army Transportation Training
Command: (Through Maj. Gen. N. H.
Vissering) Baker Valve Gear and Du-
plex Stoker (222182). U.S. Military
Academy: (Through Col. Robert B.
Arnold) 91 items of chemical apparatus
and 11 items of electrical apparatus
(223721). Department of the Navy:
Monsen lung, with case and manual, and
two copper diving helmets (224393);
armored diving dress and display stand,

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

by a German manufacturer, Neufeldt &
Huhnke, and instruction booklet written
in German (225098). Hydrographic Of-
fice: (Through J. Bruce) 1 lot of hy-
droids, caprellid, 3 barnacles, and 645
amphipods (223550). National Naval
Medical Center: (Through Capt. John
D. De Coursey and Capt. J. M. Am-
berson) 230 mammals, 60 reptiles, 10
fishes, 200 mollusks, 16 worms, and in-
sects (220588). Naval Medical Re-
search Units: (Through Dr. Harry
Hoogstraal) 3,759 lice from Africa and
Egypt (221765, 221766); (through
Comdr. Robert E. Kuntz) 75 mollusks,
502 fishes, 84 reptiles and amphibians,
and 83 crustacea from Formosa’ and
East Pakistan (220422, 220516); 239
fishes, and 57 reptiles from Formosa
(224577). Naval Research Laboratory:
2 audibility meters, 2 inductance varia-
bles (222954). Office of Naval Re-
search: Hydrofoil fin from wing section
of Hydrofoil Craft Navy XCH-4
(224836); (through Dr. Harry Hoog-
straal and Dr. Phyllis Johnson) 60
sucking lice from Africa and Asia
(223183); 165 sucking and biting lice
from Europe (223249). U.S. Naval
Academy: (Through Capt. Wade De
Weese) Builder’s model of naval vessels,
sail and steam-sail, ca. 1800-1875
(223312). (See also United States
Atomic Energy Commission)

Depariment of the Navy and National
Research Council, Pacific Science Board:
(Through Mrs. Isabella Abbott) 49
marine algae from the Caroline Islands
(221405).

Degener, Dr. Otto, Waialua, Oahu,
T.H.: 131 phanerogams and 18 grasses
of Hawaii (221521).

Deichmann, Dr. Elisabeth, Cam-
bridge, Mass.: Zoantharian from Wat-
tain Coast, South India (213781).

Deischer, Dr. Claude K. (See Penn-
sylvania, University of)

Delaware, University of, Newark,
Del.: (Through Marlin §. Conrad) 3
small moths from Delaware (223240).

Delfinado, M., Washington, D.C.: 14
black flies from the Philippine Islands
(222899).
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Demaree, Delzie, Hot Springs, Ark.:
12 phanerogams and 23 ferns (223431).

Denker, Mortimer M., New York,
N.Y.: 5,365 stamps including several
outstanding collections (220977).

Dennis, Dr. John M. (See Maryland,
University of)

Departmento Nacional de Obras
Contra as Sécas, Fortaleza, Ceara,
Brazil: (Through Dr. Osmar Fontenele)
105 fishes from Brazil (222219, ex-
change).

DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind.:
138 plants from Jamaica (222038);
(through Dr. Winona H. Welch) moss
from Indiana (220830, exchange).

Der Bundesminister fiir das Post-und
Fernmeldewesen. (See Germany, Re-
public of)

Desautels, Paul E., Hyattsville, Md.:
Piece of gold from Vorospatae, Transyl-
vania (224354).°

Designer-Weavers of Washington,
Arlington, Va.: (Through Mrs. Ella 8S.
Bolster) hand-woven cotton, leno, woven
by Mr. Daniels, and hand-woven linen,
woven by Miss Anderson (225108).

Detroit Medical Arts, Inc., Highland
Park, Mich.: (Through Howard W.
Mordue) Henry Troemner’s counter box
balance, 2 hanging glass show globes,
ceramic rose oil still, glass paper weight,
rounded square widemouth glass jar for
Dr. King’s Pills, and 14 tin drug con-
tainers (223101, 224778).

Deutsche Bundesbank, Frankfurt,
Germany: 16 German bank notes issued
in 1948 and 1949 (223150).

DeVoss, Col. James T., Silver Spring,
Md.: Sport shirt of philatelic theme
manufactured in Honolulu (223164).

De Weese, Capt. Wade. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Dick, Mrs. Myvanwy. (See Harvard
University)

Dickinson, Dr. John A., Bethesda,
Md.: (Through Dr. H. B. Collins)
Eskimo drum (225070).

Dickinson, Dr. and Mrs. John A.,
Bethesda, Md.: New York National
Guard belt buckle, 1851 (224837).

Dietrich, Dr. Henry. (See Cornell
University)

524592—59——_10

131

Dilley, Comdr. Luther L. L., Silver
Spring, Md.: 13 postage stamp errors of
Korea (223158).

Din, Maj. Gen. M. Hayaud.
Pakistan, Embassy of)

Doig, Mrs. Arthur, Washington, D.C.:
8 fans of the 20th century and chatelaine
holding coin box, perfume bottle, and
note pad (220794).

Dominican Republic, Government of:
(Through Agencia Filatelico Domini-
cana) 5 mint stamps and 2 first-day
covers of the Dominican Republic
(222928).

Dennelley, R. R. & Sons Co., Chi-
cago, Lll.: (Through Walter L. Howe)
5 items of rotogravure material (223995).

Donohue, Mrs. Della (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Margaret B. Wads-
worth) Beaded bag, period 1918-1920
(224457).

Doo, Roger C. H., Glebe, Sydney,

(See

Australia: 5 minerals from Australia
(222706, exchange).
Dorne, Dr. Peter. (See Stazione

Zoologica Napoli)

Doty, Harry A., Chardon, Ohio: Claw
hammer (224206).

Doucette, S/Sgt. George L., Camp
Lejeune, N.C.: Grand Army of the
Republic veteran’s convention badge,
found during the dismantling of bar-
racks at Camp Lejeune, N.C. (221198).

Dougias, Mr. Justice William O.,
Washington, D.C.: First-day cacheted
cover of the 7-cent Alaska airmail
stamp, autographed by donor (224204).

Drake, Dr. Carl J., Washington,
D:C.: 17 miscellaneous philatelic items
(222924, 225309).

Dreisbach, Dr. R. R., Midland, Mich.:
2 insects from the U.S. and Mexico
(224064).

Drew, Mrs. Leslie L. (See St. Alban’s
Opportunity Shop, The)

Drexel Institute of Technology, Phil-
adelphia, Pa.: (Through J. Harland
Billings) receiver and reheater for com-
pound steam engines, Corliss, 1879,
and air compressor, Westinghouse, 1870
(220797).

Drest, Dave,
copepods (223211).

Findlay, Ohio: 15
132

Duke University, Durham, N.C.:
6 North Carolina lichens collected by
W. L. Culberson (220736); 11 lichens
(2209438, exchange); (through Dr. Louis
E. Anderson) 250 miscellaneous bry-
ophytes (225088, exchange); (through
John D. Costlow, Jr.) crab (222492);
(through Dr. William L. Culberson)
80 lichens from the United States
(221425, exchange).

Dunn, J. E. (See Pinnacle Explora-
tion, Inc.)

Du Pont, Henry Francis, Winterthur,
Del.: Plate from a dessert service,
ordered in 1817 for use in the White
House during the administration of
President James Monroe (211845).

Durando, Prof. Octavio. (See Min-
isterio de Agricultura e Indusitrias)

Durell, Edward H. (See Union Fork
and Hoe Co.)

Eadie, Dr. W. Robert, Ithaca, N.Y.:
2 pocket gophers from (Guatemala
(220355).

Earle, Mrs. Edith, and Earle, Ralph,
Miami, Fla.: 2 hand telephones made
by James H. Earle, father of the donors
(223610, exchange).

Earle, Ralph. (See Earle, Mrs. Edith)

East, Charles, Washington, D.C.:
Mineral from Franklin, N.J. (224039,
exchange).

East African Marine Fisheries Re-
search Organization, Zanzibar, Africa:
(Through Dr. J. F. C. Morgans) 31
fishes from the Indo-Pacific (216171,
exchange).

Eastman Kodak Co., Washington,
D.C.: (Through Keith B. Lewis) East-
man hobbyist enlarger, fluorolite en-
larger, and Kodatron  speedlamp
(224483).

Eccles, David H., Oxford, England:
43 anostracan branchiopods, 2 concho-
stracans, 204 cladocerans, 35 ostracods,
and 66 copepods (222149).

Echevarria, Jose E., Aguadilla, Puerto
Rico: Builder’s half-model Puerto Rican
Trading Schooners Candelaria I and
II, and builder’s block model of
schooner Gaviota (222960, 224392).

Ecole d’Agriculture, Rimouski, Qué
bec, Canada: 18 phanerogams and 4

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

grasses from Canada collected by
Father Ernest Lepage (224517, ex-
change).

Edgerton, Dr. Harold E., Germes-
hausen, K. J., and Grier, H. E., Boston,
Mass.: Battery-operated portable flash
unit and Edgerton, Germeshausen and
Grier Speed Light (224380, 224381).

Edmondson, Dr. C. H. (See Bishop
Museum, Bernice P.)

Ehmann, Dr. William D.
gonne National Laboratory)

Ehrmann, Martin L., Los Angeles,
Calif.: Jade boulder from Burma and
cat’s eye cabochon from Mogok, Burma
(222656); gem quality actinolite from
Mogok, Upper Burma (223282); zircon
from Siam (224964, exchange).

Ehrmann Company, Martin L., Los
Angeles, Calif.: Sherry wine topaz from
Minas Gerais, Brazil, and golden
sapphire from Mogok, Upper Burma
(223578, exchange).

Eickemeyer Fund, Smithsonian In-
stitution: 8 pictorial photographs and 4
platinum prints (223340, 225187).

Eide, Paul M. (See Northwestern
Washington Experiment Station)

Einbecker, Mrs. Florence F., High-
land Park, Ill.: Late 19th-century glass
Burmese cruet, pink shading to yellow
(223123).

Eiselt, Dr. J.
Museum)

Eisenhower, President Dwight D.,
Washington, D.C.: 149 coins, medals,
and bank notes (220790). (See also
Sihanouk, Prince Norodom)

Eklund, Carl. (See National Acad-
emy of Sciences)

Eldred, Mrs. Bonnie, St. Petersburg,
Fla.: 144 shrimps, 1 hydroid, 2 poly-
chaete worms, 4 shrimps with 20
barnacles (222493). (See also Florida
State Board of Conservation)

Ellison, J. O., San Francisco, Calif.:
Brown & Sharpe No. 1 Universal Mill-
ing Machine (222700).

Ellsworth, Howard F., Richmond,
Va.: Rutile from the Morfield property
in Amelia, Va. (220262, exchange).

(See Ar-

(See Naturhistorisches
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Emory University, Atlanta, Ga.:
(Through Dr. Robert B. Platt) 7 lichens
from Georgia (222352).

Englehard Industries, Inc., Elm-
hurst, N.Y.: (Through J. W. Kolbert)
Diagnostic set and cystoscope set
manufactured by the donor (221625).

Enzer, Milton M. (See Yale &
Towne Manufacturing Co.)

Ernst, Roger. (See Interior,
Department of the)

Escola de Agronomia do Nordeste,
Areia, Paraiba, Brazil: 6 plants from
Brazil (222686, 224562).

Escuela Nacional de Agricultura,
Chapingo, Mexico: (Through Dr.
Efraim Herndndez X.) 85 grasses from
Mexico (212958).

Esso Standard Oil Co., Elizabeth,
N.J.: (Through W. M. Keppel) kero-
sene tank wagon (225197).

Eurich, Richard H. (See Hart, Mrs.
Harry)

Eustis, Mrs. Martha J., Bethlehem,
Pa.: 2 girl’s dresses, and a traveling
coat, worn by a girl around age of nine,
1879 (221548).

Evans, Dr. Howard E., Ithaca, N.Y.:
5 vials of wasp larvae from the U.S. and
230 wasps from North America (223071,
223072, 223266).

Ewell Junior High School, Ewell, Md.:
(Through Mrs. Alice V. Middleton)
skull and fragments of a lower jaw,
believed to be associated with a fossil
whale dredged in 1959, probably from
the St. Marys formation of upper
Miocene age (225164).

Faber, Daniel J., Madison, Wis.: 5
nauplii and 20 copepodites (2202383).

Fabian, Dominick, Portland, Oreg.: 2
first-day cards, United States and
United Nations (220168); first-day
postcard and first-day cover of United
States (225322).

Faculdade de Higiene e Saude
Publica, Sao Paulo, Brazil: (Through
Dr. Oswaldo P. Forattini) 52 biting
midges from Brazil (222907).

Fairchild, Dr. Graham B., Panama,
Republic of Panama: 10 horse and moth
flies from California, Mexico, and

US.

133

Colombia (222897).
Memorial Laboratory)

(See also Gorgas

Father Francis J. Heyden, S. J.
(See Georgetown University)
Father Walter W. Kempf. (See

Provincialado dos Franciscanos)

Faure, Dr. J. C. (See Transvaal
Museum)

Fay, Francis H. (See Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)

Federation of Malaya, Embassy of,
Washington, D.C.: (Through K. S&S.
Choong) 127 postage stamps of the
Federation of Malaya and 2 unused
first-day cachet covers (223306).

Feeney, Walter, Irvington, N.J.:
1,395 first flight and special event covers
and 81 U.S. first-day covers (222936,
224205).

Feinstein, Bernard, Washington,
D.C.: 3 birds from Maryland and
Virginia and 5 mammals from Maryland
(225247, 225271).

Fennell, C. M., San Francisco, Calif.:
4 birds from Seoul, Korea (224061).

Fenton, Dr. F. A., Stillwater, Okla.:
170 insects from America (223076).

Ferguson, Dr. Henry G., Washington,
D.C.: 592 items of archeological mate-
rial from the Accokeek site, Prince
Georges County, Md., 1956 and 1958
(224342).

Ferris, Prof. G. F.
University)

Fessenden, Dr. G. R., Baltimore,
Md.: 12 ferns from Maryland (224374).

Filer, Russ, Redlands ,Calif.: Hueb-
nerite from Adams Mine, Silverton,
Colo. (222742, exchange).

Filer’s, Redlands, Calif.: 14 minerals
from Arizona, California, England,
Finland, Hungary, Japan, Mexico, Nor-
way, Sardinia, South Australia and
Yugoslavia (221570, 224128, 224353,
exchanges); 30 minerals from various
localities (222827, 223608, 223770,
223969, exchanges); 4 minerals from
Spain (223468, 223575, exchanges);
4 minerals from Arizona and 2 minerals
from Bulgaria (224761, 225167, ex-
changes).

(See Stanford
134

Fischer, Dr. Alfred G., Princeton,
N.J.: 15 Devonian fossils from southern
Peru (222011).

Fischer, Dr. Max, Vienna, Austria:
(Through Dr. Carl Muesebeck) 51
insects from Hurope (224339, exchange).
(See also Naturhistorisches Museum)

Fisher, Mrs. Margaret R., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 4 items of costume of the
19th century (221197).

Fitzgerald, Mrs. Edith Oriani.
Oriani, William J.)

Flater, Aage. (See Gabrielsen, Peter)

Flath, Edward J., Waukegan, III:
Philatelic cover with marking ‘‘Wiscon-
sin Federation of Stamp Clubs Conven-
tion Station”? (222930).

Fleetwood, Raymond J. (See In-
terior, U.S. Department of the)

Fleming, Dr. Henry, New York, N.Y.
6 paratypes of moths from Trinidad
(223080).

Fleminger, Dr. Abraham, Galveston,
Tex.: 6 isopods (223545).

Flint, Dr. Oliver S., Jr., Ithaca, N.Y.:
3 insects, paratype, holotype, and allo-
type, from Lakehurst, N.J., and Shenan-
doah National Park (221390).

Flood, Mrs. Henry D., Washington,
D.C.: Portner air and beer coolers
(222968).

Floreen, A. R. (See Leeds & Nor-
thrup Company)

Florida, University of, Gainesville,
Fla.: (Through R. M. Baranowski) 2
insects from Connecticut (223242) ;
(through Dr. Pierce Brodkorb) 4 bird
skeletons (220182, exchange); (through
Daniel M. Cohen) 2 fishes, holotype and
paratype, collected by Richard Backus
on board the Blue Dolphin (220217).

Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish
Commission, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.:
(Through Frank J. Ligas) 4 fiatworms
(219612).

Florida State Board of Conservation,
St. Petersburg, Fla.: 2 fishes from
Florida (221332); (through Mrs. Bonnie
Eldred) 2 marine invertebrates (220893).

Florida State Plant Board, Gaines-
ville, Fla.: 2 lichens collected by C. F.
Dowling and B. W. Swanson in Florida
(220854); 3 lichens collected by Harry

(See

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Burnett in Florida (222548); (through
Dr. Howard V. Weems, Jr.) approxi-
mately 200 centipedes (223251, 224439).

Florida State University, Tallahassee,
Fla.: 75 phanerogams (220950);
(through Dr. Milton L. Forbes) 5
mollusks and sponge from Alligater
Harbor, Fla. (221437); (through Dr.
Robert K. Godfrey) 70 phanerogams,

3 grasses, and a fern from Florida
(2170855).
Foleh-Girona, Joaquin, Barcelona,

Spain: 10 minerals from near Baree-
lona, Spain (224177); (through Mary
Mrose) 4 minerals from Spain (221509).

Fontenele, Dr. Osmar. (See De-
partmento Nacional de Obras Contra
as Sécas)

Forattini, Dr. Oswaldo P., Sado Paulo,
Brazil: 6 rodents from Brazil (223666).
(See also Faculdade de Higiene e Saude
Publica) ;

Forbes, Dr. Milton L.
State University)

Ford, EK. J., Jr., Honolulu, T.H.: 13
beetles of Hawaii (220028).

Forman, Harry J., Philadelphia, Pa.:
14 19th-century notes, checks, and
receipts, including one canceled $100
stock certificate issued by the Yellow
Jacket Silver Mining Co.; 9 canceled
stock certificates, checks, notes, and
receipts (223484, 225096).

Fort Ticonderoga Museum, Fort
Ticonderoga, N.Y.: (Through Col. Ed-
ward P. Hamilton) early 19th-century
broadaxe (220970).

Fosberg, Dr. F. R., Washington, D.C.:
3 mollusks from Thailand and 1 plant
(222911, 223138). (See also Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Foshag, Dr. William F. (deceased):
17 items of archeological material,
principally of jadeite, metadiorite, etc.,
from sites in Mexico and Guatemala,
assembled by donor (224346).

Foster, Dale, Arcadia, Fla.: 2 so-
called half pesos in gold dated 1865,
struck in name of Emperor Maximilian
of Mexico, 1864-1867 (223301).

Fowler, Mrs. Frederick Hall, Palo
Alto, Calif.: Photograph showing group
of Monitor’s officers in 1862 (224313).

(See Florida
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Franklin, Benjamin A., Garrett Park,
Md.: 8 kris and sheaths from Malay
(222019).

Franklin, George W., Clay Bank, Va.:
English brass medal, struck in the name
of Queen Anne 1702-14 (220427).

Franklin, Paul, Massapequa Park,
L.I., N.Y.: 4 dies portraying George
Washington, Zachary Taylor, and Ulys-
ses S. Grant, and the three lead trial
strikings of the portrait dies (223300).

Franzheim, Mrs. Kenneth, Houston,
Tex.: 46 printed cottons, 18th and 19th
centuries (220167). -

Franzos, Mrs. Elisabeth Lotte, Estate
of: (Through Henry Brylawski) 25
items of European folk art (220962).

Frederick, Col. William H., Jr., San
Francisco, Calif.: Flying suit, U-S.
Army Air Force, World War IT (223130).

Freeman, Dr. Harry. (See Scuth
Carolina, University of)

Frick Company, Waynesboro,
Portable steam engine (222811).

Frimerkjasalan. (See Iceland, Gov-
ernment of)

Fundacién Miguel Lille, Tucumdén,
Argentina: Plant from Argentina
(223462); (through Dr. Kenneth J.
Hayward) 14 butterflies from Argentina
(223077).

Funkhouser, Karl M., Arlington, Va.:
6 specimens of weinschenkite from near
Vesuvius, Va. (220018, exchange).

Fuqua, Charles L. (See State, U.S.
Department of)

Furnish, Dr. W. M., Iowa City, Iowa:
8 lots of fossil fish (224471).

Gabrielsen, Peter, Aarhus, Denmark:
(Through Aage Flater) 8 stone objects
of Neolithic to Early Bronze Age found
near Aarhus (224168).

Galtsoff, Dr. Paul S.
U.S. Department of the)

Game and Fish Commission, Harlin-
gen, Tex.: (Through Joseph P. Breuer)
2 sea anemones, 3 polychaetes, 6 cope-
pods, 6 tunicates, 7 sea urchins, 3 holo-
thurians, and 4 mollusks (221111).

Gardner, The Honorable Arthur,
Washington, D.C.: Viewer and prints of
18th century (222985).

Pa.:

(See Interior,

135

Garten, Roy E., Jr.
Oil Co.)
Garvan, Dr. Anthony B., Springhouse,

(See Continental

Pa.: Early 19th-century ballot box
(223299).
Gates, Dr. G. E. (See McKey-

Fender, Dorothy)

Gatter, D. E. (See Irish Linen Guild,
The)

Geagan, J. J.

Gehlbach, Frederick.
University)

Gehrmann, Robert H., St. Petersburg,
Fla.: Mahogany book cabinet, Empire
style, formerly the property of Abraham
Lincoln, and 32 other Lincoln and family
reference items (219582).

Gelia, C. J. (See American Optica!
Co.)

General Dynamics Corp., Groton,
Conn.: (Through Frank Pace, Jr.)
Model of U.S. Submarine Nautilus
(224501).

General. Electric Co., Schenectady,
N.Y.: (Through J. R. Morgan) Lang-
muir apparatus, submarine detector, and
the Edison motor (222955).

General Services Administration,
Washington, D.C.: 140 items of jewelry,
including rings, earrings, bracelets, gold
chains, ivory necklaces, and watches
(222645, 222646, 222647, 2243852,
225168); 188 pieces of dyed jade and 4
packets of unset diamonds (222648,
225172); 826 gems and carved-gem
items, 11-piece table set, and 4 watches
(224821); Winchester rifle, fitted with
“Maxim Silencer’ (223390); 42 Civil
War patriotic envelopes (unused), 18
pieces of Civil War patriotic envelopes,
and loan certificates dated February 20,
1891 (223386); (Through Smithson,
C. D.) 3 Japanese gold sake cups
(224620). (See also Treasury, U.S.
Department of the)

Geoghegan, William Earle, Baltimore,
Md.: Builder’s block model of schooner
yacht Chasseur, 1954 (221205).

Geolosko-paleontoloski Institut, Uni-
verza Ljubljana, Jugeslavia: (Through
Dr. Anton Ramovs) 7 Permian brachio-
pods and fusulines from Jugoslavia
(221719, exchange).

(See Owens-Illinois)
(See Cornell
136

Georgetown University, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Father Francis J.
Heyden, 8.J.) 9 astronomical instru-
ments (224215).

George Washington University,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Mrs.
Kittie Parker) 29 Alaskan mosses
(225286).

Georgia, University of, Athens, Ga.:
270 phanerogams and 8 ferns of Sapelo
Island, Georgia (221776, exchange).

Georgia Department of Mines, Min-
ing, and Geology, Atlanta, Ga.:
(Through Dr. Vernon J. Hurst) 41 min-
erals from Georgia (219248, 224824,
exchanges).

Georgiades, Prof. Dr. A. N.
Athens, University of)

Gerecke, Mrs. Arthur F., Webster
Groves, Mo.: 18 mint stamps of Ar-
menia (223157).

Germany, Republic of, Bonn:
(Through Der Bundesminister fir das
Post-und Fernmeldewesen) 13 stamps of
Germany (223314, 225314).

Germeshausen, K. J. (See Edgerton,
Dr. Harold E.)

Ghani, Dr. M. A., Rawalpindi, West
Pakistan: 3 insects from Pakistan
(220614).

Giacomelli, Lorenzo Orestes, Buenos
Aires, Argentina: Sample of the Vera,
Santa Fe, Argentina, meteorite (224556).

Gillaspy, Mrs. Cecile R., Bayside,
Va.: 150 miscellaneous Japanese stamps
and 25 used envelopes and mint stamps
of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, Tonga,
and Western Samoa (224391).

Gindhart, Mrs. Harry M., Sr., Mickle-
ton, N.J.: A fern (224631).

Glass, Dr. Jewell. (See Australia,
Government of)

Gleason, Cedric, Washington, D.C.:
Actinolite from Marble Quarry, Goose
Creek, Loudoun County, Va. (222013,
exchange).

Godard, Harry W., Winnipeg, Can-
ada: 459 postage stamps of Canada
(222917).

Godfrey, Dr. Robert K.
State University)

Goebel, Dave, New Orleans, La.: 2
bromeliads of Mexico (223136, 223137).

(See

(See Florida

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Goin, Dr. Coleman J., Gainesville,
Fla.: Frog from Leticia, Colombia,
collected by E. Ross Allen (220593).

Goldschmidt, The Rey. A. H., Wash-
ington, D.C.: Longines pocket watch
(224844).

Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Pan-
ama, Republic of Panama: 1,609 mam-
mals, 115 birds, 50 reptiles and amphib-
ians, 15 fish, 4 mollusks, and a collection
of insects (222334); (through Graham
B. Fairchild) 5 insects from Peru
(223880).

Gosda, Raymond C., Canandaigua,
N.Y.: Archeological material from Moen
Island, Truk Atoll, Eastern Caroline
Islands (224545).

Gosline, Dr. William A.
University of)

Goucher College, Baltimore, Md.:
2,550 phanerogams, 60 grasses, 23 ferns,
and 3,500 ecryptogams (224970).

Graf, A. B., Rutherford, N.J.: Culti-
vated phanerogam and fern (222024,
222032).

Graham, David C., Englewood, Colo.:
Chinese printing block for printing two
pages of a Taoist sacred book (222863).

Granger, Steuben G., Kensington,
Md.: 21 samples of diatomaceous
earth from Richmond, Va. (222383).

Granosky, Dr. A. A., St. Paul, Minn.:
52 slides of aphids, including types,
from the U.S. (220454).

Grant, Major, Chapman, Escondido,
Calif.: 4 lizards from Cuba (224931).

Gravely, Mrs. Sue France, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Yeomanette winter cape,
worn by donor in World War I (220796).

Gray, Dr. I. E., Durham, N.C.: 128
dragon flies from the U.S. (223877).

Gray, Lt. Col. Jean M., Fort Eustis,
Va.: Model of military railway switch-
ing locomotive (224838).

Great Britain, Government of: British
Museum (Natural History): 56 phanero-
gams and 240 ferns (220632, 225289,
exchanges). Geological Survey of Great
Britain: (Through Dr. R. K. Harrison)
coffnite from Cornwall, England
(220529, exchange).

Green, Margaret, Candler, N.C.: 25
lichens from North Carolina (223953).

(See Hawaii,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Greene, Mrs. Francina S.
tile Museum, The)

Greenwell, Francis M., Washington,
D.C.: 2 bird skins (2209385).

Gressitt, Dr. J. L. (See Bishop
Museum, Bernice P.)

Grey, Mrs. Marion.
Natural History Museum)

Grice, George D., Jr.
U.S. Department of the)

Grier, Edward P., Woodbridge, Va.:
Radio transmitter and electrical meter
(224842).

Grier, H. E.
Harold EH.)

Griffiths, Dr. Henry J., St. Paul,
Minn.: 208 fresh-water snails from
Minnesota (221978, 224305).

Grigsby Family, The, Elizabeth, N.J.:
(Through Mabel G. Holmes) uniforms
worn by James W. Grigsby, Company
“A,” 25th Infantry, 1892-1903 (221450).

Grimes, Samuel A., Jacksonville,
Fla.: Weaver finch, an escaped cage
bird (219766).

Grimm, Wayne, Catonsville, Md.:
102 land and fresh-water snails from
Maryland and the Belgian Congo
(221040).

Grimmer, James Lear.
sonian Institution)

Grodhaus, Dr. Gail, Berkeley, Calif.:
46 fresh-water snails from lakes in
California (221562).

Grosch, K. J.
Fund, Frances Lea).

Gross, Dr. Warren J., Riverside,
Calif.: 4 hermit crabs (220492).

Grosvenor, Dr. Melville Bell, Wash-
ington, D.C.: First-day cover of United
States 4-cent ‘Freedom of the Press’’
stamp (221648).

Gruett, Dr., Musée de Paleontologie,
Angers, France: 18 echinoids and 11
brachiopods from the Cretaceous and
HKocene of France (222634, exchange).

Gudmundsson, Dr. Finnur. (See
Sigurdsson, Capt. Gudni)

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory,
Ocean Springs, Miss.: (Through Dr.
Donald R. Moore) 73 marine mollusks
from Alabama and Mississippi (213739).

(See Tex-

(See Chicago

(See Interior,

(See Edgerton, Dr.

(See Smith-

(See Chamberlain

137

Gulick, Mrs. Mason, Washington,
D.C.: 15 items of the American Red
Cross, World War I (223389).

Gunnell, E. M., Denver, Colo.:
Milky quartz from Treasury Tunnel,
San Juan Mountains, Colorado
(223467).

Gupta, Dr. V. K., Ann Arbor, Mich.:
2 insects from India, including a
paratype (223181).

Giiralp, Dr. Nevzat.
Department of)

Gurney, Dr. Ashley B., Washington,
D.C.: 1,121 miscellaneous insects from
New England and _ Pennsylvania
(221158, 221392, 221759, 221769,
222898); long-tailed shrew from Penn-
sylvania (225080).

Haaf, Dr. E. (See Museum G. Frey)

Haas, Glenn, Deerfield, Ill.: 39 fleas
from North America (222029).

Hagemyer, Richard H., Washington,
D.C.: 55 mollusks from the Marshall
Islands (221447).

Haiti, Government of, Port-au-Prince,
Haiti: (Through Agence Philatelique
Haitienne) 6 first-day covers and 46
mint postage stamps of Haiti (222923) ;
41 mint stamps and first-day covers of
Haiti (225321).

Hakulinen, Dr. Rainar, Hameenlinna,
Finland: 40 Finnish lichens (223886,
exchange).

Halbrook, Erwin, Alexandria, Va.:
Giant hornet’s nest (225250).

Halffter, Dr. Gonjalo, Mexico, D.F.:
185 beetles, 40 true bugs, tree-hoppers,
and assassin bugs, from Mexico (222027).

Hall, Dr. C. C., Lawrence, Kans.: 10
paratype slides of mites from Kansas
(223454).

Hall, Gustav W., New York, N.Y.:
71 phanerogams, 2 grasses, and 4 ferns
from Germany (224236).

Hallman, Russell, Bridgeton, N.J.:
A 50-centavos and a 20-centavos piece
of Bolivia, dated 1902 (224838).

Ham, William E. (See Oklahoma
Geological Survey)

Hamelly, Henry, Grove City, Pa.:
29 first-day covers of the U.S. and
Canada (220222); 10 first-day covers
(223487); 16 first-day cacheted covers

(See State, U.S.
138

of United States, United Nations, and
Canada (225325).

Hamer, Dr. Walter J.
merce, U.S. Department of)

Hamilton, Col. Charles S., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 1,457 stamps, proofs, and
errors of Salvador (222921).

Hamilton, Col. Edward P.
Fort Ticonderoga Museum)

Hamilton Watch Company, Lancaster,
Pa.: Exhibit of Hamilton electrie wrist
watches (225116).

Hanahan, Jack, Belmont, N.C.: 7
minerals from North Carolina (221515,
225062, exchanges).

Handley, C. O., Sr. (See West Vir-
ginia Conservation Commission)

Hansen, Mrs. John V., Washington,
D.C.: Barrel organ with free reeds;

(See Com-

(See

wooden cylinder plays eight tunes
(222950).
Haque, Dr. A. F. M. Mohsenul,

Quetta, Pakistan: 37 items of Eocene
Foraminifera, and a vial of washed
concentrates from the upper Eocene,
West Pakistan (223366, exchange).

Harder, Dr. Wilhelm. (See Institut
fiir Fischereibiologie)

Hardick, Brig. Gen. William L.
Alhadeff, Maurice)

Hardwick, Dr. D. F.
Government of)

Hardy, Dr. D. Elme, Honolulu, T.H.:
63 flies from Hawaiian Islands, South
Africa, and Mauritius (222900).

Harlan, Mr. Justice John M., Wash-
ington, D.C.: Garrison type National
Colors made between July 4, 1861, and
July 4, 1863, said to have been flown
on the day of Abraham Lincoln’s
funeral (222943).

Harman, Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur,
Bowie, Md.: Early 19th-century linen
sheet (225111).

Harmer, Walter J., Darien, Ga.: 23
brackish-water mollusks and 12 clam
shells from Georgia (219919, 220843).

Harrington, Russell C. (See Treas-
ury, U.S. Department of the)

Harris, Dr. Stuart K., Boxford, Mass.:
8,000 lichens mostly from New England
(220789).

(See

(See Canada,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Harrison, Dr. R. K.
Britain, Government of)

Hart, C. S., Jr. (See Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Hart, Mrs. Harry, Melville, Mont.:
(Through Richard H. Eurich) 14 ealo-
type negatives and 13 calotype prints
(224506).

Hartman, Frank A., Columbus, Ohio:
Bird skin (2209386).

Hartman, Dr. Olga.
California, University of)

Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.: Museum of Comparative Zoology:
(Through Dr. W. L. Brown) 1,707 ants
from Neotropical, Australian, and Ori-
ental regions (221393, 223965, 225163);
(through Dr. Edward A. Chapin) 142
beetles, 85 beetle larvae, 6 roaches, 3
giant water bugs and 24 wasps (225262) ;
(through Dr. William J. Clench) cotype
of a land snail from Cuba (163138);
2,180 miscellaneous mollusks (222674,
223682, exchanges); (through Mrs.
Myvanwy Dick) 3 fishes from the
North Atlantic (217289, exchange);
(through Dr. Harry B. Whittington) 61
blocks of Permian limestone, Glass
Mountains, Texas (220432, exchange);
(through Dr. E. E. Williams) 4 species
of lizards from Guatemala and the
West Indies (221023, exchange). Pea-
body Museum of Archaeology and Eth-
nology: (Through Dr. Michael D. Coe)
304 items of pottery from La Victoria
site, Province of San Marcos, Guate-
mala (222879).

Harvey, O. L., Silver Spring, Md.:
Album of 64 stamps containing a study
of the pictorial issues of the Union of
South Africa (222938).

Hassinger, R. Neal, Norman, Okla.:
7 estherians from Colorado (224552).

Hatai, Dr. Kotora. (See Tohoku
University)

Hatschbach, Dr. Gert, Curitiba, Pa-
rand, Brazil: 160 phanerogams, 45
grasses, and 5 ferns from Brazil (220780,
221104, 221647, 222501, 224364).

Hattori Botanical Laboratory, Nichi-
nan-shi, Japan: 50 mosses and 50 crypto-
gams from Japan (220782, 223362,
exchange).

(See Great

(See Southern
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Hawaii, University of, Honolulu,
T.H.: 19 ferns from the Solomon Islands
and the New Hebrides (224319);
(through Dr. William A. Gosline) 2
fishes from Hawaii, holotypes (223090).

Hayes, Dr. Doris. (See Agriculture,
U.S. Department of)

Hayward, Dr. Kenneth J.
Fundacién Miguel Lillo)

Hayward, Wyndham, Winter Park,
Fla.: Shrew from Florida (222284).

Health, Education, and Welfare,
U.S. Department of, Washington, D.C.:
2 calculating machines (223894). Public
Health Service: Arctic Health Research
Center: Copepod, 9 amphipods, 2
shrimps, and a crab (220741); (through
Dr. Laurence Irving) 68 bird skins from
Alaska (221388, 222175); (through
Francis H. Fay) (7 echiuroid worms,
a shrimp, and a crab (222265); (through
Dr. Robert Rausch) 2 black bears from
Alaska (224356); (through Dr. K. M.
Sommerman) 94 black flies from Alaska
(223281). Communicable Disease Center:
(Through Dr. Denny G. Constantine)
bat from New Mexico (223457) ; (through
Dr. H. D. Pratt) 2 mosquitoes from
Jamaica, B.W.I. (225267). National
Institutes of Health: (Through Dr.
Ernestine B. Thurman and Dr. Paul
W. Oman) 103 slides of mites from
Canada and Pennsylvania (223270).
National Microbiological Institute:
(Through Dr. J. Frederick Bell) bat
from Montana (222382); (through Dr.
William L. Jellison) 5 mice from Idaho
and Oregon, 55 ladybugs, a dermestid
beetle, and 31 fleas from the U.S., and
5 ticks from North America (220939,
223174, 223259, 223279); 85 slides of
fleas (222671, 223260); (through Dr.
Glen M. Kohls) 150 lice and nymphs
from India and 2 ticks, paratypes, from
North America (221768, 223272). Robert
A. Taft Sanitary Engineering Center:
(Through Dr. A. F. Bartsch) 621 fishes
and 1 crustacean from the Majuro Atoll,
Marshall Islands (218532); (through
Dr. William M. Ingram) 12 fresh-water
mollusks from Flint River, Georgia
(221249).

(See

139

Healy, Mrs. Elisabeth S., Tucson,
Ariz.: (Through Charles C. Wall) 6
sketches by Joacim Ferdinand Richardt
(1819-1895), grandfather of the donor
(221626). |

Hebrew University, The, Jerusalem,
Israel: (Through Prof. H. Steinitz)
fragment of soft coral and 3 gorgonians
(215825).

Heckman, Paul S.
U.S. Department of the)

Heil Scientific, Inc., St. Louis, Mo.:
(Through Pollard Scholz) glass retort,
receiver, and culture flask, ca. 1900
(222972).

Heinmuller, John P. V. New York,
N.Y.: 21 volumes of Zeppelin airmail
covers 1908-1932 (222097).

Heinrick, Dr. E. W., Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 6 minerals from various localities
(224553).

Helenore, John C., New York, N.Y.:
Aseptic glass urethral syringe, urethral,
and 2 Ampin ampules (220981).

Henbest, Lloyd G. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Henderson, E. P., Washington, D.C.:
Mineral from Bolivia (224758).

Hendler, L. Manuel. (See Hendler
Foundation, Inc.)

Hendler Foundation, Inc., Baltimore,
Md.: (Through L. Manuel Hendler)
collection of pharmaceutical antiques
(223291).

Henry, Dr. Dora P., Seattle, Wash.:
42 barnacles (217861).

Henry, E. E., Ardmore, Okla.: Steam-
engine indicator, ca. 1900 (222962).

Henzlik, Raymond E. (See Nebraska,
University of)

Herbario ‘“‘Barbosa Rodrigues,” Ita-
jaf, Santa Catarina, Brazil: 814 phanero-
gams, 78 grasses, 50 ferns, and a crypto-
gam (220954, 221813).

Hermann, Dr. Frederick,J., Beltsville,
Md.: 2 ferns from Washington, D.C.,
107 plants from Indiana and Michigan
collected by Fr. P. E. Hebert, and 1,001
cryptogams (220941, 220947, 225287).
(See also Agriculture, U.S. Department
of)

Hernandez X., Dr. Efraim.
cuela Nacional de Agricultura)

(See Treasury,

(See Es-
140

Herndon, Terrel, Alamogordo, N.
Mex.: Skull, with lower jaw, and nearly
complete skeleton, found near Mescalero
Indian Reservation near Alamogordo
(224952).

Hesse, Robert, Philadelphia, Pa.: 26
minerals from various localities (224941,
exchange).

Hewatt, Dr. Willis G., Gloucester
Point, Va.: 7 brackish-water mollusks
from Texas and North Carolina

(220775). (See also Virginia Fisheries
Laboratory)
Heyman, Mrs. Michael, Washing-

ton, D.C.: United States silver dollar,
1925, and philatelic cover bearing 5
postage stamps of Cuba, dated January
19, 1959 (225195, 225311).

Hibbard, Raymond E., Buffalo, N.Y.:
43 Bryozoa from the Pennsylvanian of
Kansas City, Mo. (222637).

Hicks, Mrs. Eugene, Emmett, Idaho:
19 items of tourmaline from near Ola,
Idaho (220674).

Highton, Dr. Richard.
land, University of)

Hill, Mrs. Malcolm Westcott, Alex-
andria, Va.: 9 items of furniture, ac-
cessories, and clothing from ‘The
Shadows,” Alexandria, Va. (223294).

Hill, Dr. W. C. Osman. (See Zo-
ological Society of London)

Hirsch, Dr. Allan, Wellington, New
Zealand: 32 samples of diatoms from
New Zealand (216970).

Hobbs, Dr. Horton H., Jr., Char-
lottesville, Va.: 8 crayfishes, including
types (221627, 223680).

Hoffman, Henry. (See Corsthwaite,
Forest May, deceased)

Hoffman, Richard L., Blacksburg,
Va.: 2 millipedes from Puerto Rico,
types (221178, 223063); 49 millipedes
from Arkansas, Florida, Illinois, Mis-
souri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Pennsyl-
vania, South Carolina, Texas, and
Virginia, and 4 centipedes from Ten-
nessee and Florida (222893, 223876);
15 insects and 4 reptiles and amphibi-
ans from Virginia and ‘Tennessee
(223453, 224934).

Holcomb, Robert D.
of the Capitol)

(See Mary-

(See Architect

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Holder, Dr. Preston, Lincoln, Nebr.:
Restored skull with lower jaw and
fragmentary skeleton from Madison
County, Ill. (224954).

Holmes, Mabel G.
Family, The)

Holt, Frank A., Jr.
Dickinson & Co.)

Holthuis, Dr. L. B., Leiden, The
Netherlands: 2 sea anemones from
Curagao (215261).

Hoizclaw, Henry.
U.S. Department of the)

Homan, B. H., Jr., New York, N.Y.:
849 proofs and stamps of Saxony
(222355).

Hood, Mrs. Gladys Clark.
Hood, Mrs. Percy Clark)

Hood, Mrs. Percy Clark, and Hood,
Mrs. Gladys Clark, Washington, D.C.:
Militia officer’s sword, 1821-40, worn
by Dr. Courtney James Clark, Mexican
and Civil War, and an openwork gold
and white china fruit basket, ca. 1840
(221535).

Hoogsiraal, Dr. Harry.
fense, U.S. Department of)

Hoppinger, J. J., Lakewood, Ohio:

(See Grigsby

(See Becton,

(See Treasury,

(See

(See De-

4 minerals from Indiana (222745); 56
minerals from various localities
(223983).

Horning, William Bliss, II, Cincin-
nati, Ohio: 6 fresh-water mussels from
Ohio (222272).

Hoskins Manufacturing Company,
Detroit, Mich.: (Through Leslie S.
Morrison) chromel-alumel electric den-
tal furnace manufactured by donor in
1908 (225115).

Hotchkiss, Neil.
Department of the)

Houston, Prof. Walter Scott, Man-
hattan, Kans.: Meteorite from Belle
Plaine, Kans. (222665).

Howe, Walter L.
R. R., & Sons Co.)

Howell, Edgar M., Washington, D.C.:
Copy of land grant by which Henry
Jumper, Private Ohio Militia, War of
1812, conveyed land to Benjamin W.
Goode (223492).

Howell, Mrs. Willard H.
Mrs. Julia Fitz Overton)

(See Interior, U.S.

(See Donnelley,

(See Bell,
DONORS TO THE

Hubbard, Dr. C. A., Portland, Oreg.:
15 fleas from Mexico (223267).

Huber, Ivan, College Park, Md.: 6
alder flies from Connecticut (223078).

Hubricht, Leslie, Ilion, N.Y.: Holo-
type and 6 paratypes of a mollusk from
Jessamine County, Kentucky (221943).

Huizenga, J. R. (See Argonne Na-
tional Laboratory)

Humes, Dr. Arthur G., Boston, Mass.:
4 marine invertebrates (221110). (See
also Boston University)

Hummelinck, Dr. P. Wagenaar,
Utrecht, The Netherlands: 124 octo-
corals and 14 worms (189993, 221252).

Hunt, Virginia L., Washington, D.C.:
Woman’s black ostrich-feather fan, 19th
century, and brass fish slice (220288).

Hurd, Mrs. Hanford B. (See New
Eyes for the Needy, Inc.)

Hurd, Dr. Paul D. (See California,
University of)

Hurst, Dr. Vernon J.
Department of Mines,
Geology)

Huttleston, Dr. Donald G. (See Long-
wood Gardens)

Hyman, Dr. Libbie H. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Iceland, Government of, Reykjavik,
Iceland: (Through Frimerkjasalan) 30
Icelandic mint postage stamps (223489).

Idaho, University of, Moscow, Idaho:
(Through Dr. Roland W. Portman) 6
land snails from Idaho (221248).

Ikehara, Dr. Sadao, Naha, Okinawa:
25 soldier and worker termites from
Ryukyu Islands (221166).

Illinois State Museum, Springfield,
Ill.: (Through Dr. Paul W. Parmalee)
2 bones of the ivory-billed woodpecker
(223551).

Illinois State Natural History Survey
Division, Urbana, Ill.: (Through Dr.
H. H. Ross) 122 paratypes of insects
(225263); (through Dr. Lewis J. Stan-
nard) paratype of thrip from Chiapa,
Mexico (223269).

Imperial College of Tropical Agricul-
ture, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.:
8 plants from Trinidad and 5 grasses
from the West Indies (221238, 224766) ;

(See Georgia
Mining, and

NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

141

(through Prof. J. W. Purseglove) 2
bromeliads (221422).

Indiana University, Bloomington,
Ind.: (Through James E. Canright) 2
slides of wood sections from Chile
(217150, exchange).

Indonesia, Government of: (Through
Ir. Surodjo Ranukusumo) 2,270 speci-
mens of larger Foraminifera from
Borneo and Sumatra (222309, ex-
change).

Ingeloff, Thorsten, Karlstad, Sweden:
42 Swedish covers bearing various
postal cancellations, 5 Swedish special
cancellations on cover, and 8 postal
cancellations of Sweden (222918, 222934,
225302).

Ingerson, Dr. Earl.
Government of)

Ingram, Dr. William M. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Institut Francais d’Afrique Noire,
Gorée, Sénégal, Africa: (Through Dr.
Jean Cadenat) 2 fishes from Senegal,
French West Africa (224126, exchange).

Institut fiir Fischereibiologie, Ham-
burg, Germany: (Through Dr. Wilhelm
Harder) 21 fishes from the Philippine
Islands (221443, exchange).

Institut Pasteur d’Algérie, Algiers,
Algeria: (Through Dr. J. Clastrier) 44
biting midges from Algeria (223068,
exchange).

Institut Royal des Sciences Natu-
relles, Brussels, Belgium: (Through Dr.
A. Vandercammen) 3 fossil brachiopods
from Belgium (221488, exchange).

Institute of Soil Survey, Groningen,
Holland: (Through Dr. H. W. van der
Marel) Amesite from Transvaal, South
Africa (220480, exchange).

Instituto Agronémica do Norte, Belém,
Par4, Brazil: 165 phanerogams, 35
grasses of Brazil (220778, 222378, ex-
changes).

Instituto Botanico, Caracas, Vene-
zuela: 9 plants of Venezuela (223135,
224596, 225092, 225179); (through Dr.
Leandro Aristeguieta) plant from Vene-
zuela (223856).

(See Australia,
142 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Instituto de Biologia, Mexico, D.F.:
(Through Alejandro Villalobos F.) 122
shrimps and 8 crayfishes (224605).

Instituto de Ciencias Naturales, Bo-
gota, Colombia: 27 phanerogams, 2
ferns, and 22 plants of Colombia
(220540, 220602, 222376).

Instituto de Micologia, Recife, Per-
nambuco, Brazil: (Through Prof. A.
Chaves Batista) 17 lichens of Brazil
(220506).

Instituto Geologico, Mexico, D.F.:
(Through A. R. V. Arellano) plaster cast
of anterior caudal vertebra of a dinosaur
found in Mexico (223473).

Instituto Interamericano de Ciencias
Agricolas, Turrialba, Costa Rica:
(Through Dr. Arthur T. Semple) 15
plants from Jordan collected by H. R.
Gharaibeh and 10 Costa Rican plants
(223364, 224366).

Inter-American Tropical Tuna Com-
mission, La Jolla, Calif.: (Through
Dr. W. L. Klawe) 4 earthworms, 7
shrimps, 3 lots of insects, and a mollusk
(211108, 221044).

Interior, U. S. Department of the,
Washington, D.C.: Office of the Secretary:
(Through Roger Ernst) 172,712 postage
stamps, postcards, and revenue stamps
of Cuba, 1881-98 (223309). Bureau of
Mines: About 750 grams of manganese
nodules, dredged by the U.S. Navy in
June 1958, on eastern slope of Blake
Plateau (221750). Fish and Wildlife
Service: 747 skins, 9 skeletons, 2 alco-
holic specimens and 4 eggs of birds of
North America, 38 lichens of Alaska
collected by R. O. Skoog, and 106
mammals (221499, 222716, 225085);
(through William W. Anderson) 97
fishes from the Gulf of Mexico and
vicinity (220773); (through William W.
Anderson, Frederick H. Berry, and
John C. Briggs) 14 fishes, including one
holotype (218718); (through Dr. Oliver
B. Cope) 25 copepods (220753) ; (through
Eugene Cypert) 2 salamanders from
Gannet Lake, Okefenokee Swamp, Ga.
(224448); (through Raymond J. Fleet-
wood) 31 phanerogams, 17 grasses, and
1 fern from New Mexico and Texas
(217126, 224569); (through Dr. Paul S.

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Galtsoff) an oyster from the Tertiary of
Peru (189416); (through George D.
Grice, Jr., and E. C. Jones) 56 copepods
(224310); (through Neil Hotchkiss) 37
phanerogams and 2 grasses (223992);
(through Dr. Daniel L. Leedy) 33,063
miscellaneous insects (218722) ; (through
Ross L. Leffler) die proof of Duck
Hunting Permit Stamp, 1958-59, and
sheet of stamps of same (223161); die
proof and a complete sheet of 28 ‘‘duck”’
stamps, 1958-59 (223304); (through Dr.
Giles W. Mead and Harvey R. Bullis,
Jr.) 6,114 fishes, 603 crustacea, and 1
mollusk from the Western North
Atlantic (220144); (through Dr. A. L.
Nelson) 5 paratypes of flies from
Arizona (221181); (through Dr. Paul F.
Springer) 133 brackish-water mollusks
from St. Marks National Wildlife
Refuge, Florida, and 5 amphipods from
Maryland (221046, 222854); (through
Dr. Donald W. Strasburg) 465 fishes
from Oceania in the Pacific (223549);
(through Dr. J. Waldrich) 633 birds and
bird skeletons from various parts of
North America (225248); (through
George W. Warner) 32 eels from Alaska
(223637) ; (through Dr. John P. Wise) 3
amphipods (219939). Geological Sur-
vey: 29 fossil sirenian bones collected by
G. L. Snyder and G. D. Fraser from
Unalaska Island, Alaska (214716); frag-
ments of a phytosaur, collected by F. G.
Poole and J. H. Stewart in 1956 in
Colorado; 2 small phytosaurian teeth,
collected by F. J. Poole and J. R.
Gigone, in Dinosaur National Monu-
ment, northwest Utah, 1957 (215751);
976 land and fresh-water mollusks from
the Pleistocene of Indiana and Kentucky
(217539); fossil fish from the upper
Jurassic, collected by 8S. D. Theodosis,
in New Mexico, June 1957 (2195738); 33
Foraminifera from the late Eocene,
Shell Bluff, Ga. (221511); (through Dr.
Arthur A. Baker) 89 crinoid fragments
and calyxes from various U.S. localities,
and 270 Foraminifera from various
foreign localities (221068); (through
William E. Davies) 26 land snails from
Laurel Creek Cave, Monroe Co., W.
Va. (220219); (through Dr. F. R. Fos-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

berg) 2 hermit crabs, 1 crab, 177 mol-
lusks, and 1 reptile from Miyako Island,
South Ryukyus, and 76 insects from the
U.S. (212820); 894 phanerogams, 952
grasses, 3 ferns, and 2 cryptogams from
Polynesia (224372); (through Lloyd G.
Henbest) 158 thin sections of Penn-
sylvanian Foraminifera (221140) ;
(through Dr. Harry 8. Ladd) 382 fossil
crabs from Dadi Beach, Guam, col-
lected by Dr. Ladd and Dr. Porter Ward
in 1958 (222648); 237 specimens of
Tertiary and Recent decapod crusta-
ceans from the Marshall, Marianas,
and Palau Islands (224963); (through
F. Stearns MacNeil and Dr. Harry §S.
Ladd) 151 fresh-water and marine
Quaternary mollusks from the Ryukyu
Islands, Japan (212558); (through Dr.
John C. Marr) shad from Baja Cali-
fornia, Mexico (223026); (through Dr.
Thomas B. Nolan) 16 rocks from Bag-
dad, Arizona (216539); 4 nontonites
from Stevens County, Wash. (221067);
25 szaibelyites and 25 fluoborites from
California (221145); 334 fossil inverte-
brates from the Cretaceous of Montana
and Wyoming, 3 specimens of matrix
with fossil-fish remains, 100 ammonite
fossils, types, from the Lower Cretace-
ous of the west coast, 30 fusulinids from
the Thrifty formation, Pennsylvanian of
Texas, and 59 Foraminifera from the
Miocene and upper Eocene of Saipan
(221397); 10 gorceixites from Hot
Springs, Ark. (221507); 12 minerals
from Montana, Idaho, Alabama, and
Cerro de Pasco, Peru (221586); fossil-
mammal maxilla and a fossil-fish scale
(221985); rock set described from the
Jerome area, Yavapai County, Ariz.
(222624); 47 tektites from Charlotte
Waters, Australia (222712); 23 minerals
from various localities (222797); 5
minerals from Red Devil Mine, near
Sleetmute, Alaska (223372); 19 minerals
from Green River, Wyoming (223404);
6 minerals from U.S.8.R. and Canada
(223452); ningyoite in ore from Japan
and synthetic ningyoite prepared by
T. Muto and A. M. Pommer (223823) ;
46 gastropods from Texas, New Mexico,
and Arizona, 16 plaster casts of gastro-

143

pods, 114 larger invertebrates, 4 thin
sections of corals, 56 thin sections of
fusulinids, and 52 gastropods and 1
scaphopod from northern Alaska, all
deposited by Ellis Yochelson, 1958
(223871); (through Dr. I. G. Sohn) 17
Pliocene ostracodes (221399); (through
Ruth Todd) 67 Foraminifera from the
Tertiary of Saipan and 56 Foraminifera
from the sub-Recent of the western
Mediterranean and ‘Tyrrhenian Sea
(222830). National Park Service:
(Through John §. McLaughlin) 2
Kaibab squirrels from Arizona (225273) ;
(through Julian C. Spotts) 38 miscel-
laneous historical wood, stone, and iron
fragments from St. Louis structures,
19th century (219931) ; (through Roland
Wauer) 6 anostracan branchiopods and
an isopod (223568). Trust Territory
of the Pacific Islands: (Through Delmas
H. Nucker) rope, baskets, kilts, looms,
and other ethnological articles from Yap
and the islands in the Yap District,
Caroline Islands (220836); 64 objects
collected by Frank Mahony and Gustav
Weilbaecher from Ponape District,
Caroline Islands, and 13 unhafted adzes
and 1 medicine pounder from Kusaie
(221588) ; 125 objects of jewelry, cloth-
ing, weapons, and fishing equipment
from Truk District and the Marshall
Islands (224416).

International Silk Association
(U.S.A.), Inc., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Alvin Barber) 12 modern
silk fabrics (219908).

Iowa, State University of, Iowa City,
Iowa: (Through Dr. Ralph L. Shriner)
Sartorius balance (222976).

Iowa State College, Ames,
Grass (221191).

Irish Linen Guild, The, New York,
N.Y.: (Through D. E. Gatter) 4 modern
linen fabrics (223124).

Irving, Dr. Laurence. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-

Iowa:

ment of)

Irwin, Suzanne, Yuma, Ariz.: 10
brachiopods (220748).

Izant, Robert J., Hudson, Ohio:
Billet head from Chesapeake Bay

pungy schooner Wave, ca. 1863 (221207).
144

Jackson, Daniel, Bethesda, Md.:
Chair, ca. 1880 (222035).

Jackson, Ralph W., Cambridge, Md.:
Shell, topotype, of a land snail from
Ecuador (219826).

Jacobs, George E.
lain Fund, Frances Lea)

Jardin Botanico do Rio de Janeiro,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: 5 phanerogams
and 29 ferns (224196, exchange).

Jellison, Dr. William L. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Jensen, David E. (See Ward’s Nat-
ural Science Establishment, Inc.)

Jewett, Stanley G., Jr., Portland,
Oreg.: 84 parasitic stoneflies from
Tropical America (223882).

Jillson, Dr. Willard Rouse, Frankfort,
Ky.: 150 corals from the Devonian of
New York (221141).

Jiménez, Dr. José de Js., Santiago de
Los Caballeros, Dominican Republic:
122 phanerogams, 8 grasses, and 4 ferns
from the Dominican Republic (221523,
222810, 223892).

Johns, Daryl D., Alexandria, Va.:
14 philatelic and numismatic items
(222929).

Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Prof. Walter S. Koski)
collection of chemical apparatus used
by Dr. Ira Remsen at Johns Hopkins
University (221777).

Johnson, Mrs. Cliva, Collins, N.Y.
Brass button, ca. 1849 (222498).

Johnson, Elise B., Estate of, Wash-
ington, D.C.: (Through John H. Curry)
soapstone vessel from southeast Penn-
sylvania (224547).

Johnson, J. O., White Bear Lake,
Minn.: Models of 2 scows (224566).

Johnson, Dr. Phyllis T., Washington,
D.C.: 4 fleas from the United States
(223248). (See also Agriculture, U.S.
Department of; Coleman, Dr. Richard
W.; and Defense, U.S. Department of)

Johnstone, Mrs. Harry Inge, Mobile,
Ala.: 17 marine mollusks from the Gulf
of Mexico off Louisiana, and a collection
of fossil mollusks from Dauphin Island,
Ala. (220431).

(See Chamber-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Jones, Charles L.
Department of)

Jones, D. E., Delta, Colo.: Large
dinosaur humerus collected by donor
in Montrose County, Colo. (220766).

(See State, U.S.

Jones, E. C., (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)
Jones, Frank N. (See Peabody Insti-

tute of the City of Baltimore)

Jones, Halbert. (See American Cot-
ton Manufacturers Institute, Inc., The)

Jones, Mrs. Josiah W., Olney, Md.:
Earth closet (224828).

Jones, Mrs. W. Ashby, 3d, Richmond,
Va.: 11 items of costume and costume
accessories, ca. 1900 (222575).

Jones & Lamson Machine Co.,
Springfield, Vt.: (Through William
O. Moeser) Fay automatic lathe (223583).

Jou, Dr. Guillermo Folch. (See
Museo de la Farmacia Hispana)

Jovét-Ast, Mme. (See Museum Na-
tional d’Histoire Naturelle)

Judd, Dr. Deane B. (See Bittinger,
Charles)

Judd, Neil M., Silver Spring, Md.:
Undergarment worn by Orthodox Mor-
mon, purchased by donor in Salt Lake
City, Utah (224456).

Junge, Carlos, Concepcion, Chile:
8 phanerogams and 12 grasses (219067).

Junker, Dr. Conrad, University Park,
Md.: 2 millipedes from Kenya, Africa
(223967, 224765).

Kansas, University of, Lawrence,
Kans.: (Through Dr. Robert Beer) 48
mites from Texas, Kansas, Mexico, and
Tasmania (223258); (through Dr. Carl
W. Rettenmeyer) 70 millipedes from the
Canal Zone and Mexico (224287).

Kaufman, Mrs. Bertha, New York,
N.Y.: Blue-glass bowl from the Schloss
Voslau near Baden, lower Austria, said
to have been used by Marie Louise
(222388).

Kaufmann, Charles L., Bombay,
India: 7 fishes, 1 crustacean, and 1
mollusk from India (221251).

Kawabe, A., Tokyo, Japan: 21 small
moths from Japan (223179, exchange).

Keen, Dr. Myra. (See Stanford
University)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Keith, Bernard, Detroit, Mich.: 2,500
brachiopods from Devonian of Ohio
(222644).

Kellner, Dr. Arthur W., Holly-
wood Fla.: Advertisement for Elgin,
Iilinois, Dental Institute, 1870, offering
“One full set of first class artificial
teeth” for ten dollars (222971).

Kelly, Lauchlin, Lexington Park, Md.:
Watch, E. Howard & Co. (225121).

Kelso de Montigny, Dr. Alan H.
(See Kirby, I. A. Earle)

Kemper, C. Alan, Alexandria, Va.:
Egyptian doll, jar, and bowl (224343,
gift-exchange).

Kempf, Father Walter W., Sao Paulo,
Brazil: 24 ants from South America
(220568, 223274).

Kenney, T. C. (See Westinghouse
Electric Corporation)

Keppel, W. M. (See Esso Standard
Oil Co.)

Kernodle, George M., Estate of:
(Through Mrs. Ruth McDonald) 3
transfer printed ceramic tiles made for
Trinity Church, Newport, R.I. (224172).

Kerr, Robert, Jr. (See Kerr Manu-
facturing Co.)

Kerr Manufacturing Co., Detroit,
Mich.: (Through Robert Kerr, Jr.) Kerr
Anatomical Articulator, manufactured
by Detroit Dental Mfg. Co., in April
1902 (224000).

Ketner, William H., Washington,
D.C.: 3 archeological specimens and 3
metal tupu-spoons from the highlands of
Bolivia (221386).

Kier, Dr. Porter M., Washington,
D.C.: 50 brachiopods from the Creta-
ceous of Belgium (221143).

Kiley, George F., Readville, Mass.:
Turret lathe, Jones & Lamson No. 8
(221708).

King, J. Cecil, Lake Wales, Fla.: 2
plants from Florida (221453).

Kirby, I. A. Earle, Kingstown, St.
Vincent, B.W.I.: (Through Dr. Alan
H. Kelso de Montigny) head of a Cook’s

tree boa from St. Vincent, B.W.I.
(217783).
Kivett, Marvin F. (See Nebraska

State Historical Society)

145

Klamm, Mrs. Eva C. Taiclet, Cleve-
land Heights, Ohio: Lady’s watch and
pin (224781). (See also Taiclet, Mrs.
Zephirine)

Klapper, Gilbert, Baton Rouge, La.:
17 Devonian conodonts from Wyoming
(223872).

Klawe, Dr. W. L., La Jolla, Calif.:
10 insects (221108). (See also Inter-
American Tropical Tuna Commission)

Klibanoff, Max, Ciudad Trujillo,
Dominican Republic: 10 larvae from
the Dominican Republic (223968).

Kline, Irving B., Norfolk, Va.: Ten-
cent Government check, issued by the
Assistant Treasurer of the United States;
New York Journal, August 3, 1898; and
New York Times Magazine of Nov. 11,
1928 (223405).

Knapp, Mrs. Nelson E., New Haven,
Conn.: 3 items of infant’s clothing,
ca. 1901 (222110).

Knobloch, Dr. Irving.
State University)

Knodle, Richard L., Adelphi, Md.:
Coherer receiver (223383).

Knowles, James, Baltimore, Md.:
Propeller-blade pattern showing mode
of construction of pattern to obtain
proper pitch and blade cross-section
(222959).

Knowlton, Dr. G. F., Logan, Utah:
17 black flies, paratypes and holotype,
from Utah, California, Idaho, and
British Columbia (222894).

Knox, Mrs. McCook, Washington,
D.C.: First-day canceled card with 3
1-cent Lincoln Sesquicentennial stamps
(224202).

Knull, Dr. J. N., Columbus, Ohio:
8 leaf hoppers from North America
(223265).

(See Michigan

Koch, Col. Otto R., Jr. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)
Kofron, Joanna, Petersburg, Va.:

Broadside bearing current 4-cent postage
stamp canceled with replica of Williams-
burg, Va., 18th-century hand cancel
(225312).

Kohls, Dr. Glen M. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)
146

Kolbert, J. W. (See Englehard Indus-
tries, Inc.)

Komarek, E. V., Thomasville, Ga.:
175 small mammals from southeastern
U.S. (225274).

Kondo, Dr. Yoshio.
Museum, Bernice P.)

Kopf, Max J., Buffalo, N.Y.: 3
Ordovician slabs from Kirkfield, On-
tario (220338, exchange).

Kosh, Mrs. Albert F.
Frank 8.)

Koski, Walter S. (See Johns Hopkins
University)

Kouvo, Dr. Olavi, Outokumpu Oy,
Finland: 2 eskolaites from Outokumpu
(222210, exchange).

Kozloff, Dr. Eugene N.
and Clark College)

Kraft, Dr. Kenneth J., Duluth, Minn.:
5 soldier flies from North America
(223180).

Kramer, Wilhelm, Velbert, Western
Germany: First-day cover franked with
4 postage stamps of Monaco commemo-
rating the centenary of the Apparitions
of Loudres, German post card, and first-
day cover of Monaco (221527, 222922).

Krauss, Dr. N. L. H., Honolulu, T.H.:
6,910 miscellaneous insects and marine
invertebrates from Western Pacific, Asi-
atic, and African localities (218668,
223338); 2 phanerogams and a crypto-
gam from the Hawaiian and Gilbert
Islands (224369).

Krinov, Dr. E. L. (See Academy of
Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Kriser, David B., New York, N.Y.:
3,828 stamps of Indonesia in 3 volumes
(223311).

Kriser, Sidney, New York, N.Y.:
1,433 stamps of Yemen in 3 volumes
(223310).

Krombein, Karl V., Arlington, Va.:
10 wasps, including holotype and allotype,
and 56 lots of wasp larvae from the U.S.
(221154, 223243, 223263); 344 moths,
460 nocturnal insects, 100 bees, parasitic
Hymenoptera, and flies, and 79 wasps
with associated prey, all from Kill Devil
Hills, N.C. (221758) ; 324 Hymenoptera
from various localities of the U.S.
(223262).

(See Bishop

(See Rodgers,

(See Lewis

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Kuntz, Comdr. Robert E. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Kunze, Albert F., Rockville, Ma.: 280
miscellaneous United States and foreign
stamps (220972).

Kurokawa, Syo, Tokyo, Japan:
Japanese lichens (220948, exchange).

Kustka, Mrs. Lillian, Washington,
D.C.: Calcite from Eagle Picher Mine,
near Galena, Ill. (223466).

Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan:
(Through Dr. M. Tagawa) 22 ferns from
Japan (222694, exchange).

Lackey, James B., Gainesville, Fla.:
Sample of diatoms from Salt Spring,
Fla. (220352).

Ladd, Dr. Harry S.
U.S. Department of the)

LaFontaine, Walter F., Norwich,
Conn.: Four subject one-dollar proof
sheet of the Thames Bank, Norwich,
Conn., 1850-59 (224769).

Laird, Marshall, Quebec, Canada:
Parasitic helminth, holotype, from Guad-
aleanal (219965).

La Master, Mrs. F. H., Bladensburg,
Md.: 3 items of costume of the 19th and
20th centuries (221531).

Lampoh, Charles W., Alexandria,
Va.: Music box with rocking boat under
glass (222947).

Lane, Dr. Jchn, Sio Paulo, Brazil: 18
flies from Trinidad (222026).

Langer, Gerald, Milwaukee, Wis.:
Micrometer calipers, Brown & Sharpe
(224207).

Langridge, H. P., Lantana, Fla.: Head
and feet of a bird (222460).

Lankester, C. H., Cartago,
Rica: 2 phanerogams of Costa Rica
(221190, 223236).

LaPalme, Raymond E., and Levas-
seur, Lewis, Brattleboro, Vt.: 10 cannon
balls and sabots from Lake Champlain,
probably from sunken gunboat Royal
Savage (223125).

Lapham, Don C., Solana Beach,
Calif.: Sandstone mortars recovered
from beneath the sea off Solana Beach,
California (220811).

Latham, Dana. (See Treasury, U.S.
Department of the)

60

(See Interior,

Costa
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Lauritzen, Chris, Antioch, Calif.:
Atlas-Imperial diesel engine, 1921
(223429).

Lauritzen, Vilhelm, Hellerup, Den-
mark: 2 butterflies from England
(221391).

Leach, C. N., Detroit, Mich.: Silver
door plate, 19th century (223799).

Learnard, R. A., Washington, D.C.:
4bird skins and 7 bird skeletons (221498).

Leatherland, Olaf, Alexandria, Va.:
Tape measure and holder with pin
cushion, 19th century, owned by great-
grandfather of donor (225112).

Leatherman, Mrs. Sylvia, South El
Monte, Calif.: 3 Brazilian ferns, 2
cultivated ferns (223822, 225027). (See
also Leatherman’s Gardens)

Leatherman’s Gardens, El Monte,
Calif.: (Through Mrs. Sylvia Leather-
man) 2 cultivated ferns (222867).

Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River,
N.Y.: Bottle containing some of the
original soil from which the antibiotic
Aureomycin was isolated (223477).

Leech, Hugh B., San Francisco,
Calif.: 100 ants from North America
(223278).

Leeds & Northrup Co., Philadelphia,
Pa.: (Through A. R. Floreen) Type §,
portable testing device (225196).

Leedy, Dr. Daniel L. (See Interior,
U.S. Department of the)

Leffler, Ross L. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Lehman, Manfred R., New York,
N.Y.: Souvenir sheet of Ghana stamps
and 3 stamps mounted on a presentation
card issued in honor of Abraham
Lincoln (224390).

Leininger, Mrs. Catherine, Pierceton,
Ind.: Homeopathic medicine kit, late
18th or early 19th century, used by
great-grandfather of donor (223478).

Lent, Gerard A., Rutherford, N.J.:
Wooden saw clamp (221628).

Lentz, Leonard J. P., Baltimore, Md.:
11 miscellaneous tools, 63 cooper’s tools,
and a blowtorch (219676).

Leonard, E. C., Washington, D.C.:
1,749 cryptogams, mostly mosses of the
eastern U.S. (220946).

§24592—59——__11

147

Leutwein, Prof. Dr. F. (See Mineral-
ogisches Institut der Bergakademie)
Levasseur, Lewis. (See LaPalme,

Raymond E.)

Levy, Howard S. (See Levy, Max,
& Co.)

Levy, Max, & Company, Philadel-

phia, Pa.: (Through Howard §. Levy)
50-line half-tone screen (222676).

Lewis, A. D. (See West Virginia
Conservation Commission)

Lewis, Alan. (See Miami,
University of)

Lewis, Mrs. Ethel, Washington, D.C.:
Deweylite from Bare Hills, Md. (221514).

Lewis, Harrison Olney, Estate of:
(Through Winston Lee Winters) 2
women’s dresses, man’s suit, and a pair
of shoes, all of the 1870’s (223348).

Lewis, Dr. John B. (See McGill
University)

Lewis, Keith B. (See Eastman Kodak
Co.)

Lewis, Miss Rae T., Washington,
D.C.: 2 wool-knitted baby socks, 2
tatting shuttles, 3 tracing wheels, 8
crochet hooks, 10 needlework stilettos,
and 4 costumes and accessories (221225).

Lewis and Clark College, Portland,
Oreg.: (Through Dr. Eugene N. Kozloff)
3 ostracods, paratypes (221272).

The

Leyendecker, Dr. Philip J. (See
New Mexico State University)
Library of Congress, Washington,

D.C.: The Ackerman Collection of 1,331
specimens of United States. proofs and
essays, and the C. F. Eagle Collection
of 5,455 United States Civil War
revenue and other stamps (203453,
deposit) ; 2 bronze medals commemorat-
ing the 400th anniversary of the found-
ing of the City of Merida, Venezuela,
and a bronze medal commemorating
the sesquicentennial celebration of the
Botanical Garden of Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil (222759, 223148, exchanges);
Brazilian bronze medal issued in 1957,
commemorative of the centennial of
the First Hydrographic Campaign
(2238152).

Library of Congress Stamp Club,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Thomas
H. Nichols) 1,405 used stamps of the
148

United States and various foreign
countries (222916, 225298).

Ligas, Frank J. (See Florida Game
and Fresh Water Fish Commission)

Lightfoot, Mrs. James Herndon,
Takoma Park, Md.: 4 Biloxi baskets
belonging to donor’s mother (220765).

Limbaugh, Conrad. (See Scripps In-
stitution of Oceanography)

Lincoln, F. F., Washington, D.C.:
Marine mollusk from near Karachi,
Pakistan (220940).

Lindquist, Harry L., New York,
N.Y.: 180 postal booklets, totaling 4,900
stamps, and 6,074 stamps in postal
booklets from ten different countries
(223387, 225192).

Lindroth, Dr. Carl H., Lund, Sweden:
200 centipedes from Alaska and adjacent
islands (223195).

Link, Edwin A., New York, N.Y.: 58
objects recovered by an _ expedition
sponsored by Mr. Link to the wreck
site of the Fleet of 1733, in the Florida
Straits area, 1953-54, and a fragment of
wood with brass spike of 19th-century
manufacture (224979, 225097).

Linnet, Stefan K. (See Sigurdsson,
Capt. Gudni).

Little, Dr. Elbert L., Jr. (See Agri-
culture, U.S. Department of)

Little, Frank J., Jr., New Haven,
Conn.: 53 sponges (221032).

Llano, Dr. George A. (See National
Academy of Sciences)

Lockwood, Mr. and Mrs. Newton L.,
Plainfield, Conn.: 4 brackets for work-
bench and a wire drawing die from the
Hopkins & Alfred wooden clock factory,
built in 1830, at Harwinton, Conn.
(224779).

Loeb, Dr. Walter M., Mercer Island,
Wash.: 8 Chinese bank notes (221805).

Lohse, Dr. G. A., Hamburg, Ger-
many: 2 beetles from Europe (223276,
exchange).

Long, Mrs. Daniel C., Washington,
D.C.: White-satin wedding dress, trim-
med with point lace, 1899 (224281).

Long, Elizabeth. (See Potomac
Craftsmen)

Longwood Gardens, Kennett Square,
Pa.: (Through Dr. Donald G. Huttles-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

ton) 10 ferns and a phanerogam

(221808).
Lonnberg, A. E. (See Sanborn Co.)
Loomis, H. F., Miami, Fla.: 50

millipedes, including types, centipedes,
insects, and scorpions from Barro
Colorado and the Canal Zone (222891,
222896, 224560).

Los Angeles County Museum, Los
Angeles, Calif.: (Through Dr. E. Yale
Dawson) 85 ferns of the Machris
Brazilian Expedition (212212); (through
Dr. Kenneth E. Stager) 10 mammals
from California (219716, exchange).

Louisiana State University and Agri-
cultural and Mechanical College, Baton
Rouge, La.: 30 plants of British Hon-
duras (221997); (through Dr. L. D.
Newson) 28 insects from the U.S.
(224358).

Louisville, University of, Louisville,
Ky.: (Through Dr. William M. Clay)
7 fishes from Kentucky collected by
M. E. Clark (223460, exchange).

Lowenstein, Ernest, New York, N.Y.:
79,210 stamps of the Ukraine National
Republic, issues of 1918 (225318).

Loyola College, Madras, India:
(Through T. N. Ananthakrishnan)
11 thrips from India (221004, exchange).

Ludington, Morris H., Silver Spring,
Md.: 110 postage stamps of Bermuda,
Bermuda seal, and 100 U.S. Christmas
seals, 1923 (222937).

Lund, Mrs. Louise S., Jr., Everett,
Mass.: 20 items of clothing and ac-
cessories, 19th century (221011).

Lund, University of, Lund, Sweden:
(Through Dr. Ove Almborn) 250
cryptogams (223579, exchange).

Lynn, R. D. (See Anaconda Com-
pany)

Lynn, Dr. W. Gardner, Washington,
D.C.: 172 reptiles and amphibians from
Haiti, Cuba, and Trinidad, including
the type and 36 paratypes of a new
subspecies of frog (224932).

MacCord, Lt. Col. Howard, New
York, N.Y.: 122 specimens of archeologi-
cal material from the Kenilworth site,
District of Columbia (221135).

Macdonald, Dr. W. W., Kuala
Lumpur, Malaya: 4 paratypes of mos-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

quito with associated larval and pupal
skins from Malaya, 8 adult mosquitoes,
and 5 slides (221164, 221165).

MacDougall, T., Tehuantepec, Mexi-
co: 8 plants from Mexico (224876).

MacFadden, Mrs. Fay A., Los
Angeles, Calif.: 21 cultivated ferns
(221408, gift-exchange).

Mackerras, Dr. I. M., Brisbane,
Australia: 46 horseflies from Australia
(221160).

Mackey, Harry, Jr., Cleveland, Ohio:
German steel helmet, World War II,
German Nazi arm band, and German
belt buckle (222719).

MacNeil, F. Stearns.
U.S. Department of the)

Maden Tetkik ve Arama Enstitiisii,
Ankara, Turkey: Colemanite, priceite,
and ulexite from Turkey (215167,
exchange).

Madison, Marshall P., and sisters,
Mrs. Wakefield Baker and Mrs. Charles
O. Martin, San Francisco, Calif.: 1901
edition National Stamp Album con-
taining 633 United States postage and
revenue stamps (222038).

(See Interior,

Mahdihassan, Dr. S., Karachi,
Pakistan: 5 chalcid flies from India
(223252).

Mallis, Arnold, Pittsburgh, Pa.: 17
legionary ants from California and
Mexico (221159).

Man-Made Fiber Producers Assoc.,
New York, N. Y.: (Through Matthew
H. O’Brien) 12 man-made fiber fabrics
(225107).

Manning, Raymond B.
The University of)

Manville, Stewart R., White Plains,
N.Y.: Marcasite concretion from Fair-
point, S. Dak. (221656).

Marks, Amelia. (See
Jacques Frederic)

Marks, Elizabeth N., St. Lucia, Bris-
bane, Australia: 3 pinned mosquitoes
and 3 larval slides from Australia
(221176).

Marks, J. H.
partment)

Marr, Dr. John C.
U.S. Department of the)

(See Miami,

Reinhart,

(See Post Office De-

(See Interior,

149

Marroche, Capt. Washington, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Maté set and a braided
rawhide key holder collected by donor
from the Gauchos of Uruguay (221649).

Marshall, Mrs. Edward, Lucketts,
Va.: 11 items of costumes and acces-
sories of the mid-19th and 20th centuries
and 1 Victorian fire screen (221411).

Marshall, Congressman Fred. (See
Tangborn, Vaner)

Martin, Dr. Charles H., Corvallis,
Oreg.: 36 robber flies from the U.S.
(222312, 223081).

Martin, Mrs. Charles O.
son, Marshall P., and sisters)

Martin, G. C., Invercargill, New
Zealand: 15 lichens (222691, exchange).

Martin, Lewis, Palo Alto, Calif.: 7
slides of Foraminifera from the Upper
Cretaceous, Panoche Hills, Calif.
(221512).

Martin, Mrs. William Scott, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Doll of 1870, purchased
in France (223800).

Maryland, University of, College
Park, Md.: (Through Dr. John M.
Dennis) Coolidge ‘Universal’ X-ray
tube and adjustable focus radiator
X-ray tube (223481); (through Dr.
Richard Highton) 739 reptiles and
amphibians from Maryland (224980);
(through Dr. George W. Wharton)
25,000 fishes from the eastern U.S.,
collected by Dr. R. A. Littleford
(223089).

Maryland Department of Geology,
Mines and Water Resources, Baltimore,
Md.: (Through Dr. Joseph T. Singe-
wald, Jr.) 7,345 Carboniferous plants
(224606).

Maryland Department of Research
and Education, Solomons, Md.: Chesa-
peake Marine Laboratory: (Through
Mrs. Carol B. Whitesell) 14 amphipods
and 7 cumaceans (223681).

Mason, Dr. Brian. (See American
Museum of Natural History)

Mason, Mrs. R. W., Silver Spring,
Md.: Canteen, blanket, and uniform
sash, mementos of the Civil War
(224978).

Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Cambridge, Mass.: (Through

(See Madi-
150

Dr. Robert R. Shrock) 100 Paleozoic
and Recent brachiopods from Europe,
Nova Scotia, and the U.S. (217509, ex-
change).

Massey, Mrs. Dorothy, Silver Spring,

Md.: Ansonia swinging doll clock
(225123).
Matthews, Dr. Earle D., College

Park, Md.: 15 marine mollusks from
El Salvador (222675).

Matthews, Eric G., Ithaca, N.Y.: 18
insects from Central America (223878).

Matthews, Oliver V., Salem, Oreg.:
4 phanerogams from Oregon (221187).

Mattoon, H. Gleason, Boston, Mass.:
Cultivated fern (221408).

Maul, G. E. (See Museu Municipal
do Funchal)

May, Edith M., Wickford, R.I.: 54
items of clothing and _ accessories,
personal jewelry, family documents,
textiles, a table, a painting by Edward
C. Henry, and 6 reproductions of
Henry’s works (222865).

May, Capt. Marjorie D., Arlington,
Va.: 4 items of uniform and insignia
(224209).

Mayer, Dr. William V., Detroit,
Mich.: 5 Arctic ground squirrels from
Michigan (225268).

McCall, Francis J., Washington, D.C.:
76 miscellaneous United States and
foreign postage stamps and covers
(2233038, 225303).

McCarthy, Mrs. W. A., Alexandria,
Va.: Mollusk from Okinawa (222080).

McCary, Dr. Ben C., Williamsburg,
Va.: 38 potsherds of the Costal Virginia
ceramic area (224167).

McCoy, Capt. Ben, De Land, Fla.:
Brass washer used under head of bolt to
fasten down binnacle of U.S.8. Saratoga
(224913).

McCoy, Mrs. Ethel B., New York,
N.Y.: 7 U.S. precanceled stamps and
covers of Glen Allen, Va. (224203).

McDaniels, Carl D., Las Vegas, Nev.:
4 anostracan brachiopods (223027).

McDonald, Mrs. Ruth. (See Ker-
nodle, George M., Estate of)

McDougall, Dr. W. A.
tralia, Government of)

(See Aus-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

MecDunnough, Dr. J. H., Halifax,
Canada: Small moth, paratype, from
Canada (221504).

McFadden, Dr. William D., Middle-
port, N.Y.: Birdstone from Orleans
County, N.Y., 1959 (223558).

McGarvey, Mrs. Edward (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Raymond A. Soderberg)
late 19th-century quilt (225108).

McGili University, Montreal, Canada:
Bellairs Research Institute: (Through Dr.
John B. Lewis) 7 crabs, 834sea anemones,
and 98 marine mollusks (219776, 220661,
222117). Macdonald College: 6 miscel-
laneous phanerogams (223994) ; 92 phan-
erogams (224097, gift-exchange).

McGinty, Thomas L., Boynton Beach,
Fla.: 11 marine mollusks from St. Croix,
Virgin Islands (221975).

McGuinness, Albert, Eugene, Oreg.:
3 minerals from Montana and Colorado
(223980, exchange).

McGuire, Dr. Thomas M., Chicago,
Ill.: Letter from John A. Shrader,
Cavalryman, written at Monterey,
Mexico, March 18, 1847, to his parents
of Pewee Valley, Ky. (221409).

McKey-Fender, Dorethy, Portland,
Oreg.: (Through Dr. G. E. Gates) 3
earthworms (220666).

McKinnon, David H., Washington,
D.C.: Lever escapement model (223943).

McLane, William M., Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla.: 3 shrimps (223732).

McLaren, Dr. Digby J. (See Canada,
Government of)

McLaughlin, John S.
U.S. Department of the)

McLean, Mrs. Olive Gale (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Godwin Moore) 14
items of late 19th- and early 20th-cen-
tury costumes (224657).

McMullen, Dysart, Washington,
D.C.: 2 sets of valances (223298).

McVaugh, Dr. Rogers. (See Michi-
gan, University of)

Mead, Dr. Giles W.
U.S. Department of the)

Mear, C. R., Trail, B.C., Canada:
Water-color painting by C. H. Harrison,
1890, of an engagement between U.S.
naval sailing vessel and a Confederate
Ironclad (223536).

(See Interior,

(See Interior,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Meates, Roy C., Tunbridge Wells,
Kent, England: Brass-shell fuse of Civil
War period (222951).

Meden, Dr. Fred, Bogota, Colombia:
3 frogs from Colombia (224929).

Meen, Dr. V. B. (See Royal Ontario
Museum, The)

Mehta, Dhirubhai, Bombay, India: 7
first-day covers franked with postage of
India (222925, 225301).

Meibauer, Robert, New York, N.Y.:
5 early items for extraction of teeth and
a group of De Chemant and Fonzi
teeth (220284).

Meisel, Henry O., Clintonville, Wis.:
17 U.S. first-day covers (223156).

Melis, Prof. Antonio, Florence, Italy:
50 insects from Tuscany, Italy (222902).

Melnechuck, Victor, Brooklyn, N.Y.:
Bronze medal, struck in the Paris Mint,
commemorating the 250th anniversary
of the founding of St. Petersburg by
Peter I. (221804).

Melson, William, Riverdale, Md.: 4
minerals from Ben Murphy Mica Mine,
Scraggsville, Md. (221147).

Mendoza, Dr. Demetrio R.
tional Museum, Philippines)

Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway,N. J.:
A east iron drug mill, ca. 1900, used by
donor in processing bismuth, filter press
and diaphragm pump (220898); 12
items, pocket box balance and weights,
drug jars, jugs, glass flask, and brass
syringe, Greek, Egyptian, Roman and
Spanish (222969); 6 drug jars and a
“tear bottle’ (224384).

Mero, John L. (See California, Uni-
versity of)

Merrill, Mrs. George P., Washington,
D.C.: Jet bracelet from Whitby, Eng-
land (220375).

Mertens, Dr. Robert.
bergische Naturforschende
schaft)

Metcalf, George, Washington, D.C.:
37 examples of archeological material
from two sites in New Mexico, collected
by donor, 1958 (224345).

Miami, The University of, Coral
Gables, Fla.: The Marine Laboratory:
(Through Alan Lewis) Copepod, holo-
type (218905); (through Raymond B.

(See Na-

(See Sencken-
Gesell-

151

Manning) 3  protozoans (223567);
(through Dr. John E. Randall) Crusta-
cean, 2 copepods, 18 isopods, and a
mysid (223039); (through Dr. C. Rich-
ard Robins) 10 fishes from Florida,
collected by Dr. Robins and R. B. Man-
ning (220324).

Michigan, University of, Ann Arbor,
Mich.: 4,875 phanerogams from the
East Indies (224191, exchange); 36
phanerogams from Mexico (224543,
224754, 224975); (through Dr. Rogers
McVaugh) 107 Mexican ferns (222682,
223235, 224373); (through Clarence M.
Taube) 3,491 fishes from Michigan and
vicinity (223218, exchange); (through
Dr. W. H. Wagner, Jr.) 4 ferns from
Michigan (222384).

Michigan State University, East Lan-
sing, Mich.: 46 plants (220785, 220955,
222693); (through Dr. Rollin H. Baker)
skin of weasel showing seasonal color
change (221231, exchange); (through
Dr. Irving Knobloch) 25 ferns from
Mexico (221337).

Middleton, Mrs. Alice V.
Junior High School)

Midwestern University, Wichita Falls,
Tex.: (Through Dr. Walter W. Dal-
quest) skull of unidentified crocodile
from Trinity formation, Lower Cre-
taceous of Texas (221260, exchange).

Mikoda, Philip M. (See ANSCO)

Miles, Mrs. Arnold, Washington,
D.C.: Child’s wooden hoop, wooden
washboard, handmade flowerpot, and a
game of tiddly-winks for the Early
Americana collection (221195).

Millar, Dr. John R. (See Pfaff, Dr.
Reynaldo)

Miller, David L.
Airlines, Inc.)

Miller, Hal, Boulder, Colo.: Rhodo-
chrosite from Butte, Mont. (221510,
exchange).

Miller, Mahlon, New York, N.Y.:
Mineral from the Bongou River, French
Equatorial Africa (223981).

Miller, Dr. William E., East Lansing,
Mich.: 2 moths from the U.S. (221757
223175).

Milne, Henry, Washington,
Washstand (225279).

(See Ewell

(See Allegheny

IDK@sS
152 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Mineralogisch-Petrographisches In-
stitut der Universitat, Gottingen, Ger-
many: (Through Dr. K. Hans Wede-
pohl) Olivine basalt from the main
quarry of ‘‘Hoher Hagen” near Géttin-
gen (221894).

Mineralogisches Institut der Berg-
akademie, Freiberg, Germany: (Through
Prof. Dr. F. Leutwein) 5 minerals from
Germany (213848, exchange).

Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria,
Caracas, Venezuela: 32 plants from
Venezuela (220957, 221194, 221991,
222367, 222382, 224194, 224643);
(through Dr. Leandro Aristeguieta)
phanerogam from Caracas (220851).

Ministerio de Agricultura e Indus-
trias, San Jose, Costa Rica: (Through
Prof. Octavio Durando) native copper
and native sulfur from Costa Rica
(220933).

Minnesota, University of, Minne-
apolis, Minn.: 12 plants from Cuba,
collected by Dr. T. Morley (220949,
exchange) ; 266 phanerogams, 55 grasses,
and 6 ferns (223747, exchange). Duluth
Campus: (Through Dr. Edwin F. Cook)
12 fleas and lice from the U.S. (223177).

Mitchell, Dr. T. B., Raleigh, N.C.:
10 bees from North Carolina, pair of
velvet ants from the U.S. (222888,
223184).

Miyamoto, Dr. Syditi, Fukuoka, Ja-
pan: 6 true bugs from Japan (217812)

Moeser, William O. (See Jones &
Lamson Machine Co.)

Moger, Mrs.» Frances, Washington,
D.C.: Canoe baler from Mayne Island,
British Columbia (222361).

Momm, Capt. Albert O., Bethesda,
Md.: 8 woods of Ponape, eastern Caro-
line Islands (225290).

Monaco, Principality of, Office des
Emissions de Timbres-Poste: 35 mint
postage stamps and first-day cover of
Monaco (223159).

Monell, Edmund C., New York,
N Y.: 16 pieces of Chinese furniture
and decorative art objects (222752).
(See also Vetlesen, Mrs. Maude Monell)

Montal, Juan, Villafranca del
Panades, Spain: (Through Miss Mary

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Mrose) priceite from Sultans Chair,
Turkey (221747, exchange).

Montana State University, Missoula,
Mont.: 3 grasses from Montana
(223139).

Montreal Botanical Garden, Mon-
treal, Canada: 23 phanerogams and
27 ferns (220786, 220942, 221239,
221525, | 223131, 223142, 223986);
(through Dr. Marcel Raymond) culti-
vated phanerogam (223729).

Moore, Dr. Donald R. (See Gulf
Coast Research Laboratory)
Moore, Dr. George M., Durham,

N.H.: Lobster (220442).

Moore, Mrs. Godwin. (See McLean,
Mrs. Olive Gale, deceased)

Moore, Dr. Harold E.,
Cornell University)

Moran, W. E., Falls Church, Va., and
Burke, J. J., Vandergrift, Pa.: 2 skulls
of Diploceraspia burket and other fossils
collected by donors from the Permian,
West Virginia (221401).

Mordue, Howard W.
Medical Arts, Inc.)

Morgan, J. R. (See General Electric
Co.)

Morgan, Col. Stuart A., Scottsville,
Va.: Sword, shield, and 18 spears from
Khartoum, Egyptian Sudan (222242).

Morgans, Dr. J. F. C. (See Hast
African Marine Fisheries Research Or-
ganization)

Morison, Rear Admiral and Mrs.
Samuel. (See Coletti, Joseph)

Morrison, Dr. Joseph P. E., Wash-
ington, D.C.: 15,400 mollusks from
various localities, 11 lots of insects, 5
reptiles, and approximately 314 marine
invertebrates (223898).

Jr. (See

(See Detroit

Morrison, Leslie S. (See Hoskins
Manufacturing Co.)
Motyka, Dr. J. (See Uniwersited

Marie-Curie-Sklodowsky)
Moul, Prof. Edwin W.

Academy of Sciences)
Moulton, Dr. James M., St. George’s

West, Bermuda: Eel from Bermuda

(See National

(220840). (See also Bermuda Biological
Station)
Mountain, Mrs. Blanche M. (See

Polly, Susan)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Mountain, Dr. Edgar D., Grahams-
town, South Africa: Slice of the Idutwa,
Cape Province, South Africa, meteorite
(220928).

Moyer, Mrs. Luella M., Washington,
D.C.: 21 items of costumes and acces-
sories, coverlet, miscellaneous greeting
cards, birth certificates, etc., 19th
century (221533); 6 political campaign
souvenirs, 7 small, pressed glass salt
containers, 1 handwoven blue-check
linen quilt cover, and 1 mid-19th-
century sewing basket (223296).

Mrose, Mary, Washington, D.C.:
Vivianite from Maryland-District line,
SE., Washington, D.C., and goethite
in concretion from Texas (224963).
(See also Folch-Girona, Joaquin; and
Montal, Juan)

Muchmore, Dr. William B., Roch-
ester, N.Y.: 900 centipedes from New
York, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island

(221157).

Muesebeck, Dr. Carl. (See Fischer,
Dr. Max)

Mumford, Russell E., Lafayette,

Ind.: 135 mammals from Indiana
(223738).

Murray, Mrs. Anne, Washington,
D.C.: 19th-century marriage license

bearing an Internal Revenue 5-cent
certificate stamp, dated 3/4/1869
(225306).

Museo de la Farmacia Hispana,
Madrid, Spain: (Through Dr. Guillermo
Folch Jou) 18th-century drug jar
(222967).

Museo de Historia Natural, Monte-
video, Uruguay: (Through Hector S8.
Osorio) 25 lichens (222697, exchange).

Museo de Historia Natural “Javier
Prado,” Lima, Peru: 15 grasses from
Peru (222174). ©

Museu Municipal do Funchal, Ma-
deira, Portugal: (Through G. E. Maul)
fish from Madeira (221984, exchange).

Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 37 phanerogams and 10 grasses
collected in Brazil by Dr. Adolpho
Lutz (216540, 219263) ; 40 phanerogams,
1 grass, and 10 ferns (224195, exchange) ;
(through F. Segadas-Vianna) 181 ferns
from Brazil (225093).

153

Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi,
Belém, Pard, Brazil: 22 plants from
Brazil (220953, 224969, 225178).

Museum and Art Gallery, Durban,
South Africa: 16 iarks from South
Africa (217748, exchange).

Museum G. Frey, Munich, Ger-
many: (Through Dr. E. Haaf) 4 weevils
from Africa (221002).

Muséum National d’Histoire Nat-
urelle, Paris, France: 182 phanerogams
and 71 grasses from South America
(220895); 123 phanerogams and 9
grasses (221551, exchange); 247 phan-
erogams and 10 grasses (221812, 223889,
gift-exchanges); (through Mme. Jovét-
Ast) 78 miscellaneous mosses (221406,
exchange).

Myers, Dr. George S.
University)

Myers, Mrs. George Hewitt, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 48 pieces of Castleford
porcelain, ca. 1790 to 1820 (224825).

Myers, Jasper N., Tonawanda, N.Y.:
Collection of hand tools, ca. 1870
(223097).

Myres, M. T., Vancouver, B.C.:
Harris’s sparrow from the Colville
River, Alaska (223083).

Nair, Dr. N., Balakrishnan, Madras,
India: 48 marine mollusks from India

(See Stanford

(220776).

Namegata, Tomitaro, Chiba-ken,
Japan: 40 Japanese ferns (221186, ex-
change).

Nary, Mrs. Frank H., Falls Church,
Va.: 6 wooden toy blocks (223572).

National Academy of Sciences, Wash-
ington, D.C.: Committee on Polar Re-
search: (Through Dr. George A. Llano)
2 frozen mummies of Antarctic seals
(224755). U.S. National Committee of
the International Geophysical Year:
(Through Carl Eklund) 47 birds in the
flesh, partly skinned Ross Seal, and jar
of Ross Seal internal parasites (221624).
National Research Council: (Through
Dr. Kyle Barbehenn) 33 mammals and
2 birds from Micronesia (225087).
Pacific Science Board: (Through Prof.
Edwin W. Moul) 17 ecryptogams from
the Gilbert Islands (221775). (See also
Defense, U.S. Department of)
154 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

National Foundation for Infantile
Paralysis, The, New York, N.Y.: Ex-
hibit highlighting the development of
the Salk poliomyelitis vaccine; repro-
duction of an Egyptian Stele, approxi-
mately 1,300 B.C., depicting polio-
myelitis; and 6 flasks in rack used by
Dr. John F. Enders to show the growth
of polio viruses in cultures of human
embryonic skin and muscle tissues
(221419).

National Geographic Society. (See
Arnhem Land Expedition and Smith-
sonian Institution)

National Museum, Manila, Republic
of the Philippines: 313 phanerogams,
30 grasses, 6 ferns, and 1 cryptogam
(222372, 224197, exchanges); (through
Dr. Demetrio R. Mendoza) 17 mollusks
from Albay, Philippine Islands (222801).

National Science Foundation, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Approximately 15,000
miscellaneous insects and reptiles from
South America, collected by Dr. J. F.
Gates Clarke (222347).

National Science Museum, The,
Tokyo, Japan: 158 phanerogams, 6
grasses, and 35 ferns (224829, exchange).

National Society for Crippled Children
and Adults, Inc., The, Chicago, II:
2,260 Easter Seals and progressive color
proofs of 1957 and 1958 (221895).

National Store Fixture Co., Odenton,
Md.: (Through N. L. Turoff) Hydraulic
turbine governor, 1914 (221780).

Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna,
Austria: (Through Dr. J. Eiselt) 2 tad-
poles from Senegal, and an adult and 10
young from Brunn, near Wies, Austria
(219942, exchange); (through Dr. Max
Fischer) 142 parasitic wasps from
Europe (220725, 220990, 222329, ex-
changes); (through Prof. Helmuth
Zapfe) 2 valves of a rare brachiopod,

Pterophloios, from the Triassic of
Austria, south of Vienna (220922, ex-
change).

Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
holm, Sweden: 272 phanerogams, 99
grasses, and 27 ferns from Alaska, and a
rare cryptogam from British Columbia
(220331, 223143, exchanges); (through

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Dr. Herman Persson) fern from Canada
(223885, exchange).

Nebraska, University of, Lincoln,
Nebr.: (Through Raymond E. Henzlik)
2 chinch bugs from Nebraska (225265).

Nebraska State Historical Society,
Lincoln, Nebr.: (Through Marvin F.
Kivett) military buttons excavated in
1956 by donor from the site of Fort
Atkinson, Nebr. (224839).

Needham, Richard M., Lancaster,
Ohio: First-day cover, U.S. 4-cent
Bolivar stamp (222933); 4 first-day
cacheted covers of the U.S. with
Masonry reference (225323).

Neff, Stuart, Ithaca, N.Y.: 7 acio-
mysid flies from Louisiana, Mexico,
Guatemala, and Honduras (222892).

Nelson, Dr. A. L. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the, and Patuxent
Research Refuge)

Nelson, Mrs. Clare.
Council of America)

Nestman, William F., Honolulu, T.H.:
Marine mollusk from Oahu (220430).

Netherlands, Government of, The
Hague: Netherlands Postal-Telecom-
munications Service: 10 postage stamps,
2 mint stamps, and 2 first-day covers of
the Netherlands (222926, 225324).

New, David, Denver, Colo.: 3 min-
erals from Potosi, Bolivia (221216, ex-
change).

New Eyes for the Needy, Inc., Short
Hills, N.J.: (Through Mrs. Hanford B.
Hurd) 23 pairs of antique spectacles and
1 microscope (220982).

Newcombe, Elizabeth.
combe, Helen R.)

Newcombe, Helen R., Washington,
D.C., and Newcombe, Elizabeth,
Montclair, N.J.: Large Wilton carpet
(221773).

Newman, Eric P., St. Louis, Mo.: 9
medals and plaques, mostly by the U.S.
Medalist, V. D. Brenner; Treasury
Redemption Certificate for United
States Fractional Paper Money, dated
January 5, 1869; and receipt for Regis-
tered Bonds of the Confederate States
of America, dated March 29, 1864
(224388).

(See Corduroy

(See New-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Newman, Harry D., Pocatello, Idaho:
2 crayfish gastroliths collected from
Blackfoot River, Idaho (221031).

Newman, Dr. Marshall T., Washing-
ton, D.C.: 19 specimens of Japanese
military currency (222390).

Newman, Dr. William A., Berkeley,
Calif.: 4 barnacles (224745).

New Mexico State University, State
College, N. Mex.: (Through Dr. Philip
J. Leyendecker) phanerogam from
Guadalupe Mountains in New Mexico
(224063).

Newson, Dr. L. D. (See Louisiana
State University and Agricultural and
Mechanical College).

New York Botanical Garden, New
York, N.Y.: 105 phanerogams from
Venezuela (220724, 220852, 220853) ;
515 phanerogams and a fern from South
America (222385, 224561, exchanges) ;
104 phanerogams, 15 grasses, and a fern
collected by George B. Hinton in
Mexico (222683, exchange); phanero-
gam from Florida (224375).

New York City Transit Authority,
Brooklyn, N.Y.: (Through Charles L.
Patterson, L. C. Benos, and Clint
Busacea) reciprocating parts, governors,
and name plate from an Allis-Chalmers
Reynolds-Corliss steam engine used at
the 59th Street Station of the donor
(197529); (through Charles L. Patter-
son) semaphore signal from the Ninth
Avenue Elevated Line and marker
lamps, motor-control contact box, and
master unit controller from the New
York Subway System (224131).

New York State Museum, Albany,
N.Y.: (Through Victor Cahalane) 3
hares from New York (220807, ex-
change); 2 lichens collected by Dr.
E. C. Ogden in New York (222351);
(through Dr. E. C. Ogden) 98 lichens
from New York (217878).

New York Zoological Society, New
York, N.Y.:, ((2ihbroughss Dre 1WoG:
Conway) 4 lice from South America
(221502).

New Zealand Geological Survey,
Lower Hutt, New Zealand: (Through
Dr. Bruce Waterhouse) 1 brachiopod
and 10 casts of types from the Triassic

e

155

and!Permian of New Zealand (221402) ;
14 Triassic brachiopods from New
Zealand (223367, exchange).

Niagara Mohawk Power Corp.,
Buffalo, N.Y.: (Through Edwin §&.
Bundy) model of original turbines at
Niagara Falls, installed in 1895, de-
signed by Faesch and Piccard (221414).

Nichols, Terrel, Bowie, Tex.: 2 fossil
echinoids from Florida (222125).

Nichols Thomas H. (See Library of
Congress Stamp Club)

Nicholson, Donald J., Orlando, Fla.:
20 fresh-water mollusks from Florida
and a downy young limpkin (221710,
222349).

Nininger, H. H., Sedona, Ariz.:
Slice of the Seligman, Arizona, meteor-
ite (221788, exchange).

Nishida, Dr. Makoto.
University)

Noble, Joseph V., Maplewood, N.J.:
5 ancient terracotta moulds made from

(See Chiba

Roman coins struck at Alexandria,
about A.D. 300, found in Egypt
(224987).

Nolan, Dr. Thomas B.
U.S. Department of the)

Nolan, Val, Jr., Bloomington, Ind.:
82 blow flies from United States
(223178).

Nones, Hirman L., Washington, D.C.:
6 Miocene invertebrate fossils from
Scientists Cliffs, Md. (224181).

North Dakota Agricultural College,
Fargo, N. Dak.: 80 phanerogams, 10
grasses, and 3 ferns of North Dakota
(223140, gift-exchange).

Northwestern Washington Experi-
ment Station, Mount Vernon, Wash.:
(Through Paul M. Eide) 43 weevil
larvae and pupae from the State of
Washington (225253).

Norvell, Mrs. Guy Stevens, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 17 items of beadwork,
textiles, and pottery collected in the
Southwest in 1870’s, and near Forts
Custer and Keogh, Montana, in 1890’s
by Lt. Col. Stevens T. Norvell, father-
in-law of the donor (222628).

Norway, Government of: Norwegian
Postal Department: (Through Torfinn
Oftedal) 9 postage stamps and items of

(See Interior,
¥

156 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM
postal stationery of Norway (221874);
6 mint stamps and an unused letter
card of Norway (223553).

Norwood, Mrs. Josephine M., Albu-
querque, N. Mex.: Letters patent
granted to Paul Norwood for music-roll
punch in 1900 (136177).

Nucker, Delmas H.
U.S. Department of the)

Oaks, Orville A., Wilmette, Ill.: 4
woods of British Guiana (225099,
exchange).

Oboler, Arch, Studio City, Calif.:
Spangolite crystal from Bisbee, Ariz.
(222005); wulfenite from Arizona
(224948, exchange).

Obregén de la Parra, Ing. Jorge.
(See Petroleos Mexicanos Laboratorio
Paleontologico)

O’Brien, Maithew H. (See Man-
Made Fiber Producers Assoc.)

O’Connor, Charles T., Wooster, Ohio:
30 marine invertebrates, consisting of
ostracods and copepods from mosquito
larvae stomachs (218753).

O’Donnell, Mrs. John C., Newport,
R.I.: 12 pieces of Chinese furniture and
decorative art objects (223731).

Oehser, Paul H. (See Smithsonian
Institution)

Oertel, Everett, Baton Rouge, La.: 24
amphipods (221058).

Oftedal, Torfinn. (See Norway, Gov-
ernment of)

Ogden, Dr. E. C.
State Museum)

Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechani-
cal College, Stillwater, Okla.: (Through
Edward Turner) Sauter chemical bal-
ance (224001).

Oklahoma Geological Survey, Nor-
man, Okla.: (Through William E. Ham)
probertite from Custer County, Okla.
(220932).

Oklahoma State University, Still-
water, Okla.: 81 phanerogams and 2
grasses (223234); 102 phanerogams and
8 grasses from Oklahoma and Western
Mountain States (224032, exchange).

Oku, Toshio, Kontoni, Japan: 20
small moths from Japan (222889).

Olcheski, W. J., Washington, D.C.:
Small stockbook, containing 28 Russian

(See Interior,

(See New York

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

postage stamps from the Russian
Pavilion at the Brussels Fair (220975).

Old, William, Jr., Norfolk, Va.: 10
sea urchins (223586).

Old Sturbridge Village, Sturbridge,
Mass.: (Through Kenneth M. Wilson)
8 items of Spanish glass (221384, ex-
change).

Oleksyshyn, Dr. John, Boston, Mass.:
23 mollusks, types, from the Tertiary
and Miocene of Chesapeake Bay area,
Maryland (221400).

Olsson, Axel A., Coral Gables, Fla.:
70 brackish-water clams from the
Pacific Coast of Central and South
America (221818); 32 mollusks from
Central and South America (223346).

Oman, Dr. Paul W. (See Agricul-
ture, U.S. Department of, and Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Oriani, William J., Silver Spring, Md.;
Reel, Mrs. Ethel Oriani, Tuxedo, Md.;
Collins, Mrs. Helen Oriani, Silver
Spring, Md.; and Fitzgerald, Mrs.
Edith Oriani, Chevy Chase, Md.:
American Waltham Watch Company
watch, in memory of the donors’ father,
Thomas Oriani (225007).

Orr, Mrs. Benjamin Franklin, Knox-
ville, Tenn.: Gold pocket watch owned
by James Hoban, Architect of the White
House, bearing hallmarks for Chester,
England, 1820-21 (224772).

Ortiz, Mrs. Edna M. (See Puerto
Rico, University of)

Osorio, Hector S.
Historia Natural)

Outerbridge, Mrs. Paul, Laguna
Beach, Calif.: 2 platinum prints and 4
Carbro color prints (223759).

Ovenshine, Col. E. G., Washington,
D.C.: 4 steel-tipped wooden arrows
acquired from Chief Gall’s band of the
Hunkpapa, Teton Sioux, at their
surrender in 1881 (222627).

Owens-Illinois, Toledo, Ohio: 2 Bate-
man’s drops and 4 Florida water bottles
(221537); (Through J. J. Geagan) 2
show globes, with brackets (221417).

Pace, Frank, Jr. (See General Dy-
namics Corp.)

(See Museo de
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Pakistan, Embassy of, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Maj. Gen. M. Hayaud
Din) skin of a snow leopard (223088).

Palmer, Mrs. Otis, East Moriches,
N.Y.: 42 miscellaneous items of marine
transportation (221208).

Panjab University, Amritsar, India:
(Through Dr. 8. C. Verma) 15 ferns
from India (223884).

Parker, Frances L., La Jolla, Calif.:
234 slides of Recent Foraminifera from
Eastern Mediterranean and Poponesset
Bay, Mass. (224823).

Parker, Mrs. Kittie.
Washington University)

Parkes, Dr. Kenneth C.
negie Museum)

Parkhurst, Dr. D.L. (See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Parkman, Harold E.
E. 8.)

Parmalee, Dr. Paul W.
State Museum)

Paterson, Adeline E., Madison, Wis.:
Cement mixer, ca. 1910 (224662).

Patrick, John, Idaho Springs, Colo.:
Amazonite from Linda Lode #1, Lake
George, Colo.; rose quartz from Rossing
Siding, South West Africa, and 13
tourmalines from Karibib, South West
Africa (223373).

Patterson, Dr. C. C., Pasadena, Calif.:
Specimen of Nuevo Laredo, Mexico,
meteorite (225175).

Patterson, Charles L. (See New
York City Transit Authority)

Patuxent Research Refuge, Laurel,
Md.: (Through Dr. A. L. Nelson) 4
fishes from Canada, and a collection of
insects (221542).

Payne, James, Arlington,
barred owl (222022).

Peabody Institute of the City of
Baltimore, Baltimore, Md.: (Through
Frank N. Jones) 28 tracings of bridges,
trestles, masonry viaducts, culverts,
trackwork, and small buildings of the
New York & Erie Railroad, 1840-1855;
20 documents relative to the history
of Croton Aqueduct, New York & Erie
Railroad, Central Railroad of New
Jersey, and Albany and Susquehanna
Railroad, 1838-1855 (224637).

(See George

(See Car-

(See Scott,

(See Illinois

Va.: A

157

Peakes, Gilbert L., Metuchen, N.J.:
47 postal note stamps and various
types of stubs (224980).

Peay, Nicholas. (See Cleveland Auto-
matic Machine Co., The)

Peck, Dr. Joseph H., Jr. (See Cali-
fornia, University of)

Peer, Mrs. Elizabeth Louise, Flint,
Mich.: 1892 and 1893 certificates for
Lucius Judson as Registered Assistant
and Registered Pharmacist in State of
Michigan (219185).

Pennsylvania, University of, Phila-
delphia, Pa.: (Through Dr. Lester W.
Burket) collection of 2,871 dental in-
struments, furniture, equipment, and
other material (218383); (through Dr.
Claude K. Deischer) 245 items of chem-
ical apparatus (217523).

Pennsylvania Railroad Co., Phila-
delphia, Pa.: 13 locomotive accessories
(222402).

Pennsylvania State University, Uni-
versity Park, Pa.: Grass from Maine
(221989).

Pequegnat, Dr. Willis E., Claremont,
Calif.: 17 coelenterates, 10 crustaceans,
and 3 zoanthids (214715, 222227).

Percival, Dr. E., Christchurch, New
Zealand: 2 blocks of rock covered by
modern brachiopods from Lyttleton
Harbour, New Zealand (224644).

Perlofi, Louis, Winston-Salem, N.C.:
3 minerals from Carolina Pyrophyllite
Quarry, Randolph County, N.C.
(222630).

Permoda, Adam, Washington, D.C.:
53 Greek, Russian, and Polish silver
and copper coins (224983).

Perry, Elliott, Westfield, N.J.: Plate
number blocks of 4 of the U.S. 2-cent
Red Cross Stamp, 1931 (222931).

Perry, K. M., Washington, D.C.:
Cave pearl from Hicklin’s Cave, Mill-
borough Springs, Va. (225170).

Persson, Dr. Herman. (See Natur-
historiska Riksmuseet)

Pessagno, Emile A., Jr., Princeton,
N.J.: 8 Foraminifera, paratypes, from
the Upper Cretaceous of Puerto Rico
(221138).

Peter, J. Vinson. (See Vinson, Robert
W., Estate of)
158

Peters, Forrest E. (See Peters College
of Watchmaking)

Peters College of Watchmaking,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Forrest
E. Peters) 4 watches and a marine
chronometer (225122).

Petersen, Cornelius. (See Post Office
Department)

Peterson, Dr. B. V., Guelph, Ontario,
Canada: Vial of 30 pupae and larvae
and 1 reared male, mosquitces, and
100 flies from Utah (221162, 225259).

Peterson, Mendel L., Arlington, Va.:
2 decorative china souvenir plates,
USS Maine (221200).

Petrocelli, Mary O., Estate of:
(Through Sherpick, Regan & Davis)
6,850 photographic prints, 3,614 nega-
tives, 390 glass slides, and 29 miscel-
laneous engravings (224379).

Petroleos Mexicanos Laboratorio
Paleontologico, Monterrey, Mexico:
(Through Ing. Jorge Obregén de la
Parra) holotype of foraminifer from
Mexico (220434).

Pettibone, Dr. Marian H., Durham,

N..: 4 polychaete worms, types
(210899).
Peyton, Bernard, Princeton, N.J.:

Specialized collection of the first two
designs of Chilean postage stamps, con-
tained in two volumes (223486).

Pfaff, Dr. Reynaldo, Cartagena, Co-
lombia: (Through Dr. John R. Millar)
18 sea urchins (223597).

Pfizer, Charles & Co., Inc., New
York, N.Y.: Vial containing the original
soil sample from which Streptomyces
remosus was isolated in 1949 (223479).

Philadelphia Electric Co., Philadel-
phia, Pa.: (Through George R. Conover)
Porter-Allen steam engine (222964).

Philip, Dr. C. B. (See Defense, U.S.
Department of)

Philip, Mrs. Hoffman, Washington,
D.C.: 5 18th-century Persian paintings
(201916).

Phillips, Dr. Haskell C.
Peay State College)

(See Austin

Pierce, Adm. Charles. (See Com-
merce, U.S. Department of)
Pierce, Dr. E. Lowe, Gainesville,

Fla.: 7 mysids and a shrimp (222123);

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

(through Marvin L. Wass) 2 shrimps
from off Key West in coral on reef
(221109).

Pinkerton, C. E., Port Isabel, Tex.:
Fossil crab from Padre Island, Tex.
(224697).

Pinnacle Exploration, Inc., Gunnison,
Colo.: (Through J. E. Dunn) 5 items of
uraninite and alteration products from
Colorado (222770).

Pisarski, B. (See Polish Academy of
Sciences)

Pittendrigh, Prof. Colin S., Princeton,
N.J.: 199 phanerogams from Trinidad
and Venezuela (222677, 222680).

Pittsburgh Bicentennial Association,
Pittsburgh, Pa.: Bronze medallion com-
memorating the 200th anniversary of
Pittsburgh, 1758-1958 (225095).

Platt, Dr. Robert B. (See Emory
University)

Plumlee, Mrs. Pryor H., Sr., Mont-
gomery, Ala.: Facsimile of the Ulster
County Gazette, ca. 1899 (224770).

Poland, Government of: (Through
ARS Polona) 22 mint stamps and first-
day covers of Poland (222927); 11 mint
postage stamps and first-day covers of
Poland (223160); 14 postage stamps
and first-day covers of Poland (225300).

Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw,
Poland: (Through B. Pisarski) 65 ants
from Europe (223069, exchange); 79
ants from Europe (225071).

Pollen, Mrs. Thelma. (See American
Dietetic Association, The)

Pollio, Mrs. Frank E., Washington,
D.C.: U.S. Coast Guard, officer’s dress

uniforms, overcoat, and accessories,
property of donor’s late husband
(220795).

Polly, Susan, Washington, D.C.:

(Through Mrs. Blanche M. Mountain)
china doll’s head, ca. 1880 (220966).
Pomona College, Claremont, Calif.:
5 phanerogams from Mexico (219623).
Porres, Rafael, Madrid, Spain: First-
day cover of Velazquez issue of Spain
(224570).
Porter, Dr. C. L.
University of)
Portman, Dr. Roland W.
University of)

(See Wyoming,

(See Idaho,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Post Office Department, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Greever P. Allan) 846
foreign postage stamps (219800) ; 6 mint
postage stamps of the Canal Zone and
451 items of miscellaneous foreign postal
stationery (221440); 262 foreign mint
stamps per Universal Postal Union
Bulletin No. 22 (221872); 541 foreign
mint stamps released by the Universal
Postal Union, and 6 items of postal
material from Canal Zone authorities
(222852); 212 foreign postage stamps
(224736); 192 foreign mint stamps and
2 foreign meters (223646); (through
Franklin R. Bruns, Jr.) 478 United
States experiment coil stamps (220976) ;
(through J. H. Marks) 75 commemo-
rative and ordinary United States mint
postage stamps (223805); (through
Cornelius Petersen) 185 pieces of miscel-
laneous foreign postal stationery
(224389); 288 foreign postage stamps
(224629).

Potomac Crafismen, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Elizabeth Long) hand-
woven linen, mock leno, woven by Mrs.
Edson, and hand-woven linen, huck,
woven by Mrs. Spencer (225109).

Powell, Dr. A. W. B. (See Auckland
Institute and Museum)

Powell, Jerry A., Berkeley, Calif.:
2 insects (223261).

Powell, Ronald, Rarotonga, New
Zealand: 4 eels from Rarotonga, Cook
Islands (220517).

Powell, Mrs. Sarah Powers, Arling-
ton, Va.: Necklace of 1928 and 7 cos-
tumes of the 1940’s (224658).

Powers, Dr. Justin, Arlington, Va.:
Bit stock (223893).

Pratt, Dr. H. D. (See Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, U.S. Department of)

Pratt & Whitney Co., Inc., West
Hartford, Conn.: Whitworth plug and
ring gages (222965).

Prentiss, Mrs. L. D., Washington,
D.C.: 3 copperhead snakes caught in
yard of donor (224933).

Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.:
Fossil fish and plaster cast of life restora-
tion of fossil fish (223972, exchange);
(through Dr. A. G. Shenstone) 2 dyna-

159

mos, Bichromate cell, milliameter, gal-
vanometer, and set of 8 limelights
(221203).

Pritchard, A. Earl, Berkeley, Calif.:
15,167 gall midges from the U.S.
(223201).

Privitera, Dr. Carmelo, Minneapolis,
Minn.: 21 spiders and 4 beetles (224559).

Procter, Dr. Paul Dean, Rolla, Mo.:
Faustite from Copper King Mine,
Nevada (223288).

Provenzano, Anthony J., Jr.. Vineyard
Haven, Mass.: 9 hermit crabs from
Florida (220238, 223569) ; 6sea anemones
from Bermuda (222708).

Provincial Museum, Victoria, Can-
ada: (Through Dr. A. F. Szezawinski)
36 lichens from Vancouver Island
(222800).

Provincialado dos Franciscanos, Sio
Paulo, Brazil: (Through Father Walter
W. Kempf) 91 ants from South America
(221756, exchange).

Pruett, Ludwell.
Department of)

Pucher, Dr. Richard (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Mabel Benson Sakis)
76 Macedonian and other embroideries
(222606).

Puerto Rico, University of, Rio
Piedras, Puerto Rico: (Through Mrs.
Edna M. Ortiz) dry gorgonian with
ophiuroid attached (221816).

Purseglove, Prof. J. W. (See Im-
perial College of Tropical Agriculture)

Quast, Dr. Jay C., La Jolla, Calif.:
Stomatopod (221898).

Ramoviec, Dr. Mehmed, Sarajevo,
Yugoslavia: 2 minerals from Yugoslavia
and Serbia (225048, exchange).

Ramovs, Dr. Anton. (See Geolosko-
paleontoloski Institut)

Ramsden, Mrs. Charles T., Santiago
de Cuba, Cuba: Jadeite celt from
Oriente Province, Cuba (223962).

Randall, Dr. John E., Miami, Fla.: 5
bags of foraminiferal sediments from the
Society Islands (221751); 14 fishes from

(See Defense, U.S.

the tropical Pacific (223092). (See also
Miami, The University of)
Ranukusumo, Ir. Surodjo. (See In-

donesia, Government of)
160

Rapp, Dr. William F., Jr., Lincoln,
Nebr.: 3 land snails from Georgia
(223119).

Rausch, Dr. Robert. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

Raymond, Dr. Marcel.
real Botanical Garden)

Rebh, Lt. Col. George A.
fense, U.S. Department of)

Redden, John A., La Plata, Md.:
Iron tool found on Ulithi Atoll, Caroline
Islands, in 1958 (224169).

Reed, Dr. Clyde F., Baltimore, Md.:
3 phanerogams and 1 grass (223989).

Reed, Dr. Edwyn P., Valparaiso,
Chile: Hydroid trauled 10 miles south
of Valparaiso, and 6 tunicates (203278,
224628).

Reed, Fred S. C., Christchurch, New
Zealand: 2 samples of diatomaceous
earth and 4 diatoms from New Zealand
(222695, 225176).

Reel, Mrs. Ethel Oriani.
William J.)

Rehder, Dr. Harald A., Washington,
D.C.: 29 land snails from Page County,
Va. (222678).

Reidy, Peter, San Pedro, Calif.: Bar-
nacle and 5 fossil cones from the San
Pedro formation in California (221467).

Reifsnider, Miss Bertha, Hudson,
Ohio: Louis X VIII 20-franc piece, dated
1814 (221899).

Reinhart, Jacques Frederic, and
Marks, Amelia, Los Angeles, Calif.:
(Through Mrs. Samuel S. Cohon) 22
items of 19th-century clothing, and 4
velvet tie-backs (220917).

Reish, Dr. Donald J. (See United
States Atomic Energy Commission, and
Defense, U.S. Department of)

Remsburg, G. B., Poolesville, Md.:
National Intelligencer (Washington,
D.C.) for May 2, 1865, and September
19, 1867 (221199).

Reserve Mining Company, Silver Bay,
Minn: (Through Edward Schmid) 2
minerals from the Mesabi Range,
Minnesota (222885).

Ress, Emanuel, New York, N.Y.:
Nelson Rockefeller gubernatorial cam-
paign material for 1958 and 7 “Ike”

(See Mont-

(See De-

(See Oriani,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Eisenhower items of 1956 presidential
campaign (224771).

Rettenmeyer, Dr. Carl W. (See
Kansas, University of)
Reynolds, Dr. John. (See California,

University of)

Rhodes University, Grahamstown,
South Africa: (Through Dr. J. L. B.
Smith) 5 eels from South Africa (199840,
exchange).

Rhymer, Danny, Bristol, Tenn.: 23
mammals from Tennessee (220884).

Ricci, Alfeo, Rio Marina Isola d’Elba,
Italy: 12 miscellaneous minerals from
Elba, Italy (221065).

Richards, Dr. Adrian, Washington,
D.C.: Volcanic gabbro bomb from Lake
Graenavatn, Iceland (220767).

Richey, Mrs. Ada B., and Winans,
Mrs. Grace, Monticello, Fla.: 20 photo-
graphs and 63 negatives of rural Negroes
who had been slaves, with descriptive
material (223578).

Richmond, Dr. E. Avery, Moores-
town, N.J.: 435 water scavenger beetles
from Western Hemisphere (223256).

Ridel, Steven, Windsor Locks, Conn.
12 minerals from Connecticut (222092,
224869, exchanges).

Riek, E. F., Canberra, Australia: 5
insect larvae from Australia (223185).

Riesenberg, Dr., S. H. (See Smith-
sonian Institution)

Riggs, Lowry, Rockville, Md.: 2
birds (222020); titi monkey from
Colombia (225082).

Ring, Bernard, Brooklyn, N.Y.: First-
day post card and 3 first-day covers
with American Society Convention
Station cancellation (222932).

Rivero, Juan A., Mayaguez, Puerto
Rico: Paratype of a new species of frog
from Puerto Rico (224928).

Rivinus, E. F., Annapolis,
Upland plover (222024).

Roberts, Mrs. Alfred, Baltimore,
Md.: 38 dresses, 19th century, and 4
Louis XV wood side chairs, ca. 1900
(222940).

Roberts, Don W., Tucson, Ariz.:
46 moths from North America (223169).

Roberts, Dr. H. R. (See Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia)

Md.;
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Roberts, Willard L., Rapid City, S.
Dak: 4 minerals from South Dakota
(223844, exchange).

Robertson, Robert,Cambridge, Mass.:
Zoantharian and 4 snails from Bimini,
Bahama Islands (221972, 223963).

Robins, Dr. C. Richard. (See Miami,
The University of)

Robinson, Antoinette, Chevy Chase,

Md.: Fan and theater purse with
French embroidery of the 1880's
(222058).

Robinson, Mark, Springfield, Pa.:
Greenockite from Friedensville, Pa.
(224179).

Rockefeller Institute, New York,
N.Y.: (Through Dr. Detlev W. Bronk)
14 items of medical apparatus, including
microscopes and laboratory equipment
and furniture (224610).

Rodgers, Frank S., Belvedere, Calif.:
(Through Mrs. Albert F. Kosh) chert
from Marin County, Calif. (222657).

Roe, Edith M., East St. Louis, IIL:
Early 19th-century tool chest (224303).

Roebling, Mrs. Siegfried, Trenton,
N.J.: 5 porcelain figures (yellow-
throated warbler, meadowlark, black-
throated blue warbler, Percheron stal-
lion, and polo player) by the sculptor-
ceramist, Edward Marshall Boehm
(222320).

Roebling Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 15 spangolites from the Blanchard
Mining Claims, Socorro Co., N. Mex.
(220143); 19 minerals and zine from
various localities in Germany (220165,
225174); 921 minerals from various
localities (220316, 220771, 220827,
221897, 222012, 222649, 223374, 223469,
223470, 223847, 223976, 224351, 224436,
224588, 224756, 224959, 225171); soda-
lite, cavolinite, lazurite, cuspidine and
grossularite from Vesuvius, Italy
(220372); 10 pounds of tiemannite from
Mexico (220436); aquamarine crystal
from Brazil (220768); 4 specimens of
gold from the Ace of Diamonds mine,
Washington (220772) ; 3 specimens of an
unnamed copper silicate from Pima
County, Ariz. (220923); 3  bikitaites
from Southern Rhodesia (220934) ; uncut
pebble of sinhalite from Ratnapura,

161

Ceylon (221146); rutile in quartz from
Minas Gerais, Brazil, and 2 zoisites in
mica from Mitchell County, N.C.
(222006) ; 12 murdochites from Hanson-
burg Mining District, near Bingham,
N. Mex. (222007); phosphophyllite
from the Krause vein, Cerro de Potosi,
Bolivia (222008) ; hackmanite from near
Bancroft, Ontario, and 4 chrysoberyls
from Lake Alaotra, Madagascar
(222009); 3 tobermorites with idocrase
and calcite from Crestmore Quarry,
near Riverside, Calif. (222017); ten-
nantite from Butte, Mont. (222018);
2 argentites from Silver City, Idaho,
and Virginia City, Nev. (222161);
4 shattuckites from Bisbee, Ariz.
(222293); 4 tourmaline crystals from
Mozambique (222363); tourmaline on
quartz from Mesa Grande, Calif.
(222364) ; phosphophyllite from Bolivia
(222365); 6 minerals from U.S.S.R.
and 2 minerals in potassic ores from
Spain (222552); wollastonite from Cen-
tral Arizona (222658); hubnerite from
the Adams mine, Silverton, Colo.
(222663); gypsum sample from Iron
River, Michigan (222664); sylvanite
from the Ingram mine, Gisman, Colo.
(222666); 11 miscellaneous minerals
from Switzerland, Canada, Norway,
England, Chile, Brazil, and Jefferson
County, Mont. (222883); thorite from
the Wet Mountain area, Colorado
(223118); chrysobery! crystal from the
Ural Mountains, U.S.S.R. (223286);
5 minerals from Arizona, California, and
Mexico (223288); 17 minerals from
various localities (223375) ; 4 meteorites
from Kentucky, Georgia, New Mexico,
and Oklahoma (223472); danburite
from San Luis Potosi, Mexico (223577) ;
5 minerals from California and Outo-
kumpu, Finland (223970); torbernite
from San Antonio de la Huerta, Sonora,
Mexico (223974); 6 samples of gold
from the Dixie Mine, Clear Creek
County, Colo. (223975) ; 2 minerals from
near Barcelona, Spain (224185) ; werner-
ite from Canada, and 2 tremolites from
New York (224186); celestite from
Chittenango Falls, N.Y.; stilbite from
Roseburg, Oregon; dolomite from Argyle,
162

Scotland; and variscite from Sonora,
Mexico (224418); 2 minerals from
Turkey (224467); dolomite with mine-
tite from Southwest Africa (224468);
3 sylvanite minerals from Salina, Colo.
(224551); 26 minerals from Upper
Burma and Brazil (224555) ; 3 sillimanite
erystals from South Carolina (224762).

Rogers, Col. Robert C., Washington,
D.C.: (Through U.S. Information
Agency) 26 ethnological items allegedly
from the Chavante of Brazil (219584).

Rohrer, Joseph A., Washington, D.C.:
Float lamp (225159).

Rohrer, W. L., Washington, D.C.:
Lower jaw of an Upper Cretaceous
duck-billed ornithopod from Montana
(224760).

Rolfe, Edith, Ardmore, Pa.: Mekeel’s
Postage Stamp Album of 1893 (223162).

Rollason, Richard, Jr.. McLean, Va.:
3 reprints of Argentine stamps, 1862
(222935).

Roloff, E., Karlsruhe, Germany: 9
aquarium fishes from southeast Asia
(223825).

Ronne, Capt. Finn, Bethesda, Md.:
Emperor penguin “‘in the flesh” (225246).

ROdomusoks, Dr. Aevo. (See State
University of Tartu)

Roosevelt, Mrs. Kermit, Washington,
D.C.: 2 full dress uniform coats, Cap-
tain, Quartermaster Department, and
officers helmet, Infantry, worn by Capt.
Joseph E. Willard while serving as an
officer in the Spanish American War and
Ambassador to Spain, and a dress opera
hat (221534).

Root, Irving C., Chevy Chase, Md.:
Confederate pike head (223999).

Rosengurtt, Dr. Bernardo, Monte-
video, Uruguay: 13 plants from Uruguay

(223987). (See also Universidad de la
Republica)
Rosenkrantz, Alfred. (See Copen-

hagen, University of)

Ross, Dr. H. H. (See Illinois State
Natural History Survey Division)

Ross, Dr. Robert D. (See Virginia
Polytechnic Institute)

Roth, Alfred F. M., Trenton, N.J.:
First-day cacheted covers of United
Nations, 5-cent and 7-cent airmail

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

stamps, and first-day cover of Alaska
statehood (225297, 223025).

Rothschild, Louis S., Kansas City,
Mo.: Secretary bookcase, chest of
drawers, and card table (223297).

Roush, Mrs. G. A., Arlington, Va.:
3 boxes of Plattner apparatus for chemi-
cal and physical science analysis, com-
parator for gold-silver alloys, an early
wooden clock, pair of iron hinges, wood-
en post office box, and a box of numis-
matic weights and balance (222975).

Rout, John C., Washington, D.C.: 60
gages and toolmaker’s tools (223584,
225326); portrait of President Harry §.
Truman, engraved 1951 by Charles E.
Brooks (224988).

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Sur-
rey, England: 27 photographs of phan-
erogams (221833, exchange); phaner-
ogam (223985).

Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto,
Canada: Uranophane from Faraday
Mines, Ltd., Hastings County, Ontario
(222209, exchange); (through Dr. V. B.
Meen) 2 pieces of trachyte porphyry
from Ontario (222667, 223029, ex-
changes).

Roybal, Prof. J. J.. Monterrey, Nuevo
Leon, Mexico: 300 phanerogams, 47
grasses, 8 ferns, and a _ cryptogam
(181326).

Rubel, Walter L.
the Capitol)

Rude, Capt. Gilbert T., Washington,
D.C.: Rude Star Finder, British adap-
tation (222109).

Ruhoff, Theodore B., Washington,
D.C.: 2 British metered covers, 12
United States metered covers, 21 United
States covers with U.S. Navy ship can-
cellations, and 2 German mint stamps
commemorating 100th Anniversary of
German stamps (223307); 4 United
States tokens (224982); 14 items of
German World War I Emergency Scrip
and 24 items of miscellaneous U.S. and
foreign postal stationery (225294,
225307).

Russell, E. Hayden, Hinckley, Maine:
71 ceramic stone and bronze objects
from Istanbul, Turkey, 1958 (224955).
(See also Bates Museum)

(See Architect of
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Rutgers University, New Brunswick,
N.J.: (Through Dr. W. Brewster Snow)
sample rolled iron and steel sections, the
models of pin and riveted bridge con-
nections, models of the George Wash-
ington and Bayonne Arch bridges, and
a test steel eye-bar end (222966).

Ryland, Charles S. (See Coors
Porcelain Co.)

Sabrosky, C. W., Washington, D.C.:
75 big-footed flies from Michigan

(221151).
Sackett, Prof. and Mrs. Ralph
Lemuel, Miami, Fla.: Brown silk

Quaker dress, 2 Quaker bonnets, pair of
steel frame, colored lens spectacles be-
longing to Lucinda White, Fountain
City, Ind., marriage Certificate of her
mother’s second marriage in Quaker
Meeting, 1838, pre-1861 invitation, and
tax receipt of 1841 for the land and
property of Lucinda White, and a primer
of 1865 (222523).

Sailer, Dr. R. I.
U.S. Department of)

St. Alban’s Opportunity Shop, The,
Washington, D.C.: (Through Mrs.
Leslie L. Drew) ambrotypes of Abraham
Lincoln and Mary Todd Lincoln, placed
in daguerreotype case, ca. 1861 (224976).

St. Joseph Lead Company, Edwards,
N.Y.: (Through John S. Brown) 150
early Paleozoic and Cretaceous fossils
from northern Argentina (222629).

St. Peter, Mrs. Mary G., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Phanerogam (220349).
Sakis, Mrs. Mabel Benson.

Pucher, Dr. Richard, deceased)

Salkin, Robert, Newark, N.J.: Plaster
cast of dinosaur footprint from the upper
Triassic of Massachusetts (223574).

Saltonstall, Mrs. Richard, Boston,
Mass.: Saltonstall family coach, a
luxury coach built by Thomas Goddard
of Boston, Mass., in 1851 (219186).

Sampson, Robert, Brentwood, Md.:
3 oil cups (225328).

Sanborn Co., Waltham, Mass.:
(Through A. E. Lonnberg) Rapport-
Sprague Accoustic Stethoscope, Model
280, with 5 chest pieces, manufactured
by donor (223385).

(See Agriculture,

(See

524592—59-———_12

163

Sanchez, Dr. Fortunato Blancas,
Lima, Peru: 17 butterflies from South
America (223187).

Sattler, Klaus, Flensburg, West Ger-
many: 96 moths from Europe (220808,
223250, exchanges).

Saturday Evening Post, Philadelphia,
Pa.: (Through Kenneth Stuart) repro-
ductions of 3 paintings by Norman
Rockwell, 2 of President Dwight D.
Eisenhower, and one of Adlai Stevenson
(223147).

Saugus Ironworks Restoration, Inc.,
Saugus, Mass.: (Through J. Sanger
Attwill) 6 cast-iron items, all from iron
cooking pots and kettles made at the
Saugus Ironworks, 1648-1676; also 2
red-clay-pipe bowls and a red-clay pipe
found at the site of the Ironworks
(224965).

Saunders, J. B., Trinidad, B.W.I.:
20 foraminifers from the Miocene, Plio-
cene, and Recent of Trinidad and 1 from
Venezuela (221748).

Saviez, V. P. (See Academy of
Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Sbarbaro, Dr. Camillo, Spotorne (Sa-
vona), Italy: 14 lichens from Europe
(221185, exchange).

Schilke, Oskar, Niantic, Conn.: 2
medals issued by the New York Nu-
mismatic Club showing likeness of donor
(224768).

Schiller, Prof. Everett L., Baltimore,
Md.: 40 birds from Northwest Terri-
tories of Canada (223874).

Schimmack, August F., Washington,
D.C.: Bill dated October 27, 1866, for
work done on Smithsonian Building,
with U.S. Internal Revenue stamp
affixed (223840).

Schlinger, Dr. E. I., Riverside, Calif.:
Fly from Argentina, holotype (223065).

Schmid, Edward. (See Reserve Min-
ing Company)

Schmitt, Dr. Waldo L., Washington,
D.C.: 2 lots of foraminiferal samples,
collected by donor at Hicacos Penin-
sula, and off Varado, Matanzas Prov-
ince, Cuba (221075).

Scholz, Pollard.
tific, Inc.)

(See Heil Scien-
164

Schrantz, Howard S.
toad Time Service, The)
Schubert, Dr. Bernice.
culture, U.S. Department of)

Schuenemann, Henry F., Cleveland,
Ohio: 14 postage stamps of Barbados
(220978).

Schultz, George, Durham, N.C.: 6
isopods (223328).

Schulz, Mrs. Alice.
Mrs. Lillian, deceased)

Schwartz, Dr. Frank J., Solomons,
Md.: 187 fresh-water fishes, 35 in-
vertebrates, 77 mollusks, and 9 insects
from West Virginia (220937). (See
also Buss, Keen)

Schwengel, Dr. Jeanne S., Scarsdale,
N.Y.: 23 mollusks from various locali-
ties (220230).

Scott, E. S., Fairhaven, Mass.:
(Through Harold E. Parkman) 2 Letters
Patent relating to the improvement of
bomb fuses and war projectiles delivered
to Edward Augustus Dana, August
1867 (223313).

Scott, Glenn R., Denver, Colo.:
Genthelvite and bastnaesite from Cook-
stove Mountain, El Paso County, Colo.
(222015).

Scripps Institution of Oceanography,
La Jolla, Calif.: (Through Conrad Lim-
baugh) gorgonian and 7. shrimps
(219960).

Seaman, David M., New York, N.Y.:
20 minerals from various localities
(222668).

Sebastian, Stanley, Basseterre, St.
Kitts, West Indies: 15 fossils from Mio-
cene of Anguilla (224182).

Sedimentpetrographische Institut,
Gottingen, Germany: (Through Dr.
Otto Braitsch) p-veatchite from near
Gottingen (223808, exchange).

(See Ball Rail-

(See Agri-

(See Skelly,

Seel, Paul, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa.: 16
diamonds from South Africa (224180,
exchange).

Seely, Warner. (See Warner & Swa-
sey Co., The)

Segadas-Vianna, F. (See Museu
Nacional)

Selander, Dr. R. K., Austin, Tex.: 10
larvae of flies from skin of birds from
western Mexico (225261).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Selby, Dr. John Hunter, Alexandria,
Va.: Early X-ray tube and 2 wood
palpators used in X-ray work (2243808).

Seminario Menor Claretiano, Bosa,
Cundinamarca, Colombia: 45 phanero-
gams, 1 grass, 2 ferns, of Colombia
(220779).

Semple, Dr. Arthur T. (See Instituto
Interamericano de Ciencias Agricolas)

Senckenbergische Naturforschende
Gesellschaft, Frankfurt-am-Main, Ger-
many: (Through Dr. Robert Mertens)
frog, paratype, from Foulassi, Sangme-
lima, South Cameroon (219943, ex-
change).

Servicio Cooperativo Agricola Salva-
doretio—Americano, Santa Tecla, El
Salvador: 60 phanerogams of Salvador
(225090, exchange).

Servicio de  Hidrografia Naval,
Buenos Aires, Argentina: (Through Dr.
Hsteban Boltovskoy) 14 topotypes of
Foraminifera from the Discovery expe-
dition and 57 specimens of Forminifera
from near Tierra del Fuego (221317, ex-
change).

Servicio Filatelico de Correos.
Spain, Government of)

Sewell, Lucile S., Annapolis, Md.:
Cam-lever mechanism from the heart
pump invented by Dr. William H. Sew-
ell, Jr., and William W. L. Glenn
(223384).

Sewell, Dr. William H., Jr., Atlanta,
Ga.: Thesis presented to Yale Uni-
versity by the donor, “A Pump for
By-Passing the Right Heart of Dogs’’
(223480).

Shambaugh, Charles E., Jr., Harris-
burg, Pa.: Salamander from Mount
Laurel, near Harrisburg, Pa. (220747).

Shaw, Earl, Yermo, Calif.: Clino-
zoisite with quartz from Washoe Coun-
ty, Nev. (222014).

Shaw, Mrs. S. E., Washington, D.C.:
Carriage lap robe (223091).

Shenefelt, Dr. Roy D., Madison,
Wis.: 18 wasps and 198 beetles (222908,

(See

224175).

Shenstone, Dr. A.G. (See Princeton
University)

Sheppe, Walter, Jr. (See British

Columbia, University of)
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Sherman, Caroline, and Sherman,
Dorothea, Washington, D.C.:' Two-
piece tan moire dress, ca. 1850 (223806).

Sherman, Dorothea. (See Sherman,
Caroline)

Sherman, E. D., Boston, Mass.:
Model yacht Zenooks II (222956).
Sherpick, Regan & Davis.

Petrocelli, Mary O., Estate of)

Shiller, Ivan. (See Agriculture, U.S.
Department of)

Shipp, Col. William E., Front Royal,
Va.: 81 military prints and books
(224399); 2 silver 18th-century Russian
wine coolers and 1 silver French tea and
coffee set (226997).

Shirley, Mrs. B. R., Jeanette, Pa.:
Pair of non-regulation jack boots worn
by Union Army soldiers during the
Civil War (224575).

Shoemaker, Clarence R. (deceased):
Button-hole cutter (222945); (through
Dr. Fenner A. Chace, Jr.) 865 spiders
from United States, Caribbean area,
Central and South America, and Europe,
3 trap-door nests, 4 bound books, and
4 unbound reprints (224819).

Shoemaker, Dr. Hurst H., Beirut,
Lebanon: Fish from the Gulf of Mexico
(221250).

(See

Shriner, Dr. Ralph L. (See Iowa,
State University of)
Shrock, Dr. Robert R. (See Massa-

chusetts Institute of Technology)

Shure, Sidney N., Evanston, IIL:
1,061 postage stamps of Israel (222357).

Shushan, Sam. (See Colorado, Uni-
versity of)

Sibley, Mary Corlis, Philadelphia,
Pa.: Pin, with amethyst setting of
built-up Tuscan gold of Civil War
period (224108).

Sieker, William E., Madison, Wis.:
139 small moths from Wisconsin
(221767, exchange); 342 small moths
from the U.S. (223268).

Sierk, H. A., Jacksonville, Ill.: 143
lichens from various localities of the
U.S. (221026, 222618, 223952).

Sightler, Col. Septimus B., Jr.,
Birmingham, Ala.: Jungle medical kit,
World War II, marching compass and
case, and box of metal tape (221413);

165

uniforms and accessories worn by Col.
Sightler when a cadet at the Virginia
Military Institute in 1925 (221720).

Sigurdsson, Capt. Gudni, Reykjavik,
Iceland: (Through Stefan K. Linnet and
Dr. Finnur Gudmundsson) deep-sea
fish from off the west coast of Iceland
(221423, exchange).

Sihanouk, Prince Norodom, Prime
Minister of Cambodia, Cambodia:
(Through President Dwight D. Hisen-
hower) statue of 12th Century Buddha,
presented to the people of the United
States (221692).

Simmons, Mrs. John Farr, Washing-
ton, D. C.,: Marble top, mahogany
table, Victorian period (223997).

Simms, Dr. B. T. (See State, U.S.
Department of)

Sinclair Oil and Gas Company, Tulsa,
Okla.: (Through Allan P. Bennison)
263 foraminiferal concentrates and
Mesozoic and Tertiary well cuttings and
21 Miocene Foraminifera from Italian
Somaliland (221516, 224853).

Singewald, Dr. Joseph T., Jr. (See
Maryland Department of Geology,
Mines, and Water Resources)

Sinkankas, Capt. John, Arlington,
Va.: 2 moonstones from Virginia, and
idocrase, grossularite, and diopside from
Maryland (223285); 3 minerals from
India and Mexico (225131, exchange).

Skelly, Mrs. Lillian (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Alice Schulz) linen
pillow case, 1664 (220958).

Skinner, Dr. Brian J., Chevy Chase,
Md.: Huntite from Tea Tree Gully,
South Australia (220769).

Skinner, Clarence O., Alexandria,
Va.: Captain’s coat from the Ist Regi-
ment, U.S. Sharpshooters (Berdan’s)
worn during Civil War by grandfather
of donor (225186).

Slater, Prof. James R., Tacoma,
Wash.: 13 pill-clams from high-altitude
ponds in Washington (221606).

Sledge, Dr. W. A., Leeds, England:
2 ferns from Ceylon collected by donor
(220781).

Sleeper, Dr. D. A., Ithaca, N.Y.:
40 black flies from Cayuga Lake, N.Y.
(221169).
166

U.S. NATIONAL, MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT,

1959

Small, Mrs. Robert, Chicago, Ill.:|3 birds of South America and 91 bird

3 items of costume accessories, late 19th
and early 20th century (221282).

Smith, Dr. Clyde F., Raleigh, N.C.:
4 insects from America (222901).

Smith, Dorothy Quincy, Washington,
D.C.: 19th-century dolls and _ doll
costumes (222254).

Smith, Dr. Harry M.
University of Beirut)

Smith, Mrs. Howard Leland, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 76 items of 19th-century
costumes, accessories of dress, and toys
to be known as ‘‘The Strong Collection”
(220965).

Smith, Dr. J. L. B.
University)

Smith, Dr. Lyman B., Washington,
D.C.: 111 plants and wood samples of
Santa Catarina, Brazil (222688).

Smith, R. W. Monroe, New York:
2 green-glass bottles, used for Godfrey’s
Cordial (225332).

Smith, William, Chillum, Md.: 2
goethites from Kelly Bank Mine,
Vesuvius, Va., and 11 carnotites from
Rattlesnake Mine, Utah (222653,
exchange).

Smithers, C. N., Causeway, Southern
Rhodesia: 4 book lice and 2 lacewings
from Southern Rhodesia (221177).

Smithson, C. D. (See General Serv-
ices Administration)

Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C.: (See Arnhem Land Expedition,
also following funds: Bredin, Canfield,
Chamberlain, Eickemeyer, Roebling,
Springer, and Walcott) Deposits: 2
electrostatic generators, Ramsden and
Voss (222953); induction coil (223093) ;
2 American mid-19th-century books
and 5,190 miscellaneous, used foreign
postage stamps and covers received in
the library (224557, 225305); (through
Paul H. Oehser) 258 miscellaneous
United States and foreign meters
(225315); (through Dr. Alexander Wet-
more) 571 skins, 30 skeletons, and
6 eggs of birds, and 1 mammal from
Panama collected by Dr. Wetmore
(217195); 78 bird skeletons from South-
ern Rhodesia (221387); bird skeleton
and 2 bird skulls from Finland (221755) ;

(See American

(See Rhodes

skins from southern Colombia (222023,
223087) ; 82 bird skeletons from Southern
Rhodesia, collected by R. M. Smithers

(223237). Found in Collections: Gradu-
ated 8-ounce glass nursing bottle
(221778); blower, foot-powered, for

chemical blast furnace (224004) ; barom-
eter, ca. 1939 (224382) ; 80 miscellaneous
objects of tableware, tools, hardware,
pipe and pipe bits, games, arrows, a pair
of ice skates, a compass-mirror, a hearth
brush, a shoe, a scrimshaw, 2 lots of
cigarette paper, and a pack of Portu-
guese toothpicks (224966); (through
Dr. 8. H. Riesenberg) 15 fireflies from
Cuba (223380). Made in Laboratories:
Reproduction of rain gage used by
Smithsonian, 8.1. Annual Report of
1855 (222391); 685 photographs of
plants (225094); model of Cartwright’s
power loom, from patent specifications
of 1787 (225291). Astrophysical Ob-
servatory: 15 thermometers, alcohol and
mercury (220984, 223098, 223476).
Bureau of American Ethnology: 29
archeological items, collected by Ralph
S. Solecki in West Virginia, 1948 and
1949 (224347). River Basin Surveys:
Indian skeletal material from the Lake
Spring Site, Columbia Co., Ga.: collected
by Dr. Joseph R. Caldwell (222362);
archeological material collected by
Waldo R. Wedel from Oahe Reservoir,
Stanley Co., S. Dak., in 1951 (224546);
samples of rock, brick, and burned
earth, collected by Ralph Solecki from
Ross Co., Ohio, in 1949 (224549).
National Collection of Fine Arts: 50 pieces
of 18th- and 19th-century porcelain and
glass, comprising the Mary Houston
Eddy collection (225280); 23 pieces of
20th-century glass, European and Amer-
ican, comprising the Hugh Smith, Jr.,
collection (225281); 1,200 pieces of
glass, ceramics, silver, and furniture,
comprising the Alfred Duane Pell collec-
tion (225282); 32 pieces of 17th- and
18th-century German glass, comprising
the Henry Osthoff collection (225283).
U.S. National Museum: Collected: 5,152
specimens, sherds, stone artifacts, and
European trade material from archeo-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

logical sites in British Guiana, collected
by Dr. Clifford Evans and Dr. Betty J.
Meggers (219730); 4 Tertiary leaves
from Bradford Island, Bonneville Dam,
Columbia River, Oregon, collected by
Dr. H. W. Krieger and Mr. Hodge, 1934
(221396); 600 fresh-water fishes, 38
crayfishes, 1 mollusk, and 1 reptile
collected in Kentucky, Virginia, and
West Virginia by Dr. Ernest A. Lachner,
Dr. William R. Taylor, and Dr. Frank
J. Schwartz (221587); 30,507 miscel-
laneous insects, spiders, and millipedes,
180 mollusks, 1 shrew, 1 snake, and
1 toad collected by Oscar L. Cartwright
in El Salvador, 1958 (221771); phanero-
gam and 2 ferns, collected by C. V.
Morton (222375); left lower jaw of
amphibian, and teeth and various bones
of fishes, from limestone quarry at
Greer, W. Va. collected by Dr. Peter P.
Vaughn (222651); 1,491 bryophytes
from the eastern U.S. collected by
Robert R. Ireland, Jr. (222685); 4,295
lichens from the eastern U.S. collected
by Dr. Mason E. Hale, Jr. (222687);
1,496 invertebrate fossils collected in
Belgium, France, Holland, and Switzer-
land by Dr. Porter M. Kier during July
and August 1958 (223474); 1,000 fossil
echinoids from the Cretaceous of Ala-
bama and Georgia and the Tertiary of
Florida, collected by Dr. Porter M. Kier
and Henry B. Roberts (224961); 16
mammals from Egypt collected by
Dr. Henry W. Setzer (225084); 2 mam-
mals and 7 birds from West Virginia
collected by J. C. Lingebach (225086);
136 mammals and 28 birds from
Assateague Islands and adjacent main-
land, Maryland and Virginia collected
by Dr. C. O. Handley, Jr., J. L. Para-
diso, B. R. Feinstein, and Jacob M.
Valentine (225275). Purchased: Persian
astrolabe, silver (214009); reproduction
of Huygen’s Pendulum Clock (214713);
1,432 phanerogams, 49 grasses, and
421 ferns collected by Dr. L. J. Brass
on the Fifth Archbold Expedition to
New Guinea in 1956 (218725); natural
size plaster cast of Olmec colossal head,
San Lorenzo Monument No. 1 (219677);
2 dugongs from the Palau Islands

167

(220837) ; 36 ferns from Malaya (220945) ;
replica of Nasmyth drilling machine
(220979); 1885 Shipman automatic
steam engine (221209) ; 100,000 Pennsyl-
vanian invertebrate fossils and about
1,000 Cretaceous invertebrate fossils
from central Texas (221518); aquatint,
“Composition No. 1,” by Alexander
Mastro Valerio (221528) ; color woodcut,
“Ostia Antiqua II,” by Adja Yunkers
(221529); 39 mammals from Colombia
(221708); 1 bush dog and 13 fleas from
Brazil (221772); 570 phanerogams
(221774); example of World War I
light tractor about 1919 (222860); pair
of andirons (222944); left box lock and
key, and right box lock (222948);
18th-century balance (222973); collec-
tion of reptiles and amphibians from
Panama and Cuba (223033); Spencer
automatic screw machine and hand
shaper (223096); 2 lithographs, by
N. Currier and P. 8. Duvall, an engrav-
ing by A. Doolittle, and a print (223127) ;
3 engravings and 5 lithographs (223128) ;
lithograph, “Battle of Tippecanoe,”
copyrighted in 1889 (223129); 107 ferns
of Malaya and Borneo (223144); collec-
tion of material relating to George
Washington (223315); 2 oil paintings
by William Henry Bartlett, ca. 1840
and oil painting of Thomas Nast, self
portrait, ca. 1880 (223388) ; 604 phanero-
gams, 41 grasses, 151 ferns, and 34
cryptogams (223887); Conestoga wagon
built in 1825 by H. Strubel (224216);
document signed by Simon Cameron as
Secretary of War, dated April 20, 1861
(224221); 2 “fake”? Italian albarellos
(224385); pewter medicine spoon in-
vented by G. Gibson in London in
1828 and made by George Maw, in
London (224386) ; replica of 1840 stand-
ing show globe with ball stopper
(224387); print of West Point drawn
by George Catlin, engraved, printed,
and colored by J. Hill, published May
15, 1828 (224396); surgical saw, 18th
century (224476); large battery handle
for otoscope and ophthalmoscope, made
by National Electric Instrument Divi-
sion of Engelhard Industries, Inc.
(224477); cupping glass, 12th century
168

from Persia (224478); replica of a
chemical balance, 1728-99, used by
Joseph Black (224479); color woodcut,
“Magic Spell,’ by Hodska Yoshida,
and a woodcut, ‘“‘At the Foot of Magi,”
by Unichi Hiratsuka (224480); electron
print, color, ‘‘Easter Eggs,” by Caroline
Dirieux (224481); Terry outside escape-
ment clock and Lucius Bradley double
column 8-day shelf clock (224608);
reproduction of Galileo’s escapement
and pendulum (224775); L. Goddard &
Son watch (224777); proof before title
of a mezzotint engraving (224827);
14 items from wreck of Brigantine
Caesar, Bermuda, May 18, 1816, and
7 items from wreck off Bermuda, ca.
1594 (224835); 540 phanerogams from
Colombia (224973) ; 122 plants of Cuba,
isotypes (224974); 29 Colonial and U.S.
State Bank currency issues (224981);
8 Roman silver coins (224984); gold
stater of Lysimachus, struck at Kallatis,
2nd century B.C. (224990); scudo (sil-
ver), Pope Urban VIII (1623-49),
year 12, and scudo (silver), Pope
Clement XI (1700-21), year 15 (224991) ;
book, Ormsby’s Bank Note and Engrav-
ing, New York, 1852 (224992); repro-
duction of roller minting press (224993) ;
4 medals and plaques by Victor D.
Brenner and an 1886 edition of Evans’
History of the Mint (224994); Indian
peace medal struck in silver, 1853, in
name of President Franklin Pierce
(224995); 2 prints depicting the U.S.
Bank in Philadelphia (224996); 32
Polish silver and nickel coins and a
Kosciuszko Medal (224997) ; 2 Connecti-
cut Tercentenary half dollars, 1935
(225000) ; Andreas Bathory silver Klippe,
1599 (225001); Portrait scudo of Philip
III of Spain, struck 1610 in Messina
(225002); uncut six-subject sheet of
Canadian notes, dated August 1, 1837,
issued in Montreal, printed in New
York, N.Y. (225003); churn, sifter,
parer, washing machine, and _ dish
drainer (225077); 2 kangaroo rats and
2 Allen’s jackrabbits (225081); 3 Japa-
nese woodcuts (225101); woodcut by
Hans Sebald Beham, etching by Simone
Cantarini, engraving by Albrecht Durer,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT 1959.

and an etching by Rembrandt (225102);
18th-century barber’s basin (225114);
American Watch Co. watch and chrono-
drometer and 29 watchmaking machines
(225117); prints by Marcantonio Rai-
mondi, Edouard Manet, and Edouard
Vuillard (225188); prints by Elisha
Kirkall, Andrew Geddes, and Paul
Sandby (225189); operating scale model
of Narragansett Bay steamer, Mount
Hope (225198); scale model of Hudson
River steamer, Francis Skiddy (225199) ;
19th-century carved “Billet Head”
(225200) ; 494 phanerogams, 47 grasses,
and 3 ferns from Euboea, Greece
(225284); 14 books, documents, and
broadsides (225292); reproduction of
Huygen’s pendulum (Salomon Coster)
clock (225329). National Zoological
Park: Birds, 60 alcoholic specimens,
8 skins, and an egg (222021); 20 mis-
cellaneous reptiles and amphibians
(224927); electric eel (224967); 93
mammals (225083) ; scorpion from Africa
(225264).

Smithsonian Institution-National Ge-
ographic Society Expedition to British
Guiana: (Through James Lear Grim-
mer) 3 fishes and 3 birds collected by
Mr. Grimmer (224868).

Smitile, Lt. Burrell J.
U.S. Department of)

Snow, C. Yates, Batavia, Ill.: Model
of water tank spout (216350).

(See Defense,

Snow, Dr. W. Brewster. (See Rut-
gers University)

Snow, Willis E. (See Tennessee
Valley Authority)

Snyder, Esther A. (See Snyder,

Thomas A., Estate of)

Snyder, Col. Graves Hubbard.
Snyder, Thomas A., Estate of)

Snyder, Thomas A., Estate of:
(Through Esther A. Snyder and Col.
Graves Hubbard Snyder) 33 United
States and foreign gold and silver coins
(223485).

Society of Washington Printmakers,
Arlington, Va.: (Through Prentiss Tay-
lor) Serigraph by Lucy Gomersall
(224378).

Soderberg, Mrs. Raymond A. (See
McGarvey, Mrs. Edward, deceased)

(See
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Sohn, Dr. I. G.
Department of the)

Solecki, Julian, Cutchogue, Long
Island, N.Y.: Afghan goatskin jacket,
collected by Dr. Ralph Solecki, Bagh-
dad, 1953 (220920).

Solecki, Ralph, Washington, D.C.:
1,207 items of archeological material,
largely from sites on Long Island, N.Y.,
and also from Nebraska and South
Carolina (224956).

Solem, Dr. Alan G.
Natural History Museum)

Somers, Lee, Bethesda, Md.: 28
albums of picture post cards collected
by donor’s mother, Mrs. Carline R.
Somers (224764).

Somerville, James William, Alex-
andria, Va.: Virginia land grant, 1755
(220433).

Sommerman, Dr. K.M. (See Health,
Education, and Welfare, U.S. Depart-
ment of)

South African Institute for Medical
Research, Johannesburg, South Africa:
(Through Dr. F. Zumpt) 43 sucking lice
from Africa (222025, 223189).

South African Museum, Cape Town,
South Africa: (Through Dr. F. H.
Talbot) 21 Recent brachiopods from
South Africa (225073).

South Carolina, University of, Colum-
bia, S.C.: (Through Dr. Harry Free-
man) 25,057 fresh-water fishes from
southeastern U.S. (221820, exchange).

South Carolina Wildlife Resources
Department, Moncks Corner, §S.C.:
(Through Robert E. Stevens) 106 cat-
fishes from South Carolina, collected
by Mr. Stevens (221007).

South Dakota State College, Brook-
ings, 8S. Dak.: (Through Dr. M. O.
Allum) 81 copepods from South Dakota
(220440).

South Dakota, State University of,
Vermillion, S. Dak.: (Through Dr.
James C. Underhill) 35 amphibians from
South Dakota collected by Dr. Under-
hill (223345).

Southern California, University of,
Los Angeles, Calif.: Allan Hancock
Foundation: (Through Dr. Olga Hart-
man) 3 polychaetes from Sarasota, Fla.,

(See Interior, U.S.

(See Chicago

169

including holotype and _ paratypes
(220237); (through Fred C. Ziesen-
henne) 2 sea anemones (221204).

Sowter, F. A., Stoughton, England:
35 miscellaneous lichens (221336, ex-
change).

Spain, Government of: (Through
Servicio Filatelico de Correos) first-day
cover, 4th anniversary of death of
Carlos I (225299).

Spangler, Paul J., Washington, D.C.:
26,385 insects from North America,
Central America, and Europe (221697).

Spitler, James H., Ei Cajon, Calif.:
Cloak with gilt-on-copper embroidery
and tape (221298).

Spotts, Julian C.
Department of the)

(See Interior, U.S.

Spreng, Dr. A. C., Rolla, Mo.:
Vertebrate fossil from rocks of the
Keokuk age, Howard County, Mo.
(221149).

Springer, Dr. Paul F. (See Interior,
U.S. Department, of the)

Springer Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 150-pound sample of shale con-
taining micro-crinoids from Oklahoma
(224763).

Squires, Dr. Donald F. (See Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History)

Stack, Joseph B., New York, N.Y.:
365 transportation tokens, 68 miscel-
laneous U.S. medals, 155 campaign but-
tons (mostly political) (220792); 14
paper money vignettes (1845-1861),
and 30 political, commemorative, and
masonic ribbons (221333) ; 3,666 German
necessity notes issued during World
War I and the post-war depression, and
6 proof pulls of Confederate chemico-
graph notes (221415); 8 Colonial bills of
Massachusetts and Rhode Island, and a
seal of Massachusetts (223154). (See
also Stack’s)

Stack, Morton M., New York, N.Y.:
2,223 specimens of bank notes, financial
scrip, and bonds, from 39 countries
(220791).

Stack’s, New York, N.Y.: (Through
Joseph B. Stack) 307 Mexican procla-
mation pieces and medals in silver and
bronze (222521).
170

Stager, Dr. Kenneth E.
Angeles County Museum)

Staiman, Dr. Jacob, Baltimore, Md.:
Engraved copper banknote-printing
plate from the 1800’s, 2 ophthalmome-
ters, and a group of eyeglasses (223937).

Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.:
Phanerogam from Mexico (224597) ; 116
phanerogams, 12 grasses, and 16 ferns
(224830, exchange) ; (through Prof. G. F.
Ferris) 4 insects (223079); (through Dr.
Myra Keen) 3 marine mollusks, para-
types, from the west coast of Panama
and Mexico (225245, exchange);
(through Dr. George 8. Myers) 2 para-
types of lizards from the Palau Islands
(222524, exchange).

Stannard, Dr. Lewis J. (See Illinois
State Natural History Survey Division)

Starkey, J. Albert, Vineland, N.J.:
6 mosses from New Jersey (222386).

Start Stamps, Teaneck, N.J.:
(Through Victor Bukinik and Willard
D. Stewart) 2 postage stamps of north-
west Pacific Islands (221196).

Stary, Dr. Petr, Prague, Czechoslo-
vakia: Wasp and 12 aphid parasites
from Europe (223264, 223964).

State, U.S. Department of, Washing-
ton, D.C.: (Through Charles L. Fuqua
and Leroy S. Christey) 38 fishes from
Afghanistan (220515); (through Dr.
Nevzat Giiralp and Dr. B. T. Simms)
87 land and fresh-water snails from
Turkey (221981); (through Charles L.
Jones) 40 fishes from Liberia (224449) ;
(through Dr. B. T. Simms) 33 land and
fresh-water mollusks from Turkey
(221045).

State University of Tartu,
Estonia, SSR: (Through Dr. Aevo
R6dmusoks): 14 brachiopods from Or-
dovician of Estonia (221116, exchange).

Stazione Zoologica Napoli, Naples,
Italy: (Through Dr. Peter Dorne) 2
Recent brachiopods from Capri Island
(223290).

Steger, Mr. and Mrs. Dan, Tampa,
Fla.: 135 marine mollusks from the
Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean, and
17 brachiopods from off the West Coast
of Florida (224550).

(See Los

Tartu,

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Stehli, Dr. Frank G., Tulsa, Okla.:
2 brachiopods from Russia (224554).

Steinitz, Prof. H. (See Hebrew Uni-
versity, The)

Steinman, Dr. D. B., New York, N.Y.:
Cable strand from Roebling’s Niagara
Railway Bridge, 1855 (221781).

Stevens, Robert E. (See South Caro-
lina Wildlife Resources Department)

Stewart, Willard D. (See Start
Stamps)

Stines, Mrs. Daniel, Waldwick, N.J.:
6 items, campaign medals, medal rib-
bons, and other material relative to the
service career of Private Henry P.
Rafferty (deceased), U.S. Marine Corps
(223126).

Stocking, Bill, Miami, Fla.: 2 facing
slips used on Graf Zeppelin Mail for
“Century of Progress Flight” in 1933
(224201).

Stoddard, A. E.
Railroad Co.)

Stchler, Dr. Richard, Berkeley, Calif.:
Holotype and two paratypes of two new
species of marine mollusks from Lower
California (224117). :

Strange, Mrs. Albert, Alexandria,
Va.: 3 bronze objects of Etruscan or
early Roman origin (221385).

Strasburg, Dr. Donald W.
Interior, U.S. Department of the)

Stratton, T. J., Washington, D.C.:
3 electrocardiographs (223483).

Straub, Paul A., New York, N.Y.:
7 gold coins of the 1957 issue (222704).

Strelak, Joseph S., Waukegan, IIl.;
44 first-day wrappers (221024, 223488,
225320).

Strom, Frances, Washington, D.C.:
Bacon percussion revolver, shot horn,
and a powder horn, believed to have
been used during the Civil War by
George Baumert, grandfather of donor
(224977).

Stuart, Kenneth.
ning Post)

Stump, Mrs. Eloise P., Oak Park,
Ill.: 130 slides of diatoms representing
the collection of Dan M. Stump
(222371).

Sul Ross State College, Alpine, Texas:
60 phanerogams from Texas (223988).

(See Union Pacific

(See

(See Saturday Eve-
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Suttkus, Dr. Royal D.
University)

Sutton, Charles S., Charleston, 8.C.:
3 Peruvian pottery vessels of the Chimu
and Ica Cultures and 2 baskets of the
Chemehuevi Indians, Southern Cali-
fornia (221136).

Swain, Dr. Frederick M., Min-
neapolis, Minn.: Ostracods from the
Lower Middle Ordovician of eastern
U.S. (223576).

Swan, Dr. Walter, Washington, D.C.:
Reproduction of 1952 Republican Presi-
dential campaign map showing routes
and modes of transportation used
by Dwight D. Eisenhower in the United
States (222942); operational schedule
for the Dwight D. Hisenhower Presi-
dential campaign November 4, 1952,
and colored reproduction of map show-
ing the travels of President Eisenhower
and Adlai EH. Stevenson (223146).

Swanson, Dr. Leonard E., Gaines-
ville, Fla.: Helminth worms from
gray tree squirrel from Florida (220378).

Swing, J. Truman, Wynnewood, Pa.:
7 shingles (224465).

Szezawinski, Dr. A. F.
cial Museum)

Tagawa, Dr. M.
versity)

Taiclet, Mrs. Zephirine (deceased):
(Through Mrs. Eva C. Taiclet Klamm)
lavaliere, period 1925 (222119).

Taiwan Fisheries Research Institute,
Keelung, Taiwan: (Through H. T. Teng
and H. C. Yang) 8 leeches, 43 copepods,
27 arguloids, 16 isopods, and 25 lots of
helminth worms (220594).

Talbot, Dr. F.H. (See South African
Museum)

Talbot, Mary, Pinckney, Mich.: 500
ants of two species, from Michigan
(221167).

Talmadge, Robert R., Willow Creek,
Calif.: 19 marine mollusks from Aus-
tralia (221980); 14 marine mollusks
from Baja California, Mexico (223395).

Tangborn, Vaner, Guthrie, Minn.:
(Through Congressman Fred Marshall)
mineral from Minnesota (225147).

(See Tulane

(See Provin-

(See Kyoto Uni-

171

Tarpley, Wallace A., Jackson, S.C.:
7 centipedes from South Carolina

(225257).
Tasso, Thomas J., Crystal Lake,
Ill.: Cacheted cover of Crystapex

IV, dated May 2, 1959 (225317).

Taube, Clarence M. (See Michigan,
University of)

Tavares, Dr. C. N.
dade de Lisbon)

Taylor, D. Foster, Quincy, Mass.:
E. Howard & Co. watch (225006).

Taylor, Edward Carrier, Boston,
Mass.: Spectacles in a case from B.
Pike’s Son & Co. and a case of spectacles
decorated in gold (221536).

Taylor, George F., Grosse Pointe
Woods, Mich.: 7 resistance thermom-
eters developed by donor about 1924
(220985).

Taylor, Harvey C., Swarthmore, Pa.:
Iron ax, found on Greater Swan Island,
W.1., 18th century (221412).

Taylor, Mrs. Marian Price, Washing-
ton, D.C.: United States military rail-
road lantern, 1861-65 (222961).

Taylor, Prentiss, Arlington, Va.:
White-cotton wedding dress, worn in
1902, by mother of donor, small jabot
trimmed with Irish crochet, and 18
copies of 19th-century fashion maga-
zines (222803). (See also Society of

(See Universi-

| Washington Printmakers)

Tedrow, Thomas L., Chevy Chase,
Md.: 7 mollusks from the Miocene,
Scientists Cliffs, Md. (222641).

Templin, Dr. Lucinda de Leftwich,
El Paso, Tex.: 287 pieces of costume
jewelry, 19th and 20th centuries
(202946).

Templin, Roger P., Alton, Ill.: 1,232
pieces of American decorative and
pictorial art, ceramic and glass objects,
metalwork, costume material, coins, and
sampler (219034).

Tendler, J., Washington, D.C.: Amer-
ican adding machine (224213).

Teng, H. T. (See Taiwan Fisheries
Research Institute)

Tennessee Polytechnic Institute,
Cookeville, Tenn.: (Through Dr.
Thomas C. Barr, Jr.) centipede, topo-
type, from Mexico (225161).
172

Tennessee Valley Authority, Wilson
Dam, Ala.: (Through Willis E. Snow)
2 medusae (220850).

Ter-Minassian, Dr. Margarita, (See
Academy of Sciences of the U.S.S.R.)

Texas, University of, Austin, Tex.:
(Through Dr. B. L. Turner) 10 ferns of
Mexico (220351).

Texas Research Foundation, Renner,
Tex.: 8 grasses and 62 ferns from Texas
and South America, and 9 phanerogams
from Mexico (220704, 221648, 222000).

Textile Museum, The, Washington,
D.C.: (Through Mrs. Francina S8.
Greene) fragment of Peruvian gauze
(205810, exchange).

Thatcher, Dr. Vernon E., Baton
Rouge, La.: Holotype of a trematode
from Grand Isle, La. (221559).

Thickstun, Wm. R. (See Commerce,
U.S. Department of)

Thomas, Rear Admiral Charles W.,
Washington, D.C.: 144 slides of Recent
Foraminifera and ostracods from the
Antarctic (222642).

Thompson, A. R.
phone Laboratories)

Thompson, Mrs. Hannah E., Wood-
bridge, Va.: Early 19th-century white,
quilted counterpane (225113).

Thompson, Prof. Hugh R., Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada: Approximately 30
Pleistocene mammal and bird remains
from sandy sediments in cave near
Hamilton (209056).

Thompson, Richard, Washington,
D.C.: Ruby-throated hummingbird in
the flesh (223086).

Thompson, Major Ruth D., Arlington,
Va.: 1897 high school diploma (224361).

Thomson, Dr. John W. (See Wis-
consin, University of)

Throne, Dr. Alvin L., Milwaukee,
Wis.: 20 insects from India (223196).

Thurman, Dr. Ernestine B., Bethesda,
Md.: 5 mosquitoes from Thailand
(225252). (See also Health, Education,
and Welfare, U.S. Department of)

Timberlake, Prof. P. H., Riverside,
Calif.: 66 bees (220510, 223202).

Todd, Dr. E. L., Washington, D.C.:
Moth from Falls Church, Va. (221395).

(See Bell Tele-

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Todd, Ruth. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan:
(Through Dr. Kotora Hatai) 12 modern
or Recent brachiopods from Japan
(224475, exchange).

Tomlinson, Jack T., San Francisco,
Calif.: 20 barnacles (223948).

Toronto, University of, Ontario,
Canada: 48 Canadian lichens collected
by Dr. Roy F. Cain (222350); 3 lichens
(222696, exchange); (through Dr. Roy
F. Cain) 145 lichens of Canada and
Florida collected by Dr. Cain (219518,
223718).

Totten, Mary Ellen (deceased):
(Through Syrena Bradford Totten)
sampler, dated 1802 (222389).

Totten, Syrena Bradford.
Totten, Mary Ellen, deceased)

Train, Judge Russel! E., Washington,
D.C.: 121 mammals from East Africa
(220916).

Transvaal Museum, Pretoria, South
Africa: (Through Dr. J. C. Faure) 22
thrips from Africa (220395, exchange).

Trapier, Mrs. Pinckney Alston, Wash-
ington, D.C.: 19 items of costume, ca.
1890 (220967).

Traub, Lt. Col. Robert, Kuala
Lumpur, Malaya: 12 sucking lice from
Malaya (223186). (See also Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Treasury, U.S. Department of the,
Washington, D.C.: Bureau of Customs:
Starting pistol, black with white metal
trigger and exterior bolts (224398);
(through General Services Administra-
tion) Ruger pistol, .22 caliber, and
Belgian Browning Automatic, .25 caliber
(223490). Bureau of Engraving and Print-
ing: 31 engraved portraits and 3 vignettes,
similar to portraits authorized for U.S.
currency or public debt security designs
(223151); 3 proofs of a four-subject
copper plate for the printing of paper
money issued about 1814-19 by the
Bank of  Swatara, Pennsylvania
(224998); (through Henry Holzclaw) 6
objects used in the production of postage
stamps (225191). Bureau of the Mint:
(Through Paul S. Heckman) 2 each of

(See
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

the following coinage from the Phila-
delphia and Denver mints: half dollars,
quarter dollars, dimes, nickels, and
cents, all dated 1958, 2 sets of U.S.
Proof coins, 1959, and 2 medals pre-
pared for members of 1959 Assay Com-
mission (224268). Internal Revenue
Service: (Through Russell C. Harring-
ton) 28,600 United States documentary
revenue stamps (221416); U.S. Army
Carbine, M2, .30 caliber (223391);
Merwin & Hulbert Army pocket re-
volver (224397); (through Dana
Latham) 121 miscellaneous revenue
stamps and related objects (223302).

Tryon, Dr. and Mrs. Rolla M., Jr.,
Cambridge, Mass.: 12 tree ferns
(221193).

Tucker, Edward B., Somerset, Ber-
muda: Marine crossbelt buckle from
French warship Hermione sunk on a
Bermuda reef, 1839 (224609); 2 small
lead balls of 16th-century manufacture,
both from unknown Spanish wreck off
Bermuda, ca. 1594 (225293).

Tucson Stamp Club, Tucson, Ariz.:
(Through Mrs. A. A. Blauvelt) special
cacheted cover issued in honor of
Butterfield Overland Mail Centennial
(222914).

Tulane University, New Orleans, La.
(Through Dr. Royal D. Suttkus) 6
fishes from the Gulf of Mexico (221036,
exchange).

Turner, Dr.
University of)

Turner, Edward. (See Oklahoma
Agricultural and Mechanical College)

Turner, Dr. George H., Alberta,
Canada: 82 lichens collected by donor
in Alberta (222804); 76 Canadian
mosses (224607, exchange).

Turner, George T., Washington,
D.C.: 20 miscellaneous postage stamps
and covers (223305, 225304).

Turoff, N. L. (See National Store
Fixture Co.)

Tvedt, Reidar. (See United Nations
Postal Administration)

Ubaghs, Dr. G., Liége, Belgium: 8
rubber casts of the Paleozoic echinoids
in University of Litge Museum (222633).

B. L. (See Texas,

173

Uhlig,® Frederick, New Alexandria,
Va.: 2 pictures to which are affixed
canceled ‘‘Champion of Liberty’’ stamps
issued for Simon Bolivar and Louis
Kossuth and labels for the American
Hungarian Federation (223308).

Underhill, Dr. James C. (See South
Dakota, State University of)

Unger, Charles F., White Plains,
N.Y.: 3 pieces of radio equipment
(224840).

Union Fork and Hoe Co., Columbus,
Ohio: (Through Edward H. Durell)
cast-iron stove plate (220793).

Union of South Africa, Government
of: Department of Agriculture: (Through
Dr. R. zur Strassen) 11 slides of thrips
from South and West Africa (223182,
exchange).

Union Pacific Railroad Co., Omaha,
Nebr.: (Through A. E. Stoddard)
replica of the ‘‘Golden Spike,’’ locomo-
tive number plate 809, and locomotive
whistle (222957).

United Nations Postal Administra-
tion, New York, N.Y.: (Through Reidar
Tvedt) 15 items of U.S. postal cards
and envelopes (221644); 250 mint
postage stamps and 50 8-cent regular
issue postage stamps from United
Nations (221982); 50 United Nations
5-cent airmail stamps and 50 United
Nations 7-cent airmail stamps, both
dated February 9, 1959 (223702); 50 4-
cent and 50 8-cent Flushing Meadows
stamps (224767).

United States Atomic Energy Com-
mission, Washington, D.C.: (Through
Dr. Hans H. Adler) 35 uranium ores
from various western U.S. localities
(222882).

United States Atomic Energy Com-
mission, and Defense, U.S. Department
of: Depariment of the Navy: (Through
Dr. Donald J. Reish) 200 polychaetes
(221445)

United States Information Agency.
(See Rogers, Col. Robert C.)

Universidad de la Republica, Monte-
video, Uruguay: 8 plants of Uruguay
(222881); (Through Dr. Bernardo
Rosengurtt) 9 plants from Uruguay
(222034).
174 U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM

Universidad Nacional de Cérdoba,
Cérdoba, Argentina: 10 phanerogams
from Argentina (221184).

Universidad Nacional de _ Trujillo,
Trujillo, Peru: 17 plants from Peru
(222912, 223787).

Universidad Nacional Mayer de San
Marcos, Lima, Peru: 7 phanerogams of
Peru (221188); (through Dr. Octavio
Velarde-Niifiez) 73 grasses from Peru
(221810).

Universidade de Lisbon, Instituto
Botanico, Lisbon, Portugal: (Through
Dr. C. N. Tavares) 25 cryptogams
(223464, exchange).

Universidade do _ Recife, Recife,
Brazil: 21 lichens of Brazil collected by
Dr. Epaminondas de Barros Correia
(216525).

Université de Belgrade, Zemun, Yugo-
slavia: 36 velvet ants from Yugoslavia
(220341, exchange).

Université de Montréal, Montréal,
Québec, Canada: 380 phanerogams, 53
grasses, and 10 ferns (224365, exchange).

University of Adelaide, Adelaide,
South Australia: 77 cryptogams from
the Arnhem Land Expedition, 1948
(225288).

University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
England: Fern from Colombia (221993) ;
(through Dr. S. O. Agrell) 7 suites of
carbonatite rocks from Uganda, Nyasa-
land, Tanganyika, and Northern Rho-
desia (216450, exchange); 4 minerals
from Ascension Island (221746, ex-
change).

Uniwersited Marie-Curie-Sklodow-
sky, Lublin, Poland: (Through Dr. J.
Motyka) 2 lichens (220787).

Unknown: Bobcat found dead in
Washington, D.C. (223206); United
States Naval Commission Pennant of
wool bunting (225184).

Uppsala, University of, Uppsala, Swe-
den: 178 lichens of Europe (224363, ex-
change).

Vail, Mrs. B. A., St. Albans, Vt.: Dry-
point, ‘‘The Stream,” by George T.
Tobin (221530).

Valentine, James W., Columbia, Mo.:
10 Eocene ostracods from California
(223369).

ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Valle, C. B., El Paso, Tex.: 3 pieces of
Tiemannite from Mexico (223287).

van den Bold, Dr. W. A., Baton
Rouge, La.: 63 ostracods from Brasso
formation of Trinidad (223368).

Vandercammen, Dr. A. (See Insti-
tut Royal des Sciences Naturelles)

van der Marel, Dr. H. W. (See Insti-
tute of Soil Survey)

Van Hyning, Dr. O. C., Maitland,
Fla.: 1 frog and 4 salamanders, collected
by donor in Mexico (220357); 4 plants
from Mexico (222369, 223363).

Vaughn, Dr. Peter P., Washington,
D.C.: 2 series of vertebrate fossil teeth
from Archer County, Tex., collected by
Dr. Vaughn (223168).

Vazquez, Alberto W., Arlington, Va.:
84 reptiles and amphibians, 7 bats, 2
rodents, and 76 scarab beetles (220358,
221394).

Velarde-Nifiez, Dr. Octavio. (See
Universidad Nacional Mayor de San
Marcos)

Verma, Dr. S. C.
versity)

Vermont, University of, Burlington,
Vt.: 2 plants from Brazil (219668);
(through Dr. H. W. Vogelmann) 368
phanerogams, 1 grass, and 46 ferns
(223905, exchange).

Vetlesen, Mrs. Maude Monell (de-
ceased): (Through Edmund C. Monell,
W. Barrett Brown, and Henry G.
Walter) 130 Chinese jade carvings, 9
cabinets for the jade collection, and 6
books (220475).

(See Panjab Uni-

Villalobos F., Alejandro. (See Insti-
tuto de Biologia)
Vinson, Robert W., Estate of:

(Through J. Vinson Peter) 35 items of
pharmaceutical equipment from the old
Vinson’s Pharmacy (220980).

Virginia, Commonwealth of, Rich-
mond, Va.: Department of Agriculture
and Immigration: 1 grass from Vir-
ginia (220703).

Virginia Fisheries Laboratory, Glouces-
ter Point, Va.: (Through Dr. Willis
G. Hewatt) 17 anemones, 4 zoanthids,
and 3 shrimps (220849).

Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacks-
burg, Va.: (Through Dr. Robert D.
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Ross) 1,423 fishes from Virginia (221725,
exchange).

Vissering, Maj. Gen. N. H. (See De-
fense, U.S. Department of)

Vicek, Dr. Emanuel. (See Czecho-
slovakia Academy of Science)

Vogelmann, Dr. H. W. (See Vermont,
University of)

Von Rosen, Dr. H., Stockholm, Swe-
den: 6 chalcid flies from Sweden
(222887).

Wade, Mrs. Ella N. (See College of
Physicians of Philadelphia)

Wadsworth, Mrs. Margaret B.
Donohue, Mrs. Della, deceased)

Wagner, C. F. (See Westinghouse
Electrie Corp.)

Wagner, Dr. Warren H., Jr., Ann
Arbor, Mich.: 8 phanerogams (221526).
(See also Michigan, University of)

Wahis, R., Embourg, Belgium: 11
wasps from Indonesia (219335, ex-
change).

Wahrman, Dr. J., Jerusalem, Israel:
200 Mesozoic invertebrate fossils from
Israel (224348).

Walcott Fund, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: 25 early Devonian invertebrate
fossils, Oriskany Sandstone from Berke-
ley Springs (220924); 335 bones of fish,
amphibians, and reptiles from Permian
of Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Colo-
rado, and almost complete skeleton of
Seymouria from the Permian of Texas,
collected by Dr. Peter P. Vaughn, John
E. Ott, and R. Donald Widman, 1958
(221144); 2,000 Lower Devonian fossils
from the vicinity of Highland Mills,
N.Y., collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper and
a party of U.S. Geological Survey men,
during field trip, May 1956 (221398);
438 fossil invertebrates and 27 Jurassic
fish from the Tertiary and Jurassic of
Cuba (221790); approximately 1,000
specimens of Mississippian and Penn-
sylvanian invertebrate fossils, including
450 goniatites, from Oklahoma (223030) ;
7 Devonian trilobites from Czecho-
slovakia (224759).

Waldrich, Dr. J.
Department of the)

Wales, J. H., Mount Shasta, Calif.:

(See

(See Interior, U.S.

175

142 fresh-water snails from California
and Oregon (219225).

Walker, Leola, Arlington, Va.: 188
insignia and buttons of British and
British Colonial Forces, World War I
(224210).

Wall, Charles C.
Elisabeth S.)

Wallace, Dr. George, Pittsburgh, Pa.:
5 parasitic wasps from Pittsburgh, Pa.
(221760).

Waller, Harry O., Santa Monica,
Calif.: 5 Recent Foraminifera from
the Asiatic Shelf off coast of China
(221513).

Wallour, Mrs. Dorothy J. (See Clapp,
William F., Laboratories, Inc.)

Walter, Henry G. (See Vetlesen,
Mrs. Maude Monell)

Walter, Dr. Waldemar, Cheney,
Wash.: 406 fresh-water moilusks from
Oregon and Washington (220589).

Walters, Robert, Queenstown, Md.:
Skull of bottlenose porpoise from
Queenstown Creek, Md. (225160).

Ward, James, Lancaster, Pa.:
(Through Prof. Howard R. Cramer)
starfish from Pike County, Pa. (222638).

Ward, Ronald A., Washington, D.C.:
3 millipedes and 5 centipedes from
Washington, Idaho, and Illinois
(221158); 44 fleas from North America
(223246).

Ward’s Natural Science Establish-
ment, Inc., Rochester, N.Y.: (Through
David E. Jensen) 11 millerites from
Ontario, Canada (220285, 222631, ex-
changes) ; scheelite from Hanging Rock,
New South Wales, wurtzite from
Hornsilver Mine, Frisco, Utah, langite
from Lostwithiel, Cornwall, England
(222650, 222738, 224470, exchanges);
2 millerites from Temagami, Ontario,
Canada (222886); 26 minerals from
various localities (222776, 224757, ex-
changes).

Warmke, Mrs. Germaine L., Maya-
guez, Puerto Rico: (Through Dr. W. P.
Woodring) 3 marine mollusks from
Puerto Rico (224173).

Warner, George W.
U.S. Department of the)

(See Healy, Mrs.

(See Interior,
176

Warner & Swasey Co., The, Cleve-
land, Ohio: (Through Warner Seely)
first telescope made by donor in 1881
(223895).

Washburn, Dr. Wilcomb E., York-
town, Va.: Miscellaneous earthenware,
stoneware, and saggar sherds from
Yorktown, Va. (221519).

Washington, University of, Seattle,

Wash.: (Through William Aron) 2
fishes from off California (223120,
exchange).

Wass, Marvin L. (See Pierce, Dr. E.
Lowe)

Waterhouse, Dr. Bruce. (See New
Zealand Geological Survey)

Watkins, Mrs. Lura W., Middleton,
Mass.: Earthenware transfer-decorated
plate used by the Shakers at Mount
Lebanon, N.Y. (220960).

Wauer, Roland. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Weaver, B. Woodruff.
Col. Theodore)

(See Barnes,

Weaver, Margaret, Washington,
D.C.: Watch (225327).
Webb, George, Hampton, Va.: 4

Miocene Bryozoa and pelecypods from
the uppermost Yorktown formation,
from Hampton, Va. (221614).

Webb, J. H., Rochester, N.Y.: Snail,
holotype, from Tosa, Japan (221738);
42 marine and land mollusks and a
brachiopod (221896).

Webb, Lloyd L., Glendora, Calif.:
3 mollusks from Oahu, Hawaii (221042,
exchange).

Weber, Dr. William A. (See Colorado,
University of)

Wedel, Dr. Waldo R., Washington,
D.C.: Beaver skull from Stanley Coun-
ty, S. Dak. (221505).

Wedepohl, Dr. K. Hans. (See Min-
eralogisch-Petrographisches Institut der
Universitit)

Weems, Dr. Howard V., Jr., Gaines-
ville, Fla.: 3 lacewings from Florida
(220938). (See also Florida State Plant
Board)

Welch, Dr. Winona H. (See Depauw
University)

Wells, Dr. G. P., London, England:
5 worms (222861, exchange).

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM ANNUAL REPORT, 1959

Wells, Dr. Harry W., Buxton, N.C.:
3 starfishes (223900).

Wells, Dr. and Mrs. Harry, Buxton,
N.C.: 55 land and brackish-water snails
from North Carolina (224464).

Wenzel, Dr. Rupert L., Chicago, IIl.:
58 biting and sucking lice from New
World (223280). (See also Chicago
Natural History Museum)

Werner, Dr. Floyd G., Tucson, Ariz.:
8 beetles from North America, including
4 paratypes (223170, gift-exchange).

West Virginia Conservation Commis-
sion, Charleston, W. Va.: (Through
C. O. Handley, Sr.) adult female black
bear (223207); (through A. D. Lewis)
4 mammals from West Virginia (220774).

West Virginia University, Morgan-
town, W. Va.: 4 phanerogams and 2
grasses (223954).

Westinghouse Electric Corporation,
Pittsburgh, Pa.: (Through T. C. Ken-
ney) Radio Broadcast Station KDKA
transmitter, tuner (for receiver), de-
tector amplifier (for receiver), and 2
headsets (for receiver) (223996);
(through C. F. Wagner) meter and
induction motor (223204).

Wetmore, Dr. Alexander, Washing-
ton, D.C.: 12 coins in silver, aluminum,
and iron from Finland and Sweden
(223155). (See also Borrero H., Dr.
J. I., and Smithsonian Institution)

Weyl, Val E., Falls Church, Va.: 214
grasshoppers from the Middle West
(225249).

Wharton, Dr. George W. (See Mary-
land, University of)

Wheeler, Dr. George C., Grand
Forks, N. Dak.: 17 ants from North
America (223199).

White, ‘ Catherine,” Bellefonte, Pa.:
Wedding dress and shawl, 19th century,
and 2 pairs of shoes, early 20th century
(221038).

Whitesell, Mrs. Carol B. (See Mary-
land Department of Research and Edu-
cation)

Whiting, Dr. P. W., Philadelphia, Pa.:
2,600 chalcid flies from Philadelphia,
Pa. (221503, 223171).

Whitley, Dr. Gilbert.
Government of)

(See Australia,
DONORS TO THE NATIONAL COLLECTIONS

Whittington, Dr.
Harvard University)

Wicker, Cyrus French, Washington,
D.C.: 88 foreign and domestic first-
flight airmail covers, 4 pieces of corre-
spondence concerning above covers, and
clearance paper for C. A. Lindbergh’s
Caribbean flight (225190).

Wickes, Mr. and Mrs. William W.,
Washington, D.C.: French chest of
drawers (225078).

Widmayer, Mrs. Dorothy, Washing-
ton, D.C.: Man’s bathing suit, prob-
ably second quarter of 20th century
(222939).

Wilkinson, Madeleine, Plainfield, Vt.:
2 items of woman’s clothing, early 19th
century (223295); platter and book
(224466).

Williams, Dr. E. E.
University)

Williams, Dr. Francis X., La Mesa,
Calif.: 4 wasps from California (222250,
223176, 223381).

Williams, Louis O., Beltsville, Md.:
6 phanerogams of Central America
(223141).

Williams, R. V., Berkeley, Calif.: 2
centipedes from California (221179).

Williams, Scott, Scottsdale, Ariz.: 95
minerals from various localities (221217,
222096, 222137, 222415, 223004, 224017,
224473, 224675, 225165, exchanges).

Willis, Dr. Edwin R. (See Defense,
U.S. Department of)

Wills, Clarence, Springfield, Va.:
Tungsten lamp (223095).

Wilson, Dr. C. L., Hanover, N.H.:
361 phanerogams and 27 ferns from
Australia (222387).

Wilson, Dr. E. O., Cambridge, Mass.:
Centipede from Florida (223966).

Wilson, Kenneth M. (See Old Stur-
bridge Village)

Wilson, Mrs. R. G., Miami, Fla.:
2 phanerogams from Mexico (220951,
221189).

Winans, Mrs. Grace.
Mrs. Ada B.)

Windolph, F. J., Jr., Boyds, Md.: 2
samples of copper ore from Maryland
(223979).

Harry B. (See

(See Harvard

(See Richey,

177

Winslow, Harriet, Washington, D.C.:
Embroidered kerchief of white cotton
and a net stole, 19th century (222118).

Winston, Harry, Inc., New York,
N.Y.: The Hope Diamond, set in a

diamond and _ platinum necklace
(217868).
Winters, Winston Lee. (See Lewis,

Harrison Olney, Estate of)

Wires, E. Stanley, Wellesley Hills,
Mass.: 8 European tiles (224826).

Wisconsin, University of, Madison,
Wis.: 52 grasses of Formosa (218910);
41 photographs of types and critical
specimens of plants collected by Hugh
H. Iltis (220524, exchange); (through
Dr. John W. Thomson) 12 lichens
(222690, exchange).

Wise, John M., Baltimore, Md.:
Synthetic lapis lazuli spinel (224822).

Wise, Dr. John P. (See Interior, U.S.
Department of the)

Witt, William L., San Francisco,
Calif.: 97 reptiles and amphibians from
Virginia (224935).

Wolfe, Col. L. R., Kerrville, Tex.:
4 birds from Texas (221754).

Wood, Dr. D. M., Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada: 124 adult beetles, 166 larvae,
and 9 pupae from Ontario, Canada
(225266).

Wood Library-Museum of Anes-
thesiology, Inc., New York, N.Y.:
(Through Dr. Paul M. Wood) Connell

Anaesthetometer and lungmotor
(216288).

Wood, Dr. Paul M. (See Wood
Library-Museum of Anesthesiology,
Inc.)

Wood, Dr. Stephen L., Provo, Utah:
13 beetles from North America (223277).

Woodmansee, Dr. Robert A., Hatties-
burg, Miss.: Shrimp (222857).

Woodring, Dr. W. P. (See Arnow,
Mrs. Theodore; also Warmke, Mrs.
Germaine L.)

Woodruff, Curtis, Washington Depot,
Conn.: Robbins & Lawrence chain-feed
lathe (216953).

Woods, Loren P. (See
Natural History Museum)

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institu-
tion, Woods Hole, Mass.: (Through

Chicago
